 TULZAPURKAR, J.1.	None
This is a tenants appeal by special leave directed against the judgment and decree passed by the Allahabad High Court on February 16, 1979 in Second Appeal No. 430 of 1970 whereby the High Court decreed the respondents (landlords) suit for ejectment against the appellant (tenant) and the only question of substance raised in the appeal is whether when the landlords notice demanding arrears and seeking eviction is sent by registered post and is refused by the tenant the latter could be imputed the knowledge of the contents thereof 60 that upon his failure to comply with the notice the tenant could be said to have committed willful default in payment of rent ?	None
2.	None
The question arises in these circumstances The appellant occupied shop No. 5 in Ivanhoe Estate, situated at Landure Cantonment, Mussorie, originally owned by one Parvij Waris Rasool, on an yearly rental of Rs. 250 payable by December 31, every year.	Facts
The property at all material times was admittedly governed by the U.P. Cantonment, (Control of Rent Eviction) Act, X of 1952a Central Act and, in my view, all the Courts below rightly dealt with the matter as being governed by that Act and not by U.P. (Temporary) Control of Rent and Eviction Act, 1947, much less by the later U.P. (Rent and Eviction) Act, 1972.	Facts
The respondents purchased the aforesaid Estate form its previous owner on November 27, 1964 and the previous owner attorned the tenancy of the appellant to the respondents along with the rental due from him for the year 1964.	Facts
The appellant continued to be the tenant of the shop during the years 1965 and 1 966 as well but since he did not pay the rent the respondents on November 9, 1966 gave a combined notice demanding payment of arrears and seeking ejectment on termination of tenancy which was refused by him on November, 10, 1966.	Facts
On h is failure to comply with the requisitions contained in the notice the respondents filed a suit against the appellant seeking eviction as well as recovery of rents and mesne profits.	Facts
The suit was resisted by the appellant, inter alia, o n the ground that the rent of the accommodation payable to the previous owner was Rs. 250 per annum less 10 rebate on account of repairs that in 1964 at the intervention of some common friends he agreed to vacate and did surrender the residential portion of the shop comprising two rooms, one kitchen, one bath room and one varandah at the back of the shop in consideration of respondents relinquishing the rental of Rs. 250 due from him for the year 1964 that for the years 1965 and 1 966 the rental for the remaining shop was reduced by agreement to Rs. 50 per annum less rebate for repairs and that he had sent a cheque for the amount due to the respondents.	Facts
He denied that he has committed default in payment of rents and averred that no notice of demand and ejectment was served on him and consequently prayed for dismissal of the suit.3.	None
On an appreciation of the evidence led by the parties before it the Trial Court came to the conclusion that initially the rent fix ed was Rs. 250 per year but after the respondents purchase of the property the appellant vacated the residential portion of the shop under an agreement arrived at between the parties where under there was relinquishment of rent due for 19 64 and that the rent for the main shop was fixed at Rs. 100 per a nnum and that no rebate of any kind had been agreed to at any time on account of repairs.	Facts
Regarding the arrears of rent outstanding against the appellant the Trial Court held that rent for the years 1965 and 1966 had not been paid and was due from him but it held that the notice dated November 9, 1966 was not served on the appellant and hence he could not be held to have committed willful default in payment of arrears o f rent.	Facts
In this view of the matter the Trial Court dismissed the suit insofar as the relief of eviction was concerned but decreed it for arrears of rent at the rate of Rs. 100 per annum.	Facts
Aggrieved by that judgment and d ecree the respondents filed an a ppeal to the District Court, Dehradun.	Facts
The learned District Judge concurred with the findings of the Trial Court that the rental for the year 1964 had been relinquished and that the rental of the front portion of the shop had been fixed at Rs. 100 per a nnum.	Facts
He further held that the notice was tendered to the appellant on November 10, 1966 but he declined to accept it and hence there was service by refusal, but in his opinion despite such service it could not be presumed that t he appellant had knowledge about the contents of that notice and consequently he could not be said to have committed any willful default in the payment of rent.	Facts
In the result the appeal was dismissed.	Facts
The respondents preferred Second Appeal No. 430 of 1970 to the High Court.	Facts
In that appeal the tenant sought to reagitate the question whether or not the notice was tendered to him and was refused by him on the ground that the finding had been recorded by the District Court without application of mind to the statement on oath made by him to the effect that no postman had ever gone to him with a registered letter either on 9th or 10th November, 1966	Facts
and he had not declined to receive any registered letter but the High Court ref used to entertain the contention inasmuch as it found that the learned District Judge had referred to this part of the appellants evidence as also the postmans evidence on the point and that on an appreciation of such rival evidence on reco rd he had recorded a finding that the notice was tendered to the appellant but it was refused by him in other words in the absence of animus being attributed to the postman the District Judge had preferred the postmans evidence to that of the appellants.	Facts
The High Court, therefore, accepted the finding of fact recorded by the District Court that there was service of the notice on the appellant by refusal.	Facts
On the further question as to whether when such refusal had been established, the appellant could be imputed with the knowledge of the contents of the notice, the High Court, following its two previous decisions in Shri Nath and another v. Smt.	Facts
Saraswati Devi Jaswal and Fanni Lal v. Smt.	Facts
Chironja, held that when notice was tendered to the tenant and when the latter refused to accept the same, knowledge of the contents of the notice must be imputed to him.	Facts
The District Judges view in this behalf was thus reversed and since there was failure on the part of the appellant to pay the rent within one month of the service of notice upon him, the High Court held that he had committed willful default within the meaning of s. 14(a) of the Act.	Facts
Accordingly the High Court allowed the appeal and the respondents prayer for ejectment was granted but the appellant was given three months time to vacate the accommodation.	Facts
The tenant has come up in appeal to this Court.4.	Facts
Counsel for the appellant vehemently contended before us that the High Court was in error in taking the view that when service by refusal had been effected the tenant must be deemed to have knowledge about the contents of the notice, for, no such presumption could be drawn especially when it was clear on evidence that neither the registered envelope was opened either by the tenant or by the postman nor the contents thereof read before the same was returned to the postman.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further urged that the envelope bore the seal of Shri S. P. Singh, Advocate and the appellant could not, therefore, know that the notice was from his landlords he also pointed out that the appellant was illiterate and did not know English and since the address on the envelope as well as the seal of the lawyer were in English the appellant could not even know who the sender of the notice was.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel, therefore, urged that in the peculiar circumstances of the case the learned District Judge had rightly recorded a finding that the knowledge of the contents of the notice could not be imputed to the appellant and, therefore, the appellant could not be regarded as a willful defaulter in the matter of payment of rent.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this contention strong reliance was placed by him on the decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of Vaman Vithal Kulkarni and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Khanderao Ram Rao Sholapurkar where the following observations of Beaumont, C. J., appear at page 251In case of defendants 4 and 5 a registered letter containing the notice was sent to them duly addressed, and service is alleged to have been refused.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact the refusal was not proved, as the postman who took the letter and brought it back was not called.	Arguments of Petitioner
But in any case, even if the refusal had bee n proved, I should not be prepared to hold that a register ed letter tendered to the addressee and refused and brought back unopened, was well served.	Arguments of Petitioner
There are, I know, some authorities in this Court to the contrary, but it see ms to me impossible to say that a letter has been served so as to bring the contents to the notice of the person to whom the letter is addressed, if the agent for service states that in fact the notice was not served, although the reason may have been that the addressee declined to accept it.	Arguments of Petitioner
One cannot assume that because an addressee declines to accept a particular sealed envelope he has guessed correctly as to its contents Counsel also referred to some other decisions including that of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Mahboob Bi v. Alvala Lachmiah but these other decisions do not touch the aforesaid aspect of visiting the addressee with the knowledge of the contents.	Arguments of Petitioner
Of the refus ed notice but have expressed the view that refusal of registered notice without more may not amount to proper service and hence it is unnecessary to consider them.	Arguments of Petitioner
But placing strong reliance upon the observations of Chief Justice Beaumont quoted above counsel for the appellant urged that the High Court ought to have confirmed the finding of the learned District Judge that the appellant could not be presumed to have known the contents of the notice or that the notice was one demanding arrears of rent simply because he refused to accept the same.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, counsel for the respondents contended before us that both under s. 27 of the General clauses Act, 1897 and s. 114 of the Indian Evidence Act presumption of due service could arise if the notice was sent to the tenant by properly addressing the same, prepaying and sending the same by registered post and it was pointed out that in the instant case as against the denial by the appellant there was positive oath of postman (Kund Ram P.W. 2) who was examined by the respondents to prove the fact that the registered letter containing the notice was tendered to the appellant and when he declined to accept it the postman had made endorsement in his hand on the envelope Refused.	Arguments of Respondent
Returned to the sender.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel, therefore, urged that in view of such positive evidence of postman led by the respondents which had been accepted by the learned District Judge, the High Court was justified in holding that the appellant must be imputed with the knowledge of the contents of the notice.	Arguments of Respondent
In this behalf counsel for the respondents placed reliance on the Privy Council decision in Harihar Banerji and Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
v. Ramshashi Roy and Ors and Madras decision in Kodali Bapayya and Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
v. Yadavalli Venkataratnam and Ors and the two decisions of the Allahabad High Court relied upon by the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel pointed out that the Madras High Court in Kodali Bapayyas case (supra) and the Allahabad High Court in its Full Bench decision in Ganga Ram v. Smt.	Arguments of Respondent
Phulwati have dealt with the Bombay decision and have expressed their disagreement with the view expressed therein.6.	None
Section 27 of the General Clause s Act, 1897 deals with the topic Meaning of service by post and says that where any Central Act or Regulation authorises or requires any document to be served by post, then unless a different intention appears, the service shall be deem ed to be effected by properly addressing, prepaying and posting it by registered post, a letter containing the document, and unless the contrary is proved, to have been effected at the time at which the letter would be delivered in the ordinary course of post.	None
The section thus arises a presumption of due service or proper service if the document sought to be served is sent by properly addressing, prepaying and posting by registered post to the addressee and such presumption is raised irrespective of whether any acknowledgement due is received from the addressee or not.	Arguments of Respondent
It is obvious that when the section raises the presumption that the service shall be deemed to have been effected it means the addressee to whom the communication is sent must be taken to have known the contents of the document sought to be served upon him without any thing more.	Arguments of Respondent
Similar presumption is raised under Illustration (f) to s. 114 of the Indian Evidence Act whereunder it is stated that the Court may presume that the common course of business has been followed in h a particular case, that is to say, when a letter is sent by post by prepaying and properly addressing it the same has been received by the ad dressee.	Arguments of Respondent
Undoubtedly, the presumptions both under s. 27 of the General Clauses Act as well as under s. 114 of the Evidence Act are rebuttable but in the absence of proof to the contrary the presumption of proper service or effective service on the addressee would arise.	Arguments of Respondent
In the instant case, additionally, there was positive evidence of the postman to the effect that the registered envelope was actually tendered by him to the appellant on November 10, 1966 but the appellant refused to ac cept.	Reasoning
In other words, there was due service effected upon the appellant by refusal.	Reasoning
In such circumstances, we are clearly of the view, that the High Court was right in coming to the conclusion that the appellant must be imputed with the knowledge of the contents of the notice which he refused to accept.	Reasoning
It is impossible to accept the contention that when factually there was refusal to accept the notice on the part of the appellant he could not be visited with the knowledge of the contents of the registered notice because, in our view, the presumption raised under s. 27 of the General Clauses Act as well as under s. 114 of the Indian Evidence Act is one of proper or effective service which must mean service of everything that is contained in the notice.	Reasoning
It is impossible to countenance the suggestion that before knowledge of the contents of the notice could be imputed the sealed envelope must be opened and read by the addressee or when the addressee happens to be an illiterate person the contents should be read over to him by the postman or someone else.	Reasoning
Such things do not occur when the addressee is determined to decline to accept the sealed envelope.	Reasoning
It would, therefore, be reasonable to hold that w hen service is effected by refusal of a postal communication the addressee must be imputed.	Reasoning
with the knowledge of the contents thereof and in our view, this follows upon the presumptions that are raised under s. 27 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 and s. 114 of the Indian Evidence Act.7.	None
Turning to the Bombay decision in Vaman Vithals case (supra), We would like to point out two aspects that emerge clearly from the very observations which have been strongly relied upon by counsel for the appellant.	Reasoning
In the first place, the observations clearly show that the refusal to accept the notice was not satisfactorily proved in the case inasmuch as the postman who took the letter and brought it back had not been examined consequently the further observations made by the leaned Chief Justice were unnecessary for decision on the point and as such will have to be regarded as obiter.8.	Reasoning
Secondly, while making those observations the learned Chief Justice WAS himself conscious of the fact that there were some authorities of that Court taking the contrary view.	None
Having regard to these aspects it is difficult to hold that the concerned observations lay down the correct legal position in the matter.	Reasoning
In any event we approve of the view taken by the Allahabad High Court in its three decisions, namely, Sri Naths case, Fanni Lals case and Ganga Rams case (supra) and would confirm the High Courts finding on the point in favour of the respondents.9. Counsel for the appellant then faintly argued that the respondents suit was not maintainable under s. 14(1) of the Act inasmuch as no permission of the District Magistrate had been obtained by the respondents before filing the suit as required by s. 14 and in this behalf reliance was placed on s. 14(a) of the Act which ran thus14.	None
Restrictions on eviction.	None
No suit shall, without the permission of the District Magistrate, be filed in any Civil Court against a tenant for his eviction from any accommodation except on one or more of the following grounds, namely(a) that the tenant has willfully failed to make payment to the landlord of any arrears of rent within one month of the service upon him of a notice of demand from the landlord.	None
According to counsel for the appellant the aforesaid provision clearly shows that under the Act two safeguards were available to a tenant (i) eviction could not be had by any landlord except on one or more of the grounds specified in cls.	None
(a) to (f) of s. 14 and (ii) no suit for eviction even on those grounds specified in cls.	None
(a) to (f) could be instituted without the permission of the District Magistrate, and admittedly the landlords in the instant case had filed the suit against the appellant without obtaining the permission of the District Magistrate.	None
He, therefore, urged that the Civil Court had no jurisdiction to entertain the suit and the decree was without jurisdiction.10.	None
It must be observed that no such contention was raised by the appellant in any of the Courts below presumably because the appellant as well as this lawyer knew how an identical provision contain ed in s. 3(1) of the U.P. (Temporary) Control of Rent and Eviction Act, 1947, an allied enactment, had been judicially interpreted by in this Court in Bhagwan Dass v. Paras Nath Section 3 of the U.P. Act 3 of 1947 ran thus3.	None
Restrictions on evictions.	None
Subject to any order passed under subsection (3), no suit shall without the permission of the District Magistrate, be filed in any Civil Court against a tenant for his evict ion from any accommodation, except on one or more of the following grounds(a) that the tenant is in arrears of rent for more than three months and has failed to pay the same to the landlord within one month of the service upon him of a notice of demand.	None
This Court in Bhagwan Dass case Asupra) has explained at page 305 of the report the legal position arising on a grammatical construction of s. 3(1) thusSection (3) 1 does not restrict the landlords right to evict his tenant on any of the grounds mentioned in cls.	Reasoning
(a) to (g) of that subsection.	Reasoning
But if he wants to sue his tenant for eviction on any ground other than those mentioned in those clauses then he has to obtain the permission of the District Magistrate whose discretion is subject to any order passed under subs.	Reasoning
(3) of s .	Reasoning
3 by the Commissioner.	Reasoning
These are the only restrictions placed on the power of a landlord to institute a suit for eviction of his tenant.11.	None
It would be conducive to judicial discipline to interpret an identical provision contained in s. 14(1) of the U.P. Cantonment (Control of Rent Eviction) Act, 1952 in a similar manner.	None
In other words, under s. 14(1) of the concerned Central Act permission of the District Magistrate was required if the landlord sought eviction of his tenant on any ground other than those specified in cls.	Reasoning
(a) to (f) and not when it was sought on any of the grounds specified in cls.	Reasoning
(a) to (f).	Reasoning
(If may be stated that both the enactments have since been repealed).	Reasoning
It is, therefore, not possible to accept the contention of the counsel for the appellant that the instant suit filed by the respondents against the appellant could not be entertained by the Civil Court.12.	Reasoning
In the result the appeal fails and is dismissed.	Decision
However, having regard to all the facts and circumstances of the case there will be no order as to costs and we grant the appellant six months time to vacate.	Decision
DESAI, J.13.	None
I have very carefully gone through the judgment prepared by my learned brother Mr. Justice V. D. Tuzapurkar, but I regret my inability to agree with the same.14.	None
The relevant facts leading to the appeal by special leave have been succinctly set out in the main judgment and therefore, I would straightway proceed to deal with the three important questions raised in this appeal.15.	None
The first and the principal question which goes to the root of the matter is about the construction of section 20(2) (a) of the Uttar Pradesh Urban Buildings (Regulation of Letting, Rent Eviction) Act, 1972 (Rent Act for short).	None
It reads as under20.	None
Bar of suit for eviction of tenant except on specified grounds(2) A suit for the eviction of a tenant from a building after the determination of his tenancy may be instituted on one or more of the following grounds namely(a) that the tenant is in arrears of rent for not less than four months, and has failed to pay the same to the landlord within one month from the date of service upon him of a demandThere is a proviso to this subsection which is not material for the purpose of this appeal.16.	None
A brief resume of concurrently found facts which would high light the question of construction would be advantageous.	None
Appellant was inducted as a tenant of the premises by its former owner on a rent of Rs. 250  per annum in the year 1964, on a request by the then landlord, appellanttenant surrendered a portion of the premises, comprising two rooms, a kitchen, a bathroom and a verandah at the back of the shop, retaining only possession of the shop, consequently reducing the rent by agreement between the parties at the rate of Rs. 100/ per annum.	None
It is thus an agreed and incontrovertible fact that the appellant tenant is a tenant of a shop on an yearly rent of Rs. 100/, payable at the en d of every year.17.	None
The focus should immediately be turned to the provision of law under which the landlord seeks to evict this tenant.	None
According to respondentlandlord she served notice dated November 9, 1966, terminating the tenancy of the appellant as the appellanttenant was a defaulter within the meaning of s. 20(2) (a) and, therefore, she all was entitled to a decree for eviction as she has satisfactorily proved all the requirements or ingredients of s. 20(2) (a).	None
Accepting the finding of fact that the appellant is a tenant liable to pay rent Rs. 100/ per annum, the crux of the matter is whether his case is covered by s. 20(2) (a).18.	None
What does s. 20(2) (a) postulate and what are its components which when satisfied, the landlord would be entitled to evict the tenant ?	None
On analysis following ingredients of s. 20(2) (a) would emerge each of which will have to be satisfied before the landlord 1 would be eligible to obtain a decree for eviction, viz(i) Tenant must be a tenant of premises governed by the Rent Act(ii) That the tenant is in arrears of rent for not less than four months(iii) That such a tenant has to pay rent in arrears within a period of one month from the date of service upon him of a notice of demand.19.	None
In this case, the tenant is a tenant of premises governed by the Rent Act.20.	None
The crucial question is whether the second ingredient, as extracted above, is satisfied by the landlord.	None
The attention has to be focused on the expression in arrears of rent for not less than four months.	Issue
What does this expression signify ?	None
As contended on behalf of the respondent that whatever be the default in payment of rent, the notice can be served after the default has continued for a period of four months, and failure to comply with the requisition in the notice would disentitle the tenant to the protection of Rent Act.	None
Alternatively it was contended that the expression in arrears of rent for not less than four months on a literal grammatical construction would signify that rent is payable by the month and that the tenant has committed a default in payment of four months rent and further failed to comply with the requisition made in the notice within the stipulated period of one month and only then the protective umbrella of the Rent Act would be removed and the tenant would be exposed to a decree for eviction.21.	None
The two rival constructions raised a question of construction of a subsection in a statute primarily enacted as can be culled out from the long and short title of the Rent Act, being regulation of letting and rent and arbitrary eviction of tenant from the premises to which the rent Act would apply.	None
It is a socially beneficent statute and in construing such statute certain well recognised canons of construction have to be borne in mind.	None
Undoubtedly, the dominant purpose in construing the statute is to ascertain the intention of the legislature.	None
This intention, and, therefore, the meaning of the statute, is primarily to be sought ill the words used in the statute itself, which must, if they ar e plan and unambiguous, be applied as they stand, however strongly it may be suspected that the result does not re present the real intention of legislature (see Inland Revenue Commissioner v. Hinchy).	None
In approaching the matter from thi s angle, it is a duty of the Court to give fair and full effect to statute which is plain and unambiguous without regard to the particular consequence in a special case.	None
Even while giving liberal construction to socially beneficent legislation, if the language is plain and simple the making of a law being a matter for the legislature and not courts, the Court must adopt the plain grammatical construction (see River Wear Commissioners v. Adamson)	None
The Court must take the law as it is.	None
And, accordingly, it is not entitled to pass judgment on the propriety or wisdom of making a law in the particular form and further the Court is not entitled to adopt the construction of a statute on its view of what Parliament ought to have don e.	None
However, when two constructions are possible and legitimate ambiguity arises from the language employed, it is a plain duty of the Court to prefer and adopt that which enlarges the protection of a socially beneficent statute rather than one w hich restricts it.	None
In Mohd.	None
Shafi v. Additional District Sessions Judge (VII), Allahabad and Others, this Court while interpreting the explanation (iv) to s. 21 of the Rent Act observed that where the language is susceptible of two interpretation s, the Court would prefer that which on larges the protection of the tenants rather than one which restricts it.	None
It was further observed that the construction that the Court adopted would be more consistent with the policy and attainment of the legislation which is to protect the possession of the tenant unless the landlord establishes a ground for eviction.	None
Similarly in Gurucharan Singh v. Kamla Singh Ors.	None
while interpreting the provision of s. 6 of the Bihar Land Reforms A ct, 1950, this Court observed that the Court was called upon to interpret a land reforms law are not just an ordinary state and, therefore, the socioeconomic thrust of the law in these areas should not be retarded by judicial construction but fillip ed by the legal process without parting from the object of the Act.	None
It must also be emphasised that where two constructions are possible, the one that must be preferred is one which would accord with reason and justice (see H. H. Maharajadhiraja Madhav Rao Jivaji Rao Scindia Bahadur of Gwalior Ors.	None
v. Union of India Another.	None
Bearing in mind this interpretative approach let us hark back to the expression used in s.20(2)(a) and ascertain whether the exception is susceptible o f one construction only or more than one construction and whether there is ambiguity and if so, in which direction the interpretative jurisprudence must move.22.	None
The expression the tenant is in arrears of rent for not less than four months may suggest that the tenant is in arrears of rent for one or any number of months and that the arrears have fallen due four months back meaning thereby that within four months there was no attempt on the part of the tenant to pay up the arrears and cure the default.	None
This construction would imply that if the tenant is in arrears of rent for one month only, an action under the relevant clause can be commenced against him if this infault has continued for a period of four months even if the tenant has paid rent for subsequent months and on the expiry of the period of four months from the date on which the rent had become due and payable for one month a notice of demand can be served and on the failure of the tenant to comply with the requisition made in the notice he would be liable to be evicted.	None
In other words, a period of four months must elapse between the date of default and the service of notice irrespective of the fact whether the default is in payment of one month s rent or more than one months rent.	None
In this constriction it is implicit that failure to pay rent for four different months is not a sine qua non for commencing action under s. 20(2) (a).	None
What is of the essence of matter is that a period of four months must elapse between the date of default complained of and service of notice under s. 20(2) (a).	None
It was said that the legislature has given locus poenitentiae to the tenant to repair the default within the period of four months.	None
This approach overlooks the obvious that before action can be commenced under s. 20(2) (a) a notice has to be served and tenant is given locus poenitentiae to repair the default within one month.	None
It appears that by s. 43 of the Rent Act the United Provinces (Temporary) Control of Rent and Eviction Act, 1947 (Repealed Act for short) was repealed.	None
Section 3 of the Repealed Act enumerated grounds on which a tenant could be evicted.	None
Subclause (a) of s. 3 provided that the landlord would be entitled to eviction of a tenant if the tenant was in arrears of rent for more than three months and had failed to pay the same to the landlord within one month of the service upon him of the notice of demand.	None
The language employed in the repealed provision led the Court to hold that whatever be the default in payment of rent, a period of three months should have expired from the date of default whereafter alone the landlord would be entitled to serve a notice as provided in the relevant subclause.	None
It was so held by the Allahabad High Court in Ram Saran Das v. L. Bir Sain, but this decision was overruled in Jitendra Prasad v. Mathur Prasad.	None
In order to avoid ally such controversy, in the Repealing statute the expression arrears of rent for more than three months has been substituted by the expression arrears of rent for not less than four months.	None
This is contemporaneous legislative exposition which clearly brings out the legislative intent ion that the landlord would be entitled to evict the tenant if the rent is in arrears for not legs than four months.	None
Therefore, it would clearly imply that before the landlord can commence action under subclause (a), the tenant must have committed default in payment of rent for a period of four months.	None
Therefore, the first suggested construction is not borne out by the language employed in the section.23.	None
The question still remains what does the expression in arrears of rent for not less than four months signify ?	None
It is implicit in the expression that the rent must be payable by month.	None
Irrespective of the fact whether the tenancy is a yearly tenancy or a monthly tenancy, it is implicit in subclause (a) that either by the contract of lease or by oral agreement or by long usage the tenant is liable to pay rent at the end of every month.	None
In other words, the unit for computation of rent is one month, that is, rent becomes due and payable every month.	None
It is only such a tenant who may fall in arrears for a period of four months.	None
Every month the tenant would be liable to pay the rent in the absence of a contract to the contrary.	None
Thus the rent becomes due and payable at the end of every mo nth.	None
As soon as the month is over the rent becomes due and payable and failure on the part of the tenant to pay the same would dub him as a tenant in arrear of rent for one month.	None
If this process goes on meaning thereby that a period of four months havi ng expired and for each of the four months the rent when It became due and payable was not paid, then alone the tenant could be said to be a tenant in arrears of rent for not less than four months.	None
Two definite ingredients emerge from the expression the tenant is in arrears of rent for not less than four months (i) that the rent is payable by month and (ii) the tenant has committed default in payment of rent for four different months and that this default subsists and continues on the date when the landlord invokes the provision of clause (a) and proceeds to serve a notice of demand.	None
Again, if within a period of one month from the date of receipt of the notice the tenant pays up the arrears of rent he does not lose the protection of the Rent Act.	None
The legislature clearly intended to cover those cases of default in payment of rent under clause (a) where the contract of lease provided for payment of rent every month meaning thereby that the unit for liability to pay rent is one month and secondly the tenant has committed default on four different occasions of four different months or four different units agreed upon for payment of rent and that they differ the facility to pay the same has accrued .	None
As stated earlier this is implied in the expression the tenant is, in arrears of rent for not less than four months.24.	None
In this connection one can profitably refer to s. 12(3) (a) of the Bombay Rents, Hotel Lodging House Rates Control Act, 1947, which reads as underWhere the rent is payable by the month and there is no dispute regarding the amount of standard rent or permitted increases, it such rent or increases are in arrears for a period of six months or more an d the tenant neglects to make payment thereof until the expiration of the period of one month after notice referred to in subsection (2), the (2) (Court shall pass a decree) for eviction in any such suit for recovery of possession.	None
The expression used there is that the rent is payable by month and the tenant is in arrears for a period of six months.	None
In the Rent Act under discussion, a conjoint expression is used that a tenant is in arrears o f rent for a period of not less than four months.	None
It only means that where the rent is payable by month and the tenant is in arrears of rent for not less than four months, and that is the clearest intention discernible from the language used in the relevant clause.23.	None
It was, however, contended that this construction would give an undeserved advantage to the defaulting tenant where the rent is not payable by month.	None
The contention is that a landlord who had agreed to accept rent on an yea rly basis would be at the mercy of the tenant because even if the default is contumacious the landlord would not be entitled to evict the tenant and that such could not be the intention of the legislature.	None
It was, therefore, said that the expression the tenant is in arrears of rent for not less than four months is also susceptible of the meaning that where the rent is payable by year and after the year is over and the rent has become due and payable if the tenant has not paid the rent for four months his case would be covered by clause (a).	None
If a tenant is under a contract with the landlord to pay rent at the end of a specific year agreed to between the parties, could he be said to be a tenant arrears for not less than fo ur months even if he has defaulted in payment of rent at the end of one year l How can a tenant who is to pay rent on the expiry of a specified year be in arrears of rent for not less than four months ?	None
And if that construction is adopted, a tenant who has committed default in payment of rent for one month and the default has continued without repair for a period of Four months even though he has paid rent for subsequent months he would be liable to be evicted, a construction which ought to be rejected on legislative exposition by change in expression adopted in the repealed Act and substituted in the present Act discussed herein above.	None
If that construction is rejected it would be difficult to accept the construction that even of the rent is payable by year once the year is over and a period of four months has elapsed he could be said to be a tenant in arrears of rent for not less than four months.	None
The language does not admit of this construction.	None
Therefore, where the rent is payable by the year clause (a) is not attracted.	None
Now the wild apprehension expressed on behalf of the landlord that such a construction would give an unfair advantage to a tenant who is liable to pay yearly rent need not detain us because the wisdom of enacting a law in a certain manner is for the legislature to decide and not for the court to impose.	None
It may be that the legislature would have intended that such landlords who relied on the income from rent month after month must have a sanction which can be applied if the tenant commits default in payment of rent of four different months but a landlord who apparently does not depend upon the rental income by agreeing to accept yearly rent need not have that sanction and it would be still open to such a landlord to file a suit merely for recovery of rent and not for eviction.	None
Such a thing is not unknown to law because in permanent tenancy and in tenancies of long duration the landlords can only sue for rent and not for ev iction on the tenant committing default in payment of rent.	None
Therefore, on examining both the rival constructions one which extends the protection deserves to be accepted in view of the fact that the legislature never intended to provide a ground fo r eviction for failure to pay rent in case of leases where yearly rent was reserved.	None
Rent Act was enacted to fetter the right of reentry of landlord and this construction accords with the avowed object of the Rent Act.24.	None
In the instant case the parties are ad idem that the rent is payable by year at the rate of Rs. 100/ per a nnum.	None
In such a case it could not be said that this tenant was in arrears of rent for not less than four months.	None
His case would not be covered by s. 20(2) (a) of the Rent Act and, therefore, the landlord would not be entitled to a decree for eviction on this ground and that was the sole ground on which eviction has been ordered.25.	None
The second contention is that the High Court was in error in interfering with the concurrent finding of facts while hearing second appeal in February, 1979 and that too without framing the point of law which arose in the appeal.	None
The disputed finding of fact is about the service of notice.	None
If a landlord seeks eviction on the ground of tenants default in payment of rent under s. 20(2) (a) it is obligatory upon him to serve a notice of demand of the rent in arrears On the tenant and can only seek eviction if the tenant fails to comply with the requisition made in the notice.	None
The appellant tenant in terms contended that no notice was served upon him.	None
On the assertion of the respondent landlord that notice dated November 9, 1966, was served upon the appellant tenant on November 10, 196 6, but he refused to accept the same and the refutation thereof by the tenant that no notice was offered to him by the postman nor was any notice refused by him, a triable issue arose between the parties.	None
The learned trial judge framed Issue No. 7 on the question of service of notice.	None
He recorded a finding that the appellant tenant was not served a notice of demand and of ejectment and answered the issue in favour of the appellant tenant.	None
On appeal by the respondent landlord the appellate court framed point no. 2 on the question of service of notice and answered it by observing that the defendant tenant refused to accept the registered notice but no knowledge can be attributed to him of the contents of the registered envelope and, therefore, the tenant could not be said to be guilty of wilful default on the expiry of one month after the service of notice.	None
He accordingly confirmed the finding of the trial court that the plaintiff landlord is not liable to a decree of eviction on the ground mentioned in s. 20(2)(a).	None
The landlord approached the High Court in second appeal.26.	None
When this appeal was heard, section 100 of the Civil Procedure Code after its amendment of 1976 was in force.	None
It restricted the jurisdiction o f the High Court to entertain a second appeal only if the High Court was satisfied that the case involved a substantial question of law.	None
Subsection 4 cast a duty on the court to formulate such a substantial question of law and the appeal has to be heard on the question so formulated.	None
It would also be open to the respondent at the hearing of the appeal to contend that the case does not involve such a question.	None
Even prior to the amendment of Section 100, the High Court ordinarily did not interfere with the concurrent findings of fact.	None
This position has been repeatedly asserted and one need not go in search of precedent to support the proposition.	None
However one can profitably refer to R. Ramachandran Ayyar v. Ramalingam Chettiar.	None
After examining the earlier decisions and the decision of the Privy Council in Mst.	None
Durga Chaudhrain v. Jawahar Choudhary Gajendragadkar J. speaking for this Court in terms spelt out the jurisdiction of the High Court in second appeal as underBut the High Court cannot interfere with the conclusions of fact recorded by lower appellate Court however erroneous the same conclusions may appear to be to the High Court, because, as the Privy Council observed, how ever gross or in excusable the error may seem to be, there is no jurisdiction under s. 100 to correct that error.27.	None
This view was reaffirmed in Goppulal v. Dwarkadhishji wherein after reproducing the concurrent finding of fact this Court observed that this concurrent finding of fact was binding on the High Court in second appeal and the High Court was in error in holding that there was one integrated tenancy of six shops.28.	None
In the facts of this case, there was a concurrent finding that the statutory notice as required by s. 20(2) (a) was not served upon the tenant and, therefore, the High Court was in error in interfering with this finding of fact.	None
However, it is not necessary to bas e the judgment on this conclusion because it was rightly said on behalf of the respondent that whether the notice was offered to the petitioner tenant and he refused to accept the same the finding is not concurrent because the appellate court has held that the notice was offered but the tenant refused to accept the same and, therefore, on the refusal to accept the notice there was no concurrent finding.	None
This contention is legitimate because the appellate court held that notice as required by law was not served because even if the tenant refused to accept the notice the knowledge of the contents of the registered envelope not opened by him cannot be imputed to him, and, therefore, there was no service of notice as required by s. 20(2) (a).	None
The first appellate court was of the view that in the absence of knowledge of the demand of rent in arrears as alleged in the notice the tenant cannot be said to be guilty of wilful default so as to be denied the protection of the Rent Act.29.	None
This accordingly takes me to the third contention in this appeal.	None
The third contention is that even if this Court agrees with the High Court in holding that the notice in question was tendered by the postman to the appellant tenant and he refused to accept the same n and, therefore, this refusal amounts to service within the meaning of s. 20(2)(a), yet as the knowledge of the contents of the notice would reflect on subsequent conduct as wilful or contumacious, it is not sufficient that a notice is served or tendered and refused but it must further be shown that in the event of refusal the tenant did it with the knowledge of the contents of the registered envelope and his subsequent conduct is motivated.	None
The question then is What would be the effect of a notice sent by registered post and refused by a tenant on the question of his knowledge about the contents of the notice and his failure to act?	None
Would it tantamount to an intentional conduct evidencing wilful default on his part?	None
This aspect cannot be merely examined in the background of some precedents or general observations.	None
One has to examine this aspect in the background of Indian condition s or in the words of Krishna Iyer, J., the legal literacy in rural areas and the third world jurisprudence.30.	None
Before we blindly adhere to law bodily imported from western countries we must not be oblivious to the fact that the statutes operating in the western countries are meant for a society if not 100 per cent.	None
, 99 per cent.	None
literate.	None
We must consciously bear in mind that our society especially in the semiurban and rural areas is entirely different and wholly uncomparable to the western society.	None
A literate mind will react to a problem presented to him in a manner other than an illiterate mind because illiteracy breeds fear and fear oriented action cannot be rationally examined on the touchstone of legal presumptions.	None
To articulate the point as it arises in this case, let one put his feet in the shoes of a rural illiterate person to whom a registered envelope by a postman is presented.	None
Does it require too much of imagination to conclude that he will be gripped with f ear and he may react in a manner which will be his undoing?	None
He would believe that by refusing to accept the registered envelope he would put off the evil rather than accept the same and approach a person who can advise him and meet the situation.	None
Can this action of fear gripped mind inflict upon the person an injury flowing from the assumption that he not only refused the registered envelope with the conscious knowledge of the fact that it contained a notice by a lawyer on behalf of his landlord and that it accused him of wilful default in payment of rent and that if he would act rationally he would repair the default by tendering the rent within the period of one month granted by the statute?	None
If he is deemed to have acted consciously is it conceivable that he would invite injury by sheer refusal to accept the registered envelope rather than know the con tents or make them knowable to him and meet the charge of wilful default.	None
As was said, again by Krishna Iyer, J., which bears quotationThe Indian Courts interpret laws the AngloIndian way, the rules of the game having been so inherited.	None
The basic principles of jurisprudence are borrowed from the sophisticated British system, with the result that there is an exotic touch about the adjectival law, the argumentative method and the adversary system, not to speak of the Evidence Act with all its technicalities.	None
Lord Devlin recently saidIf our business methods were as antiquated as our legal methods, we would be a bankrupt countryThere is need for a comprehensive enquiry into the rules of our procedure backed by a determination to adopt it to fit the functions of the welfare State.31.	None
This is much more apposite in the conditions of our society and this was noticed by Beaumost, C. J. way back in fourth decade of this century in Waman Vithal Kulkarni Others.	None
v. Khanderao Ram Rao Sholapurkar.	None
An exactly identical question arose before the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court.	None
The facts found were that the registered letter containing the notice was sent to defendants 4 5 duly addressed and service was alleged to have been refused.	None
The contention was twofold that the refusal was not proved but alternatively it was contended that even if it was proved, the addressee could not be imputed with the knowledge of the contents of the registered envelope.	None
The pertinent observation is as underIn the case of defendants 4 and 5 a registered letter containing the notice was sent to them duly addressed, and service is alleged to have been refused.	None
In fact the refusal was not proved, as the postman who took the letter and brought i t back was not called.	Arguments of Petitioner
But in any case, even if the refusal had been proved, I should not be prepared to hold that a registered letter tendered to the addressee and refused and brought back unopened, was well served.	Arguments of Petitioner
T here are, I know, some authorities in this Court to the contrary, but it seems to me impossible to say that a letter has been served so as to bring the contents to the notice of the person to whom the letter is addressed, it the agent for service states that in fact the notice was not served, although the reason may have been that the addressee declined to accept it.	Arguments of Petitioner
One cannot assume that because an addressee declines to accept a particular seal ed envelope he has guessed correctly as to its contents.	None
Many people in this country make a practice of always refusing to accept registered letters, a practice based, I presume, on their experience that such document s usually contain something unpleasant.	None
To that, it is clear that this notice was not served on three of the defendants.32.	None
Learned counsel for the respondent tried to distinguish this decision by observing that the court did hold that th e refusal was not proved, therefore, the rest of the observation was obiter.	None
It is not far a moment suggested that the decision of the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court is binding on this Court but the reasoning which appealed to the Division Bench in 1935 is all the more apposite at present.	None
The Division Bench noticed that in the society from which the defendants came, there was a feeling that such registered letters usually contained something unpleasant.	None
Is there anything to suggest that this feeling is today displaced or destroyed?	None
The Division Bench further noticed that many people in India make a practice of always refusing to accept registered letters and the practice according to the Division Be nch was based on their experience that such documents usually contained something unpleasant.	None
The reaction is to put off the evil by not accepting the envelope.	None
Could such ignorant illiterate persons be subjected to a legal inference that the refusal was conscious knowing the contents of the document contained in the registered envelope?	None
To answer it in the affirmative is to wholly ignore the Indian society.	None
And this concept that the registered envelope properly addressed and returned with an endorsement of refusal must permit a rebuttable presumption that the addressee refused it with the knowledge of the contents is wholly borrowed from the western jurisprudence.	None
I believe it is time that we ignore the illusion and return to reality.	None
Reference was also made to Appabhai Motibhai v. Laxmichand Zaverchand Co., but that case does not touch the point.	None
In Mahboob Bi v. Alvala Lachmiah, an almost identical question figured before the Andhra Pradesh High Co urt.	None
In that case the Rent Controller issued a notice in respect of the proceedings initiated before him by the landlord for the eviction of the tenant, to the tenant by registered post and the envelope was returned with the endorsement of refusal and the Rent Controller set down the proceedings for ex parte hearing and passed a decree for eviction.	None
The tenant under the decree of eviction preferred an appeal in the City Small Causes Court.	None
A preliminary objection was raised by the respondent landlord that the appeal was barred by limitation as it was filed six days after the time allowed for filing the appeal.	None
The appellanttenant countered this by saying that he had no knowledge of the proceedings before the Rent Controller an d that he was never served with the notice of proceedings before the Rent Controller.	None
The relevant rule permitted service of notice by registered post.	None
After examining the relevant rule the Court accepted the contention of the tenant observing as underMoreover nothing has been placed before me to show that there is any duty cast upon any person to receive every letter or notice sent by registered post, nor does the refusal to receive has been made the subjectmatter of any presumption which may arise under sec.	None
114 of the Evidence Act.	None
Then again, there is the practical difficulty of having to import the knowledge of the date of hearing or the precise proceedings with wh ich the registered notice is concerned in the case of a mere refusal to receive a registered notice.33.	None
The Court thus was of the view that even if refusal amounted to service, yet it is not service as required by law to fasten a liability on the tenant because no presumption can be raised that the refusal war, with the conscious knowledge of the contents of the registered envelope.	None
Undoubtedly, our attention was also drawn to a contrary view taken by a Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court in Fannilal v. Smt.	None
Chironja.	None
It was contended that even if the registered letter was refused no presumption of knowledge of the contents of the letter could in law the raised against the tenant.	None
In support of the submission reliance was placed on Amarjit Singh Bedi v. Lachchman Das, an unreported decision of a single judge of the Allahabad High Court and the decision of Beaumont, C.J. in Waman Vithal Kulkarnis case.	None
The Division Bench of the Al lahabad High Court did not accept the view of Beaumont, C.J.	None
The Court was of the opinion that a presumption of fact would arise under s. 114 of the Evidence Act that the refusal was with the knowledge of the contents of the registered envelope.	None
The Court has not considered the specific Indian conditions, the approach of rural Indians to registered letters and has merely gone by the technical rules of Evidence Act, which, as experience would show, could sometimes cause more harm and lead to injustice through law.	None
The contrary Allahabad decision does not commend to me.	None
On the contrary, the Bombay view is in accord with the conditions of society in rural India and I do not propose to make any distinction even with regard to urban areas where also there are a large number of illiterates Even in the case of a semiliterate person who is in a position to read and write he could not be accused of legal literacy.	None
Therefore, it is not possible to accept the submission that mere refusal would permit a presumption to be raised that not only the service was legal but the refusal was the conscious act flowing from the knowledge of the contents of the letter.34.	None
How dangerous this presumption is can be easily demonstrated , and how it would lead to miscarriage of justice can be manifestly established.	None
Once knowledge of the contents of the registered envelope is attributed to a person to whom a registered envelope is sent and who has refused to accept the sa me, that this was an act accompanied by the conscious knowledge of the contents of the letter he who may be an innocent defaulter or presumably no defaulter at all, would be charged with a contumacious conduct of being a wilful defaulter.	None
The Rent Act does not seek to evict a mere defaulter That is why a provision for notice has been made.	None
If even after notice the default continues, the tenant can be condemned as wilful defaulter.	None
Could he be dubbed guilty of conscious, wilful, c ontumacious, intentional conduct even when he did not know what was in the registered envelope?	None
In my opinion, it would be atrocious to impute any such knowledge to a person who has merely been guilty of refusing to accept the registered notice.	None
Where service of notice is a condition precedent, a dubious service held established by examining the postman who must be delivering hundreds of postal envelopes and who is ready to go to the witness box after a long interval to say that the offered the envelope to the addressee and he refused to accept the same, would be travesty of justice.	None
And if this condition precedent is not fully satisfied, the consequent conduct cannot be said to be wilful.	None
In a slightly different con text in Commissioner of Incometax, Kerala v. Thayaballi Mulla Jeevaji Rapasi (decd.)	None
, this Court held that service of the notice under s. 34(1)(a) of the Incometax Act, 1922, within the period of limitation being a condition precedent, to the exercise of jurisdiction, if no notice is issued or if the notice issued is shown to be invalid, then the proceedings taken by the Incometax Officer without a notice or in pursuance of an invalid notice would be illegal and void.35.	None
It was, h owever, contended that if the Court accepts the legal contention as canvassed on behalf of the appellant it would be impossible tc serve the notice as statutorily prescribed.	None
This wild apprehension is wholly unfounded.	None
The notice is required to be s erved in the manner prescribed by s. 106 of Transfer of Property Act which, interalia, provides for affixing a copy of the notice on the premises in possession of tenant.	None
Therefore, it cannot be said that the approach of the Court would render it impossible for the landlord to meet with the statutory requirement of service of notice before Commencing the action for eviction.36.	None
Having, therefore, examined the three vital contentions, in my opinion the suit of the landlord mus t fail on the ground that the rent was not payable by month and, therefore, section 20(2) (a) is not attracted.	None
And further, even if it is attracted, as the statutory notice as required by s. 20(2) (a) was not served, a decree for eviction cannot be passed on the only ground of default in payment of rent.37.	None
I would accordingly allow this appeal and dismiss the suit of the respondent for eviction but with no order as to costs in the circumstances of the case.38.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
