 M. Khanwilkar, J.1.	None
This appeal, by special leave, takes exception to the judgment and order dated 13 th January, 2017 of the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad in Civil Revision Application No.76 of 2016.2.	Issue
The appellants filed a suit for declaration and permanent injunction on 18 th October, 2013, against the respondents before the Principal Senior Civil Court, Anand, being Regular Civil Suit No.166 of 2015 (Old No. Special Civil Suit No.193 of 2013).	Facts
The frame of the subject suit is on the assertion that the appellants and original defendant Nos.1 2 were in joint ownership and possession of an ancestral property inherited by them from their predecessor (father), deceased Bawamiya Kamaluddin Saiyed, bearing Survey No.113/12, area H.137 59	Facts
Ara, Akar Rs.1581 paise.	None
That land is old tenure agricultural land situated at Mouje Village, Hadgud Taluka and District Anand.	Facts
The said ancestral, joint, undivided land was jointly possessed and used and enjoyed by the appellants (plaintiffs) and original defendant Nos.1 2 (predecessors of respondent Nos.2 to 15), after the demise of their father Bawamiya Kamaluddin Saiyed, being in his straight line of heirs.	Facts
The names of Jahangirmiya Bawamiya Kamaluddin Saiyed and Hussainmiya Bawamiya Kamaluddin Saiyed (original defendant Nos.1 2 respectively) came to be recorded in the record of rights along with the names of the appellants and since that time, all of them were jointly in possession and usage of the undivided land.	Facts
The appellants assert that they have half (1/2) share, rights, powers, possession and usage rights in the property.	Facts
It is their case that without their knowledge the original defendant	Facts
Nos.1 2 transferred the said land after forging their (appellants) signatures.	Facts
The appellants were not aware about the said transaction effected vide registered sale deed No.4425 dated 18 th October, 1996, which they came to know from their community members, immediately whereafter they made enquiry in the office of Sub Registrar at Anand.	Facts
It was revealed to them that the land has already been transferred by a registered sale deed dated 18 th October, 1996 in favour of defendant Nos.4, 5 and 6 (Anilbhai Jaikrishnabhai Jerajani, Kiritbhai Jaikrishnabhai Thakkar and Kekanbhai Jaikrishnabhai Thakkar, respectively).	Facts
They promptly applied for a certified copy of the registered sale deed.	Facts
They were also informed that Jaikrishnabhai Prabhudas Thakkar had expired and, therefore, the defendant Nos.3 to 6 received the land as heirs.	Facts
It is then asserted that from the registered sale deed, they came to know that their thumb impressions were obtained as witnesses in the presence of Bhikhansha Pirasha Divan.	Facts
They asserted that they had never signed or gave their thumb impressions upon any such deed, in any manner, in front of any witness.	Facts
It is then stated that some person has been fraudulently involved for putting thumb impressions on the sale deed.	Facts
They have asserted that the thumb impressions on the sale deed did not belong to them and that they were ready and willing to prove that fact by providing their genuine thumb impressions in front of officers.	Facts
It may be relevant to reproduce paragraph 4 of the plaint which reads thus?4.	None
The paragraph no.1 property is jointly owned, coshared, jointly used and possessed by the applicants and respondents nos.1 and 2.	Facts
The respondents nos.1 and 2 do not have any rights to sell the property on their own.	Facts
In case if the respondents nos.1 and 2 have the willingness to sell the property, they are required to obtain our consent.	Facts
This was very well in the knowledge of the respondents nos.1 and 2 yet they have entered into a sale deed for the property in an illegal manner.	Facts
But the actual possession and usage of the suit property is jointly undertaken by us.	Facts
Before two days, the applicants meet the respondents and asked them not to hinder, harass, etc. as to these rights on the land.	Facts
We asked the respondents to partition our half part, provide actual possession of the land, yet the respondents did not consider this request.	Facts
On the contrary it was stated by them that the respondents nos.2 to 6 shall sell the property to someone else, the courts are open and we can take steps whatever we can.?3.	Facts
In paragraph 6 of the plaint, the appellants have stated about the cause of action for filing the suit in the following words?6.	None
The cause as to the filing of the suit, as mentioned under the above mentioned paragraph pertains to the fact that the respondents nos.1 and 2 without the knowledge of the applicants, while keeping the applicant in dark, removed the name of the applicants from the record of rights and entered into a registered sale deed no.4425 dated18.10.1996 without the knowledge of the applicants.	Facts
Upon getting the above mentioned knowledge, the applicants meet the respondents personally before two days and requested them to cancel the sale deed and hand over the clear, marketable and actual vacant possession of the property to the applicants.	Facts
Yet the respondents did not consider the request and mentioned that the courts are open for us thereby asking us the applicants to do whatever we wished to do.	Facts
Therefore the present issue has arise at the village Hadgud without the jurisdiction of the honourable court.?4.	Facts
As mentioned above, the suit came to be filed for declaration and permanent injunction and for the following reliefs?a)	None
The honourable court be pleased to declare that the property mentioned under the paragraph no.1 being situated at Mouje village Hadgud, Taluka and district Anand, survey no.113/12, area heacter 13759 Ara, Akar Rs. 1581 paisa old tenure agricultural land is ancestral property of the applicants and thereby the applicants have undivided (half) part, share, interest and right in the property and a partition of the land be undertaken in a judicial manner and the actual possession, usage, etc. be provided to the applicants in the interest of justice.b)	Facts
The honourable court be pleased to declare that the Mouje village Hadgud, Taluka and district Anand, survey no.	Facts
113/12, area Heacter 13759 Ara, akar Rs. 1581	Facts
Paise old tenure agricultural land is ancestral, joint, undivided, jointly possessed and used property of the applicants and the respondents nos.1 and 2 and thereby the respondents nos.1 and 2 solely do not have the rights and powers to sell or interference in the title of the property and further declare that the registered sale deed no.4425 dated 18.10.1996 in the favour of the respondents nos.4 and 6 is null and void, void abinitio, cancelled, false and frivolous and thereby the honourable court be kind enough to declare in the interest of justice that the respondents nos.3 to 6 do not receive any kind of rightspowers as to the land on the basis of this particular sale deed.c)	Facts
The honourable court be pleased to pass a permanent injunction order against the respondents and in the favour of the applicants such that, neither the respondents nor through their agents, servants, persons, etc. sell, mortgage, charge, lien, etc. the or construct, etc. upon the property mentioned under the paragraph no.1 and situated at the Mouje village Hadgud, Taluka and district Anand, survey no.	Facts
113/12, area Heacter 13759 Ara, akar Rs. 1581	Facts
Paise old tenure agricultural.d)	Facts
The honourable court be pleased to pass a permanent injunction order against the respondents and in the favour of the applicants such that, neither the respondents nor through their agents, servants, persons, etc.	Facts
interfere, obstruct, hinder, etc. the ancestral, joint, undivided possession, usage, etc. of the applicants upon the property mentioned under the paragraph no.1 and situated at the Mouje village Hadgud, Taluka and district Anand, survey no.	Facts
113/12, area Heacter 13759 Ara, Akar Rs.1581 Paise old tenure agricultural.e)	None
The honourable court be pleased to pass a permanent injunction order against the respondents and in the favour of the applicants such that, neither the respondents nor through their agents, servants, persons, etc. would alter the record of rights entries for the property mentioned under the paragraph no.1 and situated at the Mouje village Hadgud, Taluka and district Anand, survey no.	Facts
113/12, area Heacter 13759 Ara, Akar Rs.1581 Paise old tenure agricultural.f)	None
The honourable court be pleased to pass an appropriate order found proper and efficacious by the honourable court.g)	Facts
The honourable court be pleased to order the respondents to provide for the cost as the suit.?5.	Facts
After filing of the suit, an application was filed on 19 th November, 2014 under Orders XIII and XVI of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (for short?CPC?) read with Sections 67 and 71 of the Evidence Act for directions to defendant Nos.3 to 6 to produce before the Court, the original deed executed by the original defendant Nos.1 2 in respect of the suit land and to obtain the admitted thumb impressions of the appellants and send it for scientific examination and comparison of the thumb impressions by a Handwriting Expert to unravel the truth.	Facts
The original defendant Nos.4 to 6 filed reply to the said application on 3 rd February, 2015, to oppose the same.	Facts
Thereafter, the defendant No.5 (respondent No.1) on 17 th April, 2015 filed an application under Order VII Rule 11(d) for rejection of the plaint on the ground that the suit was barred by limitation having been filed after 17 years.	Facts
The appellants filed reply to the said application.	Facts
Both the applications under Order XIII Rule 16 and under Order VII Rule 11(d), were disposed of by the 4 th Additional District Judge, Anand on 20 th January, 2016 by separate orders.	Facts
As regards the application filed by the plaintiffs (appellants), the Court allowed the same by passing the following order?O R D E R The application is hereby allowed.	Facts
The defendants are directed to produce registered sale deed no.4425 dt.18/10/1996 in the court and further the register civil court is directed to take specimen thumb impression of the plaintiffs as per rules and further such sale deed along with the specimen of thumb impressions of the plaintiffs be sent to thumb impression of the witnesses in such sale deed are of the plaintiffs or not.	Facts
Further the thumb impression expert is directed to submit his report within period of 30 days after receiving the documents.?6.	Facts
As regards the application filed by defendant No.5 (respondent No.1) for rejection of the plaint, the said application was dismissed by the Trial Court on the same day i.e. 20 th January, 2016.	Facts
The Trial Court opined that the contention urged by defendant No.5 (respondent No.1) for rejection of the plaint was not tenable as the factum of suit being barred by limitation was a triable issue, considering the averments in the plaint.	Facts
The Trial Court observed thus?3.	None
I have given my thoughtful consideration to the submission made by the learned advocate for both the parties.	Facts
The plaintiffs have filed this suit to set aside in registered sale deed no.4425 dt.	Facts
18/10/1996.	Facts
And this suit has been filed on 18/10/2013.	Facts
And the contention of the Ld.	Facts
Advocate for defendant no.5 that the suit has been filed after delay of almost 17 years and hence the suit is prima faciely barred by law of limitation and other submissions of the Ld.	Facts
Advocate of defendant no. 5 that the plaintiffs do not have prima facie case, it cannot be considered at this stage because whether there is delay of almost 17 years in filling this suit or not and whether it is barred by law of limitation or not, it is subject matter of trial and moreover, the other submissions of Ld.	Facts
Advocate for defendant no.5 regarding no prima facie case in favour of plaintiff also cannot be considered as these are also the subject matter of trial which can be decided only after taking the evidence.	Facts
Moreover, at the time of deciding the application under order 7 rule 11 the Court has to just look into the averments made in plaint only and the plea or defense raised by defendant cannot be taken into account at the stage of deciding the application under Order 7 Rule 11 and here in this case merely looking to the pleading in the plaint it does not come out that the suit barred by law of limitation.	Facts
Moreover, I am of humble view the case law cited by Ld.	Facts
Advocate for plaintiffs reported as 2015 (1) GLH 1, fully support to the case in hand.	Facts
Moreover, I am of humble view that, the case cited by Ld.	Facts
Advocate for defendant reported in 2015(2) GLH 355 and 2013 (1) GLR 398, does not support in the present case as the factual position of these cases and present case are different.?7.	Facts
Respondent No.1 carried the matter before the High Court by way of a Civil Revision Application No.76/2016 against the order passed by the Trial Court dismissing his application under Order VII Rule 11(d) of CPC for rejection of the plaint.	Facts
The High Court allowed the application under Order VII Rule 11(d) of CPC filed by respondent No.1 (defendant No.5) and reversed the decision of the Trial Court on the finding that the suit was barred by limitation.	Facts
For so holding, the High Court in the impugned judgment observed thus?18.	None
This Court notices that the plaintiffs are the sisters and defendants No.1 and 2 in the suit of the year 2013 have chosen not to file written statement.	Facts
Thereby the original defendants No.1 and 2 who are sellers have not made their stand clear.	Facts
Strong possibility cannot be ruled out that the plaintiffs after about 20 years of the registered sale deed has chosen to bring a collusive suit.	Facts
It is true that only detail of the plaint shall be examined at the stage of considering application under Order VII Rule 11 of CPC.	Facts
From a bare reading of the plaint, it is clearly indicative that the registered sale deed has been effected in the year 1996 where the plaintiffs have affixed their thumb impression as witnesses in the very document and the same came to be challenged in the year 2013.	Facts
The reason is not very far to fetch.	Facts
With the phenomenal increase in the land price in the State of Gujarat, such litigations by some of the family members are sponsored litigations by other unscrupulous elements are so often initiated.	Facts
It is not at all difficult to engineer the same and upset many equations of the purchasers who have enjoyed the title and peaceful possession for many years.	Facts
Attempt is made to question the registered sale deed on the ground that these were the ancestral property and 7/12 Form reflected the name of the revisionist and other defendants.	Facts
Revenue entry has also been mutated soon after the registered sale deed in favour of the revisionist and other defendants in the year 1997.	Facts
The mutation order of village form has been effected on the basis of such registered sale deed on 21 st January, 1997.	Facts
Copy of which has been issued on 31 st March, 1997.	Facts
For such inexplicable delay plaintiffs ought to have brought on record substantiating the documents.	Facts
However, the documents which have been brought also point out that the plaintiffs? suit is barred by law of limitation for having been preferred after expiry of three years period.	Facts
It is to be noted that even during the course, when revenue authority mutated the names of present revisionist and other respondents, no objection came to be raised and it is almost after 18 years, such objections have surfaced.?8.	Facts
The aforementioned decision of the High Court is the subject matter of this appeal at the instance of the appellants (plaintiffs).	None
According to the appellants, the High Court committed manifest error in being swayed away by the fact that the suit was filed after about 17 years.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has proceeded on the basis of assumptions and surmises and not in consonance with the limited sphere of consideration at the threshold stage for examining the application for rejection of the plaint in terms of Order VII Rule 11(d) of CPC.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has not even bothered to analyse the relevant averments in the plaint which, it is well settled, has to be read as a whole and has also not adverted to the reasons recorded by the Trial Court that the factum of suit being barred by limitation was a triable issue in the facts of the present case.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents, on the other hand, would contend that there is no infirmity in the view expressed by the High Court and being a possible view coupled with the fact that the suit instituted by the appellants appears to be a collusive suit, no interference in exercise of jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution, is warranted.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the contesting respondents, it is unlikely that the appellants who are sisters of original defendant Nos.1 2, would not have any knowledge about the transaction effected vide registered sale deed and especially, when defendant Nos.3 to 6 were in possession of the land for such a long time, which fact is reinforced from the mutation entries recorded in 1997 and including the conversion of the land from agricultural to non agricultural use.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the contesting respondents, this appeal ought to be dismissed.10.	Arguments of Respondent
We have heard Mr. Purvish Jitendra Malkan, learned counsel for the appellants and Mr. Gaurav Agrawal, learned counsel for the contesting respondents.11.	None
After having cogitated over the averments in the plaint and the reasons recorded by the Trial Court as well as the High Court, we have no manner of doubt that the High Court committed manifest error in reversing the view taken by the Trial Court that the factum of suit being barred by limitation, was a triable issue in the fact situation of the present case.	Reasoning
We say so because the appellants (plaintiffs) have asserted that until 2013 they had no knowledge whatsoever about the execution of the registered sale deed concerning their ancestral property.	Reasoning
Further, they have denied the thumb impressions on the registered sale deed as belonging to them and have alleged forgery and impersonation.	Reasoning
In the context of totality of averments in the plaint and the reliefs claimed, which of the Articles from amongst Articles 56, 58, 59, 65 or 110 or any other Article of the Limitation Act will apply to the facts of the present case, may have to be considered at the appropriate stage.12.	Reasoning
What is relevant for answering the matter in issue in the context of the application under Order VII Rule 11(d), is to examine the averments in the plaint.	None
The plaint is required to be read as a whole.	None
The defence available to the defendants or the plea taken by them in the written statement or any application filed by them, cannot be the basis to decide the application under Order VII Rule 11(d).	None
Only the averments in the plaint are germane.	None
It is common ground that the registered sale deed is dated 18 th October, 1996.	None
The limitation to challenge the registered sale deed ordinarily would start running from the date on which the sale deed was registered.	None
However, the specific case of the appellants (plaintiffs) is that until 2013 they had no knowledge whatsoever regarding execution of such sale deed by their brothers  original defendant Nos.1 2, in favour of Jaikrishnabhai Prabhudas Thakkar or defendant Nos.3 to 6.	None
They acquired that knowledge on 26.12.2012 and immediately took steps to obtain a certified copy of the registered sale deed and on receipt thereof they realised the fraud played on them by their brothers concerning the ancestral property and two days prior to the filing of the suit, had approached their brothers (original defendant Nos.1 2) calling upon them to stop interfering with their possession and to partition the property and provide exclusive possession of half (1/2) portion of the land so designated towards their share.	None
However, when they realized that the original defendant Nos.1 2 would not pay any heed to their request, they had no other option but to approach the court of law and filed the subject suit within two days therefrom.	None
According to the appellants, the suit has been filed within time after acquiring the knowledge about the execution of the registered sale deed.	None
In this context, the Trial Court opined that it was a triable issue and declined to accept the application filed by respondent No.1 (defendant No.5) for rejection of the plaint under Order VII Rule 11(d).	Reasoning
That view commends to us.13.	Reasoning
The High Court on the other hand, has considered the matter on the basis of conjectures and surmises and not even bothered to analyse the averments in the plaint, although it has passed a speaking order running into 19 paragraphs.	Reasoning
It has attempted to answer the issue in one paragraph which has been reproduced hitherto (in paragraph 7).	Reasoning
The approach of the Trial Court, on the other hand, was consistent with the settled legal position expounded in Saleem Bhai and Others Vs.	Reasoning
State of Maharashtra and Others 1 , Mayar (H.K.) Ltd. and Others Vs.	Reasoning
Owners Parties, Vessel M.V. Fortune Express and Others 2 and also T. Arivandandam Vs. T.V. Satyapal and Another 3 .14.	Reasoning
These decisions have been noted in the case of Church of Christ Charitable Trust and Educational Charitable Society Vs.	None
Ponniamman Educational Trust, 4 where this Court, in paragraph 11, observed thus?11.	None
This position was explained by this Court in Saleem Bhai v. State of Maharashtra, in which, while considering Order 7 Rule 11 of the Code, it was held as under (SCC p. 560, para 9)?9.	None
A perusal of Order 7 Rule 11 CPC makes it clear that the relevant facts which need to be looked into for deciding an application thereunder are the averments in the plaint.	None
The trial court can exercise the power under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC at any stage of the suitbefore registering the plaint or after issuing summons to the defendant at any time before the conclusion of the trial.	None
For the purposes of deciding an application under clauses (a) and (d) of Rule 11 of Order 7 CPC, the averments in the plaint are germane the pleas taken by the defendant in the written statement would be wholly irrelevant at that stage, therefore, a direction to file the written statement without deciding the application under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC cannot but be procedural irregularity touching the exercise of jurisdiction by the trial court.?It is clear that in order to consider Order 7 Rule 11, the court has to look into the averments in the plaint and the same can be exercised by the trial court at any stage of the suit.	None
It is also clear that the averments in the written statement are immaterial and it is the duty of the Court to scrutinise the averments pleas in the plaint.	None
In other words, what needs to be looked into in deciding such an application are the averments in the plaint.	None
At that stage, the pleas taken by the defendant in the written statement are wholly irrelevant and the matter is to be decided only on the plaint averments.	None
These principles have been reiterated in Raptakos Brett Co. Ltd. v. Ganesh Property and Mayar (H.K.) Ltd. v. Vessel M.V.	None
Fortune Express.?15.	None
The High Court has adverted to the case of Church of Christ Charitable Trust and Educational Charitable Society (supra), which had occasion to consider the correctness of the view taken by the High Court in ordering rejection of the plaint in part, against one defendant, on the ground that it did not disclose any cause of action qua that defendant.	None
The High Court has also noted the decision relied upon by the contesting respondents in the case of Mayur (H.K.) Ltd. and Ors.	None
(supra), which has restated the settled legal position about the scope of power of the Court to reject the plaint under Order VII Rule 11(d) of CPC.16.	None
In the present case, we find that the appellants (plaintiffs) have asserted that the suit was filed immediately after getting knowledge about the fraudulent sale deed executed by original defendant Nos.1 2 by keeping them in the dark about such execution and within two days from the refusal by the original defendant Nos.1 2 to refrain from obstructing the peaceful enjoyment of use and possession of the ancestral property of the appellants.	Reasoning
We affirm the view taken by the Trial Court that the issue regarding the suit being barred by limitation in the facts of the present case, is a triable issue and for which reason the plaint cannot be rejected at the threshold in exercise of the power under Order VII Rule 11(d).17.	Reasoning
In the above conspectus, we have no hesitation in reversing the view taken by the High Court and restoring the order of the Trial Court rejecting the application (Exh.21) filed by respondent No.1 (defendant No.5) under Order VII Rule 11(d).	Reasoning
Consequently, the plaint will get restored to its original number on the file of the IVth Additional Civil Judge, Anand, for being proceeded further in accordance with law.	Decision
We may additionally clarify that the Trial Court shall give effect to the order passed below Exh.17 dated 20 th January, 2016, reproduced in paragraph 5 above, and take it to its logical end, if the same has remained unchallenged at the instance of any one of the defendants.	Decision
Subject to that, the said order must be taken to its logical end in accordance with law.18.	Decision
Accordingly, this appeal succeeds and is allowed in the above terms, with no order as to costs.	Decision
FINAL ORDERHon?ble Mr. Justice A.M. Khanwilkar pronounced the judgment of the Bench comprising Hon?ble the Chief Justice of India His Lordship and Hon?ble Dr. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, allowing the appeal in terms of the signed reportable Judgment, with no order as to costs.	None
