 P. Sinha, J. 1.	None
This appeal by special leave is directed against the concurring judgment and orders of the courts below, allowing the intervention of respondents 1 and 2, and adding them as defendants 2 and 3, in the suit instituted by the appellant against her alleged husband, now respondent No. 3, who was the sole defendant in the suit as originally framed.	Issue
The main question in controversy in this appeal, is the true construction of subr.	Issue
(2) of R. 10 of O. 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure, and its application to the facts of this case, which are given below 2.	None
On 1241957, the plaintiff  appellant in this Court  instituted the suit out of which this appeal arises against the third respondent who is the second son of His Exalted Highness the Nizam of Hyderabad, and who will, hereinafter be referred to as the Prince.	Facts
In the plaint, she alleged that she is the lawfully married wife of the Prince, the marriage ceremony (Nikah) having been solemnized in accordance with the Shia Law, by a Shia Mujtahid on 19101948.	Facts
The plaintiff also averred that the issue of the marriage, were three daughters aged 8, 7 and 5 years that the fact of the marriage was known to all persons acquainted with the Prince that there was a prenuptial agreement, whereby, the Prince agreed to pay Rs. 2,000 per month to the plaintiff as kharchepandan that the Prince stopped the payment of the allowance aforesaid of Rs. 2,000 per month, since January, 1953, without any reasons and in contravention of the said agreement.	Facts
On these allegations, she asked for the following two declarations1 That the plaintiff be declared to be the legallywedded wife (Mankuha) of the defendant, 2.	Facts
That a decree be passed in favour of this plaintiff against the defendant declaring her to be entitled to receive from the defendant I. G. Rs. 2,000 per month as Kharchepandan.	Facts
3.	None
It may by noted that she did not make any claim for arrears of the allowance aforesaid since the date the Prince is alleged to have stopped payment of the same.	None
Only ten days later, on 2241957, the Prince filed his written statement, admitting the entire claim of the plaintiff for the two declarations aforesaid.	Facts
On that very date, an application under O. 1, R. 10 of the C. P. C., on behalf of (1) Sahebzadi Anwar Begum, and (2) Prince Shahamat Ali Khan, minor, under the guardianship of his mother, the said Sahebzadi was made.	Facts
They are respondents 1 and 2 respectively in this Court.	Facts
The Sahebzadi, respondent No. 1, claimed to be the lawful and legal wedded wife of the Prince, and respondent No. 2, the son of the Prince by the first respondent.	Facts
In their petition, they stated inter alia	Facts
thatThe plaintiff herself has stated in the plaint that the defendant is trying to suppress the facts of his marriage with the plaintiff so that the members of his family should conclude that the plaintiff is not his Nikah wife, and the defendant is interested in denying the rights and status of the plaintiff.	Facts
The petitioners on being joined as parties to the suit will be equally interested in denying the marriage of the plaintiff and her rights and status.	Facts
That the petitioners have reasons to believe that the above suit is a result of collusion.	None
The object and motive of the plaintiff in instituting the above suit is to adversely affect the relationship of the petitioners and the defendant and also to deprive the rights and interests of the petitioners in the defendants estate.	Facts
4.	None
On 1561957, the plaintiff made an answer to the petition for intervention, filed by the respondents 1 and 2 aforesaid.	None
She denied the right of the interveners to be impleaded in that suit, and asserted that the possibility of the rights of the petitioners being infringed are very remote, contingent upon their or plaintiff surviving the defendant or other circumstances which may or may not arise.	Facts
She also founded her objection on the ground that, having regard to the admission of the defendant in his written statement, there is no serious controversy in the suit.	Facts
She also added a number of legal objections which need not be specifically noticed as they have not been pressed in this Court.	Facts
She further asserted that the petitioners (meaning thereby, the respondents 1 and 2) are neither necessary nor proper parties to the suit.	Facts
She anticipated the ground most hotly contested in this Court, by asserting that the judgment of this Honble Court in this suit will not be conclusive as against petitioners as they allege collusion and they will not be prejudiced by not being made parties.	Facts
She ends her statement by making the following significant allegation The alleged collusion and motive attributed to the plaintiff for instituting this suit are denied.	Facts
On the other hand, the application to be added as defendants is mala fide and malicious and is evidently inspired by some strong force behind them interested in harassing the plaintiff and exposing her to the risk of a vexatious and protracted litigation.	None
5.	None
The Prince, in his own answer to the application for intervention, stated that he admitted that the first respondent is his wife and that the second respondent is his son, and repeated his admission by saying that he married the plaintiff in October, 1948, and the first respondent in December, 1952.	Facts
He added further that when he married the first respondent, he had already three daughters by the plaintiff, which fact was known to the first respondent at the time of her marriage with him.	Facts
He supported the plaintiff in her objection to the intervention by asserting that the rights of the respondents 1 and 2 will not be affected in any way, and by insisting upon his Muslim right of having four wives living at the same time.	Facts
He also supported the plaintiff in her denial of the allegation of collusion and that the suit is intended to adversely affect the relationship of the petitioners and the defendantrespondent and to deprive the rights and interests of the petitioners in the defendantrespondents estate.	Facts
He, in his turn, added the following equally significant penultimate paraThat the petitioners application has been filed in order to prolong the litigation and that the defendantrespondents father His Exalted Highness the Nizam, appears to be more interested than petitioner No. 1 herself, in creating unnecessary complications in the suit.	Facts
6.	None
On these allegations and counter allegations, after hearing the parties, the trial court, by its judgment and order dated 671957, allowed the application for intervention, and directed the respondents 1 and 2 to be added as defendants.	None
The court, after discussing all the contentions raised on behalf of the parties, observed that there were indications in the record of a possible collusion between the plaintiff and the defendant that the relief claimed under S. 42 of the Specific Relief Act, being discretionary, could not be granted as of right that the presence of the interveners would help the court in unravelling the mysteries of the litigation, and that there was force in the contention put forward on behalf of the interveners that under S. 43 of the Specific Relief Act, any declaration given in favour of the plaintiff, will be binding upon the interveners.	Facts
It also held that in order effectually and completely to adjudicate upon and settle the present controversy, the presence of the interveners was necessary.	Facts
7.	None
The plaintiff moved the High Court of Judicature of Andhra Pradesh, at Hyderabad, under S. 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure, to revise the aforesaid order of the learned trial Judge.	Facts
The High Court, in a wellconsidered judgment, after discussing the points raised for and against the addition of the parties, and noticing almost all the authorities quoted before us, refused to interfere with the discretion exercised by the trial court, and dismissed the revisional application.	Facts
It came to the conclusion that the first respondent, the admitted wife of the defendant, and the second respondent, the admitted son by her, are interested in denying the status claimed by the plaintiff, and have some rights against the estate of the 3rd respondent.	Facts
The learned Judge of the High Court further observedwhen so much sanctity is attached to the status of marriage, it would indeed be strange that persons who are so intimately related to the 3rd respondent as wife and son, should be denied the opportunity of contesting the status of the petitioners as his lawfully married wife It cannot be that the petitioner is seeking any empty relief carrying with it the stamp of futility and it is difficult to assume that she is fighting a vain or purposeless litigation.	Facts
If what she is seeking is a relief which will carry with it certain legal incidents, are not persons interested in denying her status proper parties to the litigation?	Facts
The Court also observed that it was with a view to avoiding multiplicity of suits that R. 10(2) of O. 1, had made provision for adding parties.	None
The Court noticed the argument under S. 43 of the Specific Relief Act, but did not express any final opinion, because, in its view, it had already reached theconclusion that the proposed parties are persons whose presence before the Court is necessary within the meaning of O. 1, R. 10(2) so as to ensure that the dispute should be finally determined once for all in the presence of all the parties interested.	Facts
8.	None
Against the judgment of the High Court, refusing to set aside the order passed by the learned trial judge, the plaintiff moved this Court, and obtained special leave to appeal.	None
9.	None
In the forefront of his arguments in support of the appeal, the learned AttorneyGeneral submitted that the Court had no jurisdiction to add the first two respondents as defendants in the suit.	Arguments of Petitioner
He relied upon the words of the relevant portion of subr.(2) of R. 10 of O. 1 of the Code, which are as follows2.	Arguments of Petitioner
and that the name of any person who ought to have been joined, whether as plaintiff or defendant, or whose presence before the Court may be necessary in order to enable the Court effectually and completely to adjudicate upon and settle all the questions involved in the suit, be added.	Arguments of Petitioner
He rightly pointed out, and there was no controversy between the parties before us, that the added defendants do not come within the purview of the words who ought to have been joined, which apparently have reference to necessary parties in the sense that the suit cannot be effectively disposed of without their presence on the record.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned AttorneyGeneral strenuously argued that it cannot be asserted in this case that the presence of the added defendants  respondents 1 and 2  before the Court was necessary in order to enable the Court effectually and completely to adjudicate upon and settle all the questions involved in the suit.	Arguments of Petitioner
He founded this argument on the legal position that the wife and the son of the Prince  respondents 1 and 2  have no present interest in his estate.	Arguments of Petitioner
Their expectancy of succession to the estate of the Prince, does not clothe them with any right vested or contingent to intervene in this action.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection, he pointed out that R. 10 of O. 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which corresponds to portions of O. 16, R. 11 of the Rules of the Supreme Court in England, has been the subjectmatter of judicial interpretation in many cases.	Arguments of Petitioner
Both in this country and in England, there have been two currents of judicial opinion, one taking what may be called the narrower view, and the other, the wider view.	Arguments of Petitioner
As illustrations of the former, that is to say, the narrower view, may be cited the cases of Moser v. Marsden, 18921 Ch 487 (A) and Mc Cheane v. Gyles (No. 2), (1902) 1	Arguments of Petitioner
Ch. 911 (B).	Arguments of Petitioner
In India, this view is represented by the decision in the case of Prayaga Doss Jee Varu v. The Board of Commissioners for Hindu Religious Endowments, Madras, ILR	Arguments of Petitioner
50 Mad 34 (AIR 1926 Mad 836 ) (C).	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other side of the line, representing the wider view, may be cited the case of the Dollfus Mieg Et Compagnie S. A. v. Bank of England, 19502 All ER 605 (D).	Arguments of Petitioner
In India, the decisions of the Madras High Court, in the case of Vydianadayyan v. Sitaramayyan, ILR 5 Mad 52 (E), and Secy. of State v. Murugesa Mudaliar, AIR 1929 Mad 443 (F), were cited as illustrations.	Arguments of Petitioner
But it was contended on behalf of the appellants that whether the narrower or the wider view of the interpretation of subr.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) of R. 10 of O. 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure, is taken, the result, so far as the present controversy is concerned, would be the same.	None
In the leading case of 18921 Ch. 487 (A) Lindley, L. J., has held that a party who is not directly interested in the issues between the plaintiff and the defendant, but is only indirectly or commercially affected, cannot be added as a defendant, because the Court has no jurisdiction, under the relevant rule, to bring him on the record even as a proper party.	None
That was a suit to restrain the alleged infringement of the plaintiffs patent by the defendant, Marsden.	None
The Court held, reversing the order of the trial Judge, that the party sought to be added had no direct interest in the subjectmatter of the litigation, and all that could have been said on behalf of the party intervening, was that the judgment against the defendant would affect his interest commercially.	None
The Court distinguished the previous decision in Vavasseur v. Krupp, (1878) 9 Ch D. 351 (G) and Appollinaris Co. Ltd. v. Wilson, (1886) 31 Ch D 631 (H), on the ground that in those cases, the litigation would have affected the property of the persons not before the Court.	None
This leading case of 18921 Ch 487 (A) is clearly an authority for the proposition that the Court has jurisdiction to add as a party defendant only a person who is directly interested in the subjectmatter of the litigation and not a person who will be only indirectly or commercially affected.	None
Kay, L. J., who agreed with Lindley, L. J., in that case, observed that the relevant rule of the Supreme Court, on its proper construction, authorized the court to add only such persons as would be bound by the judgment to be given in the action, but did not authorize the Court to add any persons who would not be so bound and whose interest may only indirectly be affected in a commercial sense.	None
To the same effect is the decision in Re. I. G. Farbenindustrie A. G. Agreement, 19432 All ER 525 (I).	None
The Court held that in order that a party may be added as a defendant in the suit, he should have a legal interest in the subject matter of the litigation  legal interest not as distinguished from an equitable interest, but an interest which the law recognizes.	None
Lord Greene, M. R., giving the judgment of the Curt, also observed that the Court had no jurisdiction to add a person as a party to the litigation if he had no legal interest in the issue involved in the case.	None
In the case of ILR 5 Mad 52 (E), in which the wider view of the interpretation of the relevant rule, was taken, Turner, C. J., delivering the judgment of the Court, observed that the wider interpretation which enabled the Court to avoid conflicting decisions on the same question and which would finally and effectually put an end to the litigation respecting it, should be adopted.	None
But in that case also, the party added as defendant, was interested in the subjectmatter of that litigation, though there was no impediment to the Court determining the issues between the parties originally before the Court.	None
The learned Judge, on a discussion of the English and Indian cases on the subject, came to the conclusion that a material question common to all the parties to the suit and to third parties, should be tried once for all.	None
He held that to secure this result, the Court had a discretion to add parties  a discretion which has to be judicially exercised, that is, that by adding the new parties, the Court should not inflict injustice upon the parties already on the record, in the sense that they would be prejudiced in the fair trial of the questions in controversy.	None
10.	None
The two Madras decisions in ILR 50 Mad 34 (AIR 1926 Mad 836 ) (C) and AIR 1929 Mad 443 (F) appear to have taken conflicting views on the question whether Government could be added as a party to the litigation not because it was directly interested in the subjectmatter of the litigation, but because the law enacted by the legislature of that State, had been questioned.	None
This controversy appears to have been raised in the Federal Court in the case of United Provinces v. Mst. Atiqua Begum, 1940 FCR 110 (AIR 1941 FC 16) (J).	None
In that case, the provincial legislature of the United Provinces, at it then was, had enacted the United Provinces Regularization of Remissions Act (XIV) of 1938, precluding the courts from entertaining any question as to the validity of certain orders of remission of rents.	None
The validity of that Act was questioned in a litigation between a landlord and his tenants.	None
At the High Court stage, the Provincial Government was added as a party to the litigation at the instance of the AdvocateGeneral, with a view to enabling the Government to come up in appeal to the Federal Court in order to obtain a more authoritative pronouncement on the vires of the Act.	None
In the Federal Court, the power of the High Court to add the Provincial Government as a party, was specifically questioned.	None
Gwyer, C. J., noticed the two Madras decisions referred to above, but assumed that there was jurisdiction in the Court in a proper case to do so, and, therefore, did not express his considered opinion in view of the fact that his two colleagues, Sulaiman and Varadachariar, JJ., had agreed though for different reasons, in the view that the High Court had jurisdiction to implead the Government, though it was only indirectly interested in the litigation.	None
Sulaiman, J., was inclined to take the view that there was a discretion in the High Court to add the Government as a party.	None
On the other hand, Varadachariar, J., was inclined to take the view that the State did not stand on the same footing as a private third party for all purposes.	None
He took the view that the State as the guardian of the public interest, should not be called upon to show some pecuniary or proprietary interest or interest in public revenue in the questions involved, to be added as a party.	None
He also observed that in a case where the State intervention was concerned, it must be decided on broad grounds of justice and convenience and not merely as turning on the interpretation of a particular rule in the Civil Procedure Code.	None
Discussing the question whether it was a matter of discretion or of jurisdiction in the Court to make an order adding a party, the learned Judge made the following observationsIn my opinion, there is no case here of a defect of jurisdiction in the sense in which it is said that consent cannot cure a defect of jurisdiction.	None
It is true that in 18921 Ch. 487 (A), Lindley L. J. observed that the question was not one of discretion but of jurisdiction.	None
But as the antithesis shows, the learned L. J. apparently had in mind the difference between the decision of the question of joinder on the interpretation of a rule of law and a direction given by the lower court in the exercise of its discretion, because in the latter case the Court of Appeal would generally be reluctant to interfere.	None
It may even be regarded as a case of excess of jurisdiction within the meaning of S. 115 of the Civil Procedure Code, but that will not make the order void in the sense that it may be ignored or treated as if it had never been passed.	None
It would, thus, appear that the courts in India have not treated the matter of addition of parties as raising any question of the initial jurisdiction of the Court.	Reasoning
It may sometimes involve a question of jurisdiction in the limited sense in which it is used in S. 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Reasoning
11.	None
It is no use multiplying references bearing on the construction of the relevant rule of the Code, relating to addition of parties.	Reasoning
Each case has to be determined on its own facts, and it has to be recognised that no decided cases have been brought to our notice, which can be said to be on all fours with the facts and circumstances of the present case.	Reasoning
There cannot be the least doubt that it is firmly established as a result of judicial decisions that in order that a person may be added as a party to a suit, he should have a direct interest in the subjectmatter of the litigation whether it raises questions relating to moveable or immoveable property.	Reasoning
In the instant case, we are not concerned with any controversy as regards property or estate.	Reasoning
Hence, all the cases cited at the bar, laying down that a person who has no present interest in the subjectmatter, cannot be added, are cases which were concerned with property rights.	Reasoning
In this case, we are concerned primarily with a declaration as regards status which directly comes under the provisions of S. 42 of the Specific Relief Act.	Reasoning
We are concerned, in this case, with the following provisions of S. 42 42.	None
Any person entitled to any legal character, or to any right as to any property, may institute a suit against any person denying, or interested to deny, his title to such character or right, and the Court may in its discretion make therein a declaration that he is so entitled, and, the plaintiff need not in such suit ask for any further relief.	None
This Section recognizes the right in any person to have a declaration made in respect of his legal character or any right to property.	None
To such a suit for a mere declaration any person denying or interest to deny the existence of any legal character or the alleged right to any property, would be a necessary party.	Reasoning
The plaintiffappellant chose to implead only her alleged husband, the Prince.	Reasoning
There is no clear averment in the plaint that the defendant had ever denied the legal character in question, namely, the status of the plaintiff as his wife.	Reasoning
The substance of the plaintiffs cause of action, is stated in para 3 of the plaint.	Reasoning
From the words used in the said para of the plaint, it is clear that the persons who are alleged to have known the existence of the relationship of husband and wife between the parties, would include the respondents 1 and 2 that the Prince had been trying to suppress the fact of the marriage with the plaintiff so as to lead the members of his family to conclude that the plaintiff is not his wife.	Reasoning
The gravamen of the charge against the Prince, is that he refuses to openly acknowledge the plaintiff as his legally wedded wife, and that this conduct has cast a cloud on the plaintiffs status as such wife.	Reasoning
Such a conduct on the part of the Prince, it is further alleged, is not only injurious and detrimental to the rights of the plaintiff, but is adversely affecting the rights of the issue of the marriage, meaning, thereby, the three daughters by the plaintiff.	Reasoning
It is, thus, clear, as was contended on behalf of the respondents 1 and 2, that reading between the lines of the averments aforesaid, it is suggested that not only the defendant  respondent No. 3  but the other members of his family, including respondents 1 and 2, were interested in denying the plaintiffs alleged status, and that this suit was being instituted to clear the cloud cast not only upon the plaintiffs status as a legally wedded wife, but upon the status of the three daughters by her.	Reasoning
It is clear, therefore, that if the plaintiff had been less disingenuous and had impleaded the first and the second respondents also, as defendants in the suit, the latter could not have been discharged from the action on the ground that they had been unnecessarily impleaded and that no cause of action had been disclosed against them.	Reasoning
They would certainly have been proper parties to the suit.	Reasoning
This is a very important aspect of the case which has to be kept in view in order to determine the question whether the respondents 1 and 2 had been rightly added as defendants on their own intervention.	Reasoning
12.	None
It is also clear on the words of the Statute, quoted above, that the grant of a declaration such as is contemplated by S. 42, is entirely in the discretion of the court.	None
At this stage, it is convenient to deal with the other contention raised on behalf of the appellant, namely, that in view of the unequivocal admission of the plaintiffs claim by the Prince, in his written statement, and repeated as aforesaid in his counter to the application for intervention by the respondents 1 and 2, no serious controversy now survives.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is suggested that the declarations sought in this case, would be granted as a matter of course.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection, our attention was called to the provisions of R. 6 of O. 12 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which lays down that, upon such admissions as have been made by the Prince in this case, the Court would give judgment for the plaintiff.	Arguments of Petitioner
These provisions have got to be read along with R. 5 of O. 8 of the Code with particular reference to the proviso which is in these termsProvided that the Court may in its discretion require any fact so admitted to be proved otherwise than by such admission.	None
The proviso quoted above, is identical with the proviso to S. 58 of the Evidence Act, which lays down that facts admitted need not be proved.	None
Reading all these provisions together, it is manifest that the Court is not bound to grant the declarations prayed for, even though the facts alleged in the plaint, may have been admitted.	None
In this connection, the following passage in Andersons actions for Declaratory Judgments , Vol. 1, p. 340, under Art. 177, is relevantA claim of legal or equitable rights and denial thereof on behalf of an adverse interest or party constitutes a ripe cause for a proceeding, seeking declaratory relief.	None
A declaration of rights is not proper where the defendant seeks to uphold the plaintiffs in such an action.	None
The required element of adverse parties in absent.	None
In other words the controversy must be between the plaintiff and the respondent who assets an interest adverse to the plaintiff.	None
In the absence of such a situation there is no justiciable controversy and the case must be characterized as one asking for an advisory opinion, and as being academic rather than justiciable .	None
i.e. , there must be an actual controversy of justiciable character between parties having adverse interest.	None
13.	None
Hence, if the Court, in all the circumstances of a particular case, takes the view that it would insist upon the burden of the issue being fully discharged, and if the Court, in pursuance of the terms of S. 42 of the Specific Relief Act, decides, in a given case, to insist upon clear proof of even admitted facts, the Court could not be said to have exceeded its judicial powers.	None
That the plaintiff herself or her legal advisers, did not take the view contended for on her behalf, is shown by the fact that a few days after the filing of the written statement of the Prince, on April 27, Barkat Ali, the Mujtahid, who is alleged to have solemnized the marriage, was examined in Court, and he gave his statement on oath in support of the plaintiffs claim.	Reasoning
He also proved certain documents in corroboration of the plaintiffs case and his own evidence.	Reasoning
This witness was not crossexamined on behalf of the defendant.	Reasoning
It was stated before us, on behalf of the respondents 1 and 2, that there were pieces of documentary evidence apart from certain alleged admissions made by or on behalf of the plaintiff, which seriously militate against the plaintiffs case and the statement of the witness referred to above.	Reasoning
We need not go into all that controversy, because we are not, at this stage, concerned with the truth or otherwise of the plaintiffs case.	Reasoning
At this stage, we are only concerned with the question whether in adding respondents 1 and 2 as defendants in the action, the courts below have exceeded their powers.	Reasoning
It is enough to point out at this stage that the plaintiff did not invite the court to exercise its powers under R. 6 of O. 12 of the Code of Civil Procedure, and, therefore, we are not called upon to decide whether the trial Court was right in not pronouncing judgment on mere admission.	Reasoning
The Court, when it is called upon to make a solemn declaration of the plaintiffs alleged status as the defendants wife, has, naturally, to be vigilant and not to treat it as a matter of course, as it would do in a mere money claim which is admitted by the defendant.	Reasoning
The adjudication of status, the declaration of which is claimed by the plaintiff, is a more serious matter, because by its intendment and in its ultimate result, it affects not only the persons actually before the Court in the suit as originally framed, but also the plaintiffs progeny who are not parties to the action, and the Respondents 1 and 2.	Reasoning
If the declaration of status claimed by the plaintiff is granted by the Court, naturally, the three daughters by the plaintiff, would get the status of legitimate children of the Prince.	Reasoning
If the decision is the other way, they become branded as illegitimate.	Reasoning
The suit clearly is not only in the interest of the plaintiff herself but of her children also.	Reasoning
It is equally clear that not only the Prince is directly affected by the declaration sought, but his whole family, including respondents 1 and 2 and their descendants, are also affected thereby.	Reasoning
This, naturally, leads us to a discussion of the effect of S. 43 of the Specific Relief Act, which goes with and is an integral part of the scheme of declaratory decrees which form the subjectmatter of Chapter VI of the Act.	None
That Section is in these terms 43.	None
A declaration made under this Chapter is binding only on the parties to the suit, persons claiming through them respectively, and where any of the parties are trustees, on the persons for whom, if in existence at the date of the declaration, such parties would be trustees.	None
14.	None
On behalf of the appellant, it was contended by the learned AttorneyGeneral that the declaration of status sought in this suit by the plaintiff, will be binding only upon her and the Prince, and being a rule of res judicata, will bind only the parties to the suit and their privies.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further contended that the respondents 1 and 2 are in no sense such privies.	Arguments of Petitioner
The argument proceeds thus Section 43 lays down a rule of res judicata in a modified form, and it was so framed as to make it clear beyond all doubt by the use of the word only that a declaration under S. 42 is binding on the parties to the suit and on persons claiming through them, respectively.	Arguments of Petitioner
If any question arises in the future after the inheritance to the estate of the Prince opens out, it could not be said that the plaintiff and the respondents 1 and 2 were claiming through different persons under a conflicting title which was the core of the rule of res judicata.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection, reliance was placed upon the decision of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in the case of Ashgar Reza Khan v. Mahomed Mehdi Hossein Khan, 30 Ind App 71 (PC) (K).	Arguments of Petitioner
That case lays down that a decision in a former suit that the common ancestor of all the parties to the subsequent suit, was entitled to the whole of the profit of a market in dispute in the two litigations, as against his cosharers in the zamindari in which the market was situate, does not operate as res judicata in a subsequent dispute between those who claim under him.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection, reliance was also placed upon a decision of the Madras High Court in the case of Vythilinga Muppanar v. Vijayathammal, ILR 6 Mad 43 (L) to the same effect.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Pathak, appearing on behalf of the Prince, the third respondent, supported the appellant by raising a further point that the words claiming through mean the same thing as claiming under in S. 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure, laying down the rule of res judicata, and that those words are not apt to refer to a declaration of a mere personal status, and that they mean the same thing as privy in estate as understood under the common law.	Arguments of Petitioner
He called our attention to the following passage in Bigelow on Estoppel, 6th Edn., at pp.	Arguments of Petitioner
158 and 159In the law of estoppel one person becomes privy to another (1) by succeeding to the position of that other as regards the subject of the estoppel, (2) by holding in subordination to that other	Arguments of Petitioner
But it should be noticed that the ground of privity is property and not personal relation.	Arguments of Petitioner
To make a man a privy to an action he must have acquired an interest in the subjectmatter of the action either by inheritance, succession, or purchase from a party subsequently to the action, or he must hold property subordinately.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also drew our attention to similar observations in Casperz on Estoppel.	None
On the other hand, Mr. Purshottam and Sir Syed Sultan Ahmed, appearing on behalf of respondents 1 and 2, respectively, contended that claiming through and claiming under have not exactly the same significance in law, and that the rule laid down in S. 43 of the Specific Relief Act, does not stand on the same footing as a rule of res judicata contained in S. 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure, or estoppel by judgment, as discussed in the works of Bigelow and Casperz, relied upon on behalf of the other side.	Arguments of Respondent
On behalf of the respondents 1 and 2, it was further contended that the suit was really intended not to bind the Prince who has shown no hostility to the claim, but to bind the respondents 1 and 2.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also contended that if the Court were to grant the declaration that the plaintiff is the lawfully wedded wife of the Prince, if a controversy arises hereafter between the plaintiff and her children on the one side and the respondents 1 and 2 on the other, this judgment will not only be admissible in evidence in that litigation, but will be binding upon them  on the plaintiff, because she is privy to the judgment, and on her children, because they will be claiming the benefit of the declaration through her, and on the respondents 1 and 2, because they are admittedly the wife and son of the Prince, and will be manifestly, claiming through him.	Arguments of Respondent
15.	None
In this connection, it has to be remarked that the discretion vested in a court to grant a merely declaratory relief as distinguished from a judgment which is capable of being enforced by execution, derives its utility and importance from the objects it has in view, namely, to prevent future litigation by removing existing cause of controversy, to quiet title and to perpetuate testimony, as also to avoid multiplicity of proceedings.	None
This practice of granting declaratory reliefs, which originated in England in the Equity courts, has been very much extended in America by statutory provisions.	None
In India, the law has been codified in the Specific Relief Act, in Chapter VI, and has, in a sense, extended the scope of the rule by providing for declarations not only in respect of claims to property but also in respect of disputes as regards status.	None
From the terms of S. 42 of the Act, it would appear that the Indian courts have not been empowered to grant every form of declaration which may be available in America.	None
In its very nature, a declaratory decree does not confer any new right, but only clears up mists which may have gathered round the title to property or to status or a legal character.	None
When a court makes a declaration in respect of a disputed status, important rights flow from such a judicial declaration.	None
Hence, a declaration granted in respect of a legal character or status in favour of a person is meant to bind not only persons actually parties to the litigation, but also persons claiming through them, as laid down in Sec.	None
43 of the Act.	None
It is, thus, a rule of substantive law, and is distinct and separate from the rule of res judicata or estoppel by judgment.	None
The doctrine of res judicata, as it has been enunciated in a number of rules laid down in S. 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure, covers a much wider field than the rule laid down in S. 43 of the Specific Relief Act.	None
For example, the doctrine of res judicata lays particular stress upon the competence of the court.	None
On the other hand, S. 43 emphasizes the legal position that it is a judgment in personam as distinguished from a judgment in rem.	None
A judgment may be res judicata in a subsequent litigation only if the former court was competent to deal with the later controversy.	None
No such considerations find a place in S. 43 of the Specific Relief Act.	None
Again, a previous judgment may be res judicata in a subsequent litigation between parties even though they may not have been eo nomine parties to the previous litigation or even claiming through them.	None
For example, judgment in a representative suit, or a judgment obtained by a presumptive reversioner will bind the actual reversioner even though he may not have been a party to it, or may not have been claiming through the parties in the previous litigation.	None
16.	None
When a declaratory judgment has been given, by virtue of S. 43, it is binding not only on the persons actually parties to the judgment but their privies also, using the term privy not in its restricted sense of privy in estate, but also privy in blood.	Reasoning
Privity may arise (1) by operation of law, for example, privity of contract (2) by creation of subordinate interest in property, for example, privity in estate as between a landlord and a tenant, or a mortgagor and a mortgagee and (3) by blood, for example, privity in blood in the case of ancestor and heir.	Reasoning
Otherwise, in some conceivable cases, the provisions of S. 43, quoted above, would become otiose.	Reasoning
The contention raised on behalf of the appellant, which was strongly supported by the third respondent through Mr. Pathak, as stated above, is that a declaratory judgment would not bind anyone other than the party to the suit unless it affects some property, in other words, unless the parties were privy in estate.	Reasoning
But such a contention would render the provisions of S. 43 aforesaid, applicable only to declarations in respect of property and not declarations in respect of status.	Reasoning
That could not have been the intendment of the statutory rule laid down in S. 43.	Reasoning
Sections 42 and 43, as indicated above, go together, and are meant to be coextensive in their operation.	Reasoning
That being so, a declaratory judgment in respect of a disputed status, will be binding not only upon the parties actually before the Court, but also upon persons claiming through them respectively.	Reasoning
The use of the word only in S. 43, as rightly contended on behalf of the appellant, was meant to emphasize that a declaration in Chap.	Reasoning
VI of the Specific Relief Act, is not a judgment in rem.	Reasoning
But even though such a declaration operates only in personam, the Section proceeds further to provide that it binds not only the parties to the suit, but also persons claiming through them, respectively.	Reasoning
The word respectively has been used with a view to showing that the parties arrayed on either side, are really claiming adversely to one another, so far as the declaration is concerned.	Reasoning
This is another indication of the sound rule that the Court, in a particular case where it has reasons to believe that there is no real conflict, may, in exercise of a judicial discretion, refuse to grant the declaration asked for oblique reasons.	Reasoning
17.	None
As a result of these considerations, we have arrived at the following conclusions (1)That the question of addition of parties under R. 10 of O. 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure, is generally not one of initial jurisdiction of the court, but of judicial discretion which has to be exercised in view of all the facts and circumstances of a particular case but in some cases, it may raise controversies as to the power of the court, in contradistinction to its inherent jurisdiction, or, in other words, of jurisdiction in the limited sense in which it is used in S. 115 of the Code (2)That in a suit relating to property, in order that a person may be added as a party, he should have a direct interest as distinguished from a commercial interest, in the subjectmatter of the litigation (3)Where the subjectmatter of the litigation, is a declaration as regards status or a legal character, the rule of present or direct interest may be relaxed in a suitable case where the court is of the opinion that by adding that party, it would be in a better position effectually and completely to adjudicate upon the controversy (4)The cases contemplated in the last proposition, have to be determined in accordance with the statutory provisions of Ss. 42 and 43 of the Specific Relief Act (5)In cases covered by those statutory provisions, the court is not bound to grant the declaration prayed for, on a mere admission of the claim by the defendant, if the court has reasons to insist upon a clear proof apart from the admission (6)The result of a declaratory decree on the question of status, such as in controversy in the instant case, affects not only the parties actually before the Court, but generations to come, and in view of that consideration, the rule of present interest, as evolved by case law relating to disputes about property does not apply with full force and (7)The rule laid down in S. 43 of the Specific Relief Act, is not exactly a rule of res judicata.	Decision
It is narrower in one sense and wider in another.	Decision
18.	None
Applying the propositions enunciated above to the facts of the instant case, we have come to the conclusion that the courts below did not exceed their power in directing the addition of the respondents 1 and 2 as partiesdefendants in the action.	Decision
Nor can it be said that the exercise of the discretion was not sound.	Decision
Furthermore, this case comes before us by special leave, and we do not consider that it is a fit case where we should interfere with the exercise of discretion by the courts below.	Decision
The appeal is, accordingly, dismissed.	Decision
As regards the question of costs, we direct that it will abide the ultimate result of the litigation, and will be disposed of by the trial court.	Decision
S. Jaffer Imam, J. 19.	None
I regret I cannot agree with the opinion of my learned brethren expressed in the judgment just delivered.	None
20.	None
The appellant in her plaint had asked for a declaration that she was a legally wedded wife of respondent No. 3 and that she was also entitled to receive from him KharchePandan at the rate of Rs. 2,000 per month.	None
This respondent field his written statement in which he unequivocally admitted that the appellant was married to him and that she was also entitled to the KharchePandan as claimed in the plaint.	None
She further admitted that the appellant bore him three issues out of the marriage.	None
The appellant sought no relief or any declaration against respondents 1 and 2 as, indeed, she could not have, because she had no cause of action against them.	None
There is nothing in the pleadings of the appellant and respondent No. 3 which discloses that respondents 1 and 2 have any cause of action against the appellant.	None
Respondents 1 and 2.	None
however, filed an application under O. 1, R. 10(2) of the Civil Procedure Code before the Judge of the City Civil Court, Hyderabad, praying that they should be added as parties to the suit filed by the appellant.	None
The Judge of the City Civil Court allowed the application and his decision was affirmed by the High Court.	None
The question for decision in this appeal is whether the Judge of the City Civil Court was justified in adding respondents 1 and 2 as parties to the suit and whether the decision of the High Court upholding his order should be affirmed.	None
21.	None
The provisions of O. 1, R. 1 state as to who may be joined as plaintiffs in a suit and O. 1, R. 3, states who may be joined as defendants.	None
The parties who are to be joined as plaintiffs and defendants in a suit are persons in whom and against whom any right to relief in respect of or arising out of the same act or transaction or series of acts or transactions is alleged to exist, whether jointly, severally or in the alternative, where, if such persons were parties in separate suits, any common question of law or fact would arise.	None
Independent of this, a court has jurisdiction under O. 1, R. 10(1), to substitute or add as plaintiff any person whom it considers necessary for the determination of the real matters in dispute.	None
Under O. 1, R. 10(2), the court has the power to strike off a party who has been improperly joined, whether as plaintiff or defendant, and to join, as plaintiff or defendant, any person who ought to have been joined, or whose presence before the court may be necessary in order to enable it effectually and completely to adjudicate upon and settle all the questions involved in the suit.	None
It is quite obvious from the contents of the plaint and the written statement of Respondent No. 3 that there was no occasion for the appellant to have joined respondents 1 and 2 as defendants in the suit.	None
There remains, then, to consider whether the circumstances appearing in this case justified the Judge of the City Civil Court to add Respondents 1 and 2 as defendants under the provisions of O. 1, R. 10 (2).	None
22. Respondents 1 and 2 in their application under O. 1, R. 10 (2) of the Civil Procedure Code, in essence, relied upon the five following grounds for their plea that they should be added as defendants in the suit (1) That Respondent No. 1 was the lawful and legally wedded wife of respondent No. 3, (2) That Respondent No. 2 was the son of Respondent No. 3, (3) That respondents 1 and 2 should be joined as parties to the suit because the question to be adjudicated upon would seriously affect their right ands interest in the estate of Respondent No. 3, (4) That by adding respondents 1 and 2 as parties neither a new cause of action would be introduced nor would the nature of the suit be altered, (5) That the issue to be tried in the suit, after respondents 1 and 2 were added as parties, would still be the same as the case made by the appellant was that Respondent No. 3 was interested in denying the appellants marriage to Respondent No. 3  a fact which respondents 1 and 2 were equally interested in denying.	Arguments of Respondent
23.	None
The first two grounds afford no justification for respondents 1 and 2 being added as parties to the suit, where the only question to be decided is whether the appellant is married to respondent No. 3 and whether he had contracted to pay to the appellant Rs. 2,000 a month as Kharchepandan.	None
Even if the appellant successfully proved that she was married to respondent No. 3, who had contracted to pay her Rs. 2,000 per month as Kharchepandan, the status and the rights of respondents 1 and 2 as wife and son of respondent No. 3 would remain unaffected.	None
A Mohammedan is entitled to marry more than once and have wives to the number four at one and the same time.	None
This is his right under his personal law and no one can question the exercise of this right by him.	None
In the suit between the appellant and respondent No. 3, the question as to whether the appellant was married to respondent No. 3 was a matter entirely personal to the appellant and respondent No. 3.	None
The appellant claimed that she was lawfully married to respondent No. 3.	None
It was open to respondent No. 3 to either deny or admit her claim.	None
In fact, respondent No. 3 had admitted the claim of the appellant that she was married to him.	None
It is not open to anyone else in the present litigation to say that he has falsely made such an admission.	None
It is true that respondents 1 and 2 have alleged collusion between the appellant and respondent No. 3.	None
No positive facts are asserted in support of this.	None
The suggestion is based merely on suspicion.	None
Unless the Court is justified in adding respondents 1 and 2 as defendants in the suit the suggestion made by them that there is collusion between the appellant and respondent No. 3 should be ignored by the Court on the simple ground that respondents 1 and 2 have no locus standi to make any such representation in the present case.	None
24.	None
The 3rd, 4th and 5th grounds may be considered together as they are interconnected.	None
Grounds 4 and 5 suggest that there would be neither a new cause of action introduced nor would the nature of the suit be altered and the issue to be tried in the suit would still be the same even if respondents 1 and 2 were added as parties.	None
The only issue in the suit filed by the appellant is whether she was married to respondent No. 3 and whether there was a contract by the latter to pay her Rs. 2,000 per month as KharchePandan.	None
If respondents 1 and 2 are added as parties, questions relating to right of inheritance in the estate of respondent No. 3 would arise for determination in addition to the only issue stated above in the case.	None
The main ground, upon which respondents 1 and 2 claim that they should be added as parties to the suit, is to be found in the 3rd ground which, in substance, is that if the appellant is declared to be lawfully wedded to respondent No. 3, then the rights and interests of respondents 1 and 2 in the estate of respondent No. 3 would be affected.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, in the estate of respondent No. 3, on his death, in addition to respondents 1 and 2, the appellant and her three children by him would have rights of inheritance.	Arguments of Respondent
Consequently, the extent of inheritance of respondents 1 and 2 in the estate of respondent No. 3 would be considerably diminished.	Arguments of Respondent
It was urged that if the appellant is given the declaration, which she seeks, the judgment of the Court would be in the exercise of matrimonial jurisdiction and it would be a judgment in rem as stated in S. 41 of the Indian Evidence Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Such a declaration would also be binding on respondents 1 and 2 by virtue of the provisions of S. 43 of the Specific Relief Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellant asked for a declaration under Section 42 of the Specific Relief Act.	Arguments of Respondent
This Section permitted a person who claimed to be entitled to any legal character, or to any right to property, to institute a suit against any person denying, or interested to deny, such character or right.	Arguments of Respondent
Respondents 1 and 2 were interested in denying the appellants status as a wife and the status of her three children as the legitimate children of respondent No. 3.	Arguments of Respondent
A declaration in her favour would be binding on respondents 1 and 2 and they would never be in a position to disprove the appellants marriage to respondent No. 3.	Arguments of Respondent
This was an impossible situation where the declaration had been obtained from a court as the result of collusion between the appellant and respondent No. 3. 25.	Arguments of Respondent
This submission presupposes that respondents 1 and 2 would survive respondent No. 3.	None
During the life time of respondent No. 3 neither the appellant nor her children on the one hand nor respondents 1 and 2 on the other have any rights whatsoever in his estate under the Mohammedan law.	None
During the life time of respondent No. 3 respondents 1 and 2 would have the right to be maintained by him and, if the appellant is also his wife, then she and her children would also have the right to be maintained by him.	None
The appellant and respondent No. 1 would also have rights arising out of a contract, if any, between them and respondent No. 3.	None
None of these rights, however, are rights or interests in the estate of respondent.	None
No. 3.	None
The submission also presupposes that on the death of respondent No. 3 he would have left behind some estate to be inherited by his heirs.	None
These submissions are entirely speculative and afford no basis for the impleading of respondents 1 and 2 as parties to the appellants suit.	None
It was said, however, that the right to inherit is a present right in respondents 1 and 2 and if the appellant is declared to be the wife of respondent No. 3, then that right to inheritance is affected.	None
This contention is erroneous and there is no legal basis to support it.	None
If the appellant is declared to be the wife of respondent No. 3 such a declaration could not affect the right to inherit on the part of respondents 1 and 2 in the estate of respondent No. 3, assuming that respondent No. 3 on his death left an estate to be inherited and that the appellant and her children and respondents 1 and 2 survived him.	None
The extent of the inheritance of each one of these may thus become less but so far as that is concerned it cannot be predicated during the life time of respondent No. 3 as to what would be the extent of the inheritance of his heirs.	None
Under the Mohammedan law, by which the parties are governed, respondent No. 3 could yet validly marry two other women and have children from them, in which case, the inheritance, if any could not be to the same extent if respondent No. 3 died leaving only respondents 1 and 2 as his heirs.	None
The entire question raised by respondents 1 and 2 is based on the supposition that they have rights in the estate of respondent No. 3.	None
Under the Mohammedan law they have no such rights.	None
It is only in the event of their surviving respondent No. 3 that their rights will vest in his estate and the extent of their inheritance will be calculated on the number of persons entitled to inherit his estate at the time of his death.	None
26.	None
It was urged, however, that unless respondents 1 and 2 are now given an opportunity to show that there was no valid marriage between the appellant and respondent No. 3, a declaration that there was a marriage between these two persons would be binding on them by virtue of the provisions of S. 43 of the Specific Relief Act.	Arguments of Respondent
If, therefore, on the death of respondent No. 3 a question arose as to who were entitled to inherit his estate respondents 1 and 2 would not be able to question the rights of the appellant and her children and they would be adversely affected by the declaration.	Arguments of Respondent
It is somewhat doubtful, having regard to the terms of S. 43, that such a declaration in the present suit would be binding on respondents 1 and 2 as they would not be claiming their right to inheritance through the appellant and respondent No. 3 respectively.	None
Assuming, however, that such a declaration would be binding on them, that would be no justification for their being impleaded in the present litigation where the issue is not one of inheritance but one of marriage between the appellant and respondent No. 3.	None
If the submission has any substance it might as well be said by any one that he should be impleaded as a party to a suit and should be allowed to contest the suit, although there was no cause of action against him, because the decree in the suit would bind him on the ground of res judicata.	None
27.	None
It is true that in a suit under S. 42 of the Specific Relief Act, it is discretionary with the court to make or not to make the declaration asked for.	None
The exercise of that discretion, however, has to be judicial.	None
In the present case there does not appear to be any legal impediment in the way of the court refusing to make the declaration asked for since respondent No. 3 had acknowledged the marriage and had admitted the claim for Rs. 2,000 per month as KharchePandan.	None
The appellant has not asked for any sum of money to be decreed in her favour.	None
There is no cause of action now left to the appellant which can be the basis for the present suit.	None
The appellant could rely upon the acknowledgement which raises a presumption under the Mohammedan law that she is married to respondent No. 3.	None
There appears to be no good ground for adding respondents 1 and 2 as parties to the present suit.	None
If hereafter on the happening of a certain event and the existence of certain circumstance any question arose whether the appellant was married to respondent No. 3 then those who were interested in disproving the marriage would be in a position to do so and rebut the presumption arising from the acknowledgement.	None
28.	None
Under O.1, R. 10 of the Civil Procedure Code the court has the power to pass orders regarding the adding of parties or striking off the name of party.	None
Whether the exercise of this power is a matter of jurisdiction or of discretion appears to have been the subject of difference of opinion in the courts of law here and in England.	None
Whichever view may be correct it is patent that resort to the exercise of such power could only be had if the court is satisfied that it is necessary to make an order under O. 1, R. 10, in order to effectually and completely adjudicate upon and settle all questions involved in the suit.	None
The court ought not to compel a plaintiff to add a party to the suit where on the face of the plaint the plaintiff has no cause of action against him.	None
If a party is added by the court without whose presence all questions involved in the suit could be effectually and completely adjudicated upon, then the exercise of the power is improper and even if it be a matter of discretion such an order should not be allowed to stand when that order is questioned in a superior court.	None
The plaintiff is entitled to choose as defendants against whom he has a cause of action and he should not be burdened with the task of meeting a party against whom he has no cause of action.	None
It was, however, suggested that on the face of the plaint not only respondent No. 3 was interested in denying his marriage with the appellant but a legitimate inference could be drawn from the contents of the pleadings that respondents 1 and 2 were also interested in denying the marriage.	None
No allegation made in the pleadings even remotely suggests that respondents 1 and 2 were interested to deny the alleged marriage of the appellant to respondent No. 3 or were denying the same.	None
Under S. 42 of the Specific Relief Act a suit may be instituted against any person denying or interested to deny the plaintiffs legal character or right to any property.	None
The plaint does not suggest that respondents 1 and 2 were denying the appellants status as wife of respondent No. 3.	None
Such an issue was raised by the appellant against respondent No. 3 only.	None
In law, it cannot be said that respondents 1 and 2 are interested to deny the status of the appellant as the wife of respondent No. 3 because the status of respondent No. 1 as wife and respondent No. 2 as the son of respondent No. 3 is not in the least affected even if the appellant is declared to be the wife of respondent No. 3 as under the Mohammedan law respondent No. 3 is entitled to have both the appellant and respondent No. 1 as his wives and children through them.	None
The true legal position in the present suit between the appellant and respondent No. 3 is that respondents 1 and 2 have no locus standi in such a suit.	None
There is no danger of multiplicity of suits during the life time of respondent No. 3.	None
The suggestion that the present suit would lead to multiplicity of suits is founded on an assumption which no court of law can assume.	None
It cannot be assumed that respondent No. 3 would die first.	None
It may well be that he may survive both respondents 1 and 2, in which case, no question of any suit coming into existence at their instance would arise.	None
If the order allowing respondents 1 and 2 to be added as parties in a suit of the present nature is allowed to stand it will open the way to a wider exercise of powers under O. 1, R. 10 and in a manner which was not contemplated by the Code of Civil Procedure, or S. 42 of the Specific Relief Act or permissible under the Mohammedan law.	None
29.	None
I would, accordingly, allow the appeal as both the courts below were in error in supposing that this was a case in which the provisions of O. 1, R. 10, applied and would set aside the orders of the courts below.	None
The appellant is entitled to her costs throughout.	None
By Court 30.	None
The appeal is dismissed.	Decision
Costs to abide the result of litigation in the trial court.	Decision
31.	None
Appeal dismissed.	Decision
