 Gajendragadkar, J.1.	None
(For himself and for B. P. Sinha, C. J., J. L. Kapur and K. N. Wanchoo, JJ.)	None
The appellants in these two appeals had filed two separate petitions under Art.	None
226 of the Constitution in the Bombay High Court in which they had challenged the vires of S. 6(2) of the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, 1948 (LXVII of 1948) (hereafter called the Act) and the validity of the notification issued by the Government of October 17, 1952, under the provisions of the said S. 6(2).	None
It appears that on June 23, 1949, in exercise of the powers conferred by S. 6(2) of the Act the Government had issued a notification fixingin the case of an irrigated land 1/5 and in the case of any other land 1/4 of the crops of such land or its value as determined in the prescribed manner as the maximum rent payable by the tenants of the lands situate in the areas specified in the schedule appended thereto.	Facts
Amongst the areas thus specified was the area in which the appellants lands are situated.	None
Subsequently, on October 17, 1952, by virtue of the same powers and in supersession of all other earlier notifications issued in that behalf the Government purported to prescribe a rate as the lower rate of maximum rent at which the rent shall be payable by the tenants in respect of the lands situate in the areas specified in Schedule I appended to it.	Facts
It is unnecessary to set out the rates thus prescribed it would be enough to state that the rate of maximum rent prescribed by this notification is very much lower than the rate which had been fixed by the earlier one.	Facts
By their petitions filed in the Bombay High Court the appellants contended that S. 6(2) was ultra vires, and that even if S. 6(2) was valid the impugned notification was invalid.	Facts
Accordingly they prayed for a writ of mandamus or a writ in the nature of mandamus or any other appropriate direction or order against the Government, the Mamlatdar of the area concerned and their respective tenants prohibiting them or any one of them from giving effect to the said notification.	Facts
They also claimed a direction or order to the opponents directing them to cancel or withdraw the impugned notification.	Facts
These two petitions were heard by the High Court along with other companion matters in which the same points were raised, and in the result the High Court dismissed the petitions.	Facts
It held that S. 6(2) was intra vires and the impugned notification was legal and valid.	Facts
The appellants then applied for and obtained a certificate from the High Court, and it is with the said certificate that they have come to this Court by their two appeals.2.	Facts
At the outset it may be relevant to state that, subsequent to t	None
he decision under appeal, in 1956 the Act has been substantially amended and now S. 3 of the new Act provides for the rent and its maximum and minimum.	None
Shortly stated this section incorporates the provisions of the impugned notification and adds to it the further provision that in no case shall the rent be less than twice the assessment.	None
In consequence the point raised in the present appeals has ceased to be of any importance at best it may affect just a few cases between landlords and tenants that may be pending in respect of the rent payable by the latter to the former for a period prior to 1956.	None
At the time when the certificate was granted the questions raised by the appellants were undoubtedly of general importance.3.	None
We would first read S. 6 of the Act.	None
Section 6(1) provides that notwithstanding any agreement, usage, decree or order of a court or any law the maximum rent payable by a tenant for the lease of any land shall not in the case of an irrigated land exceed onefourth and in the case of any other land exceed onethird of the crop of such land or its value as determined in the prescribed manner.	None
Section 6(2) provides that the Provincial Government may by notification in the official gazette fix a lower rate of the maximum rent payable by the tenants of lands situate in any particular area or may fix such rate on any other suitable basis as it thinks fit.	None
For the appellants Mr. Limaye has contended that S. 6(2) suffers from the vice of excessive delegation.	Arguments of Petitioner
His argument is that the power delegated to the Provincial Government is unfettered and uncanalised and no guidance has been afforded to it for exercising the said power.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has also relied on the fact that while giving such wide powers to the delegate in fixing the lower rate of the maximum rent the Legislature has not prescribed any minimum as it should have done.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court has held that the delegation involved in S. 6(2) is within permissible limits and as such the challenge to the vires of the said provision cannot succeed.4.	None
It is now well established by the decision of this Court that the power of delegation is a constituent element of the legislative power as a whole, and that in modern times when the Legislatures enact laws to meet the challenge of the complex socioeconomic problems, they often find it convenient and necessary to delegate subsidiary or ancillary powers to delegates of their choice for carrying out the policy laid down by their Acts.	Reasoning
The extent to which such delegation is permissible is also now well settled.	Reasoning
The Legislature cannot delegate its essential legislative function in any case.	Reasoning
It must lay down the legislative policy and principle, and must afford guidance for carrying out the said policy before it delegates its subsidiary powers in that behalf.	None
As has been observed by Mahajan C. J. in Harishankar Bagla v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (1955) 1	None
SCR 380 at p. 388 (AIR 1954 SC 465 at p. 465),the	None
Legislature cannot delegate its function of laying down legislative policy in respect of a measure and its formulation as a rule of conduct.	None
The Legislature must declare the policy of the law and the legal principles which are to control any given cases, and must provide a standard to guide the officials or the body in power to execute the law.	None
In dealing with the challenge to the vires of any statute on the ground of excessive delegation it is, therefore, necessary to enquire whether the impugned delegation involves the delegation of an essential legislative function or power and whether the Legislature has enunciated its policy and principle and given guidance to the delegate or not.	Reasoning
As the decision in Baglas case, 19551 SCR 380 (AIR 1954 SC 465 ), shows, in applying this test this Court has taken into account the statements in the preamble to the Act, and if the said statements afford a satisfactory basis for holding that the legislative policy and principle has been enunciated with sufficient accuracy and clarity the preamble itself has been held to satisfy the requirements of the relevant tests.	Reasoning
In every case it would be necessary to consider the relevant provisions of the Act in relation to the delegation made and the question as to whether the delegation is intra vires or not will have to be decided by the application of the relevant tests.5.	Reasoning
In this connection we may also refer to the decision of this Court in Edward Mills Co. Ltd., Beawar v. State of Ajmer, 19551 SCR 735 at p. 750 ( (S) AIR 1955 SC 25 at p. 33), where the validity of the notification issued under the provisions of the Minimum Wages Act XI of 1948 was impeached, and the said challenge raised the question about the validity of the delegation provided for by S. 27 of the said Act.	None
The scheme of the Act was that a schedule had been attached to it which gave a list of employments to which the provisions of the Act applied and S. 27 gave power to the appropriate Government to add to either part of t he schedule any employment in respect of which it was of opinion that the minimum wages shall be fixed and this the appropriate Government was authorised to do by giving notification in a broad manner, and thereupon the schedule shall, in its application to the State, be deemed to be amended accordingly.	None
The argument was that the Act had nowhere formulated a legislative policy according to which an employment should be chosen for being included in the schedule no principles had been prescribed and no standards laid down in that behalf, and so the delegation was unfettered and uncanalised.	None
This argument was rejected by this Court on the broad consideration that the legislative policy was apparent on the face of the Act itself.	None
What the Act aims at, observed Mukherjea, J., as he then was,is the statutory fixation of minimum wages with a view to obviate the chance of exploitation of labour.	None
The Legislature undoubtedly intended to apply this Act not to all industries but to those industries only where by reason of unorganised labour or want of proper arrangements for effective regulation of wages or for other causes the wages of labourers in a particular industry were very low.6.	None
The learned Judge then pointed out that conditions of labour vary under different circumstances and from State to State, and the expediency of including a particular trade or industry within the schedule depends upon a variety of facts which are not uniform and which can best be ascertained by the person who is placed in charge of administration of a particular State.	None
It is with a view to carry out the particular purpose of the Act that power is delegated to the appropriate Government by S. 27.	None
That is how the challenge to the vires of S. 27 was repelled.7.	None
The present Act is undoubtedly a beneficent measure.	None
It has enacted provisions for agrarian reform which the Legislature thought was overdue.	None
The preamble shows that the object of the Act inter alia was to improve the economic and social condition of peasants and ensure the full and efficient use of land for agriculture.	None
With that object the Act has made several provisions of safeguard the interests of the tenants.	None
Let us consider some of these provisions.	None
Section 6 which we have already set out prescribed the maximum rent payable by a tenant, and provides for the reduction of the said maximum by reference to particular areas.	None
Section 7 lays down that the rent payable by tenants shall, subject to the maximum rate fixed under S. 6, be the rent agreed between the parties, or in the absence of any agreement or usage, or where there is a dispute as regards the reasonableness of the rent payable according to the agreement or usage, the reasonable rent.	None
It is thus clear that even in regard to an agreed rent or a rent fixed by usage, if a tenant raises a dispute about its reasonableness that dispute has to be settled in the manner prescribed by the Act and the amount of reasonable rent determined.	None
Section 8 provides for commutation of cropshare rent into cash.	None
Section 9 prohibits a landlord from receiving from his tenant any rent in terms of service or labour and it requires him to apply to the Mamlatdar for commuting such rent into cash.	None
Section 10 provides for refund of excess rent recovered by the landlord from his tenant.	None
Section 11 prohibits the recovery by the landlord of any cess, rate, vero, huk or tax or service of any description from the tenant other than the rent lawfully due from such land.	None
Section 12 provides for enquiries in regard to the fixation of reasonable rent.	None
On an application made by the tenant or the landlord in that behalf the Mamlatdar has to determine the reasonable rent under S. 12 (3) having regard to the factors specified in the said subsection.8.	None
These factors are (a) the rental values of lands used for similar purposes in the locality, (b) the profits of agriculture of similar lands in the locality, (c) the prices of crops and commodities in the locality, (d) the improvements made in the land by the landlord or the tenant, (e) the assessment payable in respect of the land, and (f) such other factors as may be prescribed.	None
There is no doubt that the last clause which refers to other factors must be construed as referring to factors ejusdem generis with those that have been previously enumerated.	None
Section 13 provides for the suspension or remission of rent, and the conditions under which the said remission or suspension can be granted.	None
It would thus be seen that the material provisions of the Act aim at giving relief to the tenants by fixing the maximum rent payable by them and by providing for a speedy machinery to consider their complaints about the unreasonableness of the rent claimed from them by their respective landlords.	None
It is in the light of this policy of the Act which is writ large on the face of these provisions that we have to consider the question as to whether the delegation made by S. 6(2) suffers from the infirmity of excessive delegation.9.	None
Broadly stated S. 6(2) seeks to provide for the fixation of a lower rate of maximum rent areawise.	Reasoning
We have already seen that individual tenants are given the right to apply for the fixation of reasonable rent by S. 12, and specific factors have been specified which the Mamlatdar must consider in fixing a reasonable rent.	Reasoning
The Legislature realised that a large number of tenants in the State were poor, ignorant and in many cases helpless, and it was thought that many of them may not be able to make individual applications for the fixation of a reasonable rent under S. 12.	None
That is why it was thought necessary to confer upon the Provincial Government the power to fix a lower rate of the maximum rent payable by tenants in respect of particular areas.	None
In a sense what could be done by the Mamlatdar in individual cases can be achieved by the Provincial Government in respect of a large number of cases covered in a particular area.	Reasoning
If that be so, the legislative policy having been clearly expressed in the relevant provisions and the factors for determining reasonable rent also having been specified in S. 12(3), it is difficult to accept the argument that the Provincial Government has been given uncanalised or unfettered powers by S. 6(2) to do what it likes without any guidance.	Reasoning
The relevant factors having been specified by S. 12 (3) when the Provincial Government considers the question of fixing a lower rate of the maximum rent payable in any particular area it is expected to adopt a basis which is suitable to that particular area.	Reasoning
The relevant conditions of agriculture would not be uniform in different areas and the problem of fixing a reduced maximum rent payable in the respective areas would have to be tackled in the light of the special features and conditions of that area that is why a certain amount of latitude had to be left to the Government in fixing the lower rate of the maximum rent in the respective areas, and that is intended to be achieved by giving it liberty to adopt a basis which it thinks is suitable for the area in question.	Reasoning
The word suitable in the context must mean suitable to the area having regard to the other provisions of the Act such as S. 6(1) and S. 12.	None
It is true that the power to fix a reasonable rent conferred on the Mamlatdar under S. 12 is subject to the power of the Provincial Government under S. 6(2).	None
Even so we think it would be difficult to hold that the factors prescribe for the guidance of the Mamlatdar would have no relevance at all when the Provincial Government acts under S. 6(2).10.	None
In our opinion, therefore, having regard to the legislative policy laid down by the Act in its preamble and in the other relevant sections to which we have referred, and having regard to the guidance which has been provided for fixing a reasonable rent under S. 12(3), it would not be possible to hold that the power delegated to the Provincial Government by S. 6(2) suffers from the infirmity of excessive delegation.	Reasoning
The fact that no minimum has been prescribed would not materially affect this position.11.	None
Mr. Limaye has then contended that even if S. 6(2) is valid the impugned notification is invalid because it offends against Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
31 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
He concedes that the Act itself is saved under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
31B since it is one of the Acts enumerated in the Ninth Schedule but his argument is that the notification has in substance amended the provisions of S. 61(1) and thus it amounts to a fresh legislation to which Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
31B cannot apply.	None
There is no substance in this argument.	None
If S. 6(2) is valid then the exercise of the power validly conferred on the Provincial Government cannot be treated as fresh legislation which offends against Art.	Reasoning
31.	None
If the Act is saved by Art.	Reasoning
31B, S. 6(2) is also saved, and the power must be held to be validly conferred on the Provincial Government, and a notification issued by virtue of the said powers cannot be challenged on the ground that it violates Art.	None
31.12.	None
The next argument is that the notification is invalid because the power to issue a notification conferred by S. 6(2) was exhausted as soon as the Government issued the first notification on June 23, 1949.	None
This argument proceeds on the assumption that the power conferred on the Government by S. 6(2) can be exercised only once, and it seeks to derive support from the fact that the words from time to time which were used in the corresponding section of the earlier tenancy legislation in the State have not been used in S. 6(2).	Reasoning
Reliance is also placed on the fact that the said words have been used in S. 8(1) of the Act.	Reasoning
The omission of the said words from S. 6(2) as contrasted with their inclusion in S. 8(1), says Mr. Limaye, indicates that the power delegated under S. 6(2) was intended to be used only once.	Reasoning
This argument is fallacious.	Reasoning
Why the Legislature did not use the words from time to time in S. 6(2) when it used them in S. 8(1)	Reasoning
it is difficult to understand but in construing S. 6(2)	Reasoning
it is obviously necessary to apply the provisions of S. 14 of the Bombay General Clauses Act, 1904 (I of 1904).Section 14 provides that where by any Bombay Act made after the commencement of this Act any power is conferred on any Government then that power may be exercised from time to time as occasion requires.	Reasoning
Quite clearly if S. 6(2) is read in the light of S. 14 of the Bombay General Clauses Act it must follow that the power to issue a notification can be exercised from time to time as occasion requires.	Reasoning
It is true that S. 14 of the Central General Clauses Act, 1897 (X of 1897) provides that where any power is conferred by any Central Act or Regulation then, unless a different intention appears, that power may be exercised from time to time as occasion requires.	Reasoning
Since there is a specific provision of the Bombay General Clauses Act relevant on the point it is unnecessary to take recourse to S. 14 of the Central General Clauses Act but even if we were to assume that the power in question can be exercised from time to time unless a different intention appears we would feel no difficulty in holding that no such different intention can be attributed to the Legislature when it enacted S. 6(2).	Reasoning
It is obvious that having prescribed for a maximum by S. 6(1) the Legislature has deliberately provided for a modification of the said maximum rent and that itself shows that the fixation of any maximum rent was not treated as immutable.	Reasoning
If it was necessary to issue one notification under S. 6(2) it would follow by force of the same logic that circumstances may require the issue of a further notification.	Reasoning
The fixation of agricultural rent depends upon so many uncertain factors which may vary from time to time and from place to place that it would be idle to contend that the Legislature wanted to fix the maximum only once, or, as Mr. Limaye concedes, twice.	Reasoning
Therefore the argument that the power to issue a notification has been exhausted cannot be sustained.13.	Reasoning
The last argument which Mr. Limaye faintly attempted to place before us was that the expression any particular area would not be applicable to the areas in which the appellants lands are situated because, according to him, the expression should be construed in the light of the same expression used in S. 298(2)(a) of the Government of India Act, 1935.	None
This argument is farfetched and factuous and need not be considered.14.	None
In the result the appeals fail and are dismissed with costs.	None
Subba Rao, J.15.	None
I have held the advantage of perusing the judgment prepared by Gajendragadkar, J. I regret my inability to agree with my learned brother on the question of the vires of S. 6(2) of the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, 1948 (LXVII of 1948) (hereinafter called the Act).16.	None
The facts have been fully stated in the judgment of my learned brother and I need not restate them here.	None
It would be enough if I expressed my opinion on the said question.17.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant attacks the constitutional validity of S. 6(2) on the ground that the said subsection exceeds the limits of permissible delegated legislation.	None
Before considering the validity of S. 6(2), it would be convenient to notice briefly the relevant aspects of the law of the doctrine of delegated legislation.	None
The scope of the doctrine of delegation of legislation has been so authoritatively laid down by this Court in more than one decision that it would be pedantic to attempt to resurvey the field over again.	None
I would, therefore, be content to collate the relevant passages from the decisions of this Court to ascertain the principle underlying the doctrines.18.	None
The leading decision on this subject is In re Delhi Laws Act, 1912, 1951 SCR 747 (AIR 1951 SC 332 ).	None
There the Central Legislature had empowered the executive authority under its legislative control to apply at its discretion the laws to an area which was also under the legislative sway of the Centre.	None
The validity of the laws was questioned on the ground that the legislature had no power to delegate legislative powers to executive authorities.	None
As many as seven Judges dealt with the question and wrote seven separate judgments considering elaborately the different aspects of the question raised.	None
I am relieved of the duty to ascertain the core of the decision as that has been done by Bose, J., with clarity in Rajnarain Singh v. Chairman, Patna Administration Committee, Patna, (1955) 1	None
SCR 290 (AIR 1954 SC 569 ).	None
Bose, J., after pointing out the seven variations of the authority given to the executive in the Delhi Laws Act case, 1951 SCR 747 (AIR 1951 SC 332 ), summarized the majority view on the relevant aspect of the question now raised at p. 301 (of SCR) (at p. 574 of AIR) thusIn our opinion, the majority view was that an executive authority can be authorised to modify either existing or future laws but not in any essential feature.	None
Exactly what constitutes an essential feature cannot be enunciated in general terms, and there was some divergence of view about this in the former case, but this much is clear from the opinions set out above it cannot include a change of policy.19.	None
Rajnarain Singhs case, (1955) 1	None
SCR 290 (AIR 1954 SC 569 ), dealt with S. 3(1) of the Patna Administration Act, 1915, (Bihar and Orissa Act 1 of 1915) as amended by Patna Administration (Amendment) Act, 1928 (Bihar and Orissa Act IV of 1928) and with a notification issued by the Governor of Bihar picking out S. 104 out of the Bihar and Orissa Municipal Act of 1922, modifying it and extending it in its modified form to the Patna Administration and Patna Village areas.	None
Bose, J., after pointing out the difference between Rajnarain Singhs case, (1955) 1 SCR 290 (AIR 1954 SC 569 ), and the Delhi Laws Act, 1951 SCR 747 (AIR 1951 SC 332 ), observed at p. 303 (of SCR) (at p. 575 of AIR), thusBut even as the modification of the whole cannot be permitted to effect any essential change in the Act or an alteration in its policy, so also a modification of a part cannot be permitted to do that either.20.	None
This Court again in 19551 SCR 380 (AIR 1954 SC 465 ), considered the scope of the Delhi Laws Act case 1951 SCR 747 (AIR 1951 SC 332 ), Mahajan, C. J., stated at p. 388 (of SCR) (at p. 468 of AIR), thusIt was settled by the majority judgment in the Delhi Laws Act case, 1951 SCR 747 (AIR 1951 SC 332 ), that essential powers of legislation cannot be delegated.	None
In other words, the legislature cannot delegate its function of laying down legislative policy in respect of a measure and its formulation as a rule of conduct.	None
The Legislature must declare the policy of the law and the legal principle which are to control any given cases and must provide a standard to guide the officials or the body in power to execute the law.	None
The essential legislative function consists in the determination of choice of the legislative policy and of formally enacting that policy into a binding rule of conduct.	None
In 19551 SCR 735 ( (S) AIR 1955 SC 25 ), Mukherjea, J., as he then was, speaking for the Court stated the principle thus at p. 749 (of SCR) (at p. 32 of AIR)A Legislature cannot certainly strip itself of its essential functions and vest the same on an extraneous authority.	None
The primary duty of lawmaking has to be discharged by the Legislature itself but delegation may be resorted to as a subsidiary or an ancillary measure.21.	None
The latest decision on the point is that in Hamdard Dawakhana v. Union of India, AIR 1960 SC 554 .	None
One of the questions raised in that case was whether S. 3(d) of Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectional Advertisements) Act, 1954 exceeded the permissible limits of delegated legislation.	None
The principle has been restated by Kapur, J., at p. 586	None
thusThis means that the legislature having laid down the broad principles of its policy in the legislation can then leave the details to be supplied by the administrative authority.	None
In other words by delegated legislation the delegate completes the legislation by supplying details within the limits prescribed by the statute and in the case of conditional legislation the power of legislation is exercised by the legislature conditionally leaving to the discretion of an external authority the time and manner of carrying its legislation into effect as also the determination of the area to which it is to extend.22.	None
Applying the principle to the facts of that case, the learned Judge observed at p. 568 thusIn our view the words impugned are vague.	None
Parliament has established no criteria, no standards and has not prescribed any principle on which a particular disease or condition is to be specified in the Schedule.	None
It is not stated what facts or circumstances are to be taken into consideration to include a particular condition or disease.	None
The power of specifying diseases and conditions as given in S. 3(d) must therefore be held to be going beyond permissible boundaries of valid delegation.23.	None
It is not necessary to multiply decisions nor is it necessary to point out the subtle distinction between delegated legislation and conditional legislation.	None
The law on the subject may be briefly stated thus The Constitution confers a power and imposes a duty on the legislature to make laws.	None
The essential legislative function is the determination of the legislative policy and its formulation as a rule of conduct.	None
Obviously it cannot abdicate its functions in favour of another.	None
But in view of the multifarious activities of a welfare State, it cannot presumably work out all the details to suit the varying aspects of a complex situation.	None
It must necessarily delegate the working out of details to the executive or any other agency.	None
But there is a danger inherent in such a process of delegation.	None
An overburdened legislature or one controlled by a powerful executive may unduly overstep the limits of delegation.	None
It may not lay down any policy at all it may declare its policy in vague and general terms it may not set down any standard for the guidance of the executive it may confer an arbitrary power on the executive to change or modify the policy laid down by it without reserving for itself any control over subordinate.	None
Legislation.	None
This selfeffacement of legislative power in favour of another agency either in whole or in part is beyond the permissible limits of delegation.	None
It is for a Court to hold on a fair, generous and liberal construction of an impugned statute whether the legislature exceeded such limits.	None
But the said liberal construction should not be carried by the Courts to the extent of always trying to discover a dormant or latent legislative policy to sustain an arbitrary power on executive authorities.	None
It is the duty of this Court to strike down without any hesitation any blanket power conferred on the executive by the legislature.24.	None
Bearing the aforesaid principles in mind, I shall look at the provisions of the Act to ascertain whether S. 6(2) is in conformity with the law laid down by this Court.	None
I shall for the present ignore S. 6(2) and briefly and broadly notice the scheme of the Act.	None
The preamble shows that the object of the Act was mainly to improve the economic and social conditions of peasants and to ensure the full and efficient use of land for agriculture.	None
It also indicates that the Act was not intended to be a confiscatory one, but was enacted to regulate the relationship between landlord and tenant, particularly in respect of rent payable by the tenant to the landlord.	None
In S. 6(1) the legislature in clear terms fixes the maximum rent payable by a tenant, having regard to the nature of the land in the case of irrigated land it fixes onefourth and in the case of other land onethird of the crop of such land or its value as determined in the prescribed manner as the maximum rent.	None
The rest of the act is to be worked out subject to the maximum rent fixed under S. 6(1).	None
Section 7 enables the landlord and tenant to agree upon the rate of rent.	None
Section 8 gives power to the Provincial Government to issue notifications providing for the commutation of the rent in kind into cash rent.	None
It also, if no rate of commutation has been so fixed by the State Government, enables the Mamlatdar to fix the amount of commutation in the manner prescribed.	None
Subsection (3) of S. 6 prohibits a landlord from recovering any rent by way of cropshare or in excess of the commuted cash rent.	None
Section 9 compels the landlord to apply to the Mamlatdar if the landlord is receiving rent from any tenant in terms of service or labour, for commuting such rent into cash.	None
Section 10 makes the landlord liable to pay compensation to the tenant if he contravenes the provisions of Ss. 6, 7, 8 or 9.	None
Section 11 prohibits the landlord from collecting any cesses other than the rent lawfully payable in respect of the land.	None
Section 12 enables the tenant to apply to the Mamlatdar for the fixation of reasonable rent in respect of the land in his possession and S. 12 (3) lays down the factors the Mamlatdar has to take into consideration in fixing a reasonable rent.	None
After fixing the rent, the Mamlatdar makes an order for payment of the rent to the landlord and the rent so fixed shall hold good for a period of five years.25.	None
There is also a provision for reduction of rent if during the said period on account of deterioration of the land by floods or other causes beyond the control of the tenant the land has been wholly or partially rendered unfit for cultivation.	None
Section 13 enjoins on the landlord to suspend or remit the rent payable by the tenant to him if the payment of land revenue by him to the Government is suspended or remitted.	None
A right of appeal is provided against the order of the Mamlatdar to the Collector.	None
Shortly stated, this Act provides for the fixation of maximum rent by the Government, a reasonable rent by Mamlatdar and an agreed rent by the parties.	None
But both the agreed rent and the reasonable rent cannot exceed the maximum rent.	None
There are express provisions for reduction or remission of rent in appropriate circumstances.	None
The Act does not provide for an appeal or revision to the Government and the Government has, therefore, no say in the matter of fixation of reasonable rent.	None
The whole scheme of the Act, therefore, excluding S. 6(2), is a selfcontained and integrated one.	None
The legislature fixed the maximum rent linked with crop having regard to the nature of the land, and the other provisions enable the appropriate authorities to fix reasonable rent subject to that maximum.26.	None
Now let us see the impact of S. 6 (2) on this scheme.	None
Section 6(2)	None
readsThe	None
Provincial Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, fix a lower rate of the maximum rent payable by the tenants of lands situate in any particular area or may fix such rate on any other suitable basis as it thinks fit.27.	None
Under this section the Provincial Government may fix a lower rate of the maximum in any particular area or to fix such rate on any other suitable basis.	None
Three elastic words are used in S. 6(2), namely, (1) lower rate (2) particular area and (3) on any other suitable basis.	None
Prima facie in S. 6(2) the legislature has not laid down any policy or any standard to enable the Provincial Government to reduce the maximum rent fixed under S. 6(1).	None
What is the limit of the lower rate the Government is empowered to fix?	None
What is the extent of the area with reference to which that rate can be fixed?	None
What are the conditions prevailing in a particular area which require the reduction of the maximum rent?	None
Even if there are conditions justifiable for reduction of the maximum rent, what is the basis for that reduction?	None
The disjunctive or between particular area and may fix and the word other qualifying suitable basis indicate that the situation of the land in a particular area may also be a basis for fixing a lower rent.	None
The situation of a land in a particular area cannot in itself afford a basis for fixing a specified rate of maximum rent.	None
The words suitable basis in the alternative clause are so vague that in effect and substance they confer absolute and arbitrary discretion on the Provincial Government.	None
What is the standard of suitability?	None
The standard of suitability is only what the Government thinks suitable.	None
In this section the legislature in clearest terms abdicated its essential functions in favouur of the executive authority without laying down any standard for its guidance.	None
In effect it permitted the Government to amend S. 6(1) of the Act.	None
To illustratey the legislature fixes the maximum rent payable by a tenant to his landlord at X the Mamlatdar after enquiry fixes Y as reasonable rent which is less than X the Government in exercise of the power conferred under S. 6(2) can arbitrarily fix Z which is far less than the reasonable rent with the result that the entire scheme promulgated by the legislature breaks.	None
The Government also may select any small area containing a few landlords and reduce the maximum rent to the lowest level with the result the Act can be worked out as an expropriatory measure which is contrary to the intention of the legislature.	None
Learned counsel for the respondents realising that arbitrariness is writ large on the fact of S. 6(2) attempted to evolve the legislative formula from the preamble to S. 6(1) and S. 12(3) of the Act.	None
I cannot find any indication of the legislative policy in the manner of fixation of the lower rate of maximum rent in the preamble.	None
Nor can I discover any such in S. 6(1).Section 6(1) contains a clear legislative policy in fixing the maximum rent on certain identifiable basis.	None
The legislature says in effect in S. 6(2), I have fixed the maximum rent in respect of irrigated lands and other lands on the basis of a definite share of the crops of such lands, but you can reduce that maximum rent on any basis you like.	None
While S. 6(1) overrides other provisions of the Act, S. 6(2) derogates from S. 6(1) itself.	None
Section 6(2) is capable of being exercised in such a way that the object of S. 6(1) is itself frustrated.	None
Section 6(1) in effect is made subject to S. (6)(2).28.	None
Now coming to S. 12 (3), it is contended that the factors mentioned in S. 12(3) afford a standard for the Government for fixing the maximum rent.	None
To put it differently the suitable basis is one or other of the factors in S. 12 (3).	None
The Act does not say so, either expressly or by necessary implication.	None
The criteria for fixing rent in S. 13 are to afford a guide to Mamlatdar for fixing reasonable rent.	None
Indeed the subclause is subject to S. 6 indicating thereby that the maximum rent fixed by the Government is not the same as the reasonable rent.	None
Indeed if the reasonable rent determined on the basis of all or some of the factors in S. 12(3) is more than the maximum rent fixed by the Government on a suitable basis, the latter prevails over the former.	None
As the maximum rent supersedes reasonable rent, the factors governing reasonable rent need not necessarily govern the fixation of maximum rent.	None
To attempt to read the factors in S. 12(3) into S. 6(2) Is, in my view, not permissible.	None
On a fair reading of the provisions of the Act, I find it not possible to discover any standard laid down by the legislature to enable the Provincial Government to fix a lower rate of the maximum rent.	None
The section conferring such arbitrary power on the Provincial Government without laying down any legislative standard is in excess of the permissible limits of delegation.29.	None
The learned Additional Solicitor General broadly contended that the policy of the legislature is to prevent rack renting and to fix a reasonable rent and, therefore, any exercise of the power under S. 6(2) is guided by that policy.	Arguments of Respondent
This is an extreme contention and, if accepted, will enable Parliament and legislatures to confer absolute and unguided powers on the executive.	None
If a legislature can legally be permitted to lay down a broad policy in general terms and confer arbitrary powers on the executive for carrying it out, there will be an end of the doctrine of the rule of law.	None
If the contention be correct, the legislature in the present case could have stated in the preamble that they were making the law for fixing the maximum rent and could have conferred an absolute power on the Government to fix suitable rents having regard to the circumstances of each case.	None
Such a law cannot obviously be valid.	None
When the decisions say that the legislature shall lay down the legislative policy and its formulation as a rule of conduct, they do not mean vague and general declaration of policy, but a definite policy controlling and regulating the powers conferred on the executive for carrying into effect that policy.30.	None
I must, therefore, hold that S. 6(2) of the Act is void inasmuch as it exceeded the permissible limits of legislative delegation.31.	None
In the result the appeals are allowed with costs.32.	None
Order In view of the majority judgment, the appeals are dismissed with costs.24.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	None
