 C. Lahoti, J.	None
In exercise of the powers conferred by subSection (5) of Section 8 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, the Government of Madhya Pradesh issued a notification No. F. No. A34181(31)STV dated the 29th June, 1982 allowing exemption from payment of tax to certain dealers subject to satisfying the requirements of the notification.	None
The relevant part of the notification reads as under  Notification No. A34181(31)STV dated the 29th June, 1982.	None
Whereas, the State Government is satisfied that it is necessary so to do in the public interest Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (5) of Section 8 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (No. 74 of 1956), the State Government hereby directs that no tax under the said Act shall be payable with effect from the Ist July, 1982, by the dealers specified in column (1) of the Schedule below, who have set up industry in any of the districts of Madhya Pradesh specified in the annexure to this notification () in respect of sales in the course of interstate trade or commerce of goods produced manufactured by them, for the period specified in column (2), subject to the restrictions and conditions specified in column (3) of the said Schedule  	None
The respondent a public limited company, is a new industrial unit engaged in manufacture and sale of paper at Champa in the backward tribal area of District Bilaspur in the State of Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
It is not disputed that the respondent industrial unit satisfies the requirements of Column (2) and (3) of the notification.	Facts
It is also not disputed that the respondent industrial unit satisfies the requirements of Column (2) and (3) of the notification.	Facts
It is also not disputed that the respondent was registered as a dealer under the M.P. General Sales Tax Act, 1958 as also under Section 7(2) of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956.	Facts
The registration under the Central Sales Tax Act is dated 12.11.1981.	Facts
Having taken into consideration the two sales tax registration as dealer under the two Acts i.e., the State and the Central Acts, the Directorate of Industries issues a certificate of eligibility dated 19.2.1985 for exemption from payment of sales tax whereby it was certified that the respondent was a new unit having gone into production on 10.1.1984 i.e. after 1.4.1981 and as such eligible for exemption from payment of sales tax.	Facts
It was also certified that the unit being located in District Bilaspur category Backward A was eligible for exemption for the period upto 9.1.1987.	None
The Assistant Commissioner of Sales Tax formed an opinion that for the purpose of claiming benefit of the exemption notification a dealer registered under the State Act has also to be registered under subsection (1) of Section 7 of the General Sales Tax Act but the respondent was registered under subsection (2) and not subsection (1) of Section 7 of the Central Sales Tax Act and therefore was not entitled to the benefit of the exemption notification dated 29.6.1982.	Facts
The Appellate Deputy Commissioner agreed with the Assistant Commissioner.	Facts
In an appeal preferred by the respondent the Board of Revenue reversed the finding of the authorities below and held that on the basis of the certificate of eligibility issued by the Directorate of Industries, the respondent was entitled to exemption from payment of sales tax and therefore, the assessment and consequential penalty were unwarranted.4.	Facts
At the instance of the Revenue the following question was stated for the opinion of the High Court under Section 44 of the M.P. General Sales Tax Act  Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in holding that the dealer is eligible to avail of the exemption under Separate Revenue Department Notification No. A34181(31)STV dated 29.6.82 in respect of Inter State sale of goods manufactured by him by virtue of his holding an eligibility certificate in fulfilment of one of the conditions laid down in the said notification for eligibility, although he was not holding a Registration Certificate under subsection (1) of Section 7 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956.	Issue
The High Court of Madhya Pradesh has answered the question in favour of the respondentassessee forming an opinion that the eligibility certificate issued by the Directorate of Industries was conclusive and binding on the assessing authorities and they could not go into the question whether the respondentassessee was eligible for the benefit of exemption inspite of his holding the eligibility certificate by entering into the question of the respondents registration whether it was under subsection (1) or (2) of Section 7 of the Central Sales Tax Act.	Facts
Feeling aggrieved the Revenue has come up in appeal before this Court.	Facts
It was submitted by the learned counsel for the appellant that on a full reading of the notification and placing a reasonable construction thereon the expression registered under the Central Sales Tax, 1956, as employed in the first column of the notification should be understood as meaning the registration under subsection (1) of Section 7 of the Central Sales Tax Act registration under subsection (2) of Section 7 of the Central Sales Tax Act is not covered by the expression and is of no relevance for the purpose of claiming exemption under the notification.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 7 of the Central Sales Tax Act (relevant part thereof) reads as under Registration of dealers  	Reasoning
Every dealer liable to pay tax under this Act shall, within such time as may be prescribed for the purpose, make an application for registration under this Act to such authority in the appropriate State as the Central Government may, by general or special order specify, and every such application shall contain such particulars as may be prescribed.(2)	None
Any dealer liable to pay tax under the sales tax law of the appropriate State, or where there is no such law in force in the appropriate State or any part thereof, any dealer having a place of business in that State or part, as the case may be, may notwithstanding that he is not liable to pay tax under this Act, apply for registration under this Act to the authority referred to in subsection (1), and every such application shall contain such particulars as may be prescribed.	Reasoning
Explanation.  	None
For the purpose of this subsection, a dealer shall be deemed to be liable to pay tax under the sales tax law of the appropriate state notwithstanding that under such law a sale or purchase made by him is exempt from tax or a refund or a rebate of tax is admissible in respect thereof.	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
A bare perusal of the above quoted provision goes to show that every dealer liable to pay tax under the Central Sales Tax Act shall secure a registration under subsection (1) of Section 7.	Reasoning
Such dealers as have a place of business in a State and are not liable to pay tax under the Central Act may still have themselves registered under subsection (2) of Section 7 of the Central Sales Tax Act if (i) they are dealers liable to pay tax under the Sales Tax law of the appropriate State (notwithstanding the fact that the sales or purchases made by them are exempt from tax or a refund or a rebate of tax is admissible in respect thereof), or (ii) there is no State Legislation attracting liability to pay tax on such dealers.	Reasoning
Such a prayer for registration shall be made to the same authority who grants registration under subsection (1).	Reasoning
Registration under subsection (1) is compulsory registration under subsection (2) is optional.	Reasoning
For the purpose of securing a registration under subsection (2) obovesaid the dealer need not necessarily be liable to pay any amount of tax.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the dealers liable to pay tax under the Central Act have been dealt with only under subsection (1) of Section 7 subsection (2) refers to registration under the salestax law of the appropriate State if there be one in force and in as much as the relevant notification dated 29.6.1982 deals with exemption from payment of tax under the Central Act, it is necessary that the dealer should have been registered under subsection (1) of Section 7 of the Act.	None
However, we find no merit in the contention.	None
The language of the notification is plain and simple.	Reasoning
It admits of no ambiguity.	Reasoning
The requirement of Column (1) is satisfied if the dealer is registered under the State Act and the Central Act both it is immaterial whether the registration under the Central Act is under subsection (1) or subsection (1) of Section 7 is certainly a registration under the Central Sales Tax Act.	Reasoning
This is clear from the language of subsection (2) of Section 7 which speaks, inter alia  may, notwithstanding that he is not liable to pay tax under this Act, apply for registration under this Act to the authority referred to in subsection (1)	Reasoning
The learned counsel for the respondentassessee has rightly pointed out that the certificate of registration valid from 12.11.1981 until cancelled was secured by the respondent though on the date of registration it was not liable to pay tax under the Central Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Liability to pay tax arose on commencement of production and business on 10.1.1984 whereafter exemption from payment of salestax was claimed under the notification.	Arguments of Respondent
Without regard to the fact whether the assessing authority was entitled to go behind the certificate of eligibility issued by the Directorate of Industries, the entitlement of the respondent for exemption from payment of tax under the notification was clearly made out as the requirements of column (1) of the notification were also satisfied.	Arguments of Respondent
The appeal is held liable to be dismissed though for a reason different from the one assigned by the High Court.	Decision
The question referred to for the opinion of the High Court is answered in favour of the assessee and against the Revenue.	Decision
Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed.	Decision
No order as to the costs.	Decision
