 Vaidialingam, J.1.	None
All these three appeals, on certificate, are directed against the common judgment and order dated December 2, 1966 of the Bombay High Court in Special.	None
Civil Applications Nos. 694 of 1965 and 420 and 421 of 1966.	None
Civil Appeals Nos. 160 of 161 of 1968 are filed by the State of Maharashtra and the Deputy Director of Education, Nagpur against that part of the order of the High Court allowing Special Civil Applications Nos. 420 and 421 of 1966 after holding that clauses (1) and (2) of Section 3 of the Grantinaid Code (hereinafter to be referred as the Code) are invalid and directing the State of Maharashtra to grant the petitioners in the said Special Civil Applications permission to start schools in the areas concerned as desired by them.	None
Civil Appeal No. 878 of 1968 is by the applicant in Special Civil Application No. 694 of 1965 against the order of the High Court dismissing his writ petition and declining to interfere with the order of the State and educational authorities granting permission to the third respondent in the appeal to open a new school at Sakharkherda with VIII and IX classes.2.	None
We will first deal with Civil Appeal Nos. 160 and 161 of 1968 and refer to the facts leading up to those appeals.	Facts
Civil Appeal No. 160 of 1968, as mentioned above, arises out of the order in Special Civil Application No. 420 of 1966.	Facts
The applicant in the said application Loka Shikshan Sanstha Anjansinghi made an application dated October 30, 1965, to the Deputy Director of Education, Nagpur for permission to open a school during the year 196667 at Anjansinghi in Amravati district.	Facts
The application was sent in the prescribed form.	Facts
Therein it was stated that the Management was not registered and that it will get itself registered by about the middle of January, 1966.	Facts
Under the heading Arrangements made for necessary furniture and apparatus in Col. 13, the applicant stated that they proposed to spend about Rs. 2,000/ in respect of furniture, science apparatus, teaching aids, teachers library and pupils library.	Facts
The break up of the figures under these heads was also given.	Facts
In col. 15 under the heading Funds at the disposal of the management in addition to those in Col. 13 above, the applicant stated Rs. 5,000/ only.	Facts
The applicant further stated under col. 17 that it required only a token grant in the first year of recognition and a regular grant at the prescribed rate from the second year.	Facts
The Ashok Education Society, Ashoknagar, the third respondent in the writ petition had also applied to the educational authorities to start a school during the same year at Anjansinghi the writ petitioner filed an objection dated March 8, 1966 before the Deputy Director of Education, Nagpur objecting to the grant of permission asked for by the Ashok Education Society, Ashoknagar on the ground that the said Society is an outside agency.	Facts
In the said petition the applicant reuqested for favourable consideration of his application, already submitted, to the authorities.	Facts
The District Committee which scrutinized the applications of both the parties, recommended that the application of the writ petitioner should be rejected as it had no funds.	Facts
Another Society with good financial position and experience was recommended by the Committee.	Facts
The District Committee recommended that Ashok Education Society should be granted permission as it was a good, experienced and popular society and it was also financially sound.	Facts
The Deputy Director of Education by his order dated April 12, 1966 rejected the application of the writ petitioner on the ground that the need of the place has been fulfilled by permitting another society to open a school at the place.	Facts
The petitioner was further informed that in case any school is started when permission has been refused, serious view will be taken by the educational authorities.	Facts
The writ petition filed an appeal on April 21, 1966 to the State Government wherein he prayed for withdrawing permission granted to the Ashok Education Society, the third respondent and also requested that permission may be granted to the applicant society to open a school.	Facts
This appeal was rejected by the Government by its order dated 10/16th May, 1966.	Facts
The applicant society filed the writ petition and prayed for striking down Rule 3 of the Grantinaid Code framed by the State of Maharashtra as unconstitutional and violative of fundamental rights guaranteed under Art. 19 (1) (c) of the Constitution and to quash the orders of the Deputy Director of Education and the State Government refusing permission to the petitioner Society to start a school at Ajansinghi.	Facts
The applicant further prayed for a direction being issued to the educational authorities to grant permission to start the school as requested by it.3.	Facts
As common contentions had been raised by the State of Maharashtra in this writ petition and also in Special Civil Application No. 421 of 1966 before the High Court, we will refer to those contentions after adverting to the facts in Special Civil Application No. 421 of 1966.4.	Facts
Civil Appeal No. 161 of 1968 arises out of Special Civil Application No. 421 of 1966.	Facts
The applicant therein Sri Nana Guru Shikshan Sanstha, Shirkhed sought permission of the Deputy Director of Education to start a school at Shirkhed from June 1966.	Facts
The request was made by a letter dated October 29, 1965 and the application was not made in the prescribed form.	Facts
The Parishad Education Officer, Zila Parishad, Amravati by his communication dated November 15, 1965 forwarded the prescribed application form to the applicant with a request to have the particulars mentioned therein properly filled in and to submit the same immediately.	Facts
The application in the prescribed form was sent by the applicant on November 3, 1965.	Facts
In Column No. 4 under the heading whether the management is registered the answer given was no.	Facts
Under the same column to the further query if not whether it is intended to get it registered.	Facts
If so when, the answer given was within a month.	Facts
In column 13, the expenditure proposed to be incurred regarding furniture etc.	Facts
the applicant stated that about Rs. 800/ was intended to be spent.	Facts
The break up in respect of the various items was also given.	Facts
Under column 15 regarding funds at the disposal of the management, it was stated that a sum of Rs. 5,000/ was available.	Facts
The third respondent therein Swami Vivekanand Shikshan Sanstha, Lehgaon had also made an application for opening a school at Shirkhed.	Facts
The applicant filed an objection on January 5, 1966 to the grant of any permission to the third respondent.	Facts
The Deputy Director of Education by his order dated April 11, 1966 rejected the application of the writ petitioner on two grounds, namely, (1) the application is after the prescribed date and (2) the Society is dnot registered.	Facts
The petitioner was also informed that if a school is started when permission has been refused, serious view will be taken by the educational authorities.	Facts
The appeal filed by the writ petitioner to the State Government was rejected by the latter by its order dated May 10/16th 1966.	Facts
The applicant filed Special Civil Application No. 421 of 1966 praying for striking down Rule 3 of the Grantinaid Code as unconstitutional and violative of Art. 19 (1) (c) of the Constitution.	Facts
The orders refusing permission to the Society to start a school were also sought to be quashed.	Facts
A further prayer was made for directions being issued to the authorities to grant permission to the Society to start a second school at Shirkhed as desired by it.5.	Facts
The State Government contested both the Special Civil Applications.	Facts
It was pointed out that the rules contained in the Grantinaid Code were all executive instructions given by the State to the educational authorities for proper guidance in the matter of considering applications for starting schools which required grants to be made by the Government.	Facts
None of the rules contained therein violated any fundamental rights of the applicants.	Facts
Even if Art. 19 can be invoked, the restrictions regarding the starting of schools were all reasonable restrictions in the interest of general public.	Facts
No restriction has been placed on the applicants forming associations or unions as contemplated under Art. 19 (1) (c) and that in any event the restrictions were saved by Cl.	Facts
(iv) of Art.	Facts
19.	Facts
The reasons given by the Deputy Director of Education for rejecting the applications of the two petitioners were valid as the District Committee constituted for the purpose had considered all the relevant matters before rejecting their applications and granting permission to the respective third respondents therein.6.	Facts
The High Court by its common judgment had taken the view that clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3 of the Grantinaid Code are invalid as they are too vague to afford any standard both as to the need of a school in the locality and also as to the unhealthy competition with an existing school.	Facts
The said clauses are equally vague as there is no standard to find out the competency and reliability of the management incharge of the school.	Facts
There is further no provision in these subclauses for hearing a party before the authorities concerned take a decision in the matter of grant or refusal of permission to start a school.	Facts
The High Court is further of the view that by such executive instructions the State is able to prevent the two writ petitioners from carrying on their legitimate activities of running schools.	Facts
The said clauses also do not satisfy the test of being reasonable restrictions in public interest.	Facts
On this reasoning the High Court has held that the two clauses, namely, (1) and (2) of Rule 3 are violative of the rights guaranteed to the writ petitioners under Art. 19 (1) of the Constitution.	Facts
Though it was argued on behalf of the writ petitioners that clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3 of the Code contravene the provisions of Art. 19 (1) (c), (g) and (f), there is no clear indication in the judgment of the High Court as to which Clause of Art. 19 (1) is violated.	Facts
It is the further view of the High Court that as the State has no power to issue instructions as those contained in clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3, Article 358 will not save those provisions notwithstanding the fact that there was a Proclamation of Emergency during the relevant period.	Facts
Though no attack based on Article 14 was made in either of the writ petitions, it is seen that during the course of arguments, this Article was relied on and it was contended that the said two clauses of Rule 3 are arbitrary as they enable the State to discriminate between one institution and another.	Facts
The High Court in considering this contention has held that in the matter of distribution of grant, the State must comply with the fundamental requirements of constitutional law embodied in Art. 14.	Facts
According to the High Court the effect of clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3 is that apart from the fact that such schools are not eligible for receiving the grants, the students studying in such schools cannot appear for examinations held by the Secondary Schools Boards as the latter will not recognise such institutions.	Facts
As the students of such schools cannot take their university education, clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3, according to the High Court, offend Art.	Facts
14	Facts
and hence they are invalid.	Facts
After holding that clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3 of the Code, are violative of Arts.	Facts
14 and 19, the High Court struck down those provisions and directed the educational authorities to grant permission to the two writ petitioners to start schools as desired by them.7.	Facts
The learned AttorneyGeneral, appearing on behalf of the State in Civil Appeals Nos. 160 and 161 of 1968 raised the following contentions (1) The High Court has committed a very serious mistake in invoking Art. 19 in view of the mandatory provisions of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
358 of the Constitution (2) even assuming that Art. 19 can be invoked, the provisions contained in Cls.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) and (2) of R. 3 are reasonable restrictions in the interest of general public and as such those clauses are valid (3) the view of the High Court that the said clauses offend Article 14, is erroneous (4) that the clauses struck down by the High Court are mere executive instructions given by the State for the guidance of the educational authorities when considering the applications received for permission to open schools in particular areas.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such executive instructions cannot be struck down on the ground that they are vague.	Arguments of Petitioner
Alternatively, under this head it was contended that the two clauses are not vague in any respect and (5) the High Court has committed a serious mistake in striking down the orders of the educational authorities without considering the reasons given by such authorities for rejecting the applications of the two writ petitioners.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dr. Barlingay, learned counsel for the contesting respondents has supported the view taken by the High Court for striking down clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3 of the Code.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel relied on the reasons given by the High Court for striking down the two clauses as violative of Arts.	Arguments of Respondent
14 and 19.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel further urged that though the two clauses of Rule 3 in question may on the face of it appear to be innocuous, nevertheless the application of those principles by the educational authorities may lead to possible discrimination between the institutions concerned.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him no standards have been laid down to assess the need of a school in a particular area.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, there is no criteria laid down to enable the educational authorities to decide the circumstances under which the starting of a new school may result in an unhealthy competition with an existing school.	Arguments of Respondent
The position is the same also in regard to judging the competency and reliability of a particular management who proposes to start a school.	Arguments of Respondent
The more serious ground levelled against these clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3 by Dr. Barlingay was that there was no right given to an applicant for being heard before his application is rejected by the educational authorities.9.	Arguments of Respondent
Before we deal with the above contentions advanced before us on behalf of both sides, it is necessary to state that the High Court in the judgment under attack has made certain observations regarding what according to it should be the policy adopted by the educational authorities in the matter of permitting the starting of a new school or of an additional school in a particular locality or area.	None
It is enough to state that the High Court has thoroughly misunderstood the nature of the jurisdiction that was exercised by it when dealing with the claims of the two writ petitioners that their applications had been wrongly rejected by the educational authorities.	None
So long as there is no violation of any fundamental rights and if the principles of natural justice are not offended, it was not for the High Court to lay down the policy that should be adopted by the educational authorities in the matter of granting permission for starting schools.	None
The question of policy is essentially for the State and such policy will depend upon on overall assessment and summary of the requirements of residents of a particular locality and other categories of persons for whom it is essential to provide facilities for education.	None
If the overall assessment is arrived at after a proper classification on a reasonable basis, it is not for the courts to interfere with the policy leading up to such assessment.10.	None
It should also be made clear that as accepted by the State in its counteraffidavit filed before the High Court the provisions of the Code are executive instructions and are in the nature of administrative instructions without any constitutional force.	None
It is on this basis that we have to consider the correctness of the decision of the High Court when it struck down clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3 of the Code.11.	None
It is necessary to advert to the circumstances under which the Code came to be framed as also to certain instructions given by the State to the educational authorities when considering the applications for the grant of permission to open schools.12.	None
The Grantinaid system appears to have been first introduced in 1859 and its main object to promote voluntary effort and reliance on local resources in the field of education apart from such contributions as may be available from the funds of the State.	None
After the States reorganisation took place, in order to bring about uniformity in the matter, the State of Bombay appointed in 1958 an Integration Committee for Secondary Education to examine the different Education Codes and administrative practices in force at the secondary stage in the various regions which were added to the State of Bombay under the States organisation and to make proposals for a unified system of Secondary Education as well as the assistance to be given to nonGovernment Secondary Schools.	None
The Committee submitted its report in 1959.	None
In December, 1960 the Government of Maharashtra appointed a Committee comprises of officials and nonofficials to suggest a unified code for consideration of the Government.	None
A revised Draft Code was submitted by the Committee to the Government in or about August, 1961.	None
The Secondary Schools Code, which we are now concerned was framed by the Government as a common code for the recognition of and grantinaid to nongovernment secondary schools throughout the State.	None
The said Code came into force with effect from the year 196364.	None
Chapter II related to recognition and grantinaid.	None
Rule 1 dealing with recognition provided that secondary schools may be recognised by the Department provided they conform to the rules contained in the Code.	None
Rule 2 dealt with the matters relating to the applications for starting and recognition of schools.	None
Under Rule 2.1 an application for permission to start a secondary school has to be made in the form given in appendix 1 (1) of the Code to the authorities referred to therein and such applications have to reachd those authorities by the end of October, in the year preceding the year in which the school is proposed to be started.	None
The said clause further provided that no school should be started unless the written previous permission of the Department had been obtained and that the schools started without such permission shall not ordinarily be considered for recognition.	None
Under Rule 2.2, the management which is permitted to open a school has to apply for recognition of the school in the form given in appendix 1 (2) of the Code within one month of the opening of the school.13.	None
Rule 3 which consists of 16 clauses deals with the conditions of recognition.	None
The said rule provides that schools seeking recognition has to satisfy the Department as regards the conditions enumerated in clauses 1 to 16 therein.	None
Clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3 which are attached as invalid are as follows Rule 3 Conditions of Recognition	None
A school seeking recognition shall satisfy the Department as regards the following conditions (1) The school is actually needed in the locality and it does not involve any unhealthy competition with any existing institution of the same category in the neighbourhood.(2)	None
The Management is competent and reliable and is in the hand of a properly constituted authority or managing Committee.	None
14.	Facts
We may at this stage point out that one of the conditions which has to be satisfied under Rule 3 is regarding the financial stability of the proposed school as stated in clause (3) of Rule 3 therein.	None
This aspect may have a bearing in considering the correctness of the High Courts decision in Civil Appeal No. 160 of 1968.15.	None
Rule 86 deals with Kinds of Grants.	None
Rule 86.1 enumerates the various types of grants which a recognised school is eligible to get from the Government.16.	None
Rule 86.2 provides as follows Proprietary Schools i.e. schools not registered under either the Societies Registration Act, XXI of 1860 or the Bombay Public Trust Act, 1950 or any other Act that may be specified by Government and communal schools will not be eligible for any kind of grant from public funds.17.	None
At this stage we may mention that the provisions contained in Rule 2.1 that an application for starting a Secondary School has to be in the form given in appendix 1 (1) of the Code and that the application should reach the educational authorities within the period referred to therein and the further provision under Rule 86.2 that the schools which are not registered under the Societies Registration Act, will not be eligible for grant, will have a considerable bearing when considering Civil Appeal No. 161 of 1968.18.	None
On October 6, 1965 the State of Maharashtra issued a press note, copies of which were sent to all the educational authorities.	None
The Director of Publicity was also directed to give wide publicity to the press note by publishing the same in all the Dailies in the cities and districts.	None
By that press note the attention of all the managements intending to start new Secondary Schools was drawn to the provisions contained in Rule 2 of the Code regarding the applications being made in the prescribed form to the concerned office and to the applications being made sufficiently early so as to reach the authorities concerned at the latest by the end of October, in the year preceding the year in which the school is proposed to be started.	None
It was further stated in the press note that the applications received for starting new schools will be considered by the District Committee comprising of the Chairman of the Education Committee, Zila Parishad, Parishad Education Officer and a member of the Secondary School Certificate Examination Board, Poona or Vidarbha Board of Secondary Education, Nagpur and that permission to start new schools will be communicated to the applicants concerned by the Deputy Director of Education of the region by the end of February, 1966.	None
The proposed applicants were also informed that appeals to the Government against the orders of the Deputy Director of Education can be filed upto the end of March, 1966.	None
This press note emphasised (a) that the applications be made in the prescribed form and (b) that the applications should be received by the educational authorities at the latest by the end of October.	None
No doubt some of these aspects are already contained in Rule 2 of the Code.	None
Another important point to be taken note of in this press note is that though the applications are made to the concerned educational authorities, those applications are scrutinised by the District Committees concerned, and whose members must be familiar with the conditions prevailing in particular localities or areas.19.	None
On the same date the Government sent a communication to the Chairman, Secondary School Certificate Examination Board, Poona and the Chairman, Vidarbha Board of Secondary Education, Nagpur on the subject of appointment of District Committees to consider the applications received for opening new secondary schools.	None
The composition of the District Committees was also mentioned therein.	None
The respective Chairman were requested by the State to move the Board to nominate one member for each of the District Committee in the areas with which the Board was concerned.	None
The Chairman was also requested to communicate the names of such members to the Parishad Education Officer of the district concerned, the Deputy Director of Education of the region and the Director of Education, Poona under intimation to the Government.20.	None
The State also sent a circular dated October 5, 1965 to the various educational authorities drawing their attention to Rule 2 of the Code.	None
They were also informed that the Government had directed that the applications for opening new secondary schools should be considered by the District Committee comprised of the various persons mentioned therein.	None
It was further stated that the District Committee should bear in mind when considering the applications, the various matters enumerated as item Nos. 1 to 14.	None
Those various matters to be taken into account relate to the requirement of a school or an additional school in a particular area, its financial stability, the nature and competency of the management and several allied matters.	None
It was obligatory on the District Committee to record its reasons in writing for recommending or not recommending a particular application.	None
In paragraph 4 of the circular it was stated that permission to start a new school may be granted by the Deputy Director of Education of the concerned region after taking into consideration the recommendations of the District Committee and with the prior approval of the Government.	None
The educational authorities were also directed to dispose of the applications within the period mentioned in the circular.21.	None
From the relevant provisions of the Code read with the press note and the circular referred to above, it is clear that though the applications are made to the educational authorities, they are not disposed of by those authorities on their own individual discretion.	None
On the other hand, it is clear that the applications are dealt with by the District Committee, whose members are familiar with the conditions prevailing in particular areas or localities and who also are in the know of things regarding the requirement of a new or an additional school in the particular areas.	None
It is really on the basis of the recommendations made by such Committees that the educational authorities take a decision one way or the other.22.	None
After having cleared the grounds, as stated above, we will now deal with the contentions of the learned AttorneyGeneral.	None
The learned AttorneyGeneral is well founded in his contention that the High Court was not justified in invoking Art. 19 in the circumstances of this case.	None
We have already given the relevant dates when the applications were filed by the writ petitioners before the educational authorities as well as the dates when they were rejected.	None
The judgment of the High Court is dated December 2, 1966.	None
There is no controversy that the proclamation of Emergency was issued on October 26, 1962 and it was revoked only on January 10, 1968.	None
The relevant part of Art.	None
358 is as follows 358.	None
While a Proclamation of Emergency is in operation, nothing in Article 19 shall restrict the power of the State as defined in Part III to make any law or to take any executive action which the State would but for the provisions contained in that Part be competent to make or to take. . . . .	None
Therefore, it will be seen that during the period when a Proclamation of Emergency is in operation, Art. 19 will not operate as a bar in respect of any law or any executive action coming within the terms of Art.	None
358.	None
We will be showing in the latter part of the judgment that clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3 read with the various instructions issued by the State cannot be considered to be vague or ambiguous as erroneously held by the High Court.	None
Those instructions, in so far as they go are perfectly valid and the State Government was competent to issue those executive instructions for the guidance of the educational authorities dealing with applications for grant of permission to start schools.	None
If so, it follows that the view of the High Court that Art.	None
358 does not save clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3 is erroneous.	None
In this view Art. 19 could ndot have been invoked by the writ petitioners during the period when the Proclamation of Emergency was admittedly in operation.	None
As Art. 19 is thus out of the picture, the question whether clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3 impose reasonable restrictions and are thus saved, does not arise for consideration.	None
We may state that Dr. Barlingay found considerable difficulty in supporting the judgment of the High Court on this aspect in the face of Article 358 of the Constitution.	None
This disposes of the first and second contentions of the learned AttorneyGeneral.23.	None
Coming to Art.	Reasoning
14, it is accepted by the High Court that the writ petitioners did not make in their petitions any attack on clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3 based upon the said Article.	Reasoning
It was only during the course of arguments that Art.	Reasoning
14 appears to have been invoked.	Reasoning
The High Court struck down the two subclauses on the ground that unless a school is started in accordance with the rules contained in the Code, they will not be recognised by the Secondary Schools Boards and the students studying in such schools cannot appear for the examinations held by the Board and the University.	Reasoning
The approach made by the High Court in our view in this regard is erroneous.	Reasoning
The provisions regarding grant of permission and recognition of schools under the Code are mainly intended for the purpose of receiving grant from the Government.	Reasoning
We are not concerned in these proceedings regarding the effect of starting a school without complying with the requirements of the provisions of the Code or in the face of refusal of permission by the educational authorities when such schools so stated do not require or receive any grant from the State.	Reasoning
That problem does not arise for consideration before us.	Reasoning
Hence we do not think it necessary to refer to the provisions of the Maharashtra Secondary Education Board Regulation, 1966, the effect of which may be that no student having education in a school for the starting of which no permission has been given or such permission has been refused, may not be able to appear for the examinations held by the Boards concerned.	Reasoning
So far as the distribution of grant to the schools recognised under the Code is concerned, it is not the case of any of the petitioners that such grants are being made arbitrarily or any discrimination is shown in that regard.	None
But Dr. Barlingay pressed before us the circumstances that though clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3 may appear to be innocuous, there is a potential danger of discrimination when the said clauses are applied without any guidance by the educational authorities.	Arguments of Respondent
He also contended that there is no right given to the applicant to be heard by the educational authorities before his application is refused.	Arguments of Respondent
On this ground the counsel urged that clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3 violate Art. 14.24.	Arguments of Respondent
We have already referred to the press note and the circular letter issued by the State Government from which it is clear that the applications are dealt with in the first instance by the District Committees, whose members are familiar with the requirements of the particular areas or localities and the conditions prevailing therein regarding the requirements of a school or an additional school.	None
The District Committees have to take into account several materials and relevant factors contained not only in the Code but also specifically emphasised in the circular letter of the Government dated October 5, 1965.	None
It is only on the basis of the recommendations made by those Committees that the educational authorities take a decision regarding the grant or refusal of permission to start a school.	None
The District Committees are also bound to record their reasons in writing for recommending or not recommending the application.	None
An appeal lies against the order passed by the Deputy Director of Education of the Government.	None
It is not the case of any of the writ petitioner that the District Committees have acted arbitrarily.	None
Nor is it their case that the Deputy Director of Education of the region has not based his decision on the recommendations of the District Committees.	None
We are not satisfied that there is any violation of Art. 14.25.	None
From the mere fact that there is no right provided for the applicant being heard before his application is rejected, it cannot be held that there is a violation of the principles of natural justice.	None
On the other hand, it is seen that the District Committees have considered the claims of the writ petitioners as well as of the respective third respondents therein and recommended to the educational authorities that the claims of the latter are to be accepted.	None
The reasons for rejection of the applications have also been given in the orders passed by the educational authorities.26.	None
When all the relevant circumstances have been taken into account by the District Committee and the educational authorities, there is no violation of any principle of natural justice merely for the reason that the applicants were not given a hearing by the educational authorities before their applicants were rejected.	None
The particulars which have to be mentioned in the prescribed application from are very elaborate and complete.	None
The provisions in the Code read along with the instructions given by the State in the circular letter dated October 5, 1965 refer to various relevant and material factors that had to be taken into account for the purpose of deciding whether the application is to be granted or not.	None
As we have already pointed out, it is not the case of any of the writ petitioner that these relevant factors have not been considered by the District Committees.	None
Nor it is their case that the reasons given for rejection of the applications are not covered by the provisions contained in the Code.	None
Clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3 are not to be read in isolation as has been done by the High Court.	None
On the other hand, they must be read along with the other various clauses contained in the same rule as well as the detailed instructions given by the Government in the circular letter dated October 5, 1965.	None
It follows that the reasoning of the High Court that these two subclauses violate Art.	None
14 cannot be accepted.27.	None
Coming to the fourth contention of the learned AttorneyGeneral, it is evident from the AttorneyGeneral, it is evident from the judgment of the High Court that clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3 have been struck down for they are vague and do not afford any standard or criteria for judging whether a school or an additional school is needed in an area or locality and whether the management is competent and reliable.	None
We have already pointed out that the definite stand taken by the State in its counteraffidavit filed before the High Court was that the provisions of the Code are executive instructions and are in the nature of administrative instructions without any statutory force.	None
When it is admitted that the provisions contained in the Code which include clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3 are executive instructions, the questions arise, namely, (1) whether the High Court was justified in striking down such executive instructions even assuming that those instructions were vague and (2) whether the said clauses are vague.	Issue
The learned AttorneyGeneral invited our attention to the two decisions of this court reported in State of Assam v. Ajit Kumar Sharma, (1965) 1	None
SCR 890 (AIR 1965 SC 1196 ) and Municipal Committee, Amritsar v. State of Punjab, (1969) 3	None
SCR 447 (AIR 1969 SC 1100).	None
In the first decision this Court has laid down that where conditions for receiving grantinaid are laid down by mere executive instructions, it is open to a private institution to accept those instructions or not to accept them.	None
That is a matter entirely between the Government and the private institution concerned.	None
In the second decision it was laid down that the rule that an Act of a competent legislature may be struck down by the Courts on the ground of vagueness is alien to our constitutional system. . . .	None
A law may be declared invalid by the superior Courts in India if the Legislature has no power to enact the law or that the law violates any of the fundamental rights guaranteed in Part III of the Constitution or is inconsistent with any constitutional provision, but not on the ground that it is vague. . . .	None
Based upon these two decisions, the learned AttorneyGeneral urged that even on the basis that the two subclauses in question are vague, they could not have been struck down on that ground.	Arguments of Petitioner
Alternatively, his further contention is that those clauses are not vague.	Arguments of Petitioner
We do not think it necessary to go into the question whether the Courts have got powers to strike down even executive instructions on the ground of their being vague when such executive instructions are admittedly issued by authorities concerned for the guidance and for being acted upon.	None
We express no opinion on that point in these proceedings.	Reasoning
We are of the view that the two clauses in question are not vague or ambiguous in any respect.	Reasoning
The fallacy committed by the High Court consist in considering clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3 in isolation.	Reasoning
We have already pointed out that Rule 3 of the Code consists of as many as 16 clauses, which are conditions to be fulfilled for recognition being accorded.	Reasoning
We have also referred to the circular letter dated October 5, 1965 issued by the State Government enumerating the various matters to be taken into account by the District Committees when considering applications for grant of permission to start a school or for having an additional school in the area or the locality.	Reasoning
Rule 3 will have to be read along with these instructions as well as the various particulars which have to be filled up in the prescribed form.	Reasoning
If clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3 are interpreted having due regard to the various others matters, referred to above, the District Committee has got ample guidance to decide the need of a particular locality to have a school or an additional school as also the further question regarding the competency and reliability of the management.	Reasoning
There will be sufficient material before the District Committee to consider whether the starting of a school or an additional school in a particular area or locality will involve any unhealthy competition.	Reasoning
In view of the clear and detailed guidance furnished not only by Rule 3 but also by the instructions contained in the circular letter dated October 5, 1965, it is clear that there is no ambiguity in either clauses (1) or (2) of Rule 3.	Reasoning
In considering the question of vagueness the High Court has not adverted to the various matters referred to by us earlier.	Reasoning
Therefore, we are of the opinion that the striking down of clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3 by the High Court as being, vague, is erroneous.28.	None
The last contention of the learned AttorneyGeneral which is on merits is that without considering the reasons given by the Deputy Director of Education for rejecting the two applications of the two writ petitioners, the High Court has issued a mandamus to the State to grant permission to those two applicants.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion, this contention is also well founded.	Arguments of Petitioner
The application of the petitioner in Special Civil Application No. 420 of 1966 which is the subjectmatter of Civil Appeal No. 160 of 1968 was rejected by the Deputy Director of Education on the ground that the need of the place has been fulfilled by permitting another society to open the school at the place.	Reasoning
The appeal filed to the State Government was unsuccessful.	Reasoning
In the counteraffidavit filed by the State in the writ petition they had categorically referred to the recommendations of the District Committee on the applications filed by the said writ petitioner as also the third respondent therein.	Reasoning
Regarding the writ petitioner the report of the District Committee was that it had no funds and that it was recommending another society with good financial position and experience.	Reasoning
In this view the District Committee stated that it was not recommending the writ petitioner for the grant of permission.	Reasoning
On the other hand the District Committee recommended the application of Ashok Education Society, Ashoknagar (third respondent) on the ground that it was financially sound and it was a very good and experienced society and that it was also a popular society.	Reasoning
For these reasons the application of this society was recommended to be granted by the District Committee.	Reasoning
It was on the basis of this recommendation of the District Committee that the Deputy Director of Education rejected the application of the writ petitioner and granted permission to the third respondent therein.	Reasoning
The applications of both the writ petitioner and the third respondent were before the District Committee.	Reasoning
The High Court has not found fault with these recommendations.	Reasoning
On the other hand it has held that it is open to the authorities to refuse permission of the school is not in a financially sound position.	Reasoning
The writ petitioner also was not able to satisfy us that the conclusions arrived at by the District Committee, which were accepted by the Deputy Director of Education were not based upon particulars furnished in the application.29.	None
Coming to the application filed by the writ petitioner Special Civil Application No. 421 of 1968, we have already referred to the fact that the said society merely made a request for opening a school by means by a letter dated October 29, 1965.	None
Admittedly the applicant did not comply with the requirement of Rule 2.1 of the Code that the application should be in the prescribed form.	None
No doubt, later on, on November 3, 1965 the said society sent a fresh application in the prescribed form, but this was not within the period mentioned in Rule 2.1 of the Code.	None
So the said writ petitioner did not comply with Rule 2.1 read along with the press note and the circular letter, referred to above.	None
That clearly shows that the application filed by the writ petitioner was not in the first instance in the prescribed form and that when it was sent in the prescribed form it was beyond time.	None
Further, we have also referred to R. 86.2 which specifically says that the schools which are not registered under the Societies Registration Act, will not be eligible for any kind of grant from the public funds.	None
Even in the application filed by the writ petitioner in the prescribed form on November 3, 1965, it was stated under head No. 4 that the management was not registered and that it intends to get itself registered within a month.	None
So apart from two infirmities pointed out above there was this additional infirmity of nonregistration.	None
Even on the date when the appeal was filed to the State Government on April 26, 1966, the society was not registered.	None
As admitted by the said society in its writ petition, it was registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860, only on April 27, 1966.	None
The order dated April 11, 1966 of the Deputy Director of Education rejecting the application was based on two grounds (a) that the application was sent after the prescribed date and (b) that the society was not registered.	Facts
That these two reasons are valid is clear from the facts mentioned above.	None
The appeal taken to the State Government was unsuccessful.	Reasoning
From the above circumstances it is clear that the rejection of the application was on valid grounds.	None
The High Court, so far as we could see, has not found that these reasons are not based on the materials on record.	None
No such contention has also been taken before us by the said writ petitioner.	None
If so, it follows that the order of the High Court directing the State Government to issue permission to the two writ petitioners ignoring the above circumstances is clearly erroneous.30.	None
From what is stated above, the judgment of the High Court allowing Special Civil Application Nos. 420 and 421 of 1966 cannot be sustained.31.	None
Coming to Appeal No. 878 of 1968, the facts lie within a very narrow compass.	Facts
For the year 196566, the third respondent in Special Civil Application No. 694 of 1965, out of which the appeal arises, had made an application on October 29, 1964 for starting a new school at Sakharkherda during the year 196566.	Facts
The writ petitioner filed objections to the grant of permission to the third respondent.	Facts
On the recommendation of the District Committee, the third respondent was allowed to open standards VIII and IX with one division only during the year 196566.	Facts
The writ petitioner was filed to quash the permission granted to the third respondent.	Facts
The State Government in its counteraffidavit has very elaborately referred to the various matters mentioned by the third respondent in his application and also to the recommendation made by the District Committee.	Facts
The District Committee had recommended permission being granted to the third respondent on the ground that the management had very good experience in running schools and that it was also financially sound.	Facts
It was also stated that at the place in question even when the writ petitioner was concucting a school with standards V to X, there was another school run by the Zila Parishad with standards run by the Zila Parishad with standards V to VII.	Facts
It was pointed out by the State that the population in the area demanded additional school with standard VIII onwards and it was an absolute necessity.	Facts
They had also given details regarding the long experience that the third respondent had in running schools in several places as also the soundness of its financial position.32.	Facts
Before the High Court the attack made by the writ petitioner was slightly different from that of the other two writ petitioners in Special Civil Applications Nos. 420 and 421 of 1966.	None
The attack on the grant of permission to the third respondent was made by this writ petitioner really based on clauses (1) and (2) of Rule 3.	None
According to the writ petitioner the locality was not in need of any additional school as it will involve unhealthy competition.	None
The High Court rejected the writ petition on the ground that the petitioner therein cannot make any grievance of the grant made to the third respondent to start a school after a proper consideration of the merits of the claim of the latter.33.	None
Dr. Barlingay, learned counsel for the writ petitioner, who is appellant in this appeal, found considerable difficulty to satisfy us that any legal rights of the appellant herein had been infringed by grant of permission to the third respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have already referred to the fact that the State has pointed out that even when the writ petitioner was running a school with classes V to X, the Zila Parishad was running another school in the same area with classes V to VII.	None
The State had also pointed out that the population of the area demanded an additional school.	Reasoning
From the mere fact that by the opening of another school some of the students of the appellant school may seek admission in the new school, it cannot be stated that any of the appellants legal rights have been infringed.	Reasoning
Dr. Barlingay has not been able to satisfy us that in granting permission to the third respondent any extraneous or irrelevant matters have been taken into account by the District Committee or the educational authorities.	Reasoning
Nor was he able to satisfy us that the reasons given by the District Committee for the grant of permission to the third respondent on the ground that it had a long experience in running schools and that his financial position is also good, are erroneous.	Reasoning
If so, it follows that there is no merit in this appeal.34.	Reasoning
In the result the judgment and order of the High Court allowing Special Civil Applications Nos. 420 and 421 of 1966 are set aside and Civil Appeals Nos. 160 and 161 of 1968 are allowed.	Decision
The writ petitioners in Special Civil Applications Nos. 420 and 421 of 1966 will pay the costs of the appellants in both the appeals.	Decision
There will be only one hearing fee to be paid by the two writ petitioners in equal proportion.35.	Decision
The judgment and order of the High Court dismissing Special Civil Application No. 694 of 1965 are confirmed and Civil Appeal No. 878 of 1968 will stand dismissed.	Decision
The appellants will pay the costs of the first respondent therein.36.	Decision
Order accordingly.	None
