 N. VENKATACHALIAH (1.)	None
This Appeal, by Special Leave, by the Landlord arises out of and is directed against the judgment and order dated 2381982 of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana in Civil Revision Application No. 2588 of 1980, allowing the Respondenttenants appeal and  in reversal of the concurrent findings of the court below that there was an unauthorised subletting  dismissing Appellants application under Section 13 of the East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act, 1949 (Act) for an order for grant of possession.	Issue
There were other grounds for eviction  one of them that there were unauthorised structural alterations but having regard to the limited scope of the proceedings before the High Court, those other points do not survive.	None
(2.)	Issue
The two appellants  mother and son  as owners of the commercial premises S.C.O. No. 15, Sector 17E, Chandigarh, granted a lease, under deed dated 25111970, in favour of M s. S. Chokesiri and Co., respondent herein.	Facts
The lease was for a term certain of 10 years from 111971 under the terms and on conditions particularised in the Deed Rent was initially Rs.	Facts
3,000.00 per month subject to certain increases stipulated in the lease deed.	Facts
Respondent carries on a business in clothing and textiles under the name and style Saree Sansar in the demised premises.	None
The principal ground  and the only ground that survives  on which eviction was sought was that the respondent had, in about the year 1973, unauthorisedly and without the consent of the appellants, inducted two subtenants in two portions of the premises who, thereafter, carriedon their respective businesses of their own in the respective portions so sublet.	None
One was a tailor, a certain Banwari Lal, who carried on his business under the name and style Royal Star Tailors and the other, Agia Ram Lamba, Proprietor of M s. Kwality Restaurant who established a business under the name and style M s. Kwality Ice Cream in the portion sublet.	Facts
(3.)	Issue
The specific defence to this charge of subletting and the explanation for the admitted presence of those two other business establishments in the premises had better be excerpted from the respondents additional written statement The respondents have not sublet any part of the demised premises to any one.	Facts
The whole of the demised premises are in the exclusive possession of the respondents and are being used for the purpose of carrying on the business of the respondents, namely, selling cloth and readymade garments and for purpose subsidiary and ancillary to the said business .	None
No part of the demised premises has been sublet by the respondent to M s. Kwality Ice Cream or any tailors.	None
Section 17 is the most fashionable shopping centre of the city.	Facts
Most of the customers who frequent this shopping centre are ultra modern persons.	Facts
It is a matter of common knowledge that in modern shopping centres, the owners of showrooms, whatever the nature of their business keep small booths to provide cold drinks, icecream and popcorns etc., to the customers, who come there with their children and spend considerable time making purchases in the showrooms.	Facts
The maintenance of such booths has become a necessary adjunct of all big shops in modern shopping centres.	Facts
Similarly, it is well known that in order to run the business of selling cloth efficiently, it is necessary to have a tailoring shop on the premises.	Facts
Every customer, who makes purchase of cloth in any cloth shop of any consequence wants to consult a tailor in order to know exactly the length of the material that will be required by him for preparation of garments of his choice and most of the customers also like to have the garments stitched by the tailoring outfit on the premises of the cloth shop, more especially when the customers belong to sophisticated upper class.	Facts
The respondent also produced and relied upon the agreements dated 1391973 entered into between Respondent and the said Banwari Lal of Royal Star Tailors (Ex. Mark B) and dated 1791973 between the Respondent and the said Agia Ram Lamba of M s. Kwality Restaurant (Ex. Mark A) the terms of which, according to the respondent, clearly excluded any possibility of subletting.	Facts
(4.)	Arguments of Petitioner
Appellants, in support of their allegation of subletting relied, particularly, on the Report and evidence of Sri S. K. Chhabra, AdvocateCourtCommissioner (A.W.1) who in his report substantially corroborated appellants charge of subletting of Ram Lal Malhotra (A.W. 2) and Inspector in the Enforcement Office who spoke to the notices stated to have been issued by the authorities in regard to the partitions effected in the premises to accommodate the Tailor and the Ice Cream Vendor of Ravinder Pal Singh (A.W. 4) a customer of the Ice Cream Parlour who spoke about the exclusiveness of its possession of Nirmal Singh (A.W. 5) who gave a similar account respecting the tailoring establishment of Davinder Singh (A.W. 7), the husband of the first appellant and father of the second, who spoke about the nature and extent of the alleged subletting and of the exclusiveness of the possession of the subtenants of the portions in their respective occupation and certain other matters and of Kul Rajinder Lal (A.W. 8) who took photographs (Exhibits AW 8/1 to 4) which are stated to disclose that the Ice Cream Parlour was open late in the night even after the respondents textile business had been closed.	Facts
Mehtab Singh Gill, the second appellant, tendered evidence as A.W.9.	None
Some documents were marked and relied upon in evidence on appellants side.	None
Respondent examined, amongst others, Vijinder Kumar (R.W. 2) stated to be an attestor of Exhibits Mark A and Mark B M. L. Sharma (R.W. 3) a Senior Architect, in Chandigarh administration who produced the Plans at (Ext. R. 4) Surinder Mohan (R.W. 5) the tailors son Swatantar Kumar (R.W.6) a partner of M s. Kwality Restaurant Parveen Jain (R.W.7) who was examined to contradict A.W. 8 in regard to the time at which the photographs Exts.	Facts
AW 8/1 to 4 were taken Baldev Raj (R.W. 8) the Manager of M s. Kwality Restaurant Krishan Lal (R.W. 9) an employee of M s. Kwality Ice Cream and Des Raj Jain (R.W. 10) a partner of the respondent firm.	None
The relevant portions of document (Mark A) dated 1791973 say That 1st part(y) will provide Softy Ice Cream Machine along with one employee at their premises and the whole Softy Ice Cream will be supplied by the 1st party at his own risk and costs.	Facts
(8) That both the parties can terminate the system at any time without any notice.	None
In that case the 1st party will take away the machine from the premises.	Facts
The relevant recitals in the document (Mark B) dated 1391973 provide That the first part(y) will do tailoring work only in the portion, i.e., back courtyard and he will keep the employees with the prior consent of the second party and the premises will be locked in the evening by the second party.	Facts
The possession will remain with the second party.	None
(2) That the arrangement has been done as it is beneficial to both the parties and it will boost the business of second party and the first party be licencee in the premises and licence can be revoked will only (sic) at any time without any notice and in that case the 1st party will remove his machine and other articles.	Facts
The 2nd party will not liable to pay any damages.	None
(5.)	None
The learned Rent Controller, on an appreciation of the evidence on the point, was persuaded to the view that, while the allegations of subletting in favour of the tailor had not been established, the case of subleting so far as the M s. Kwality Ice Cream was concerned, had clearly been established.	Facts
It is relevant to mention here that sometime in the year 1976 after the institution of the proceedings the Tailor gave up his business and vacated the portion in his occupation.	Facts
In about the year 1980 the Ice Cream Vendor is also stated to have gone away.	Facts
Learned Rent Controller held that the evidence on record indicated the exclusive possession of the Kwality Ice Cream and that in the circumstances of the cases it was also legitimate to draw an inference, and raise a presumption, that monetary consideration alone had prompted the respondent into the transactions.	Facts
Accordingly, the learned Rent Controller by his order dated 231979 allowed the appellants application and made an order granting possession.	Facts
(6.)	Arguments of Petitioner
The appeal preferred by the respondent before the District Judge was unsuccessful and the order of eviction came to be upheld.	Facts
The Appellate Authority also found that even in the case of M s. Royal Star Tailors, there was a subletting.	Facts
The Appellate Authority held So in the cases in hand, two exclusive portions have been parted with for M s. Royal Star Tailors and for M s. Kwality Ice Cream and the only conclusion in view of the evidence on record could be that the premises has been sublet and the documents Mark A and Mark B, could not be termed as licence deeds by any stretch of imagination.	Facts
Hence, so far as the finding on the ground of subletting is concerned, I do not find any reason to differ with learned Rent Controller and on this point I affirm the finding of the Rent Controller on this part of the issue.	Facts
(7.)	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court, by its order dated 2381982, in Civil Revision Application No. 2588 of 1980 however, in exercise of its revision jurisdiction and upon a reappreciation of the evidence set aside the concurrent findings of the Courts below in regard to the element of exclusive possession and set aside the orders of eviction passed by the Courts below.	Facts
Consequently appellants application for possession was dismissed.	None
In reaching this conclusion, the High Court placed reliance on the two documents Mark A and Mark B entered into between the respondent on the one hand and M s. Kwality Restaurant and Banwarilal, the Tailor, respectively, on the other.	None
The High Court observed A look at these documents goes to show that it was specifically mentioned therein that the possession of the demised premises will remain with the petitionertenant and only the work connected with the supply of Softy Ice Cream and tailoring was allowed to be carried on.	Facts
Except for the charges for the electricity consumed no rent is payable by the third parties to the petitioner.	Facts
The agreements further envisage that the licences could be revoked at any time without any notice.	Facts
The conditions prescribed in these documents do prima facie indicate that it was a case of licences, and not of subletting.	Facts
Referring to what it thought were certain procedural objections in accepting the Report and the evidence of the CourtCommissioner (A.W.1) which had been accepted by the Courts below, the High Court was persuaded to this view It appears that the Authorities below have given great importance to a report of the Local Commissioner who was appointed during the trial for inspection of the demised shop.	Facts
It is not disputed that the order appointing the Local Commissioner was passed by the Rent Controller ex parte without notice to the petitioner.	Facts
In the first place, there is nothing on the record to indicate that the petitioner was at any stage afforded an opportunity to file objections to this report as is usually done in such matters.	Facts
In regard to the correctness of the Report itself, the High Court had this observation to make The Local Commissioner made a report Exhibit A1 to the effect that there are three separate portions on the ground floor where the demised premises were situated and each of these portions had a separate access.	Facts
A material part of this report is that none of the above portion is approachable from inside the demised shop.	Facts
If this report of the Local Commissioner would have been correct, there may be something to say in favour of the landlords on the points of the conferment of exclusive possession of the portions to the third parties.	Facts
There are, however, circumstances to show that this report is not factually correct.	Facts
The High Court placed reliance on certain plans said to have been submitted for effecting certain alterations to the building which are stated to have contained the signature of the first appellant to come to the conclusion that, consistent with the structural dispensations indicated in the plans, the alleged subtenants could not have had exclusive possession.	Facts
On this aspect, the High Court observed These plans were proved by M. L. Sharma, Senior Architect (RW.3) who testified that they bear the signatures of Rajbir Kaur respondentlandlady.	Facts
In fact, their correctness was also admitted by Devinder Singh, Mukhtiar and husband of Rajbir Kaur, landlady.	Facts
These plans, according to learned counsel for the petitioner, indicate that after entering into the main gate of the shop, one could go into the portion which was permitted to be used by the Kwality Restaurant for supply of Softy Ice Cream.	Facts
Similar is the case with the portion occupied by the tailor.	Facts
The learned counsel for the respondents has not been able to rebut this fact.	Facts
This being so, the question of parting with exclusive possession of any portion of the shop in favour of the two alleged subtenants does not arise.	Facts
(Emphasis Supplied) (8.)	None
The contentions of Sri G. L. Sanghi, learned Senior Advocate in support of the appeal admit of being formulated thus The High Court was in error in interfering, in exercise of its revisional jurisdiction, with the concurrent finding of fact recorded by both the Courts below as to the exclusivity of the possession of M s. Kwality Ice Cream of the portions in which it was carrying on of its business.	Arguments of Petitioner
This was a pure question of fact the concurrent finding on which was not amendable (amenable) to interference in exercise of revisional powers under the Act (b) That reliance by the High Court on the evidence of R.W. 3 and Plans Exhibit R. 4 to show that the structural modifications indicated an accessibility between the main premises and the portions in the occupation of subtenants was wholly misplaced as, indeed, Exhibit R. 4 was itself produced in a totally different context and for an altogether different purpose, viz., to meet the ground of eviction based on unauthorised construction and not for purposes of rebutting exclusive possession of the subtenants (c) That even if the Revisional jurisdiction of the High Court admitted a reappreciation of evidence, a finding of a fact which was the result purely of appreciation of oral evidence by the trial court could not be interfered with even by an AppellateCourt and a fortiori in Revision (d) That the view of the High Court as to the alleged infirmity of the CourtCommissioners (A.W. 1) report on the ground that his appointment was not preceded by a notice to the Respondent was erroneous.	Arguments of Petitioner
(9.)	Arguments of Respondent
Dr. Chitaley, learned Senior Advocate for the respondent, sought to support the order of the High Court contending, in the main that where a finding of fact is shown to have been rendered infirm and vitiated by a misreading of evidence and a nonconsideration of material evidence, and where the inference and conclusion drawn from the evidence is non sequeitur the Revisional jurisdiction under the Act which is wider than that under Section 115 C.P.C. could be invoked to correct errors even in findings of facts and that, at all events, the finding of a question of subtenancy being a mixed question of fact and law, this Court, even on an independent consideration of the whole matter, should not interfere as one of the essential ingredients in the concept of a sublease, viz., the existence of monetaryconsideration, in the form Rent, as distinct from consideration by way of services, was wholly lacking.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel, however, emphasized the correctness of the finding of the High Court on the lack of exclusivepossession, on which alone, according to the learned counsel, the appeal should fail.	Arguments of Respondent
(10.)	Arguments of Respondent
Such controversy as exists in the case turns solely on whether the relationship between the Respondent on the one hand and M s. Kwality Restaurant and the Royal Star Tailors on the other, is one of subletting.	None
Dr. Chitaley contends that the two transactions lack the normal and the usual indicia of tenancy and were no more than mere personal privileges or personallicence to occupy and that no interest in the property was transferred.	None
This case, indeed, presents once again the recurring facets of a familiar controversy, whether the transaction between a tenant and the person  alleged by the landlord  to be his subtenant is in law really one of subtenancy which often resembles, and is most liable to be confounded with, a licence.	None
One of the twin principal tests by which a lease is distinguishable from the relationship created under a licence is the element of the right to exclusive possession involving the transfer of an interest in the property the other being the rent stipulated for the grant.	None
In Wood v. Leadbitter (1845) 153 ER 351 at p. 354	None
Baron Alderson emphasized the element of the transfer of interest A dispensation or license properly passeth no interest, nor alters or transfers property in anything, but only makes an action lawful which without it had been unlawful.	None
In Glenwood Lumber Co. v. Phillips (1904) AC 405 at p. 408	None
the distinction was pointed out thus If the effect of the instrument is to give the holder an exclusive right of occupation of the land, though subject to certain reservations or to a restriction of the purposes for which it may be used, it is in law a demise of the land itself.	None
It is essential to the creation of a tenancy that the tenant be granted the right to the enjoyment of the property and that, further, the grant be for consideration.	None
While the definition of Lease in Section 105 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, envisages the transfer of a right to enjoy the property, on the other hand the definition of a Licence under Section 52 of the Indian Easements Act, 1882, consistently with the above, excludes from its pale any transaction which otherwise amounts to an easement or involves a transfer of an interest in the property, which is usually involved in the case of a transfer of right to enjoy it.	None
These two rights, viz.	None
easements and lease in their very nature, are appurtenant to the property.	None
On the other hand, the grant only of the right to use the premises without being entitled to the exclusive possession thereof operates merely as a licence.	None
But the converse implications of this proposition need not necessarily and always be true.	None
wherever there is exclusivepossession, the idea of a licence is not necessarily ruled out.	None
English Law contemplates what are called Possessory Licences which confer a right of exclusive possession, marking them off from the more usual type of licences which serve to authorise acts which would otherwise be trespasses.	None
Thus exclusive possession itself is not decisive in favour of a lease and against a mere licence, for, even the grant of exclusive possession might turn out to be only a licence and not a lease where the grantor himself has no power to grant the lease.	None
In the last analysis the question whether a transaction is a lease or a licence turns on the operative intention of the parties and that there is no single, simple litmustest to distinguish one from the other.	None
The solution that would seem to have been found is, as one would expect, that it must depend on the intention of the parties.	None
In Marchant v. Charters 1977)	None
3	None
All ER 918 at p. 922 (C.A.) Lord Denning MR referred to the tests for determining whether an occupier is a licensee or tenant thus Gathering the cases together, what does it come to?	None
What is the test to see whether the occupier of one room in a house is a tenant or a licensee?	None
It does not depend on whether he or she has exclusive possession or not.	None
It does not depend on whether the room is furnished or not.	None
It does not depend on whether the occupation is permanent or temporary.	None
It does not depend on the label which the parties put on it.	None
All these are factors which may influence the decision but none of them is conclusive.	None
All the circumstances have to be worked out.	None
Eventually the answer depends on the nature and quality of the occupancy.	None
Was it intended that the occupier should have a stake in the room or did he have only permission for himself personally to occupy the room, whether under a contract or not, in which case he is a licensee?	None
(11.)	None
In Associated Hotels of India v. R.N. Kapoor (1960) 1	None
SCR 368 at p. 383 (AIR 1959 SC 1262 at p. 1269)	None
this Court referring to the classic distinction between a lease and a licence said There is a marked distinction between a lease and a licence.	None
Section 105 of the Transfer of Property Act defines a lease of immoveable property as a transfer of a right to enjoy such property made for a certain time in consideration for a price paid or promised Under Section 108 of the said Act, the lessee is entitled to be put in possession of the property.	None
A lease is therefore a transfer of an interest in land.	None
The interest transferred is called the leasehold interest.	None
The lessor parts with his right to enjoy the property during the term of the lease, and it follows from it that the lessee gets that right to the exclusion of the lessor.	None
In B. M. Lall v. Dunlop Rubber Co. (1968) 1	None
SCR 23 at p. 27 (AIR 1968 SC 175 at p. 177) the distinction between the two concepts was brought out A lease is the transfer of a right to enjoy the premises whereas a licence is privilege to do something on the premises which otherwise would be unlawful The transaction is a lease, if it grants an interest in the land it is a licence if it gives a personal privilege with no interest in the land .	None
In Qudrat Ullah v. Municipal Board, Bareilly (1974) 1 SCC 202 at p. 204 (AIR 1974 SC 396 at p. 398) it was stated If an interest in immovable property, entitling the transferors to enjoyment is created, it is a lease if permission to use land without right to exclusive possession is alone granted a licence In Board of Revenue v. A. M. Ansari (1976)	None
3	None
SCR 661 at p. 665 (AIR 1976 SC 1813 at p. 1816)	None
it was again observed it is the creation of an interest in immovable property or right to possess it that distinguishes a lease from a licence.	None
A licence does not create an interest in the property to which it relates while a lease does.	None
There is in other words transfer of a right to enjoy the property in case of a lease In Dipak Banerjee v. Smt.	None
Lilabati Chakroborty (1987) 4 JT 454 at p. 456 (AIR 1987SC2055 at p. 2058)	None
Sabyasachi Mukharji J. observed But in order to prove tenancy or subtenancy two ingredients had to be established, firstly the tenant must have exclusive right of possession or interest in the premises or part of the premises in question and secondly that right must in lieu of payment of some compensation or rent.	None
However, in regard to the second requirement of consideration for the transfer of the right to enjoy the property, it was in that case held that though Section 105 of the Transfer of Property Act envisaged even services rendered by the lessee as a consideration for the grant, however, under the Rent Acts, the position would be different.	None
The proposition was noticed thus The question is, whether in the context of the provisions of Rent Act, services can be consideration for subtenancy.	None
In other words whether in view of the provisions of the Rent Act services can be a good or any consideration for sublease is the question.	None
Answering, it was held We are of the opinion that it cannot be It is however not possible to accept that services in lieu of the right of occupation would amount to receipt of rent under the Rent Act to create subtenancy.	None
This frustrates and defeats the purpose of the Rent Act.	None
(12.)	None
Again, in Khalil Ahmed Bashir Ahmed v. Tufelhussein Samasbhai Sarangpurwala (1987) 5 JT 342 at p. 348 (AIR 1988 SC 184 at p. 190 Sabyasachi Mukharji J. observed To put precisely if an interest in immovable property entitling the transferee to enjoyment was created, it was a lease if permission to use land without exclusive possession was alone granted, a licence was the legal result.	None
We are of the opinion that this was a licence and not a lease as we discover the intent.	None
(13.)	None
The question is, whether in the present case, the evidence on record justifies the inference that the tailor and the IceCreamVendor were put in exclusive possession.	None
Dr. Chitaley contended that the question would require to be determined upon a proper construction of the deeds entered into between the parties, and that, that alone is decisive of the matter.	Arguments of Respondent
Indeed, learned counsel placed strong reliance on the following observations by this Court in M. N. Clubwala v. Fida Hussain Saheb (1964) 6	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 642 (AIR 1965 SC 610 )	Arguments of Respondent
Whether an agreement creates between the parties the relationship of landlord and tenant or merely that of licensor and licensee the decisive consideration is the intention of the parties.	None
This intention has to be ascertained on a consideration of all the relevant provisions in the agreement.	None
(Emphasis Supplied)	Facts
The proposition of Dr. Chitaley as to the conclusiveness of what emanates from the construction of the documents, has, in this case, its own limitations.	None
The import significance and conclusiveness of such documents making, or evidencing the grants, fall to be examined in two distinct contexts.	None
The dispute may arise between the very parties to the written instrument, where on the construction of the deed one party contends that the transaction is a licence and the other that it is a lease.	None
The intention to be gathered from the document read as a whole has, quite obviously, a direct bearing.	None
But in cases where, as here, the landlord alleges that the tenant has sublet the premises and where the tenant, in support of his own defence setsup the plea of a mere licencee and relies upon a deed entered into, inter se, between himself and the alleged licencee, the landlord who is not a party to the deed is not bound by what emanates from the construction of the deed.	None
At best, it is a piece of evidence, the weight to be accorded to which will necessarily depend upon all the other circumstances of the case.	None
The tenant and the subtenant, who jointly set up a plea of licence against the landlord may choose to camouflage the truth and substance of the transaction behind a facade of a selfserving and conveniently drafted instrument.	None
The transaction might be collusive and a mere mask the parties choose to wear to confuse and confound third parties.	None
In such a case the realities and substance of the transaction and not merely the deed become the basis for the determination of the legal nature of the relationship.	None
The deed is a mere piece of evidence.	None
In deciding whether a grant amounts to a lease or only a licence, regard must be had more to the substance than the form of the transaction.	None
It is determined by the law and not by the label the parties choose to put on it.	None
To give exclusive possession, there need not be express words to that effect it is sufficient if the nature of the acts done by the grantee show that he has and was intended to have the right of exclusive possession.	None
The fact that the agreement contains a clause that no tenancy is to be created will not, of itself, preclude the instrument from creating a lease.	None
In B. M. Lairs case (1968) 1	None
SCR 23 at 27 (AIR 1968 SC 175 at pp. 177, 178) this Court observed The question is not of words but of substance and the label which the parties choose to put upon the transaction, though relevant, is not decisive.	None
The test of exclusive possession is not decisive, though it is a very important indication in favour of tenancy.	None
(14.)	None
Contentions (a) and (b) could conveniently be dealt with together.	None
Sri Sanghis first contention is the nonavailability, to the Revisional Court, of the power to reappreciate evidence and substitute a finding of fact of its own in place of the concurrent finding of the Courts below.	None
The cognate question is whether the concurrent finding of exclusive possession of M s. Kwality Ice Cream is supportable on the evidence and if so, whether the High Court could, in revision, have substituted a finding of its own on the point.	None
It is true, having regard to the language of Section 15(5) of the Act conferring revisional powers which include an examination of the legality or propriety of the order under revision, the High Court can, in an appropriate case, reappreciate evidence and interfere with findings of fact.	None
But the question is whether that was called for or justified in the present case.	None
Sri Sanghi pointed out that finding of the trial Judge on the question of exclusive possession of M s. Kwality Ice Cream could not be found fault with on the alleged ground of any nonconsideration of material evidence.	None
He submitted that the finding was supportable on the evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sri Sanghi particularly referred to some admissions of the respondents own witnesses in the course of their evidence.	None
Learned counsel drew attention to the deposition of Krishan Lal (R.W.9) who, while admitting his identity in the photograph Ex.	None
AW 8/4 said In Exh.	None
AW 8/4, I am sitting.	None
I was cleaning the Machine.	None
My one hand was near the mouth.	None
Portion of Softy is separate.	None
It is correct to suggest that the Proprietor of Saree Sansar opens the shop separately.	None
(Emphasis Supplied)	Facts
Sri Sanghi also referred to the following statement of Des Raj Jain (R.W. 10) a partner of the respondents firm, which, according to the learned counsel, amounts to an admission of the exclusiveness of his possession The IceCream premises can be locked from outside independently.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sri Sanghi, quite understandably, placed strong reliance on the report of the Commissioner (A.W.1) whose report substantiated the appellants case.	Arguments of Petitioner
So far as the admissions attributed to Des Raj Jain (R.W.10) is concerned, Dr. Chitaley would say that the statement of the witness that the premises could be locked from outside independently does not militate against or detract from the internal interconnection between the main premises of Saree Sansar and Kwality IceCream.	None
But the report and evidence of the local Commissioner excluded any possibility of any such internal interconnection.	None
On an appreciation of the evidence the learned Rent Controller came to hold Evidence of the petitioners clearly establishes that there is a separate cabin for selling ice cream which is under the control of ice cream sellers.	None
The licence deed is only a cloak to cover the real relationship of the respondent with M s. Kwality Restaurant, Sector 17, Chandigarh.	None
It is not believable at all that the respondent parted with a portion of the premises to M s. Kwality Restaurant, Sector 17E, Chandigarh, without any consideration and just for the sake of supplying icecream to the customers that too after charging the price.	None
It is all against the natural conduct that the respondent may part with a portion of the premises just for this mere facility.	None
The Photographer Kul Rajinder Lal (A.W.8) is an independent and truthful witness who took the photographs at about 9 P.M. when the business of ice cream was being conducted.	None
The statements of the witnesses Swatantar Kumar (R.W. 6), Parveen Jain (R.W. 7) Baldev Raj (R.W.8) and Krishan Lal (R.W.9) are the statements of the interested persons who had clearly told a lie with a view to depose in favour of the respondent that the photographs were taken early in the morning.	None
If the photographs were taken earlier in the morning, it would have been possible that the shop of the respondent would be open (Emphasis supplied)	None
No other presumption excepting that of subletting can be raised in the circumstances of the case.	None
The respondent Des Raj (R.W. 10) has admitted that there are bigger cloth merchants in Sector 17 than his shop but none of them has opened such a booth of ice cream in their shops.	None
(15.)	None
The view of the High Court, in substance, was that there was conflict between the version of the Commissioner and the state of affairs indicated in the Plans (Ext. R. 4) which did not support the exclusive and separate nature of the IceCream Vendors possession and that the latter should prevail.	None
But a more careful examination of the context in which M. L. Sharma (R.W. 7) the Senior Architect who produced Ext. R. 4 was examined shows that Ext. R. 4 was relied upon in rebuttal of and in answer to an altogether different ground i.e., the ground of unauthorised structural alterations and the alleged damage caused to the building thereby and to show that the structural alterations had been authorised by the first appellant.	None
It is quite plain that Respondent itself did not seek to rely on this evidence on the point of exclusive possession or lack of it.	None
Not even a suggestion was put to A.W. 7 or A.W. 9 to the effect that the structural alterations as evidenced by Ext. R. 4 rendered the exclusive possession of M s. Kwality Ice Cream impossible.	None
Nor, indeed even one out of the 26 grounds in Memorandum of appeal before the appellate Court or the 24 grounds raised in the revision application before the High Court, refer to this inference to be drawn from Ext. R. 4.	None
More importantly, even Des Raj Jain (R.W. 10) partner of the Respondent firm does not himself claim this import and significance for Ext. R. 4.	None
No witness stated that the structural alterations were strictly in accordance with the plan, Ext. R. 4.	None
Apparently, this was not also the aspect on which Respondent placed reliance before the Courts below.	None
Reliance on the plans to take away the effect of the positive evidence on record was not, therefore, justified.	None
(16.)	None
The scope of the revisional jurisdiction depends on the language of the statute conferring the revisional jurisdiction.	None
Revisional jurisdiction is only a part of the appellate jurisdiction and cannot be equated with that of a fullfledged appeal.	None
Though the revisional power  depending upon the language of the provision  might be wider than revisional power under Section 151 (or 115?) of the Code of Civil Procedure, yet, a revisional Court is not a second or first appeal.	None
When the findings of fact recorded by the Courts below are supportable on the evidence on record, the revisional Court must, indeed, be reluctant to embark upon an independent reassessment of the evidence and to supplant a conclusion of its own, so long as the evidence on record admitted and supported the one reached by the Courts below.	None
With respect to the High Court, we are afraid, the exercise made by it in its revisional jurisdiction incurs the criticism that the concurrent finding of fact of the Courts below could not be dealt and supplanted by a different finding arrived at on an independent re assessment of evidence as was done in this case.	None
We think in the circumstances, we should agree with Sri Sanghi that the concurrent finding as to exclusive possession of M s. Kwality IceCream was not amenable to reversal in revision.	None
Contentions (a) and (b), in our opinion, are well taken and would require to be held in appellants favour.	None
(17.)	None
On contention (c) as to the limitation on the powers, even of the appellate Court, to dislodge finding of facts recorded by the trial court on a reappreciation of oral evidence, we think, the submissions of Sri Sanghi are not also without substance.	None
The proposition, that the appellate Court should not too lightly interfere with the appreciation of oral evidence made by the trial Court, particularly based on the credibility of the witnesses whose demeanour the trial Court has had the advantage of observing, is too well settled to require reiteration.	None
A clear exposition of the Rule as to what extent the appellate Court should regard itself as bound by the conclusions reached by the trial Court on questions of fact is to be found in the speech of Lord Thankerton in Watt v. Thomas 1947 AC 484 at pp.	None
487488 I do not find it necessary to review the many decisions of this House, for it seems to me that the principle embodied therein is a simple one, and may be stated thus (I).	None
Where a question of fact has been tried by a judge without a jury, and there is no question of misdirection of himself by the judge, an appellate court which is disposed to come to a different conclusion on the printed evidence, should not do so unless it is satisfied that any advantage enjoyed by the trial judge by reason of having seen and heard the witnesses, could not be sufficient to explain or justify the trial judges conclusion (II).	None
The appellate court may take the view that, without having seen or heard the witnesses, it is not in a position to come to any satisfactory conclusion on the printed evidence (III).	None
The appellate court, either because the reasons given by the trial judge are not satisfactory, or because it unmistakably so appears from the evidence, may be satisfied that he has not taken proper advantage of his having seen and heard the witnesses, and the matter will then become at large for the appellate court.	None
But in cases where there is no question of credibility or reliability of any witness or the question is one of a proper inference to be drawn from proved facts, the appellate Court is  and should be  generally in as good a position to evaluate the evidence as the trial Judge is.	None
Lord Reid in Benmax v. Austin Motor Co. Ltd. (1955) 2 WLR 418 at p. 422 observed But in cases where there is no question of the credibility or reliability of any witness, and in cases where the point in dispute is the proper inference to be drawn from proved facts, an appeal court is generally in as good a position to evaluate the evidence as the trial Judge, and ought not to shrink from that task, though it ought, of course, to give weight to his opinion.	None
In the same case, Viscount Simonds indicated the need to keep the distinction between a finding on a specific fact on the one hand and a finding which is an inference from proved facts on the other, clearly distinguished.	None
The limitations on the power of the appellate Court to reappreciate the evidence is clearly confined to the former.	None
That is the distinction between what is perception and what is evaluation.	None
Viscount Simonds observed A judge sitting.	None
without a jury would fall short of his duty if he did not first find the facts and then draw from them the inference of fact whether or not the defendant had been negligent.	None
This is a simple illustration of a process in which it may often be difficult to say what is simple fact and what is inference from fact, or to repeat what I have said, what is perception.	None
what (is) evaluation.	None
(18.)	None
Reference on the point could also usefully be made to A. L. Goodharts article (71 LQR 402 at 405) in which, the learned author points out A judge sitting without a jury must perform dual function.	None
The first function consists in the establishment of the particular facts.	None
This may be described as the perceptive function.	None
It is what you actually perceive by the five senses.	None
It is a datum of experience as distinct from a conclusion.	None
It is obvious that, in almost all cases tried by a judge without a jury, an appellate court, which has not had an opportunity of seeing the witnesses, must accept his conclusions of fact because it cannot tell on what grounds he reached them and what impression the various witnesses made on him.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	Facts
The following is the statement of the same principle in The Supreme Court Practice (White Book 1988 Edn.	None
Vol. 1) Great weight is due to the decision of a Judge of first instance whenever, in a conflict of testimony, the demeanour and manner of witnesses who have been seen and heard by him are material elements in the consideration of the truthfulness of these statements.	None
But the parties to the cause are nevertheless entitled as well on questions of fact as on questions of law to demand the decision of the Court of Appeal, and that Court cannot excuse itself from the task of weighing conflicting evidence, and drawing its own conclusions, though it should always bear in mind that it has neither seen nor heard the witnesses and should make due allowance in this respect.	None
Not to have seen witnesses puts appellate Judges in a permanent position of disadvantage against the trial Judge, and unless it can be shown that he has failed to use or has palpably misused his advantage for example has failed to observe inconsistencies or indisputable fact or material probabilities (ibid.	None
and Yuill (1945)	None
p. 15	None
Watt v. Thomas (1947)	None
AC 484)  the higher Court ought not to take the responsibility of reversing conclusions so arrived at merely as the result of their own comparisons and criticisms of the witnesses, and of their view of the probabilities of the case (P. 855)	None
But while the Court of Appeal is always reluctant to reject a finding by a Judge of the specific or primary facts deposed to by the witnesses, especially when the finding is based on the credibility or bearing of a witness, it is willing to form an independent opinion upon the proper inference to be drawn from it (P. 855)	None
A consideration of this aspect would be incomplete without a reference to the observations of B. K. Mukherjea J., in Sarju Pershad v. Jwaleshwari Pratap	None
Narain Singh 1950 SCR 781 at p. 783 (AIR 1951 SC 120 p. 121)	None
which as a succinct statement of the rule cannot indeed be bettered The question for our consideration is undoubtedly one of fact, the decision of which depends upon the appreciation of the oral evidence adduced in the case.	None
In such cases, the appellate court has got to bear in mind that it has not the advantage which the trial Judge had in having the witnesses before him and of observing the manner in which they deposed in court.	None
This certainly does not mean that when an appeal lies on facts, the appellate court is not competent to reverse a finding of fact arrived at by the trial Judge.	None
The rule is  and it is nothing more than a rule of practice  that when there is conflict of oral evidence of the parties on any matter in issue and the decision hinges upon the credibility of the witnesses, then unless there is some special feature about the evidence of a particular witness which has escaped the trial Judges notice or there is a sufficient balance of improbability to displace his opinion as to where the credibility lies, the appellate court should not interfere with the finding of the trial Judge on a question of fact.	None
(19.)	None
The area in which the question lies in the present case is the area of the perceptive functions of the trial Judge where the possibility of errors of inference does not play a significant role.	None
The question whether the statement of the witnesses in regard to what was amenable to perception by sensual experience as to what they saw and heard is acceptable or not is the area in which the wellknown limitation on the powers of the appellate Court to reappreciate the evidence falls.	None
The appellate Court, if it seeks to reverse those findings of fact, must give cogent reasons to demonstrate how the trial Court fell into an obvious error.	None
With respect to the High Court, we think, that, what the High Court did was perhaps even an appellate Court, with fullfledged appellate jurisdiction would, in the circumstances of the present case, have felt compelled to abstain from and reluctant to do.	None
Contention (c) would also require to be upheld.	None
(20.)	None
Re Contention (d)	None
The High Court was of the view that the proceeding of the Commissioner was vitiated by the absence of a notice to the respondent preceding the order appointing the Commissioner.	None
It is true that some High Courts had taken the view that no order appointing a local Commissioner under Order 26 CPC could be passed ex parte.	None
See Latchan Naidu v. Rama Krishan Ranga Rao Bahadur Bobbili Samasthanam, AIR 1934 Mad 548 .	None
But subsequent pronouncements of several High Courts, including the Madras High Court, have inclined to the better view that there might be circumstances which may necessitate and justify even an ex parte order appointing a Commissioner.	None
But the requirements of Rule 9 of Order 26 are construed to apply to a stage after the making of an order appointing the Commissioner.	None
In the present case, it is no doubt true, that the order dated 321975 of the trial court appointing a Commissioner did not in terms direct the parties to appear before the Commissioner.	Reasoning
There is this infirmity in the proceedings of the Commissioner.	None
But it is possible to construe the power to appoint a Commissioner to inspect the extant state and nature of structures as not confined to Rule 9 of Order 26 but referable to Rule 7 of Order 39 CPC where the court can dispense with prior notice, should it appear to the court that the very object of making of appointment of a Commissioner would be defeated and frustrated by the issue of prior notice.	Reasoning
On the scope of Rule 8 of Order 39 as it stood even prior to its amendment, High Courts have held that an ex parte order appointing a Commissioner is permissible.	Reasoning
However it is not necessary to pronounce on this question as even the other evidence on record relied upon by the trial Court and the appellate Court supports their finding as to the exclusive possession of the icecream seller.	Reasoning
(21.)	None
Dipak Banerjees case (AIR 1987 SC 2055 ) on which strong reliance was placed by Dr. Chitaley does not, in our opinion, advance the case of the respondent any further.	Reasoning
There, the question was whether the tenant had sublet two rooms in the premises to a tailor who is stated to have established therein a tailoring business.	Reasoning
The tenant denying the subletting contended that the tailor was allowed to occupy a part of the premises due to pity and charity and that he was sewing in the house without any rent.	Reasoning
It would appear that the tenant also did some service for the landlord and the members of his family.	Reasoning
The alleged subtenant not having entered the box, the plea of subletting had come to be accepted.	Reasoning
In the appeal before this Court it was held that there was neither pleading nor evidence nor a specific finding on the question of exclusive possession of the alleged subtenant and that, therefore, one of the essential ingredients of a sublease was lacking.	Reasoning
It was further held that providing of services could not also be construed as consideration for purposes of the Rent Acts and that, therefore, the second ingredient was also absent.	Reasoning
The decision turned on the particular facts of the case.	Reasoning
That case could be of no assistance to the respondents.	Reasoning
Likewise, the decisions in Kallil Ahmeds case (AIR 1988 SC 184 ), where also, on the facts of the case, it was held that the case of a sublease had not been made good.	Reasoning
(22.)	None
Dr. Chitaley then urged that there was not even a pleading by the appellant on the point of moneyconsideration for the parting of possession and that no amount of evidence adduced on a point not pleaded could at all be looked into.	Reasoning
As a general proposition the submission is unexceptionable but in the present case, the point, in our opinion, is not well taken.	Reasoning
Appellants specifically pleaded subletting.	Reasoning
Respondent understood that pleading as to imply all the incidents of subletting including the element of rent and specifically traversed that plea by denying the existence of consideration.	Reasoning
Parties went to trial with full knowledge of the ambit of the case of each other.	Reasoning
In the circumstances the pleadings would require to be construed liberally.	Reasoning
In Ram Sarup Gupta v. Bishun Narain Inter College AIR 1987 SC 1242 this Court said this of the need to construe pleadings liberally Sometimes, pleadings are expressed in words which may not expressly make out a case in accordance with strict interpretation of law, in such a case it is the duty of the court to ascertain the substance of the pleadings to determine the question.	None
It is not desirable to place undue emphasis on form, instead the substance of the pleadings should be considered.	None
Whenever the question about lack of pleading is raised the enquiry should not be so much about the form of pleadings, instead the Court must find out whether in substance the parties knew the case and the issues upon which they went to trial.	None
Once it is found that in spite of deficiency in the pleadings parties knew the case and they proceeded to trial on those issues by producing evidence, in that event it would not be open to a party to raise the question of absence of pleadings in appeal (Emphasis supplied) After all, the parties do not have the foresight of prophets and their lawyers the draftmanship of a Chalmers.	None
There is no substance in this contention of Dr. Chitaley either.	None
(23.)	None
The High Court did not deal specifically with the question whether, in the circumstances of the case, an inference that the parting of the exclusive possession was prompted by monetary consideration could be drawn or not.	Reasoning
The High Court, did not examine this aspect of the matter, as according to it, one of the essential ingredients, viz., of exclusive possession had not been established.	Reasoning
If exclusive possession is established, and the version of the respondent as to the particulars and the incidents of the transaction is found unacceptable in the particular facts and circumstances of the case, it may not be impermissible for the Court to draw an inference that the transaction was entered into with monetary consideration in mind.	Reasoning
It is open to the respondent to rebut this.	Reasoning
Such transactions of subletting in the guise of licences are in their very nature, clandestine arrangements between the tenant and the subtenant and there cannot be direct evidence got.	Reasoning
It is not, unoften, a matter for legitimate inference.	Reasoning
The burden of making good a case of subletting is, of course, on the appellants.	Reasoning
The burden of establishing facts and contentions which support the partys case is on the party who takes the risk of nonpersuasion.	Reasoning
If at the conclusion of the trial, a party has failed to establish these to the appropriate standard, he will lose.	Reasoning
Though the burden of proof as a matter of law remains constant throughout a trial, the evidential burden which rests initially upon a party bearing the legal burden, shifts according as the weight of the evidence adduced by the party during the trial.	Reasoning
In the circumstances of the case, we think, that appellants having been forced by the Courts below to have established exclusive possession of the icecream vendor of a part of the demisedpremises and the explanation of the transaction offered by the respondent having been found by the Courts below, to be unsatisfactory and unacceptable, it was not impermissible for the Courts to draw an inference, having regard to the ordinary course of human conduct, that the transaction must have been entered into for monetary considerations.	Reasoning
There is no explanation forthcoming from the respondent appropriate to the situation as found.	Reasoning
(24.)	Decision
In the result, for the foregoing reasons, this Appeal is allowed, the order of the High Court under Appeal is set aside and the order of eviction passed by the Courts below restored.	Decision
Having regard to all the circumstances of the case, we grant time to the respondent to vacate and yield up the vacant possession till 31/12/1988.	Decision
In the circumstances of the case, the parties are left to bear their own costs both here and below.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	Decision
