 Abhay Manohar Sapre, J. This civil appeal is filed by the appellant plaintiff (hereinafter referred to as the plaintiff) against the judgment order dated 03.03.2005 passed by the High Court of Punjab Haryana at Chandigarh in Civil Revision	None
No. 3127 of 2004 which arises out of order dated 26.03.2004 passed by the Additional District Judge, Hisar in Civil Appeal No. 87/2003/2004.	None
In order to appreciate the issue involved in the appeal, few relevant facts need to be mentioned in brief.	None
The plaintiff is one of the promoters of a limited company known as M s Indo Britain Agro Farms Limited Hisar which is engaged in the manufacture of ordinary white buttons Mushroom at Hisar (Haryana).	Facts
Respondent No.1/defendant No.1Haryana Financial Corporation (hereinafter referred to as defendant No.1), established under the State Financial Corporation Act, 1951 is a Corporation under Section 2 (b) of the Haryana Public Moneys (Recovery of Dues) Act, 1979 (for short the Act).	Facts
The plaintiff had taken various kinds of financial assistance from defendant No.1 for running his business.	Facts
In May 1995, defendant No.1 with a view to extend financial assistance to the plaintiffs Company purchased 3 lacs equity shares of the said company at the rate of Rs.10/ per share and, accordingly, invested a sum of Rs.30 Lacs.	Facts
This investment led the parties to enter into further business transactions.	Facts
After several rounds of negotiations and correspondence between the parties, the plaintiff entered into an agreement styled as Buy Back Agreement with defendant No.1 on 16.07.1996 (Annexure P6).	Facts
In terms of the aforesaid agreement, the plaintiffs company was to enhance its equity share capital by issuing further shares to the extent of Rs.485.59 lacs whereas defendant No.1 was to subscribe Rs. 30 lacs towards the share capital of the plaintiffs Company by way of financial assistance for augmenting the business.	Facts
The agreement, interalia, provided the terms specifying therein, the manner in which the plaintiff was to secure the investment made by defendant No.1, right of the plaintiff to purchase buyback the shares of defendant No.1 Corporation at the specified rates, right of defendant No.1 to nominate its nominee directors in the Board of Directors of the plaintiffs Company to monitor its affairs, right of defendant No.1 to recover their investment including a right to claim damages sustained in the transaction as arrears of land revenue from the plaintiff by taking recourse to the provisions of the Act for making recovery in the event of any default committed by the plaintiff of any term of the aforesaid agreement etc.	Facts
Defendant No.1, however, found that the plaintiff has failed to ensure compliance of the terms of the aforesaid agreement.	Facts
They were, therefore, constrained to invoke the terms of the agreement and got the notice issued through Tahsildar against the plaintiff for recovery of Rs.18.03 Lacs under the Act as arrears of land revenue on 28.02.2002 (Annexure P14).	Facts
It is with the aforesaid facts of the case, which were pleaded in the plaint, the plaintiff filed a suit for declaration being Civil Case	Facts
No.	Facts
328C of 2002 in the Court of Civil Judge at Hisar (Annexure P15) against the defendants for a declaration that the Buyback agreement dated 16.07.1996 be declared null and void and in alternative the recovery sought to be made by defendant No.1 by issuance of notice of demand for recovery of Rs.18.03 lacs (Annexure P14) pursuant to the said agreement is also bad in law and be set aside.	Facts
The reliefs claimed in the plaint reads as under It is, therefore, prayed that a decree for declaration to the effect that the Buyback Agreement dated 16.7.1996 executed by the plaintiff at Hisar with defendant No. 1 is null and void ab initio and is liable to be setaside and in the alternative for declaration to the effect that the recovery of defendant No. 1 on the basis of this agreement has become time barred and that the Recovery Certificate issued by the Managing Director of the defendant No. 1 on the basis of this Agreement is null and void ab initio and is liable to be setaside with the consequential relief of permanent injunction (prohibitory) restraining the defendants from implementing the Recovery Certificate against the plaintiff in any manner including his arrest may kindly be passed in favour of the plaintiff(s) and against the defendant(s) with costs.	Facts
Any other relief to which the plaintiff(s) is are found entitled may also be granted.	None
The aforesaid reliefs were founded essentially on the allegation that the agreement in question was executed by the plaintiff on account of undue pressure, coercion and duress exercised by defendant No.1 on him.	Facts
The plaintiff, in para 21 of the plaint, also averred that he is aware of the fact that the civil suit is barred by virtue of the provisions of the Act.	Facts
Para 21 of the said plaint reads as under That the plaintiff is aware of the fact that the jurisdiction of the civil court is barred under Haryana Public Moneys (Recovery of Dues) Act, 1979.	Facts
But he is also aware of the law laid down by the Honble 5 Judges of the Apex Court of India reported in AIR 1969 SC 78 that in case the Statutory Authorities do not act in accordance with the procedure prescribed in the Statues, then the Civil Court alone has the jurisdiction to entertain and try every suit.	Facts
The present suit is no exception to the law laid down by the Honble Supreme Court of India.	Facts
On receipt of the notice of the suit, the defendants entered appearance and filed an application under Order VII Rules 10 11 read with Section 21 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter referred to as the Code).	Facts
Defendant No.1 contended that the suit of this nature for claiming the aforementioned reliefs was not maintainable by virtue of express bar contained in Section 3(4) of the Act, which in clear terms provided that no Civil Court shall have jurisdiction to entertain or adjudicate upon any case relating to the recovery of any sum due from the defaulter and if any such suit is pending at the commencement of the Act in any Civil Court then it shall abate.	Facts
Defendant No.1, therefore, contended that since the plaintiff has challenged the agreement as also the recovery notice issued by the Tahsildar under Section 3 of the Act in the Civil Suit, the same was not maintainable being barred by Section 3(4) of the Act.	Facts
It was, therefore, liable to be dismissed under Order VII Rule 11(d) of the Code read with Section (3)4 of the Act.	Facts
The plaintiff opposed the aforesaid application.	Facts
According to him, the provisions of the Act were not applicable to the case in hand notwithstanding the bar contained in Section 3(4) of the Act for filing a civil suit in the civil court and, therefore, the civil suit was maintainable.	Facts
The trial Court, by order dated 16.8.2003, allowed the application filed by defendant No.1 and, in consequence, dismissed the suit.	Facts
It was held that having regard to the averments made in the plaint and the nature of the reliefs claimed in the suit, the bar contained in Section 3(4) of the Act was attracted and hence, the suit was liable to be dismissed as not maintainable.	Facts
Felt aggrieved, the plaintiff filed an appeal before the Additional District Judge, Hisar being Civil Appeal No. 87/2003/2004.	Facts
By order dated 26.03.2004, the Additional District Judge dismissed the appeal.	Facts
Against the said order, the plaintiff filed Civil Revision in the High Court.	Facts
The High Court, by impugned judgment, dismissed the revision in limine and upheld the order of the trial court.	Facts
It is against this judgment order the plaintiff has filed this appeal by way of special leave.	Facts
The short question, which arises for consideration in this appeal, is whether the courts below were justified in dismissing the plaintiffs civil suit as being barred by law.	None
Mr. Suresh Singh, learned counsel appearing for the appellant plaintiff, while assailing the legality and correctness of the impugned order, contended that the courts below committed an error in dismissing the plaintiffs suit as barred by law.	Arguments of Petitioner
Placing reliance on the decision of this Court in Unique Butyle Tube Industries (P) Ltd. vs. U.P. Financial Corporation And Others (2003) 2 SCC 455 , learned counsel contended that the suit should have been held maintainable for adjudication of reliefs claimed therein in the light of the law laid down in Unique Butyle case (supra) wherein this Court has held that a demand for recovery of the amount cannot be raised by taking recourse to the provisions of the U.P. Public Moneys (Recovery of Dues) Act, 1972.	Arguments of Petitioner
In contra, learned counsel for the defendants, while supporting the impugned order, contended that it does not call for any interference.	Arguments of Respondent
Having heard the learned counsel for the parties and on perusal of the record of the case, we find no merit in this appeal.	Reasoning
It is apposite to take note of the provisions of Order VII Rule 11 of the Code and some of the provisions of the Act, which have a bearing over the issue involved in the present appeal.	Issue
Order VII, Rule 11(d) CPC Rejection of plaintThe plaint shall be rejected in the following cases (a) (b) (c) (d) where the suit appears from the statement in the plaint to be barred by any law Section 2(b)(c)(d) and 3 of the Act, 1979 Section 2(b) Corporation means the Haryana Financial Corporation established under the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951, and includes any other Corporation owned or controlled by the Central Government or the State Government which the State Government may, by notification, specify Section 2(c)	None
Defaulter means a person who, either as principal or as surety is a party to any agreement relating to a loan, advance or grant given under that agreement or relating to credit in respect of, or relating to hire purchase of goods sold by the State Government or the Corporation, by way of financial assistance, or to any agreement relating to a loan, advance or grant given under that agreement or relating to credit in respect of, or relating to hirepurchase of goods sold by a Government company under the Statesponsored scheme or to any agreement relating to a guarantee given by the State Government or a Corporation in respect of a loan raised by an industrial concern or to any agreement providing that any money payable thereunder to the State Government shall be recoverable as arrears of land revenue, and such person makes any default in repayment of the loan or advance or any instalment thereof or, having become liable under the conditions of the grant to refund the grant or any portion thereof, makes any default in the refund of such grant or portion or any instalment thereof or otherwise fails to comply with the terms of the agreement Section 2(d) financial assistance means any financial assistance for establishing, expanding, modernizing, renovating or running any industrial undertaking or for the purposes of vocational training or for the development of agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry or agroindustry or for the purposes of any other kind of planned development or for relief against distress Section 3 Recovery of certain dues as arrears of land revenue Where any sum is recoverable from a defaulter (a) by the State Government, such officer as it may, by notification appoint in this behalf (b) by a Corporation or a Government company, the Managing Director thereof Shall determine the sum due from the defaulter.	None
The officer or the Managing Director, as the case may be, referred to in subsection (1), shall send a certificate to Collector mentioning the sum due from the defaulter and requesting that such sum together with the cost of proceedings be recovered as if it were an arrear of land revenue.	None
A certificate sent under subsection (2) shall be conclusive proof of the matters stated therein and the Collector, on receipt of such certificate, shall proceed to recover the amount stated therein as an arrear of land revenue.	None
No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction (a) to entertain or adjudicate upon any case or (b) to adjudicate upon or proceed with any pending case, relating to the recovery of any sum due as aforesaid from the defaulter.	None
The proceedings relating to the recovery of the sums due from the defaulters, pending at the commencement of this Act in any Civil Court, shall abate.	None
An application for rejection of the plaint can be filed, if the allegations made in the plaint taken to be correct as a whole on its face value show the suit to be barred by any law.	Reasoning
The question as to whether a suit is barred by any law or not would always depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.	Reasoning
However, for deciding this question, only the averments made in the plaint are relevant.	Reasoning
Since the question of jurisdiction of the Civil Court to entertain and try the civil suit goes to the very root of the case and hence it can be raised at any time by the defendant by taking recourse to the provisions of Order VII Rule 11 of the Code.	Reasoning
Indeed, this principle of law is well settled.	Reasoning
So far as the provisions of the Act are concerned, Section 3 of the Act empowers the Corporation to make recovery of its outstanding dues from the defaulter as arrears of land revenue by getting the certificate of recovery of the amount issued from the competent authority whereas subsection (4) of Section 3 in clear terms takes away the jurisdiction of the Civil Court to entertain or and adjudicate any case relating to the recovery of any sum due from the defaulter.	Reasoning
It also takes away the jurisdiction of Civil Court to proceed with any pending case involving such issue.	Reasoning
If any such case is pending on the date of commencement of the Act, such case shall stand abate.	Reasoning
The provisions of the Act and especially Section 3 thereof came to be interpreted by this Court in S.K. Bhargava vs. Collector, Chandigarh and others (1998)5SCC 170 and hence its interpretation is no more res integra.	None
Justice B.N Kirpal, speaking for the Court, held in para 8 as under It is clear from the perusal of the abovequoted section that before a certificate can be issued by the Managing Director under subsection (2) of Section 3, he must determine the sum due from the defaulter as enjoined upon him by Section 3(1)(b).	None
It is difficult to appreciate the contention of the learned counsel for the respondent Financial Corporation that any such determination can take place without notice to the defaulter.	None
The jurisdiction of the civil courts to go into the question as to what is the amount due is expressly ousted by subsection (4) of Section 3.	None
In its place, the power has been given to the Managing Director under Section 3(1)(b) to determine as to what is the amount due from the defaulter.	None
There can be no doubt that any such determination by the Managing Director will result in civil consequences ensuing.	None
The determination being final and conclusive, would have the result of the passing of a final decree, inasmuch as the defaulters from whom any amount is found to be due, would become liable to pay the amount so determined and the Collector will have the right to recover the same as arrears of land revenue.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Applying the aforesaid principle of law to the facts of the case in hand, it is clear by mere reading of the plaint that firstly, the plaintiff was a defaulter as defined under Section 2(c) of the Act secondly, the investment made by defendant No.1 Corporation pursuant to an agreement dated 16.07.1996 was in the nature of the financial assistance as defined under Section 2 (d) of the Act thirdly, the demand raised by the respondent was in relation to the amount given by way of financial assistance under Section 3 of the Act and lastly, the subject matter of the suit viz., challenge to the legality of the agreement and the demand fell under Section 3(4)(a) and (b) of the Act.	None
In the light of the four aforementioned facts, which are clearly discernable from the averments made in the plaint, we are of the considered opinion that the provisions of the Act get attracted to the case in hand which, in turn, attract the bar contained in subsection (4) of Section 3 in filing the civil suit by the defaulter.	Reasoning
The suit is, therefore, apparently barred by virtue of bar contained in Section 3(4) of the Act.	Reasoning
It was thus rightly dismissed by the courts below by taking recourse to Order VII Rule 11 (d) of the Code.	Reasoning
We do not find any force in the submission urged by the learned counsel for the plaintiff that on the basis of law laid down in Unique Butyle case (supra), the suit should be held as maintainable for adjudication of the reliefs claimed therein on merits.	Reasoning
On perusal of the decision rendered in Unique Butyle case (supra), it is clear that the said decision was rendered in a writ petition filed by the defaulter against the Corporation wherein the question involved was whether the proceedings for recovery initiated by the U.P. Financial Corporation under the U. P. Public Moneys (Recovery of Dues) Act, 1972 are maintainable in view of Section 34(2) of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act 1993.	None
This Court examined the aforesaid question in the light of the provisions of the aforementioned two Acts and held that the proceedings initiated under the U. P. Public Moneys (Recovery of Dues) Act, 1972, are not maintainable in view of overriding effect given to the Central Act by virtue of Section 34(2) of the Central Act over the State Act.	None
It is pertinent to mention that while deciding the question, their Lordships took note of the law laid down in S.K. Bhargava case (supra) and held that the provisions of U.P. Act and that of the Haryana Act are not similar.	None
This is what was held in para 15 We may notice here that to strengthen his arguments, learned counsel for the appellant referred to the decision of this Court in S.K. Bhargava vs. Collector, Chandigarh.	None
The said case related to the Haryana Public Moneys (Recovery of Dues) Act, 1979 (in short the Haryana Act).	None
With reference to certain observations in para 8 of the said judgment, it was submitted that a process of adjudication is inbuilt, even when the Managing Director of the Corporation takes action.	None
We notice that Section 3 of the Haryana Act is couched differently from Section 3 of the U.P. Act.	None
Reference was made in the said case to Director of Industries Case, (1980) 2 SCC 332 and held that while upholding the validity of Section 3 of the U.P. Act, the Court was not called upon to deal with the question as to whether the principles of natural justice were implicit in the said Section.	None
We also do not think it necessary to go into that question.	None
In the light of several distinguishing features noticed in the case in hand and the facts of Unique Butyle case (supra) such as the question as to whether the suit filed in the Civil Court was barred or not, which is the subject matter of this case, was not decided in Unique Butyle case.	None
Secondly, the case in hand arose out of Haryana Act whereas the Unique Butyle case (supra) arose out of U.P Act and thirdly, both Haryana Act and U.P. Act were held not identical in their wordings.	None
In the light of these distinguished features, no reliance can be placed on the law laid down in Unique Butyle case (supra) for deciding the issue involved in the present case.	None
It has, in our considered opinion, no application to the case in hand.	None
Before parting with the case, we consider it apposite to clarify that we have not examined the legality and correctness of the demand on its merits once it is held that Civil Court has no jurisdiction to entertain the civil suit.	Reasoning
In other words, once it is held that the Civil Court has no jurisdiction to try the suit on merits, the question as to whether the demand impugned in the suit is legal or not cannot be gone into nor it was gone into.	Reasoning
In view of foregoing discussion, we find no merit in the appeal, which thus fails and is hereby dismissed.	Decision
