 These two are cross appeals filed by both the parties to the lis.	Issue
On the one hand is the Union of India, along with the Chief of Naval Staff as well as the Flag Officer, CommandinginChief, Headquarters, Western Naval Command (hereinafter referred to as the Appellants).	Issue
On the other hand is Commander Ravindra V. Desai, a naval officer with Indian Navy (hereinafter referred to as the Respondent).	Issue
On certain allegations against the Respondent, he was served with chargesheet containing ten charges which led to the court martial proceedings against him.	None
Court Martial returned the finding of guilty on all charges which led to imposition of sentence of dismissal from the naval service as well as forfeiture of 24 calender months of seniority.	Facts
After exhausting departmental remedies, the Respondent challenged its conviction before the Armed Forces Tribunal (for short, AFT).	None
Finding certain reasons stated at the appropriate stage, the AFT decided to itself record the evidence on those charges by giving opportunities to both the parties.	Facts
On the basis of evidence produced before the AFT, the AFT set aside the finding of guilty in respect of three charges (8th, 9th and 10th charges) on the ground of misjoinder of charges holding that it had no connection with charges 1 to 7.	Facts
However, in respect of charges 1 to 7, the AFT maintained that the Appellant could successfully prove these charges by cogent evidence.	Facts
The AFT, thereafter, proceeded to consider the quantum of punishment and came to the conclusion that the punishment of a dismissal from service is disproportionate to the nature of charges.	None
It also observed that when the Respondent had been awarded the punishment of dismissal from service, second punishment, namely, forfeiture of seniority for 24 months did not make any sense.	None
On these grounds, the AFT set aside the punishment of dismissal from the service and held that interest of justice would be met if only the punishment of forfeiture of seniority of 24 months is inflicted upon the Respondent.	Facts
It has, accordingly, directed the Appellants to reinstate the Respondent in naval service without payment of any salary for the intervening period, i.e., the back wages.	Facts
Both the parties feel aggrieved by this judgment.	Facts
In the first instance, they moved application before the AFT seeking leave to appeal.	Facts
The AFT declined this request stating that no question of law of public importance is involved.	Facts
This is the reason for both the parties to approach this Court.	Facts
These appeals were clubbed together.	Facts
In the appeal, filed by the Respondent while issuing notice, operation of the order of the AFT was also stayed.	Facts
As a result, the Respondent has not been allowed to join back the service.	None
Both these appeals were admitted formally on July 01, 2016 and direction was given to expedite the hearing.	Facts
It was also directed that interim order shall continue to operate.	Facts
This is how the appeals have come up for final hearing in which both the sides were heard at length.	Facts
With the aforesaid introductory remarks, we now proceed to narrate the factual matrix of the case in some more detail.	Facts
The Respondent was commissioned in Indian Navy on January 01, 1998 as Sub. Lieutenant.	Facts
He was promoted to the rank of Commander on January 16, 2011.	Facts
At that time, he was posted as the Executive Officer of INS Mahish at Port Blair in Andaman Island.	Facts
His aforesaid posting was from May, 2010 to June, 2011.	Facts
In June, 2011, he was transferred to INS Viraat as Commander Operations vide orders dated June 02, 2011.	Facts
In obedience to the said orders, the Respondent along with his wife and daughters left for Mumbai on June 15, 2011.	Facts
The Respondent joined duties at the transferred place with 10 days leave joining time.	Facts
He had undertaken the aforesaid journey from Port Blair to Mumbai by Indian Airlines.	Facts
According to him, on reaching Mumbai he stayed with his sisterinlaw Amita Gavankar at Goregaon, Mumbai as he was on leave till June 25, 2011.	Facts
From June 16, 2011 to June 19, 2011, he visited different places in Maharashtra and even went to Goa with his family.	Facts
On June 25, 2011, he shifted to the official accommodation, i.e., Integrated Mess Sports Complex Cottage No. 1, along with his wife and daughter, which accommodation was allotted to him at that time.	Facts
On June 26, 2011, he reported to INS Taragiri, the waiting ship for INS Viraat, as INS Viraat was berth at Kochi at that time.	Facts
On June 29, 2011, he reported for duty at INS Viraat at Kochi.	Facts
It may be mentioned, at this stage, that according to him he had earlier purchased two mobile sim cards for mobile handsets when he was posted at INS Mahish, Port Blair.	Facts
One from BSNL with No. 9476045470 for himself and 2nd from Vodafone South Limited with No. 9564784782 for his wife.	None
Again, according to him, on 19th June, 2011 when he had come to Mumbai, he purchased two sim cards from Idea Cellular Pvt. Ltd., one having 8108770020 for himself and other No. 8108770030 which was meant for his wife.	Facts
On July 01, 2011 at about 22.45 hours, he was woken up from his sleep and escorted by Commander Manoj Jha (PW20) to Captain Hari Kumar, the Commanding Officer of INS Viraat.	Facts
Captain Hari Kumar questioned him about mobile No. 9564784782, as sexually explicit calls were received from the same number by wives of some naval officers.	None
He explained that this sim card remained in possession of his wife throughout who had used the same.	Facts
Search was made but no such sim card was found with the Respondent.	None
His mobile telephone No. 8108770020 was confiscated and detailed for 18 hours whereafter, on the next day, it was returned back to him.	None
Thereafter, One Man Inquiry (for short, OMI) was ordered on January 05, 2012.	None
This OMI was conducted with effect from January 11, 2012 and concluded on January 31, 2012.	Facts
Thereupon, the Respondent was issued a charge sheet dated September 05, 2012 for trial by Court Martial.	Facts
Ten charges were framed against the Respondent.	Facts
Seven out of which were Under Section 77(2) of the Navy Act, 1957 (hereinafter referred to as the the Act) read with Section 509 of the Indian Penal Code (Indian Penal Code) and three charges were framed against the Respondent Under Sections 58, 74 and 48(c) of the Navy Act.	Facts
These charges pertained to the alleged obscene calls purportedly made by the Respondent to the three ladies.	Facts
It is on the findings of the OMI, Headquarters Western Naval Command directed the Commanding Officer, INS Kunjali where the Respondent was attached for the investigation, to investigate and record Summary of Evidence (SoE) of prosecution witnesses.	Facts
On September 05, 2012, the Commanding Officer, INS Kunjali read the charges mentioned in the charge sheet and the Respondent was given a chance to file reply thereto, which he did.	Facts
Thereafter, decision was taken that the Respondent be brought to trial of the Court Martial.	Facts
In the Court Martial, the prosecution examined 33 witnesses and produced 40 documents which were exhibited.	Facts
The court called for five witnesses as cowitnesses and exhibited 19 documents as exhibits (C1 to C19).	Facts
After the conclusion of the trial, finding of guilty was returned in respect of all the 10 charges and the punishment was awarded as mentioned above.	Facts
Thereafter, the Appellant filed O.A. before the Tribunal.	Facts
The facts which have been noted upto now would demonstrate that main allegation against the Respondent was that he had made explicit sexual calls to three ladies, namely, Mrs. Reena Chandel (PW9), Mrs. Aditi Barathwal (PW12) and Mrs. Pallavi Tiwari (PW18), who are wives of three officers of Navy.	Facts
These calls were made from Vodafone Cell Phone No. 9564784782.	Facts
Further, these calls were made on their landline numbers which were provided by NOFRA Exchange installed and operated by NOFRA (Naval Officers Residential Area).	Facts
Each of the officers residing in the area is provided with an extension number from the Exchange of NOFRA.	Facts
They were not knowing the person making the calls.	Facts
They complained to their husbands, who, in turn, reported to their senior officers and finally, all the sexually explicit calls made to these three ladies were traced to Mobile No. 9564784782.	Facts
These calls were made to Reena Chandel on June 21, 2011 in the night, on June 22, 2011 in the morning, on June 23, 2011 in the afternoon and the last call was made to her on June 30, 2011 in the morning at 0657.	Facts
Her extension number was 222217.	Facts
Thirteen calls were made to Mrs. Pallavi (PW18) during the night between June 31, 2011 and July 01, 2011.	Facts
PW12 Aditi received similar calls twice in the night on June 30, 2011.	Facts
According to the prosecution, all the calls were traced through the record of NOFRA Exchange to Mobile No. 9564784782 registered in the name of the accused.	Facts
Initially, the Naval Authorities or the officers operating NOFRA Exchange had no knowledge as to whom the said mobile belonged.	Facts
Therefore, it was difficult for them to trace the person making the calls.	Facts
They approached the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone I, Mumbai, who made inquiries from several service providers about the said mobile number.	Facts
Finally, it was revealed that the said mobile was registered in the name of the Respondent with Vodafone South Limited, having office in Kolkata.	Facts
In order to prove the aforesaid charge, the Appellants were required to establish the aforesaid ingredients The Respondent possessed, at the relevant time, Vodafone Cell Phone No. 9564784782.	None
Obscene Calls were made to the landline numbers of the three ladies and on the dates mentioned above.	None
These calls originated from Mobile No. 9564784782 and were made by the Respondent and none else.	None
Insofar as first ingredient is concerned, it has been admitted by the Respondent himself that he was having Cell Phone with Vodafone Connection and the sim card was provided with phone number 9564784782.	Facts
The defence of the Respondent, however, was that on the relevant dates, the Respondent was not having this number and, in fact, the sim card had been lost and a report regarding the loss of sim card was made to the Police.	Facts
Details of his explanation, in this behalf, are that when the Respondent was posted at Port Blair in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, he had purchased two mobile sim cards for mobile handsets one from BSNL with No. 9476045470 for himself and the second from Vodafone South Limited with No. 9564784782 for his wife, Mrs. Pallavi Desai.	Facts
In June, 2011, he was transferred and posted to INS Viraat as Commander Operations vide order dated June 02, 2011.	Facts
Pursuant to the said transfer orders, after reaching Mumbai, he purchased two Idea sim cards from Idea Cellular Private Limited on June 19, 2011, having number 8108770020 for himself and 8108770030 for his wife.	Facts
He claimed that he destroyed his mobile sim card No. 9476045470 and replaced the same with new mobile sim No. 8108770020.	Facts
He also claimed to have advised his wife to replace her old sim No. 9564784782 by the new mobile sim No. 8108770030.	Facts
According to him, when officers visited his cabin while he was at INS, Viraat at Kochi on July 01, 2011 and inquired him about Mobile No. 9564784782, he explained that the said number was used throughout by his wife.	Facts
Thereafter, when he called his wife, he was informed that said sim card was missing from her purse.	Facts
Then, he advised his wife to lodge a report with the Police and inform the service provider which she did on July 04, 2011.	Facts
It is also his case that when the officers searched his cabin, they could not find that sim card with the Respondent which shows that the said sim card was not with the Respondent and, therefore, he could not have used the sim to make the purported obscene calls.	Facts
It is clear from the above that the Respondent has admitted the fact that he had purchased sim card from Vodafone with Mobile No. 9564784782.	None
However, according to him, this sim card was not with him and was being used by his wife.	None
Moreover, after he had purchased another sim card on reaching Mumbai, this sim card was not used and was ultimately found missing even from his wife custody.	None
The aforesaid explanation of the Respondent has not been accepted either by the GCM or the AFT, and rightly so.	None
The reason for discarding the explanation of the Respondent is that he has been taking inconsistent stands in this behalf.	None
Before the Commanding Officer, the Respondent had stated that he had thrown away his sim card in Goregaon and, therefore, he could not have used this sim card at the relevant time i.e. on the dates of alleged incident when the obscene calls were made.	None
On the other hand, when the show cause notice has been issued to the Respondent on July 02, 2011, in response thereto, in his deposition, the Respondent took up the position that his wife has kept the sim card in his purse and could have dropped it while travelling.	None
Apart from the aforesaid contradictory versions given by the Respondent himself, one particular piece of evidence produced by the Appellants clinches the issue.	None
It is noticed by the AFT that as per report dated July 04, 2011 (Ex. P29) lodged by the wife of the Respondent on July 04, 2011, the sim card was lost sometime between 6 pm on June 20, 2011 to June 25, 2011.	Reasoning
However, even after June 20, 2011, calls were made from this mobile number to Cdr.	Reasoning
Arjun Kumar (PW33) and Cdr.	Reasoning
Arjun Kumar deposed that he has received these calls from the Respondent.	Reasoning
This aspect is discussed by the AFT in the following manner If we go by this report lodged by the wife of the accused, it appears that the said SIM card was lost in transit sometimes from 6.00 p.m. of 20th to 25th June, 2011.	Reasoning
Now, according to the accused, from 19th June, 2011, the SIM card of his wife was replaced by the new card and sometimes between the evening of 20th June, 2011 till 25th June, 2011, the old SIM card of 9564784782 was lost.	Reasoning
If it is so, this number could not have been used for making any call at least from 21st June, 2011 onwards.	Reasoning
On perusal of the CDR, Exhibit T2, it appears that on 20th June, 2011 at 13.29 hours, a call was made from this mobile number to mobile No. 9619796549, which was the mobile number of Cdr.	Reasoning
Arjun Kumar.	Reasoning
The record also shows that on 20th June, 2011 itself at 18.31 hours, again, there was a call from the said mobile to the above referred mobile number of Cdr.	Reasoning
Arjun Kumar.	Reasoning
There was also call from the said mobile of the Accused to the mobile of Cdr.	Reasoning
Arjun Kumar on 23rd June, 2011 at 11.46 hours.	Reasoning
On 25th June, 2011 at 09.50 hours and 15.06 hours, again, there were two calls from the said mobile No. 9564784782 to mobile No. 9619796549 of Cdr.	Reasoning
Arjun Kumar.	Reasoning
Again, there were three calls from the said mobile number to the mobile of Cdr.	Reasoning
Arjun Kumar on 28th June, 2011 between 17.15 to 17.55 hours.	Reasoning
PW33 Cdr.	Reasoning
Arjun Kumar has deposed on oath that he had received these calls and that the Accused was in contact with him on all these days from his mobile.	Reasoning
It shows that the said mobile was being used by the Accused even after 25th June, 2011.	None
Cdr.	Reasoning
Arjun Kumar had no reason to falsely depose that he had received the calls from the Accused on these days.	Reasoning
Dr. Sharma had made extensive argument in endeavour to dislodge the creditworthiness of Cdr.	Reasoning
Arjun Kumar.	Reasoning
However, in our view, his deposition remains unshaken and credible.	Reasoning
Another interesting evidence which have surfaced and which nails the Respondent on this aspect is that as per the Respondent himself, he had proceeded to Kochi on June 29, 2011 to join the duty on INS Viraat.	Reasoning
For this purpose, he had left Mumbai on June 29, 2011 by Air India AI681 flight which left Mumbai at 530 pm and arrived Kochi at 720 pm on June 29, 2011.	Reasoning
One of the calls was made from this phone at 0501 pm from Mumbai area.	Reasoning
Thereafter, another call was made from this very phone on the same day at 0801 pm from Kerala area.	Reasoning
At 0501 pm, when the call was made from Mumbai, the Respondent was in Mumbai and his flight left Mumbai at 0530 pm.	Reasoning
He had reached Kochi at 0720 pm and another call is made at 0801 pm.	Reasoning
This also shows that the Cell Phone with the aforesaid number was with the Respondent only.	None
The AFT has lucidly discussed this aspect in the following manner He claims to have left Mumbai on 29th June, 2011 by Air India AI681 flight.	Reasoning
Exhibit PS is the flight details and the Boarding Pass shows that the boarding time was 17.05 hrs.	None
The flight details show that AI681 flight left Mumbai at 5.30 p.m. and arrived Kochi at 7.20 p.m. on 29th June, 2011.	Reasoning
Going back to the CDR, it is revealed that on 29th June, 2011, the said call was made from the said mobile of the Accused at 17.01 hrs.	None
The record clearly shows that the call was made from Vodafone Mumbai area.	None
Thereafter, the next call from the said mobile of the Accused on 29th June, 2011 at 20.01 hrs.	None
was made and that call was made from Vodafone Kerala area.	None
Thereafter, all the calls on 29th and 30th June and 1st July, 2011 are made from the said mobile of the Accused from Vodafone Kerala area.	None
Admittedly, during that period, the Accused was at Kochi.	None
If the said SIM Card was found by some other person and he was using the SIM card, he could not travelled along with the Accused at the same time and in the same flight.	None
This document produced by the Accused himself goes to prove, beyond any reasonable doubt, that the said mobile was being used by the Accused and none else and, therefore, it must be held that all the sexually explicit calls to the three ladies were made by the Accused from his said mobile and none else.	None
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the prosecution has been able to give satisfactory proof to prove that when the offending calls in question were made, the Cell Phone with Mobile No. 9564784782 was with the Respondent.	None
Coming to the second ingredient, in order to prove that sexually explicit calls were received by the wives of the three officers, the prosecution produced these ladies as PW9, PW12 and PW18.	Reasoning
They have explained in detail having received these calls and the offending language.	Reasoning
To show that the calls were received from the aforesaid phone which belongs to the Respondent, the prosecution had produced Call Data Record (CDR) of NOFRA land line numbers.	Reasoning
Cdr.	Reasoning
Anurag Saxena, OfficerinCharge of NOFRA who appeared as PW3 probe the said CDRs of NOFRA Telephone Exchange showing that all the calls had originated from Mobile No. 9564784782.	Reasoning
He also produced Exh. P10, which is the certificate issued by him to the effect that the land line numbers of the three female victims were provided by the NOFRA Telephone Exchange.	Reasoning
He specifically deposed that true and correct call records have been produced and there is no reason to disbelieve that.	Reasoning
We now advert to the third ingredient.	None
From the evidence discussed above, it stands established that calls were made from Cell Phone No. 9564784782.	None
However, some controversy has arisen in respect of CDRs produced from the service provider, namely, Vodafone South Mumbai and the Respondent is trying to take advantage thereof.	None
In this behalf, it may be mentioned that in the NOFRA records, though Cell Phone No. 9564784782 is rightly mentioned, the said phone number is displayed as belonging to Idea network.	Reasoning
On that basis, it was argued that NOFRA CDRs could not have been relied upon.	None
However, it needs to be recorded that the Appellants had given satisfactory explanations for the aforesaid mistake.	None
It was explained before the AFT that the mobile number of the Respondent had been erroneously shown as an Idea Cell Number due to feeding of Code 95 as that of Idea Cell in the system of NOFRA.	None
This was also clarified by Mr. Fernandes who appeared as CW2.	None
He was the Programmer of the NOFRA system.	None
It is significant to point out that there is no crossexamination by the Respondent on this point.	None
The discussion of the AFT, on this aspect, runs as follows The learned Counsel for the Accused pointed out that as per call record from NOFRA, vide Exhibit P8 for Extension No. 7000, Exhibit P9 for Extension No. 7164 and Exhibit P10 for Extension No. 6328, service provider of said Mobile No. 9564784782 was Idea Cell.	None
He contended that in view of this record, the CDR Exhibit P27 or Exhibit T2 from Vodafone South cannot be believed.	None
However, the learned Counsel for the Respondents contended that it was wrongly shown that said Mobile Number was of Idea Cell and this mistake had occurred due to feeding of Code 95 as of Idea Cell in the system of NOFRA.	None
This fact is clarified by CW2 Fernandes, who was the Programmer for NOFRA System.	None
The learned Counsel for the Accused contended that the Accused was not given opportunity to crossexamine the Courtwitnesses and, therefore, the evidence of CW2 Fernandes is liable to be rejected.	None
During the trial, the Accused was defended by a lawyer.	None
The Accused and his advocate were present at the time of recording of evidence of the Courtwitnesses.	None
There is nothing to show that the advocate wanted to crossexamine the Courtwitnesses but he was not allowed.	None
The evidence of CW2 Fernandes has gone unchallenged.	None
CDR Exhibit T2 is proved by TW1 Sabir Kumar Deb, as discussed earlier.	None
Therefore, no importance needs to be given to the wrong information in NOFRA record that the mobile number was of Idea Cell.	None
It is also pertinent to note that apart from raising the dispute that NOFRA record shows that it was Idea Cell number, it is not disputed that phone number in question as recorded in NOFRA system is the same which belongs to the Respondent.	Reasoning
It is only the description of the phone number that had been erroneously displayed as Idea Cell which aspect has been satisfactorily explained by the Appellants.	Reasoning
It would be of no significance, inasmuch as same Cell number could not belong to both the Idea as well as Vodafone.	Reasoning
One aspect remains to be discussed.	None
In the Court Martial proceedings, officer from Vodafone South Mumbai was produced who had brought the CDR of the Cell Phone in question to prove that calls were made from this phone.	None
The said officer was examined as PW13 and CDR record produced by him was marked as Exh. P27.	None
However, before the AFT, the Respondent had raised the objection that Exh. P27 did not have any evidentiary value as Certificate Under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 produced by PW13 was in relation to customer agreement and not for CDR and that PW13 was Nodal Officer for Vodafone Mumbai and not for Vodafone South.	None
In view of the aforesaid technical objection, the Appellants filed an application Under Section 17 of the Armed Forces Tribunal Act, 2007 for summoning Nodal Officer, Mumbai Sector, Vodafone along with a direction to produce the CDR of the mobile number of the Respondent.	None
Order dated November 20, 2014 was passed on this application whereby prayer contained in the application was allowed and summons issued to the Nodal Officer, Mumbai Sector, Vodafone for production of CDR of the mobile number belonging to the Respondent along with the Certificate Under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872.	None
This order was not challenged by the Respondent.	None
In response to the summons issued by the AFT on November 10, 2014, Vodafone South Limited, Kolkata had submitted the CDR as well as the Customer Agreement of the Respondent along with the certificate Under Section 65B which came to be exhibited as Exhibit T3.	None
However, the AFT was not satisfied with the format in which Exhibit T3 had been made available by Vodafone South Limited.	None
In its order dated February 26, 2015, the AFT categorically observed that the CDR (Exhibit T3) made available to the AFT was identical to the previous CDR (Exhibit P27) in respect of the serial number of calls, the A Number (i.e. the number from which the calls had originated) and the B Number (the number to which the call had been made), the year, time and duration of the call.	None
However, certain details such as the date, time, month etc. were missing from the said CDR (Exhibit T3).	None
Further, Section 65B certificate did not bear the designation of the person who had signed the certificate.	None
As such, vide order dated February 26, 2015, the AFT directed the Nodal Officer, Vodafone South to produce before the Tribunal the complete CDR of the said Mobile phone number for the period from June 01, 2011 to July 04, 2011 along with the Customer Agreement and the Certificate Under Section 65B before the AFT.	None
The concerned official of Vodafone had also been directed to be present before the Tribunal on March 03, 2015.	None
In compliance Mr. Subir Kumar Deb from Vodafone appeared as TW1 before the AFT and explained that it is only due to improper alignment etc. that certain information had been omitted from being generated in the CDR Exhibit T3.	None
He also explained that sometimes because of the failure of the linking system in the server, some information may not come out.	None
However, the AFT decided not to take into consideration the CDR Exhibit T3.	None
In terms of the order dated February 26, 2015 of the AFT, Mr. Sudhir Kumar Deb, official of Vodafone India, appeared before the AFT as TW1.	None
The AFT has recorded the testimony of TW1 in relation to the manner in which the CDRs are stored by Vodafone in the Centralized Server located at Pune.	None
TW1 also produced before the Tribunalthe CDR of the Mobile number of the Respondent (Exhibit T2) along with the Certificate Under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (Exhibit T1).	None
CDR Exhibit T2 along with the certificate Under Section 65B	None
being Exhibit T1 duly proved by TW1.	None
In his crossexamination, TW1 had inter alia stated that whereas CDR Exhibit T3 (submitted to the AFT in December, 2014) had been generated on November 01, 2011, Exhibit T2 had been generated on March 02, 2015 and had been signed and certified by TW1.	None
The alleged discrepancy in CDR Exhibit T2 sought to be pointed out during his crossexamination was also duly explained by TW1.	None
He had explained that after 2011, as per guidelines issued by DoT, Government of India, the format of the CDR had been changed.	None
After considering the testimony of TW1, AFT has observed that Exhibit T2, submitted by TW1, is reliable and is properly stored and generated in the Centralized Server of Vodafone, as under However, Subir Kumar Deb deposed on oath and explained that though the CDR, Exhibit T3, was submitted with certificate in December, 2014, the heading of the same clearly shows that it was generated on November 01, 2011, while the CDR, Exhibit T2, signed and certified by him, was generated on March 2, 2015, after receipt of summons from this Tribunal.	None
He explained that if the specific command is given for header or heading of the call data for the target mobile number, i.e., the mobile number about which the call data is to be generated, the period, the date and the time of generation are printed and in such case, the first column is always the serial number of the calls.	None
But if that command is not given the heading and the serial number column are not printed.	None
He explained that everyday hundreds of CDRs are generated and printed and possibly, while taking the print of the CDR, Exhibit T2, he had not given the command for header or heading and, therefore, heading as well as column for serial number is missing from the CDR, Exhibit T2.	None
He further explained that after 2011, as per the guidelines issued by the Government of India, Department of TeleCommunications, the format of CDR has been changed and as per the said guidelines, missed calls are also required to be deleted from the CDR.	None
He pointed out that these missed calls in respect of SMS are still maintained because from the SMS, the company generates revenue, while no such revenue is generated from the missed calls.	None
Therefore, the missed calls, which were shown as Null or Nil call time in the earlier record, are not shown in the present record, but such Null record about the SMS is still maintained.	None
It appears that the column for Call Time has been shifted from the 9th column to 3rd column due to change in format.	None
In view of the explanation given by witness Subir Kumar Deb, we are satisfied that the CDR, Exhibit T2, now submitted by him, is reliable and it is properly stored and generated in the Centralised Server, as deposed by him.	None
We do not find any major defect and the minor changes and the differences in the earlier record and the present record, Exhibit T2, are properly explained by the witness.	None
We are in agreement with the aforesaid findings.	Reasoning
Learned Counsel for the Appellants rightly argued that nonproduction of the certificate Under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 on an earlier occasion was a curable defect which stood cured.	Reasoning
Law in this behalf has been settled by the judgment of this Court in Sonu alias Amar v. State of Haryana (2017) 8 SCC 570 , which can be traced to the following discussion in the said judgment It is nobodys case that CDRs which are a form of electronic record are not inherently admissible in evidence.	None
The objection is that they were marked before the trial court without a certificate as required by Section 65B(4).	None
It is clear from the judgments referred to supra that an objection relating to the mode or method of proof has to be raised at the time of marking of the document as an exhibit and not later.	None
The crucial test, as affirmed by this Court, is whether the defect could have been cured at the stage of marking the document.	None
Applying this test to the present case, if an objection was taken to the CDRs being marked without a certificate, the Court could have given the prosecution an opportunity to rectify the deficiency.	None
It is also clear from the above judgments that objections regarding admissibility of documents which are per se inadmissible can be taken even at the appellate stage.	None
Admissibility of a document which is inherently inadmissible is an issue which can be taken up at the appellate stage because it is a fundamental issue.	None
The mode or method of proof is procedural and objections, if not taken at the trial, cannot be permitted at the appellate stage.	None
If the objections to the mode of proof are permitted to be taken at the appellate stage by a party, the other side does not have an opportunity of rectifying the deficiencies.	None
The learned Senior Counsel for the State referred to statements Under Section 161 Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 as an example of documents falling under the said category of inherently inadmissible evidence.	None
CDRs do not fall in the said category of documents.	None
We are satisfied that an objection that CDRs are unreliable due to violation of the procedure prescribed in Section 65B(4) cannot be permitted to be raised at this stage as the objection relates to the mode or method of proof.	None
We may point out, at this stage, that when the AFT found the technical defect in Exhibit T2, it was in support of Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act.	Reasoning
The AFT had summoned the record in exercise of its power contained in Section 17 of the Act.	None
Powers of the Tribunal on appeal Under Section 15.	None
The Tribunal, while hearing and deciding an appeal Under Section 15, shall have the power (a) to order production of documents or exhibits connected with the proceedings before the courtmartial (b) to order the attendance of the witnesses (c) to receive evidence (d) to obtain reports from courtmartial (e) order reference of any question for inquiry (f) appoint a person with special expert knowledge to act as an assessor and (g) to determine any question which is necessary to be determined in order to do justice in the case.	None
It was argued by the learned ASG appearing for the Union of India that powers conferred upon the AFT Under Section 17 of the Act are similar to the powers of the Industrial Tribunal Labour Court specified in Section 11A of the Industrial Disputes Act and, therefore, judgment of this Court in United Planters Association of Southern India v. K.G. Sangameswaran and Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1997) 4 SCC 741 explaining the powers of Labour Court Industrial Tribunal would be applicable to AFT as well.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, we need not go into this question in these proceedings inasmuch as the learned Counsel appearing for Respondent did not question the powers of the AFT to summon the records from Vodafone and permitting the parties to lead evidence before it as well as examining the said evidence.	None
Thus, in the absence of any question mark put up by the learned Counsel for the Respondent to the course of action taken by the AFT, we proceed on the basis that this exercise was validly done.	None
Dr. Sharma, learned Counsel appearing for the Respondent had taken pains to point out certain discrepancies in Exhibit T2 as well as Exhibit P27 and had, on that, basis, made a fervent plea that such documents had no credence or evidentiary value and, therefore, AFT had committed a serious error in relying upon these documents.	Arguments of Respondent
It is not necessary to pinpoint the alleged discrepancies which according to Dr. Sharma had occurred in these documents as we find that these are suitably take care of by the Tribunal itself and the above discussion as well as the discussion contained hereinafter would reflect the nature of socalled discrepancies and the answer thereto by the AFT.	None
After purpose would be served by reproducing the following portion of the orders dated February 26, 2015 passed by AFT after the official of the Vodafone South Limited, Kolkata produced the CDR as well as documents pertaining to customer agreement of the Respondent pertaining to his mobile umber 9564784782 along with certificate Under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act.	None
After receipt of the said record, we have carefully perused the Call Data Record submitted with the aforesaid certificate dated 10th December, 2014, as well as the earlier Call Data Record purporting to have been issued by Vodafone, along with the Customer Agreement on 26th December, 2012.	None
on careful perusal and comparison of both the records, we have noted that in the record supplied earlier during the CourtMartial proceedings, against every call, the date was mentioned in full like 01Jun2011.	None
However, in the column for the date in the date which is now supplied, against all the entries, except the entry dated 01Jul2011, the dates are missing.	None
Only year 2011 is shown.	None
In the prescribed proforma of the data, there are columns for First Cell ID A, Last Cell ID A, IMEI and IMSI also.	None
In the previous record, the information under all the four heads was provided against each call entry.	None
However, that information is completely missing in The record, which is now supplied to us.	None
The record purports to have been stored on the designated hard disk of the computer system of Vodafone South Limited and the data, which is supplied to us, purports to have been generated by the computer automatically.	None
In view of this system, when certain data has been stored, it must be completely generated which the hard copy is required to be taken.	None
Only some of the record cannot be lost.	None
For example, if the full date is generated, the date and the month cannot be lost if year 2011 remains.	None
Similarly, the data under the four heads, viz., First Cell ID A, Last Cell ID A, IMEI and IMSI, could not be lost.	None
Either the whole of the record could have been lost or no part of it could be lost.	None
The Call Data Record, which is supplied to us now, s(sic) identical with the previous record in respect of the serial number of the calls, a number, i.e., Number of the Mobile Phone to which the call is made, year, time and duration of the call are shown.	None
We fail to understand why the data about the date, month and under other heads as indicated above is not shown in the Call Data Record submitted to us.	None
As the certificate issued Under Section 65B does not bear the name and designation of the person, who has signed the certificate, it is difficult for us, at this stage, to know how and why the complete Call Data Record is not submitted to us.	None
In view of this, even though the formality of issuance of certificate Under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act is completed, we are of the opinion that our order to submit the complete Call Data Record and other documents with the certificate Under Section 65B has not been complied by Vodafone South Limited.	None
Therefore, we find it necessary to issue the following directions Summons be issued to Nodal Officer, Vodafone South Limited, to direct the officer, who is responsible for the operations and the Management of the computer system required for the purpose of providing mobile facility to secure hard copies of the complete Call Data Record of Mobile Phone No. 9564784782 for the period from 1st June, 2011 to 4th July, 2011, along with the record of Customer Agreement and to submit the same to this Tribunal with certificate Under Section 65B, disclosing the name and designation of the person who has signed the said certificate.	None
The said record shall be submitted before this Tribunal on 3rd March, 2015 before 11.00 A.M. by the officer signing the certificate Under Section 65B personally without fail.	None
We also hereby direct Vodafone South Limited to disclose the name and designation of the person, who had issued the certificate Under Section 65B on 10th December, 2014, along with Call Data Record and also to keep him present before this Tribunal on 3rd March, 2015 at 11.00 A.M. to explain how some of the data, particularly the dates, First Call ID A, Last Call ID A, IMEI and IMSI, are missing from the said record.	None
In this behalf, we also note that Mr. Sabir Kumar Deb, official of Vodafone, appeared as a witness, in his deposition before the AFT had suitably and satisfactorily clarified all the aspects including the following ExaminationinChief The Call Data Record of the mobile phones are maintained in the centralised server located at Pune.	None
Call records of the phones issued by all the 23 licensees under Vodafone Limited are preserved and maintained in the centralised server.	None
The mobile number for which the date is extracted is the target numbers for the system.	None
Identity number of hand set from which that mobile number operates is recorded in the column IMEI.	None
The same handset number will be shown in that column when a call is made or is received by that mobile handset.	None
However, if the handset is changed, the identity of that handset is changed and therefore, number may be same.	None
When mobile number is roaming outside the territory of the service provider licensee the Cell IDA and IMEI will not record the correct numbers because it may not capture the correct number in the area outside the jurisdiction of the licensee.	None
Therefore, at page No. 4 from 3rd entry dated 15.06.2011, the column for IMEI is blank.	None
From that entry onwards till the end on 01.07.2011 the mobile number was operating outside the home network area.	None
In the last column the area in which the mobile was roaming the operating is indicated.	None
Now, I am shown the record which I have submitted to the Court as per Ex. T2.	None
After perusing that record with the record available with me, I say that due to oversight, page No. 8 of the record showing the call from 30.06.2011 at 62012 to the call on 01.07.2011 at 215328 has not been submitted to the Court.	None
Now, I am attaching the page containing the said record under my signature and stamp of Vodafone South Limited.	None
I state that this record is true and generated as per the system.	None
(The said record is added to the CDR Ex. T2 as page No. 8).	None
Now, the record and letter dated 10.12.2014 marked Article T1 (Now T3) collectively is shown to me.	None
It contains same call data record which I have produced today.	None
However, in the record data, first Cell IDA, last cell IDA, IMEI and IMSE columns are blank.	None
Also, SMS centre column is blank.	None
The title of that record shows that the record of mobile number 95664784782 from 1.6.2011 to 4.7.2011 and report dated was 1.11.2011.	None
similar title is not printed on the record which I have submitted today.	None
The columns noted above might have remained blank because of some misalignment of columns while taking the prints of the call record.	None
Now, said record Article T1 is marked Exhibit T3.	None
I maintain that the information in the Call Data Record could not be selectively deleted before taking print.	None
CrossExamination I voluntarily say tat sometimes, due to failure of network link also some date may be missing at particular moment, and is not printed.	None
Now, it is brought to my notice that in Call Data Record at Exhibit T2, column call time is listed earlier the Call Data Record at Ex. T3 where it is 9th column.	None
Now, on perusal of the two records, I see that in Ex. T2, SMS MT or SMS O are show but in Ex. T3 they are indicated as SMS INC and SMS OUT respectively.	None
Call Data Record Exh. T3 shows that it was originated on November 1st, 2011 and Call Data Record at Ex. T2 was originated on 2nd March, 2015.	None
Now, it is brought to my notice that entry Nos. 329 and 330 are not be seen in the Call Data Report Ex. T2.	None
There are similar other numbers also which are missing from Exh. T2.	None
I say that wherever there were missed calls, they were shown as NULL.	None
In 2011, such missed calls have been deleted from the record and, therefore, they are not seen in Call Data Record at Ex. T2.	None
However, the SMS which were shown as NULL and which could not materialise are still maintained because the company was to earn revenue.	None
We, thus, do not agree with the submission of the learned Counsel for the Respondent that there were discrepancies in the CDR produced by Vodafone before the AFT.	None
In fact, the witness from Vodafone was able to clear all the doubts which were expressed by the Respondent.	None
In view of this factual position emerging on record, judgment in the case of Shafhi Mohammad.	Reasoning
v. State of Himachal Pradesh (2018)	None
2 SCC 801 is of no avail to the Respondent as it is not applicable to the facts and circumstances of the present case.	None
At the end, insofar as appeal of the Respondent is concerned, we would like to comment that once the charges are proved in the court martial conducted by the authorities and the AFT also has given its imprimatur to the same by putting its stamp of approval, that too, after recording the evidence, with detailed analyses thereof, it is not the function of this Court to revisit the entire evidence to find out as to whether the finding of the authorities below are correct or not.	Reasoning
No doubt, the instant proceedings are in the form of appeal preferred Under Sections 30 and 31 of the Act and, therefore, the Court is examining the matter as an appellate authority.	Reasoning
However, the scope of such appeal is limited as can be seen from the language of these provisions Appeal to Supreme Court.(1) Subject to the provisions of Section 31, an appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court against the final decision or order of the Tribunal (other than an order passed Under Section 19) Provided that such appeal is preferred within a period of ninety days of the said decision or order Provided further that there shall be no appeal against an interlocutory order of the Tribunal.	None
An appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court as of right from any order or decision of the Tribunal in the exercise of its jurisdiction to punish for contempt Provided that an appeal under this Subsection shall be filed in the Supreme Court within sixty days from the date of the order appealed against.	None
Pending any appeal Under Subsection (2), the Supreme Court may order that (a) the execution of the punishment or the order appealed against be suspended or (b) if the Appellant is in confinement, he be released on bail Provided that where an Appellant satisfies the Tribunal that he intends to prefer an appeal, the Tribunal may also exercise any of the powers conferred under Clause (a) or Clause (b), as the case may be.	None
Leave to appeal.(1)	None
An appeal to the Supreme Court shall lie with the leave of the Tribunal and such leave shall not be granted unless it is certified by the Tribunal that a point of law of general public importance is involved in the decision, or it appears to the Supreme Court that the point is one which ought to be considered by that Court.	None
An application to the Tribunal for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court shall be made within a period of thirty days beginning with the date of the decision of the Tribunal and an application to the Supreme Court for leave shall be made within a period of thirty days beginning with the date on which the application for leave is refused by the Tribunal.	None
An appeal shall be treated as pending until any application for leave to appeal is disposed of and if leave to appeal is granted, until the appeal is disposed of and an application for leave to appeal shall be treated as disposed of at the expiration of the time within which it might have been made, but it is not made within that time.	None
A combined reading of the aforesaid provisions clearly brings out that appeal to this Court has to be on a point of law on general public importance.	None
In any case, this Court has examined the records having regard to the submissions made by Dr. Sharma on behalf of the Respondents.	Reasoning
However, no case is made out that the conclusion arrived at by the Tribunal was utterly perverse which no reasonable person could have arrived at.	Reasoning
We have not found any such infirmity at all.	None
Resultantly, we do not find any merit in the appeal preferred by the Officer.	None
We now advert to the appeal preferred by the Union of India.	Facts
As pointed out above, the limited scope of this appeal is to be on the quantum of sentence given by the AFT.	Facts
After setting aside the sentence of dismissal from service, the Tribunal has substituted the same by the sentence of loss of seniority for 24 months.	Facts
Further, while directing reinstatement in service, the Tribunal has also ordered that the Respondent herein shall not be entitled to pay and allowances for the period from the date when he was dismissed from the service till the date of reinstatement, if it is within three months from the date of order of the Tribunal.	Facts
The Respondent has not reinstated in service as this Court had, vide orders dated August 31, 2015, stayed the operation of the said order direction.	None
Thus, the Respondent is still out of service and, therefore, lost his salary from the date of the order of the Tribunal which was passed on March 04, 2015.	Reasoning
The Respondent was dismissed from service vide orders dated January 26, 2013.	Reasoning
For all these reasons, we are not inclined to interfere with the order of the Tribunal on sentence inasmuch the effect is that not only seniority of the Respondent is forfeited by 24 months, he is also deprived of his salary for more than five years.	Reasoning
Such a sentence, according to us, would meet the ends of justice and in these circumstances discretion exercised by the Tribunal does not need any interference.	Reasoning
As a consequence, both the appeals are dismissed.	Decision
The Respondent herein shall be reinstated in service within 2 weeks from the date of passing of this order and he shall not be entitled to any salary for the intervening period, i.e., from the date of dismissal till the date of reinstatement.	Decision
There shall be no orders as to costs.	None
