 	None
S. Singhvi, J. Leave granted.	None
Feeling dissatisfied with the enhancement granted by the High Court in the amount of compensation awarded by the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (for short, the Tribunal), the appellant has preferred this appeal.3.	Issue
In an accident, which occurred on 2.5.2004, the appellant suffered grievous injuries.	Facts
She was initially treated at Government hospital, Ratlam and then at Bhandari Hospital, Indore.	Facts
On 4.5.2004, she was admitted in CHL Apollo Hospital.	Facts
She remained in Intensive Care Unit from 4.5.2004 to 25.5.2004 and in the private ward from 25.5.2004 to 26.6.2004.	Facts
As per the medical advice given at Indore she was taken to Mumbai, Chennai and finally to Delhi for treatment.	Facts
At the time of accident, the appellants age was about 30 years and she was working partner in Tirupati Enterprises.4.	Facts
At Bhandari Hospital, Indore she was treated by Dr. Rajesh Gangwani, Dr. Srikant Rege, Dr. Parag Aggarwal and Dr. Sunil Athwale.	Facts
At Bombay, she was treated by Dr. B. S. Singhal, Dr. Bhagwati, Dr. K. K. Garg, Dr. Anukant Mittal, Dr. Khandilkar, Dr. Kenny and Dr. Bhatt.	Facts
The Disability Certificate issued by Dr. Sunil Athwale, who was Neuro Physician at Bhandari Hospital, Indore reads as under DISABILITY CERTIFICATEThis is to certify that Smt.	Facts
Kavita Singhal w o Mr. Deepak Singhal R o 100 old agrawal nagar indore aged 31 yrs met with an RTA on 02052004 mid night on Ratlam  Indore State Highway Road.	Facts
She was taken to Indore On ICU on wheels was given artificial 02 on the way which was 135 KM.	Facts
We reached Indore nearly at 7.30 AM.	Facts
and was admitted in Bhandari hospital.	Facts
During transit fluid lesusitation was done heamodyriameis was maintained.	Facts
(1.5 Its I v I unit blood was given).	Facts
CT scan was done nearly after 10 hrs.	Facts
of injury.	Facts
Onwards she is under my treatment and the patient is experienced as belowFirst MR Study of the brain (on 1.5 T ) and the report of the same revealsFINDINGSMultiple DWI TI FLAIR T2 hyperintense signals are noted in left basal ganglia, right frontal periventricular white matter, left thalamus right basi frontal region with areas of magnetic susceptibility in it suggesting haemorrhage.	Facts
T2 FLAIR hyperintense signals are noted diffusely in corpus callosum, cinglate gyrus and periventricular white matter (frontoperietal suggestive of diffuse axonal injury).Second MR of brain has done and the report of the same revealsFINDINGS O1d MRI Scan of brain dated 22/05/04 compared and following changes notedFollow up scan reveals that complete resolution of the posterior inter hemispheric sub dural collection noted in left occipito parital region.	Facts
Old haemorrhagic products  noted in the left basal ganglia, left anterior thalamus, right frontal periventricular white matter and right basi frontal region (mild decrease in size as compared to old study especially in right basal ganglia).	Facts
Diffuse axonal injury noted in corpus callosum, cingulated gyrus 85 periventricular white matter noted (mild decrease as compared to old study)She was discharged from CHL on 26/06/2004 in a vegetative stage, with a RT for feeding.	Facts
That time she was unable to communicate in, any way.	Facts
She was undergoing extensive Physiotheraphy there and was advised the same to continue.	Facts
PRESENT STATUS The patient follows elementary simple commands but with no other Communication, Verbal or Sign Language.	Facts
Patient has marked Spastic Quadra paresis, despite anti spastic drugs.	Facts
Patient is incontinent.	Facts
Disability assessed around 90 .	None
The appellant filed a petition through her husband  Shri Deepak Singhal under Section 166 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (for short, the Act) for award of compensation to the tune of Rs.85 lakhs by alleging that the accident was caused due to rash and negligent driving of the truck owned by respondent No.1 and driven by respondent No.2.	Facts
She alleged that the truck dashed against the Maruti Esteem car in which she was traveling and as a result of the accident she suffered injuries to her head, mouth, right ear and other parts of the body and consequentially she has become disabled from doing her routine work.6.	Facts
In the written statement filed on behalf of the insurance company, it was pleaded that the accident was not caused due to rash and negligent driving of the truck and that the driver was not holding a valid and effective driving licence on the date of accident.7.	Facts
The driver of the truck was prosecuted for offences under Sections 279, 337 and 338 IPC.	Facts
During the trial, he made confession that the accident was caused due to his rash and negligent driving.	Facts
The trial Court convicted the driver and imposed a fine of Rs.2,000/ and in default to undergo three months imprisonment.8.	Facts
After recording evidence of the parties, the Tribunal passed award dated 5.1.2007 and ordained the respondents to pay total compensation of Rs.4 lakh with interest at the rate of 6 per annum.	Facts
The Tribunal relied upon the statements of the appellants husband Shri Deepak Singhal, Shri Pushpender Garg, who was driving the Car and two other occupants, namely, Prashant Agarwal and Renu, the Charge Sheet filed in the criminal case, the confession of the driver and the judgment of the trial Court and concluded that the accident took place due to rash and negligent driving of the truck.	Facts
The Tribunal then considered the issue relating to quantam of compensation, referred to oral and documentary evidence and concluded that it would be just to award Rs.2,50,000/ under the head of treatment, Rs.1,25,000/ under the head of permanent disability and Rs.25,000/ under the head of pain and suffering.9.	Facts
The appellant challenged the award of the Tribunal in Miscellaneous Appeal No.870 of 2007.	Facts
During the pendency of the appeal, she filed IA No.180/2010 under Order 41 Rule 27 for bringing on record the bills to show that she had spent Rs.5,94,013/ on treatment and as on the date of filing the application, Rs.7,76,480/ had been spent on treatment.10.	Facts
The learned Single Judge of the Madhya Pradesh High Court partly allowed the appeal and enhanced the compensation by a sum of Rs.12,76,480/ with interest at the rate of 7.5 on the enhanced amount payable from the date of the claim petition till realization.	Facts
The reasons assigned by the High Court for enhancement of the compensation are contained in paragraph 6 of the impugned judgment which is extracted below After having heard learned counsel for the parties, under the directions of the Court counsel appearing on behalf of the parties were directed to verify the bills which are available till decision by the claims Tribunal.	Facts
Admittedly, those bill are of Rs.7,76,480/. I have also perused the bills, after verification in the opinion of this Court the Tribunal has refused to grant the Bills of Rs.5,26,480/, without any reason.	None
However, in the opinion of this Court such amount deserves to be allowed in the head of medical expenses in addition to the amount awarded by the Tribunal.	Facts
In the opinion of this Court in the head of pain and suffering Rs.25,000/ as awarded is also inadequate I further add Rs.25,000/ in the said head, looking to her position.	Facts
In the heads of attendant, future medical expenses in my opinion Rs.2,00,000/ in each of the heads deserves to be granted, because the appellant is required an attendant for whole life.	Facts
Some of the bills of physiotherapy has been produced along with application under Order 41 Rule 27 of CPC.	Facts
After going through those bill I am not satisfied that such bills should be awarded at this stage, because it is in sequence.	Facts
In some of the bills there is overwriting on the dates.	Facts
In some of the bills there is signature of Sangita, but in other bills there is thumb impression.	Facts
Thus I am not allowing the bills of under 41 Rule 27 of CPC as filed before this Court, but at the same time during pendency of this appeal some medical expenses would have been made, therefore, in the said head Rs.50,000/ is being awarded.	Facts
In the head of future loss of earning due to the said permanent disability in the opinion of this Court a lump sum amount deserves to be granted, because the Income Tax papers of the firm are available on record and she was the partner in the said firm.	Facts
Business is being carried out by other partners who are family members.	Facts
Therefore, lump sum amount deserves to be granted.	Facts
In my opinion Rs.2,75,000/ further deserves to be allowed making the total in the head of permanent disability Rs.4,00,000/.	Facts
Thus, the total amount comes to Rs.16,76,480/. The Tribunal has already awarded Rs.4,00,000/ , after deducting the same the net amount comes to Rs.	Facts
12,76,480/ which is liable to be enhanced.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant argued that even though the High Court has enhanced the compensation, the same cannot be treated as just because as a result of the accident the appellant suffered permanent disability and has virtually become a vegetable and would require treatment throughout her life.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that due to neurological deformity the appellant is not in a position to do any work and had to give up her partnership in Triupati Enterprises where she was earning Rs.12,000/ per month.	Arguments of Petitioner
Not only this, she lost her memory and capacity of hearing and has spent about Rs.10.5 lakhs for treatment.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel relied upon the statement of Dr. Rajesh Gangwani and Dr. Sunil Athwale, who treated her and who were examined before the Tribunal to show that present mental state of the appellant is of a six year old and she would require constant physiotherapy and support of one attendant at all times.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel submitted that the compensation awarded under the head of pain and suffering is wholly inadequate and the amount of compensation should be adequately enhanced keeping in view the fact that due to escalation in the cost of medical treatment, the appellant will have to incur substantial expenses in future medical treatment, physiotherapy and nursing.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his arguments, the learned counsel relied upon the judgments of this Court in Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences v. Prasanth S. Dhananka (2009) 6 SCC 1 , Oriental Insurance Company Limited v. Mohd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Nasir (2009) 6 SCC 280 and Raj Kumar v. Ajay Kumar (2011) 1 SCC 343.	Arguments of Petitioner
12.	None
Learned counsel for the insurance company argued that the enhancement granted by the High Court is just fair and reasonable and does not require to be further enhanced.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the respective submission.	None
In R.D. Hattangadi v. Pest Control (India) Private Limited (1995) 1 SCC 551 , this Court observed that the exercise for determination of compensation in accident cases involve some guess work, some hypothetical consideration, some amount of sympathy linked with the nature of disability.	Reasoning
But these elements are required to be considered in an objective manner.	Reasoning
In that case, the claimant was a retired judge and practicing when he met with an accident that caused 100 disability and paraplegia below the waist.	Reasoning
While determining compensation payable to him in a claim filed under Section 110A, Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, this Court referred to the judgment of the Court of Appeal in Ward v. James (1965) 1	None
All ER 563, Halsburys Laws of England, 4th Edition, Volume 12 (page 446) and observed When compensation is to be awarded for pain and suffering and loss of amenity of life, the special circumstances of the claimant have to be taken into account including his age, the unusual deprivation he has suffered, the effect thereof on his future life.	None
The amount of compensation for nonpecuniary loss is not easy to determine but the award must reflect that different circumstances have been taken into consideration.	None
Broadly speaking while fixing an amount of compensation payable to a victim of an accident, the damages have to be assessed separately as pecuniary damages and special damages.	None
Pecuniary damages are those which the victim has actually incurred and which is capable of being calculated in terms of money whereas nonpecuniary damages are those which are incapable of being assessed by arithmetical calculations.	None
In order to appreciate two concepts pecuniary damages may include expenses incurred by the claimant (i) medical attendance (ii) loss of earning of profit upto the date of trial (iii) other material loss.	None
So far nonpecuniary damages are concerned, they may include (i) damages for mental and physical shock, pain suffering, already suffered or likely to be suffered in future (ii) damages to compensate for the loss of amenities of life which may include a variety of matters i.e. on account of injury the claimant may not be able to walk run or sit (iii) damages for the loss of expectation of life, i.e. on account of injury the normal longevity of the person concerned is shortened (iv) inconvenience, hardship, discomfort, disappointment frustration and mental stress in life.	None
In cannot be disputed that because of the accident the appellant who was an active practising lawyer has become paraplegic on account of the injuries sustained by him.	None
It is really difficult in this background to assess the exact amount of compensation for the pain and agony suffered by the appellant and for having become a life long handicapped.	None
No amount of compensation can restore the physical frame of the appellant.	None
That is why it has been said by courts that whenever any amount is determined as the compensation payable for any injury suffered during an accident, the object is to compensate such injury so far as money can compensate because it is impossible to equate the money with the human sufferings or personal deprivations.	None
Money cannot renew a broken and shattered physical frame.	None
In Arvind Kumar Mishra v. New India Assurance Co. Ltd. and another (2010) 10 SCC 254 , the Court sought to assess future earnings of a final year engineering student who received injuries to the brain among others which resulted in 70 permanent disability and he needed a helper throughout his life.	Reasoning
The Court observed We do not intend to review in detail state of authorities in relation to assessment of all damages for personal injury.	Reasoning
Suffice it to say that the basis of assessment of all damages for personal injury is compensation.	Reasoning
The whole idea is to put the claimant in the same position as he was in so far as money can.	Reasoning
Perfect compensation is hardly possible but one has to keep in mind that the victim has done no wrong he has suffered at the hands of the wrongdoer and the court must take care to give him full and fair compensation for that he had suffered.	Reasoning
In some cases for personal injury, the claim could be in respect of life times earnings lost because, though he will live, he cannot earn his living.	Reasoning
In others, the claim may be made for partial loss of earnings.	Reasoning
Each case has to be considered in the light of its own facts and at the end, one must ask whether the sum awarded is a fair and reasonable sum.	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)15.	None
In Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences v. Prasanth S. Dhananka (2009) 6 SCC 1 , this Court was called upon to assess the compensation payable under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 to the victim of medical negligence who was left completely paralyzed at the age of 20.	Reasoning
After detailed examination of the issue, the Court observed as under We must emphasize that the Court has to strike a balance between the inflated and unreasonable demands of a victim and the equally untenable claim of the opposite party saying that nothing is payable.	Reasoning
Sympathy for the victim does not, and should not, come in the way of making a correct assessment, but if a case is made out, the Court must not be chary of awarding adequate compensation.	Reasoning
The adequate compensation that we speak of, must to some extent, be a rule of the thumb measure, and as a balance has to be struck, it would be difficult to satisfy all the parties concerned.	Reasoning
It must also be borne in mind that life has its pitfalls and is not smooth sailing all along the way (as a claimant would have us believe) as the hiccups that invariably come about cannot be visualized.	Reasoning
Life it is said is akin to a ride on a roller coaster where a meteoric rise is often followed by an equally spectacular fall, and the distance between the two (as in this very case) is a minute or a yard.	Reasoning
At the same time we often find that a person injured in an accident leaves his family in greater distress, visavis a family in a case of death.	Reasoning
In the latter case, the initial shock gives way to a feeling of resignation and acceptance, and in time, compels the family to move on.	Reasoning
The case of an injured and disabled person is, however, more pitiable and the feeling of hurt, helplessness, despair and often destitution enures every day.	Reasoning
The support that is needed by a severely handicapped person comes at an enormous price, physical, financial and emotional, not only on the victim but even more so on his family and attendants and the stress saps their energy and destroys their equanimity.	Reasoning
We can also visualize the anxiety of the complainant and his parents for the future after the latter, as must all of us, inevitably fade away.	Reasoning
We, have, therefore computed the compensation keeping in mind that his brilliant career has been cut short and there is, as of now, no possibility of improvement in his condition, the compensation will ensure a steady and reasonable income to him for a time when he is unable to earn for himself.	Reasoning
In Raj Kumar v. Ajay Kumar (2011) 1 SCC 343 , this Court considered large number of precedents and laid down the following propositions The provision of the motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (the Act, for short) makes it clear that the award must be just, which means that compensation should, to the extent possible, fully and adequately restore the claimant to the position prior to the accident.	Reasoning
The object of awarding damages is to make good the loss suffered as a result of wrong done as far as money can do so, in a fair, reasonable and equitable manner.	Reasoning
The court or the Tribunal shall have to assess the damages objectively and exclude from consideration any speculation or fancy, though some conjecture with reference to the nature of disability and its consequences, is inevitable.	Reasoning
A person is not only to be compensated for the physical injury, but also for the loss which he suffered as a result of such injury.	Reasoning
This means that he is to be compensated for his inability to lead a full life, his inability to enjoy those normal amenities which he would have enjoyed but for the injuries, and his inability to earn as much as he used to earn or could have earned.	Reasoning
The heads under which compensation is awarded in personal injury cases are the followingPecuniary damages (Special damages)(i) Expenses relating to treatment, hospitalisation, medicines, transportation, nourishing food, and miscellaneous expenditure.(ii)	Reasoning
Loss of earnings (and other gains) which the injured would have made had he not been injured, comprising(a) Loss of earning during the period of treatment(b) Loss of future earnings on account of permanent disability.(iii)	Reasoning
Future medical expenses.	None
Nonpecuniary damages (General damages)(iv) Damages for pain, suffering and trauma as a consequence of the injuries.(v)	None
Loss of amenities (and or loss of prospects of marriage).(vi) Loss of expectation of life (shortening of normal longevity).In routine personal injury cases, compensation will be awarded only under heads (i), (ii)(a) and (iv).	None
It is only in serious cases of injury, where there is specific medical evidence corroborating the evidence of the claimant, that compensation will be granted under any of the heads (ii)(b), (iii), (v) and (vi) relating to loss of future earnings on account of permanent disability, future medical expenses, loss of amenities (and or loss of prospects of marriage) and loss of expectation of life.	Reasoning
In Sri Ramachandrappa v. The Manager, Royal Sundaram Alliance Insurance Company Limited (2011) 13 SCC 236 , the Court observed The compensation is usually based upon the loss of the claimants earnings or earning capacity, or upon the loss of particular faculties or members or use of such members, ordinarily in accordance with a definite schedule.	Reasoning
The Courts have time and again observed that the compensation to be awarded is not measured by the nature, location or degree of the injury, but rather by the extent or degree of the incapacity resulting from the injury.	Reasoning
The Tribunals are expected to make an award determining the amount of compensation which should appear to be just, fair and proper.9.	Reasoning
The term disability, as so used, ordinarily means loss or impairment of earning power and has been held not to mean loss of a member of the body.	Reasoning
If the physical efficiency because of the injury has substantially impaired or if he is unable to perform the same work with the same ease as before he was injured or is unable to do heavy work which he was able to do previous to his injury, he will be entitled to suitable compensation.	Reasoning
Disability benefits are ordinarily graded on the basis of the character of the disability as partial or total, and as temporary or permanent.	Reasoning
No definite rule can be established as to what constitutes partial incapacity in cases not covered by a schedule or fixed liabilities, since facts will differ in practically every case.	Reasoning
In light of the principles laid down in the aforementioned cases, it is suffice to say that in determining the quantum of compensation payable to the victims of accident, who are disabled either permanently or temporarily, efforts should always be made to award adequate compensation not only for the physical injury and treatment, but also for the loss of earning and inability to lead a normal life and enjoy amenities, which would have been enjoyed but for the disability caused due to the accident.	Reasoning
The amount awarded under the head of loss of earning capacity are distinct and do not overlap with the amount awarded for pain, suffering and loss of enjoyment of life or the amount awarded for medical expenses.19.	Reasoning
Dr. Rajesh Gangwani, who was examined before the Tribunal deposed that the appellant is kept alive by feeding through a pipe and nursing care is required for daily routine work also.	Reasoning
He stated that she had suffered 75 permanent disability and there seems to be no probability of recovery as she has lost her capacity for hearing, understanding, speaking and establishing interaction.	Reasoning
However, he also stated that since appellant is still under treatment, final conclusion about permanent disability cannot be established.	Reasoning
Dr Sunil Athwale, deposed that appellant was gaining consciousness slowly but the status of sense was at the lowest level and no improvement has come in the last 2 and half years.	Reasoning
He stated that probability of further improvement is negligible and food and liquid are given through pipes.	Reasoning
He stated that disability should be treated as 100 but he had not shown 90 as permanent disability in the certificate as while treatment continues, hope of improvement always prevails.	Reasoning
On the basis of the same, the Tribunal held that the appellant had suffered permanent disability however the presumption cannot be drawn that she suffered 75 permanent disability because she is still undergoing treatment and the doctor himself had deposed that final conclusion regarding permanent disability cannot be established till the time treatment continues.	Reasoning
The High Court did not record any finding on this issue but increased the amount awarded towards permanent disability and future loss of earning.	Reasoning
Since the discharge certificate was issued on 26.6.2004, the claimant had made little progress up till the time the disability certificate was issued on 23.8.2006 and even till date she continues to be in a vegetative state and requires an attendant at all times and continued physiotherapy, we are not inclined to approve the approach of the Tribunal and High Court granting a lump sum compensation because both failed to take into consideration the loss of income during the period of treatment when the appellant was totally incapacitated.	Reasoning
Even if the income of the appellant is taken to be Rs.2,000/ , the loss of income during the period of treatment, which continued till the judgment of the High Court i.e. from 2.5.2004 to 18.5.2010 would be Rs.1,47,000/ approximately.	None
As per the disability certificate issued on 23.8.2006, the appellant had virtually become vegetable and, therefore, she is not in a position to look after herself what to say of discharging her functions as partner of Tirupati Enterprises.	None
Therefore, by applying the multiplier of 17, the future loss of earning would come to Rs.3,67,200/. In light of the decision in Raj Kumar v. Ajay Kumar (supra), the Tribunal and High Court erred in failing to award compensation under the heads of loss of amenities and loss of expectation of life.	None
Relying on the decision in Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences v. Prasanth S. Dhananka (supra) and assuming the claimants life expectancy to be 55 years, we deem it appropriate to award attendant charges at the rate of Rs.2000/ per month and physiotherapy expenses at the rate of Rs.3000/ per month.	Reasoning
With regard to the head of physical and mental pains the amount is enhanced to Rs.3,00,000/ and another Rs.3,00,000/ is awarded under the heads of loss of amenities and loss of life expectancy.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeal is partly allowed, the impugned judgment is modified and it is held that the appellant shall be entitled to compensation under different heads of which the details are given belowHeadValues CalculationTotalMedical treatmentas awarded by the High CourtRs	None
. 7,76,480/	None
Medical expenses during the pendency of the appealas awarded by the High CourtRs.	None
50,000/	None
Attendant chargesRs.2,000/ per monthfor 25 yearsRs.2000 x 12 x 25Rs.6,00,000/ Future medical expenses (physiotherapy)Rs.3,000/ per monthfor 25 yearsRs.3000 x 12 x 25Rs.9,00,000/ Loss of earningduring the period oftreatmentRs.2000 x 12 x 6income for the period between date of accident 2.5.2004 and High Court order 18.5.2010Rs.	None
2000	Decision
126Rs.	None
200016/30Rs.1,45,067/ Loss of future earnings on account of permanent disabilityTaking multiplier of 17 for age of 30 years, disability as 90, annual income as Rs.24,000/Rs.24,000 x 17 x90/100Rs.3,67,200/ Physical and mentalpains Rs. 3,00,000/ Loss of amenities and loss of expectation of life Rs.3,00,000/ Total Rs.34,38,747/	Decision
Respondent No.3 is directed to pay to the appellant total compensation of Rs.34,38,747/ within a period of 3 months by getting prepared a demand draft in her name which shall be delivered at her residence.	Decision
While doing so, respondent No.3 shall be free to deduct the amount already paid to the appellant pursuant to the award passed by the Tribunal and or the impugned judgment.	Decision
If law permits it to do so, respondent No.3 shall be free to recover the amount of compensation from respondent Nos.1 and 2.	Decision
