 SABYASACHI MUKHARJI, J. This appeal involves a short question and the field is more or less covered by the constitutional provisions as well as the authorities of this Court.	None
The Executive Engineer (Construction Division No. 1) PWD B R Branch, Patiala, invited tenders for the work called Construction of high level bridge over Tangri Nadi in Mile No. 19/5 of PatialaPehewa road.	Facts
The respondent in response to the said invitation submitted the tender for the aforesaid work, which was opened on October 7, 1975.	Facts
The Executive Engineer informed the respondent on that date, who happened to be the lowest tenderer and before the tender could be finally considered, that the drawings in triplicate be submitted to the Chief Engineer PWD B R, Superintendent Engineer, PWD BR and Executive Engineer Construction Division No. 1 PWD B R Branch, Patiala.	Facts
The tender, however, was recalled in February 1976 by the Executive Engineer Construction Division No. 1.	Facts
The respondent again submitted tender on August 31, 1976.	Facts
The Executive Engineer informed the respondent telegraphically that the tender submitted by him had been accepted and asked the respondent to take up the work in hand.	Facts
This was followed by the letter dated August 31, 1976 from the Executive Engineer.	Facts
It was contended that the telegram as well as the letter mentioned hereinbefore revealed that the tender of the respondent was not accepted by the Governor of Punjab, as it was mandatory under the Constitution in order to amount to a valid acceptance and to create a binding contract between the parties.	Facts
The respondent, however, withdrew the offer on November 6, 1976.	Facts
On November 22, 1976 the respondentcontractor in its letter made it clear that no agreement had been signed between the parties.	Facts
In reply to the letter dated December 1, 1976 from the Executive Engineer, the respondent vide letter dated December 6, 1976 reiterated and repeated that legal infirmity could not be met by the considerations as made by the appellant.	Facts
But on April 15, 1980, the Executive Engineer intimated the respondent that as he had failed to start the work, he became liable for action under Clause 2 of the agreement.	Facts
The letter further stated that the Engineerincharge on behalf of the Governor of Punjab had levied a penalty of Rs. 2, 55, 000.	Facts
The above position, however, was not accepted by the respondent and he advised the appellant to settle the matter in court.	Facts
The Superintending Engineer PWD B R Patiala, then forwarded the claim of Rs. 4, 56, 040 for arbitration and asked the firm to submit the reply in duplicate within 30 days from the issue of the letter.	Facts
Reply was sent by the respondent to the effect stating that no valid contract in respect of the construction of high level bridge over river in Mile No. 19/5 of PatialaPehewa Road, ever came into existence between the parties.	Facts
The arbitrator again on July 2, 1983 issued a letter after a lapse of one year and the same was replied more or less in the same manner.	Facts
The respondent filed an application under Section 33 of the Arbitration Act, 1940 (hereinafter called the Act).	Facts
The learned SubJudge Ist class, Patiala, on April 4, 1986 dismissed the application of the respondent with costs.	Facts
It was contended before him that there was no valid acceptance of the offer made by the respondent herein and, therefore, there was no valid contract.	Facts
It was contended that no agreement between the parties as required by law, had been brought into existence.	Facts
Therefore, there was no question of breach of agreement.	Facts
The learned SubJudge commented that no oral evidence was adduced on behalf of the respondent.	None
The learned SubJudge came to the conclusion that there was a valid offer.	Facts
He observed that the only point that required consideration was whether the acceptance regarding the allotment of work of construction of high level bridge over river Tangri on PatialaPehewa Road was issued on behalf of the Governor of Punjab or not.	Facts
The learned Judge came to the conclusion after discussing various evidence that the Executive Engineer was authorised to accept tender.	Facts
He referred to various clauses.	Facts
The learned Judge noted that it was clearly laid down in the tender itself that the tender together with acceptance thereof would constitute a valid and binding contract between the parties.	Facts
The relevant condition of the tender, that is, condition No. 4.6 read as followsThe tender together with letter of acceptance thereof shall constitute a binding contract between the successful tenderer and the department and shall form the foundation of rights and obligation of both the parties2.	Facts
The learned SubJudge recorded that the above tender form was duly signed by the respondent and the appellant.	Facts
On an analysis of the evidence on record, the learned Judge came to the conclusion that there was a valid contract and accordingly the application under Section 33 of the Act was dismissed with costs.	Facts
There was a revision to the High Court.	Facts
The High Court after discussing the relevant evidence came to the conclusion that there was no valid contract.	Facts
The learned Judge of the High Court noted that in the acceptance letter Ex.	Facts
P. 7 and Ex. RW 1/14, the Executive Engineer had required the respondent at the end to sign the agreement which was under preparation within ten days.	Facts
No such agreement was ever signed.	Facts
That position is undisputed.	Facts
Therefore, the High Court was of the view that no contract in conformity with Article 299(1) of the Constitution, which was a constitutional requirement in this case, has not (sic) been entered into and came to the conclusion that there was no contract between the parties.	Facts
In that view of the matter the revision was allowed and the order passed by the trial Judge was set aside.	Facts
This appeal arises from the said decision.	Facts
Shri C. M. Nayar advocate for the appellant contended that there was a valid and subsisting contract.	None
He strenuously argued that there was authority for the Executive Engineer to enter into the contract on behalf of the Governor.	None
He drew our attention to Clause 2.76 of the Public Works Department Code which provided as follows 2.76.	None
No authority lower than an officer in charge of a subDivision can accept any tender or make a contract for public works.	None
The different classes of deeds, contracts and other instruments which may be executed by this department and the authorities empowered to execute them are detailed in Appendix I, while the financial limits up to which these authorities are authorised to determine the terms of deeds, are set forth in the Book of Financial Powers.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also referred to the Appendix I (referred in paragraph 2.76) classifying the deeds, contracts and other instruments.	None
It appears that the Executive Engineer of the buildings and roads was authorised to enter into these contracts.	Arguments of Petitioner
He, therefore, sought to submit that by virtue of that authority if any contract had been entered into then that amounted to entering into contract in accordance with Article 299(1) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It appears that to understand this problem, it is necessary to deal with some other documents.	Arguments of Petitioner
Our attention was drawn to a letter from the Executive Engineer to the contractor, which stated, inter alia, as follows As per your modified lump sum bids received vide your letter No.	None
CM/3T OPBK dated March 24, 1976 along with the conditions mentioned in the original tender received vide your letter No. CH/3T OPBK/3341/76 dated February 26, 1976 and also further modification of the same as mentioned in your letter No.	None
CM/3T OPBK/3503/76 dated March 24, 1976 and letter	None
No. CM/3T OPBK/3930/76 dated August 6, 1976, the work of construction of High Level Bridge over Tangri Nadi in Mile No. 19/5 of Patiala Pehewa Road is hereby allotted to you on lump sum basis for an amount of Rs. 25.50 lakhs (Rupees Twentyfive lakhs and fifty thousands) with a time limit of 24 months from the date of issue of this letter coupled with the following conditions.	None
The said letter thereafter set out those conditions.	None
It is, however, not necessary to set out these.	None
The last two paragraphs of the said letter are relevant and read as follows The work may be taken in hand immediately after getting the detailed structural drawing and designs duly approved by this department.	None
Please attend this office within 10 days to sign your agreement which is under preparation.	None
This was signed by the Executive Engineer and the signatures appeared as follows Sd 30/8Executive EngineerConstruction Division No. 1P.W.D. BR Br.	None
PatialaEndst.	None
No.	None
DatedCopy of above is forwarded to (1) Sub Divisional Engineer, Const.	None
Sub Division No. 5 P.W.D. BR Br., Patiala for information and necessary action.	None
He is requested to get the work started immediately as per detailed terms and conditions which may be thoroughly studied(2) Divisional Acctt.	None
for information n aSd Executive EngineerConstruction Division No. 1P.W.D. BR Br., Patiala.	None
Dr. Chitale appearing for the respondent drew our attention to a letter signed by the Executive Engineer which reads as follows Regd.	None
A.DEndst.	None
No. 4466	None
Dated August 24, 1976Copy confirmation by post is forwarded to M s. Om Parkash Baldev Krishan, New Delhi5 for their information and necessary action.	Arguments of Respondent
Their tender for lump sum amount of rupees thirtyone lakhs and fifty thousands for construction of high level bridge over Markanda river crossing PatialaPehewa road has been accepted.	Arguments of Respondent
Please take the work in hand immediately.	Arguments of Respondent
Regular sanction follows separatelySd Executive Engineer.	None
Shri R. L. Bansal, Divisional Accountant Construction, in his deposition before the trial court stated that there was no document concerning this contract which had been issued or made in the name of the Governor of Punjab according to the records.	Arguments of Respondent
He also admitted in his deposition that the letter of acceptance had not been issued in the name of the Governor of Punjab.	Arguments of Respondent
He reiterated that he was entitled to issue acceptance on behalf of the Governor.	Arguments of Respondent
It was urged on behalf of the appellants by Shri Nayar that a valid binding contract might come into existence even without a formal agreement duly signed by the parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned advocate if one party made an offer in writing and the same was accepted by a letter to the first party, these two documents might be sufficient to spell out a contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
Assuming that it is right, it is not necessary for the purpose of this appeal in the view we have taken to decide that the tender submitted and the letter sent by the Engineer did not create in the facts of this case a binding contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
The acceptance letter, at least, must conform to the requirements of Article 299(1) of the Constitution and since this letter was indisputably not in the name of the Governor, this contention cannot be accepted.	None
The acceptance letter nor any work letter sent to the respondent had been written by the Executive Engineer on behalf of the Governor.	None
Therefore, it is not possible to accept the contention that there was a valid binding contract.10.	None
Shri Nayar further sought to urge that Article 299 was for the governments protection in order to protect it against unauthorised contracts being entered on behalf of the government.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the instant case, according to Shri Nayar, the Executive Engineer had issued the tender and had accepted the tender, authority to accept the tender on behalf of the Governor, is thus established.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Nayar submitted that once that authority is established and it is made clear from the evidence that the authorities have acted on that basis, then it must be presumed that the contract had been entered into in accordance with the provisions of Article 299 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the clear position in law, it is, however, not possible to accept this submission.	None
Clause (1) of Article 299 of the Constitution provides as follows All contracts made in the exercise of the executive power of the Union or of a State shall be expressed to be made by the President, or by the Governor of the State, as the case may be, and all such contracts and all assurance of property made in the exercise of that power shall be executed on behalf of the President or the Governor by such persons and in such manner as he may direct or authorise.	None
In this case, the Executive Engineer has signed the contract but nowhere in the contract it was offered and accepted or expressed to be made in the name of the Governor.	None
The constitutional requirement enjoined in clause (1) of Article 299 of the Constitution is based on public policy.	None
This position has been made clear by this Court in State of Bihar v. M s. Karam Chand Thapar Brothers Ltd. ((1962)	None
1	Reasoning
SCR 827 AIR 1962 SC 110 ).	Reasoning
There a dispute between the respondent and the Government of Bihar over the bills for the amount payable to the company in respect of the construction works carried out by it for the government was referred to arbitration.	None
Section 175(3) of the Government of India Act, 1935 provided as followsSubject to the provisions of this Act with respect to the Federal Railway Authority, all contracts made in the exercise of the executive authority of the Federation or of a Province shall be, expressed to be made by the Governorgeneral, or by the Governor of the Province, as the case may be, and all such contracts and all assurances of property made in the exercise of that authority shall be executed on behalf of the Governorgeneral or Governor by such persons and in such manner as he may direct or authorise.	None
This Court reiterated that under that section a contract entered into by the Governor of a Province must satisfy three conditions, namely, (i) it must be expressed to be made by the Governor (ii) it must be executed and (iii) the execution should be by such persons and in such manner as the Governor might direct or authorise.	Reasoning
These three conditions are required to be fulfilled.	Reasoning
This position was reiterated by this court again in Seth Bikhraj Jaipuria v. Union of India ((1962) 2	Reasoning
SCR 880 AIR 1962 SC 113 ).	Reasoning
This Court explained that three conditions as mentioned in State of Bihar v. M s. Karam Chand Thapar ((1962) 1	Reasoning
SCR 827 AIR 1962 SC 110 ) had to be fulfilled, and further reiterated that the object of enacting these provisions was that the State should not be saddled with liability for unauthorised contracts and, hence, it was provided that the contracts must show on their faces that these were made by the GovernorGeneral and executed on his behalf in the manner prescribed by the person authorised.	Reasoning
It is based on public policy.	Reasoning
No question of waiver arises in such a situation.	Reasoning
If once that position is reached, and that position is well settled by the authorities over a long lapse of time, no question of examining the purpose of this requirement arises.	Reasoning
In Union of India v. A. L. Rallia Ram ((1964) 3	Reasoning
SCR 164 AIR 1963 SC 1685 )	Reasoning
this Court again reiterated that the agreement under arbitration with the government must be in accordance with Section 175(3) of the Government of India Act, 1935.	Reasoning
These principles were again reiterated by this Court in	Reasoning
Timber Kashmir Pvt. Ltd. v. Conservator of Forests, Jammu ((1977)	Reasoning
1	Reasoning
SCR 937 (1976) 4 SCC 497 ).	Reasoning
There, the court was concerned with Section 122(1) of the Jammu Kashmir Constitution which corresponded to Article 299(1) of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
In that case all the three applications filed by the respondent State for a reference to an arbitrator under Section 20 of the Jammu Kashmir Arbitration Act, were dismissed by a Single Judge of the Jammu Kashmir Arbitration Act, were dismissed by a Single Judge of the Jammu Kashmir High Court on the ground that the arbitration clause was, in each case, a part of an agreement which was not duly executed in accordance with the provisions of Section 122(1) of the Jammu Kashmir Constitution which corresponded to those of Article 299(1) of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
But the Division Bench allowed the appeals holding that if contracts were signed by the Conservator of Forests in compliance with an order of the government, the provisions of Section 122(1) of the Jammu Kashmir Constitution could not be said to have been infringed.	Reasoning
This Court held that the contract could not be executed without the sanction.	Reasoning
Nevertheless, if the sanction could be either expressly or impliedly given by or on behalf of the government, as it could, and, if some acts of the government could fasten some obligations upon the government, the lessee could also be estopped from questioning the terms of the grant of the sanction even where there is no written contract executed to bind the lessee.	Reasoning
But, once there had been a valid execution of lessee by duly authorised officers, the documents would be the best evidence of sanction.	Reasoning
In that case, the contracts were executed on behalf of the Government of Jammu Kashmir.	Reasoning
The only question with which the court was concerned in that case was whether the contracts executed by duly authorised officials had been proved or not.	Reasoning
It was held that it was so proved.	None
In Bihar Eastern Gangetic Fishermen Cooperative society Ltd. v. Sipahi Singh ((1977) 4 SCC 145 (1978) 1	None
SCR 375 ) where this Court relied on a previous decision in Mulamchand v. State of Madhya Pradesh ((1968) 3	Reasoning
SCR 214 AIR 1968 SC 1218 ) and reiterated that there cannot be any question of estoppel or ratification in a case where there is contravention of the provisions of Article 299(1) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The reason is that the provisions of Section 175(3) of the Government of India Act and the corresponding provisions of Article 299(1) of the Constitution have not been enacted for the sake of mere form but they have been enacted for safeguarding the government against unauthorised contracts.	Reasoning
The provisions are embodied in Section 175(3) of the Government of India Act and Article 299(1) of the Constitution on the ground of public policy  on the ground of protection of general public and these formalities cannot be waived or dispensed with.	Reasoning
This Court again reiterated the three conditions mentioned hereinbefore.	Reasoning
The same principle was again reiterated by this Court in Union of India	Reasoning
v. M s. Hanuman Oil Mills Ltd. (1987 Supp SCC 84).	None
In the instant case, we have referred to the letter dated August 31, 1976 which towards the end stated that the parties were to attend the office within 10 days to sign the agreement which is under preparation.	None
It is common ground that no such agreement was signed.	Facts
In the aforesaid view of the matter the High Court was right in the view it took and the submissions made on behalf of the appellants cannot be entertained.	Reasoning
The appeal fails and is accordingly dismissed with costs.	Decision
