 F. Nariman, J.	None
The facts of the present case revolve around the ineligibility of resolution applicants to submit resolution plans after the introduction of Section 29A into the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (hereinafter referred to as ?the Code?), with effect from 23.11.2017.	Issue
On 2.8.2017, the Adjudicating Authority, being the NCLT, Ahmedabad Bench, passed an order under Section 7 of the Code at the behest of financial creditors, being the State Bank of India and the Standard Chartered Bank, admitting a petition filed under the Code for financial debts owed to them by the corporate debtor Essar Steel India Limited (hereinafter referred to as ?ESIL?), in the sum of roughly Rs.45,000,00,00,000 (Rupees Forty Five Thousand Crores).	Facts
Shri Satish Kumar Gupta was appointed as the Interim Resolution Professional and confirmed as such on 4.9.2017.	Facts
Consequently, the Resolution Professional published an advertisement dated 6.10.2017, seeking expression of interest from potential resolution applicants who wished to submit resolution plans for the revival of ESIL.	Facts
In terms of the advertisement, the last date for submission of an expression of interest was 23.10.2017.	Facts
Pursuant to this advertisement, one ArcelorMittal India Private Limited?	Facts
(hereinafter referred to as ?	Arguments of Petitioner
AMIPL?) submitted an expression of interest on 11.10.2017.	Facts
An entity called Numetal Limited (hereinafter referred to as ?Numetal?), also submitted an expression of interest on 20.10.2017.	Facts
On 24.12.2017, the Resolution Professional published a request for proposal?, in which it was stated that the last date for submission of resolution plans would be 29.1.2018.	Facts
On a request made by the Committee of Creditors, the NCLT extended the duration of the corporate insolvency resolution process by 90 days beyond the initial period of 180 days, i.e., up 29.4.2018.	Facts
The Resolution Professional therefore issued the first addendum to the request for proposal, extending the date for submission of resolution plans to 12.2.2018.	Facts
Given this, both AMIPL and Numetal submitted their resolution plans on this date.	Facts
On 20.3.2018, apprehending that the Resolution Professional would recommend that it be declared ineligible, Numetal filed I.A. No. 98 of 2018 before the NCLT inter alia seeking that it be declared eligible as a resolution applicant.	Facts
On 23.3.2018, however, the Resolution Professional found both AMIPL and Numetal to be ineligible under Section	Facts
29A. Insofar as AMIPL is concerned, the Resolution Professional found thus ?	Facts
2. Please note that during the course of the evaluation of the Resolution Plan, I became aware of the fact that ArcelorMittal Netherlands B.V. (AM Netherlands) (which is mentioned as a connected person?	Facts
of AM India in the Resolution Plan) has been disclosed as the promoter?	Facts
of Uttam Galva Steels Limited (Uttam Galva) pursuant to which my Advisor had requested certain clarifications from AM India on 26 February 2018 (Request for Clarification 1) and on 14 March 2018 (Request for Clarification 2).	Facts
Further to the responses received from AM India on 28 February 2018 and 17 March 2018 (collectively the AM India Responses) on the aforementioned requests for clarifications, I understand that 2.1.	Facts
AM Netherlands had acquired 29.05 of the shareholding in Uttam Galva in 2009 and has since been classified as a promoter of Uttam Galva 2.2.	Facts
AM Netherlands had entered into a copromoter?	Facts
agreement dated 4 September 2009 with the other promoters of Uttam Galva (CoPromoter Agreement) under which AM Netherlands had various rights (including certain rights which can be considered as participative in nature and not merely protective) 2.3.	Facts
Uttam Galva?s account was classified as a non performing asset?	Facts
(NPA) on 31 March 2016 by Canara Bank and Punjab National Bank (which classification has continued for more 1 year till 02 August 2017) 2.4.	Facts
AM Netherlands has sold its shareholding in Uttam Galva to the other promoters of Uttam Galva on 7 February 2018 and 2.5.	Facts
AM Netherlands has applied to the National Stock Exchange Limited and the BSE Limited, each on 8 February 2018 for declassification as a promoter?	Facts
of Uttam Galva	Facts
under Regulation 31A(2) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Further, as on the Plan Submission Date, AM Netherlands (had not obtained the Stock Exchange Approvals relating to declassification as a promoter of Uttam Galva and) continued to be classified as a promoter of Uttam Galva.	Facts
In light of the above, AM India is ineligible under the provisions of Section 29A(c) of the IBC and pursuant to paragraph 4.11.2(a) of the RPP, the Resolution Plan is hereby rejected and will not be placed before the Committee of Creditors.?	Facts
Similarly, holding Numetal to be ineligible, the Resolution Professional, on the same date, found ?2.1.	Facts
as on the date of submission of its expression of interest (EOI) on 20 October 2017 by Numetal, it relied on Essar Communications Limited (ECL), one of its shareholders to comply with the eligibility requirement relating to its tangible net worth?	Facts
(TNW) (as stipulated in the section titled Eligibility Criteria?	Facts
in the EOI) 2.2.	Facts
as on the Plan Submission Date, Numetal relied on Crinium Bay, its shareholder to comply with the eligibility requirement relating to its TNW (as stipulated in Section 6.7 of the Resolution Plan) 2.3.	Facts
Numetal was incorporated 7 days before submission of the EOI and 2.4.	Facts
Numetal is a newly incorporated joint venture between Aurora Enterprises Limited, Crinium Bay, Indo International Limited and Tyazhpromexport.	Facts
Since Numetal has at all stages relied on its shareholders to comply with the eligibility requirements relating to submission of a resolution plan in respect of ESIL, for the purposes of ensuring compliance with Section 29A of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (IBC), I have considered each of the shareholders of Numetal as joint venture partners to be acting jointly for the purposes of submission of the Resolution Plan.	Facts
Whilst considering the eligibility of the shareholders of Numetal, since Aurora Enterprises Limited (AEL) is held completely by Rewant Ruia (through various companies and a trust), I have considered Rewant Ruia, Crinium Bay, Indo International Limited and Tyazhpromexport for scrutiny under Section 29A of the IBC.	Facts
Further, pursuant to Regulation 2(q) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 (SAST Regulations), a person is deemed to acting in concert with amongst others, his (or her) immediate relatives?, which term (as defined under Regulation 2(1) of the SAST Regulations) includes the father of such person.	Facts
Therefore, in relation to the Resolution Plan in respect of ESIL (which contemplates the acquisition of ESIL by Numetal by way of a merger of ESIL with a wholly owned subsidiary of Numetal), Rewant Ruia is deemed to be acting in concert with his father Ravi Ruia.	Facts
Further, as on the Plan Submission Date Ravi Ruia (who Rewant Ruia is deemed to be acting in concert with) was the promoter of ESIL whose account was classified as an NPA for more than 1 year, prior to the commencement of corporateinsolvency resolution process (CIRP) of ESIL on 2 August 2017 and Ravi Ruia (who Rewant Ruia is deemed to be acting in concert with) has executed a guarantee in favour of SBI (for itself and a consortium of lenders) and the CIRP application filed by SBI has been admitted by the National Company Law Tribunal on 2 August 2017.	Facts
In light of the above, Rewant Ruia (who is acting jointly with the other shareholders of Numetal for the purposes of submission of the Resolution Plan) is ineligible under Section 29A of the IBC, specifically paragraphs (c) and (h) and accordingly, as on the Plan Submission Date, Numetal (which is nothing but an incorporated joint venture investment vehicle through which its shareholders are submitting the Resolution Plan) was not eligible under Section 29A of the IBC.	Facts
Accordingly and for the reasons set out in paragraphs 5 and 6 above, please note that pursuant to paragraph 4.11.2(a) of the RFP, the Resolution Plan is hereby rejected and will not be placed before the Committee of Creditors.?	Facts
On 26.3.2018, AMIPL filed I.A. No. 110 of 2018 before the Adjudicating Authority, challenging ?the order?	Facts
of the Resolution Professional dated 23.03.2018.	Facts
Numetal did likewise vide I.A.	Facts
No. 111 of 2018.	Facts
On 2.4.2018, pursuant to the Resolution Professional?s invitation, fresh resolution plans were submitted (as both the resolution plans before this were found to be ineligible) by AMIPL, Numetal, and one other entity, namely Vedanta Resources Ltd.?.	Facts
On this very date, the NCLT directed that the bids of the resolution applicants, submitted pursuant to the revised request for proposal, should not be opened pending adjudication of I.A. No. 98 of 2018 filed by Numetal.	Facts
On 19.4.2018, the Adjudicating Authority, being the NCLT, passed its order in all the I.A.s, in which it first held ?	Facts
21.	None
As per the matter available on the record, a third party contestant, Arcelor Mittal India Pvt. Ltd., by filing Additional Application No. P7 of 2018 has also sought for impleading itself in Intervention Application No.	Facts
IA 98/2018 the Numetal has filed a Reply opposing such relief as being sought for by the present Applicant, Numetal Ltd., and in the present IA and also sought a declaration in its favour to be declared as eligible for filing a valid resolution plan as on 12.2.2018 thus, it has opposed the application alleging disability ineligibility on the part of M s. Numetal Ltd., to file a valid and proper resolution plan as on date of12.2.2018.	Facts
Since we have not decided the Impleadment Application in favour of ArcelorMittal by formally impleading it as party in the present I.A. No. 98 of 2018 and only audience were given to its learned counsel in support of its resolution plan, therefore, we find it appropriate to confine the issue of determination of eligibility mainly on the reason which formed a basis for the RP and CoC for not founding eligible for submission of resolution plan by the resolution applicant, M s. Numetal Ltd., and not on additional ground as put forth by the ArcelorMittal.	Facts
However, the oral submissions advanced by learned counsel for parties including the ArcelorMittal duly supported by their Written Submissions are being taken into consideration for deciding the issue involved in the present application.	Facts
For arriving at such findings conclusion of the RP has obtained legal opinion and its such findings is based on such opinion which were explained to the CoC for reaching to appropriate conclusion decision.	None
Equally, the applicant in I.A.	Facts
No. 98/2018 also obtain legal opinion from renowned jurists, e.g. (former judge of the honble Supreme Court) and from former learned Law Officer of the GOI which are placed on record along with the present IA also in support of their case in this opinion it is expressed the Numetal Ltd. (Resolution Applicant) is a single and independent corporate entity and it cannot be termed as a consortium of its shareholders not it intend to implement the resolution plan jointly with another person hence, in view of this the amended clause 4.11.2(1) to the RFP would neither be applicable nor binding upon the resolution applicant and thus, it is not required at all to seek an approval from the RP or the CoC.	Facts
In respect of proposed change its shareholding of ESIL in terms of RET and also are required under the other provisions of the Law.	Facts
It has been also emphasised that the Numetal Ltd., is not a SPV brought into existence merely for the purpose of submitting the resolution plan in respect of the corporate debtor ESIL as it has recently entered into an agreement to acquire majority stock in Odisha Slurry Pipeline Infrastructure Ltd., by an independent contract from the Resolution Plan.	Facts
Thus, it cannot be presumed that the applicant is such a corporate entity which is brought into the existence only for the purpose of putting forth resolution plan for the ESIL.	None
Since, there is difference in the legal opinions among the Learned Luminaries and law firms and more than one views are possible in the present case to be acted upon then, it cannot be said that there is patently illegality in the conclusion of the RP or it acted arbitrarily or mala fidely in rejecting the resolution plan by relying on the legal opinion received and believed to be true by him and which were placed before the CoC.	Facts
Moreover, the RP under the provision of the Code it is expected to make scrutiny of a resolution plan in conformity with the law of the land and to take such a prudent decision which a common man in normal course may arrive and think just and proper.	Facts
This court being the Adjudicating Authority under the Code is not expected to substitute its view upon the discretion and wisdom of the RP and CoC to opt for only which a particular view until and unless it is the case of patent illegality or arbitrariness.	Facts
Therefore, for the aforesaid reason in our prima facie view we do not find any patent illegality in the decision of the RP for declaring ineligible to applicants which is a prudent decision where there is possibility of more than one legal view then this court at this stage is not expected to substitute its view and to interfere with the conclusion of the RP.?	Facts
It then went on to hold ?	None
19.	None
Thus, the date on which a person stands disqualified would be the date of commencement of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process of the Corporate Debtor, i.e., ESIL.	Facts
This date is 02.08.2017 on which date, ArcelorMittal India Pvt. Ltd., is disqualified in view of the fact that its connected persons of AM Netherland and L.N. Mittal are disqualified as they have an account or an account of the corporate debtor under their management and control or of whom they are a promoter classified as NPA under the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India and at least a period of one year has lapsed from the date of such classification till the date of commencement of corporate insolvency resolution process of the corporate debtor.	Facts
The said disqualification starts from 02.08.2017 can only be remedied in the manner provided in the proviso to clause (c) of section 29A read with section 30(4) proviso and in no other manner.	Facts
The disqualification commenced on 02.08.2017 continues till 12.02.2018 and the same disqualification cannot be relieved by merely ceasing to be the promoter or by selling shares in the companies whose accounts are NPA such as Uttam Galva or KSS Petron.	Facts
On perusal of annexure R/4, i.e., shareholding pattern annexed with the reply of Numetal Ltd., it is found that ArcelorMittal is a publicly known promoter of Uttam Galva and its shareholding is classified under promoter and promoter group in the filings made in the Stock Exchange of India.	Facts
As per shareholding pattern of Uttam Galva disclosed in the stock exchange as on December, 2017 ArcelorMittal was a single largest shareholder having significant shareholding of 29.05 in Uttam Galva.	Facts
On perusal of the record it is found that connected person of the applicant are the promoter of KSS Petron Pvt. Ltd., a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956, having registered office at Swastik Chamber, 6th Floor, Sion Trombay Road, Chembur, Mumbai has been NPA for more than a year and CIRP has been initiated against the KSS Petron vide order dated 01.08.2017 by Mumbai Bench of the National Company Law Tribunal.	Facts
It is also pertinent to mention herein that, in the minutes of the meeting of the committee of creditors which reproduces the decision of the RP pursuant to the opinions received by the RP from Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas and Mr. Khambatta.	None
Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas had opined that AM Netherlands exercised positive control over Uttam Galva and merely divesting the shareholding prior to the submission of the resolution plan could not remove the disqualification under section 29A(c) of the Code, unless cured by payment.	Facts
It is an admitted position that AM Netherlands is an indirect 100 subsidiary of ArcelorMittal Societe Anonyme (AMSA) which is a listed company incorporated in Luxemburg.	Facts
On the other hand, AM India is also an indirect subsidiary (99.99) of AMSA.	Facts
Accordingly, AMSA is promoter, in management and in control of AM India, the resolution applicant and AM Netherlands is a subsidiary company associate company of AMSA in view of which AM Netherlands becomes a connected person and such connected person has an account of corporate debtor Uttam Galva under its management, control or of whom such connected person, namely, AM Netherlands is a promoter is classified as NPA for more than one year before 02.082017.	Facts
Consequently, AM India shall not be eligible to submit a resolution plan as on 12.02.2018.	Facts
It is an admitted position that Laxminarayan Mittal is controlling AM India being an indirect subsidiary of AMSA.	Facts
Accordingly, LN Mittal AMSA is promoter in management and in control of AM India, the resolution applicant, and LN Mittal is also in management and control of KSS Global BV in view of what is stated above and KSS Petron which is a 100 subsidiary of KSS Global BV is also under management and control of LN Mittal.	Facts
KSS Petron has a NPA for more than one year and consequently, LN Mittal being a promoter in control of KSS Global BV KSS Petron Pvt. Ltd., is a connected person whose account is classified non performing.	Facts
Consequently, AM India shall not be eligible to submit a resolution plan.	Facts
From a bare reading of section 29A(c) it is very clear that a person shall not be eligible to submit a resolution plan, if such person, or any other person acting jointly or in concert with such person has an account, or an account of a corporate debtor under the management or control of such person or whom such person is a promoter, classified as nonperforming asset in accordance with the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India issued under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949) and at least a period of one year has lapsed from the date of such classification till the date of commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution process of the corporate debtor, PROVIDED that the person shall be eligible to submit a resolution plan if such person makes payment of all overdue amounts with interest thereon and charges relating to nonperforming asset accounts before submission of resolution plan.	Facts
Section 29A does not distinguish between positive and negative control.	None
Any person who is either promoter or in the management or in the control of the business of the corporate debtor and in default is ineligible.	Facts
Person connected to ArcelorMittal India Pvt. Ltd., who are either promoter or in the management with KSS Petron and Uttam Galva Steels Ltd., are ineligible.	Facts
Mere sale of shares and declassification as promoter after the companies have gone into default cannot be absolved them responsibility.	Facts
In order to become eligible, overdue amounts to lenders in both the cases of KSS Petron and Uttam Galva Steels Ltd., should be paid by ArcelorMittal before being eligible to bid, as provided in Section 29A itself.?	Facts
Having said this, it then remanded the matter to the Committee of Creditors as follows ?	Facts
27.	None
Further, we are of the view that RP ought to have produced both the resolution plan before the CoC, along with his comments of eligibility of both the resolution applicants for consideration of the CoC and to follow the provision of section 29A(c) read with section 30(4) for the purpose of affording the opportunity to the resolution applicants before declaring them ineligible.	Facts
In our view, such procedure has not been followed hence, it vitiate the proceeding of the CoC and hence the present matter can be remanded back to the RP and CoC on this ground alone for their reconsideration.?	Facts
Appeals were filed by both Numetal and AMIPL, on 26.4.2018 and 27.4.2018 respectively, before the Appellate Authority, being the NCLAT.	Facts
Before these appeals could be decided, in compliance with the order passed by the Adjudicating Authority, the Committee of Creditors, after hearing both AMIPL and Numetal, disqualified AMIPL by an order dated 8.5.2018 as follows ?	Facts
48.	None
In wrapping up this postdecisional hearing, we reiterate that AMIL is an ineligible resolution applicant under Section 29A(c) of the IBC, who acting in concert with AMBV (the promoter of Uttam Galva on insolvency commencement date and connected person of AMIL) and Arcelor Mittal Group in attempting to avoid their obligations to make payment as provided under Section 29A(c) of mc (sic) with reference to Uttam Galva and KSS Petron.	Facts
Their unwillingness to make payment in the Uttam Galva matter or the KSS Petron matter by their actions of 7 th of February, 2018 and 9 th of February, 2018 as stated above is an avoidance device.	Facts
In case of Uttam Galva, AMBV arranged the sale of its shareholding at a nominal value just days prior to the date of submission of the Resolution Plan is evidence of the fact that AMIL is in concert with AMBV such action is a manifestation of the passage of Section 29A under IBC.	Facts
As promoter of Uttam Galva and as member of the Arcelor Mittal Group referred above, they should have made payment of the Overdue Amounts to the lenders of Uttam Galva.	Facts
The same conduct of Arcelor Mittal Group acting through Fraselli and KSS Global in terminating the shareholders agreement in KSS Global, the holding company of KSS Petron, a device has been to avoid payment of the Overdue Amounts of KSS Petron before filing the Resolution Plan for ESIL.	Facts
The close proximity of this action on 9 th February, 2018, one day before the plan submission date is a telling act of avoidance.	Facts
Since the CoC have not by themselves filed an appeal over the Ld.	Facts
Adjudicating Authority?s order dated 19 th April, 2018, the concession granted by the Ld.	Facts
Adjudicating Authority to give an opportunity to cure the ineligibility, we are indicating to AMIL, its connected persona and persons in concert to cure their disability under Section 29A(c) of IBC by making a payment to the lenders of Uttam Galva for Overdue Amounts of Uttam Galva, another payment to the lenders of KSS Petron constituting Overdue Amounts in KSS Petron and Overdue Amounts of such other companies which are classified as NPAs and where Arcelor Mittal Group is a promoter.	Facts
Such payments will have to be made by AMIL or its constituents connected persons no later than 15 th May, 2018, especially since the law actually requires that this curative payment of overdue amounts, interests and charges should be made by the corporate resolution intending applicant resolution applicant before the Resolution Plan is filed.	Facts
This concession by the CoC is without prejudice to the CoC?s right to strictly enforce the law and provisions of Section 29A(c) of the IBC.	Facts
The proof of such payment in form of a No Overdue Amounts letter (indicative format set out in Annex) shall be submitted to the RP (with notification to the CoC) by 600 P.M. IST on 15 th May 2018.	Facts
As we have limited time available under the CIR process of ESIL	Facts
, AMIL is requested to adhere to these timelines.?	Facts
By another order of the same date, the Committee of Creditors disqualified Numetal as follows ?	Facts
44.	None
Numetal and AEL are related as an associate company, on account of the fact that AEL (alias Rewant Ruia) has significant influence over Numetal pursuant to its control of at least 20 of the total voting power of Numetal.	Facts
Since an associate company is considered as a related party to a resolution applicant where such resolution applicant and other persons are acting jointly or in concert, Numetal is clearly said to be acting jointly and in concert with AEL.	Facts
This in turn means Numetal is acting in concert with Mr. Rewant Ruia and hence with Mr. Ravi Ruia, the promoter and guarantor of ESIL (a nonperforming asset since 2016).	Facts
This inflicts a disability and ineligibility upon Numetal its consortium and constituent shareholders.?	Facts
xxx	None
xxx xxx 57.	None
Thus in wrapping up the post decisional hearing, we reiterate that Numetal is an ineligible resolution applicant acting in concert with Rewant Ruia and his connected person namely his relative father Ravi Ruia, who is a promoter of a corporate debtor ESIL, which has a nonperforming asset account.	Facts
58.	None
Since the CoC have not by themselves filed an appeal over the Ld.	Facts
Adjudicating Authority?s Order dated 19 th April, 2018, the concession granted by the Ld.	Facts
Adjudicating Authority to give an opportunity to cure the ineligibility, we are indicating to the resolution applicant, i.e. Numetal and the consortium of Crinium Bay, Indo, TPE and AEL as persons acting in concert with Numetal, that they would be eligible only if they make payment of (i) the Overdue Amounts constituting NPA in ESIL as on 30 th April, 2018 aggregating to Rs.	Facts
37,558.65 crores in principal and interest and Rs. 1,688.27 crores in penal interest and other charges and such other additional Overdue Amounts which have accrued till the date of payment and (ii) the Overdue Amounts of such other companies which are classified as NPAs and where Mr. Ravi Ruia Mr. Rewant Ruia are promoters.	Facts
Such payments will have to be made by Numetal or its constituents consortium no later than 15 th May, 2018, especially since the law actually requires that this curative payment should be made before the resolution plan is filed.	Facts
This concession is without prejudice to the CoC?s right to strictly enforce the law and the provisions of Sections 29A(c) and 29A(h) of IBC.	Facts
The proof of such payment in form of a noOverdues Amounts letter (indicative format set out in Annex 3) shall be submitted to the RP (with notification to CoC) by 600 P.M. IST on 15 th May 2018, As we have limited time available under the CIR process of ESIL, Numetal is requested to adhere to these timelines.?	Facts
In the appeals that were filed before it, the Appellate Authority, insofar as Numetal?s Resolution plan was concerned, vide an order dated 7.9.2018 held as follows ?	Facts
44.	None
On behalf of AM India Ltd.?, it was submitted that VTB Bank?	Facts
one of the shareholders of Numetal Ltd.?	Facts
is ineligible in view of Article 5(c) of the EU Regulations of 2014.	Facts
Though such submission has been made, no order or evidence has been placed on record to suggest that any order of prohibition was imposed by the European Union against the VTB Bank?.	Facts
Neither the date of order nor order passed by any competent authority or court of law has been placed on record.	Facts
On the other hand, it will be evident that Council of European Union adopted Council Regulation (EU) No. 833/2014 concerning Restricting measures in view of Russia action.	Facts
In fact, in view of situation in Ukraine, the European Union Regulation was adopted.	Facts
Apart from the aforesaid fact, that AM India Ltd.? has not brought on record any penal order passed by any court of law relating to disability, if any, which is corresponding to any of the disability shown in clauses (a) to (h) of Section 29A. Therefore, the stand taken by the AM India Ltd.?	Facts
with regard to ineligibility of VTB Bank?	Facts
is fit to be rejected.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx Resolution Plan submitted by the Numetal Ltd.?	Facts
on 12 th February, 2018 As on 12 th February, 2018, when the 1 st Resolution Plan was submitted by Numetal Ltd.?, it had four shareholders.	None
Crinium Bay?	None
40 ii) Indo?	Facts
25.1 iii) TPE? 9.9 iv) AEL?	None
25	None
Admittedly, Mr. Rewant is 100 shareholder of AEL?	Facts
and	Arguments of Respondent
AEL? held 25 in Numetal Ltd.?	None
even as on 12 th February, 2018, Mr. Rewant being son of Mr. Ravi, who is the promoter of the Corporate Debtor?, we hold that AEL? is a related party and comes within the meaning of person in concert?	Facts
in terms of Regulation 2(1)(q).	Facts
In view of the aforesaid findings, we hold that at the time of submission of 1 st Resolution Plan by Numetal Ltd.?, one of the shareholders being AEL?, Numetal Ltd.?	Facts
was not eligible to submit Resolution Plan?	Facts
in terms of Section 29A. Position of Numetal Ltd.?	Facts
as on 29 th March, 2018 when the subsequent Resolution Plan?	Facts
was submitted by Numetal Ltd.?.	None
The Committee of Creditors? had extended the period for submitted a fresh Resolution Plan?	Facts
by 2 nd April, 2018.	Facts
Numetal Ltd.? filed fresh Resolution Plan?	Facts
on 29 th March, 2018.	Facts
On the said date the Numetal Ltd.?	Facts
consisted of the three shareholders  Crinium Bay?	Facts
(VTB?)	Facts
40 Indo?	None
34.1 TPE?	None
25.9 As on 29 th March, 2018, as the AEL? was not the shareholder of Numetal Ltd.?	Facts
and all the three shareholders aforesaid being eligible, we hold that Numetal Ltd.?	Facts
in respect of the Resolution Plan?	Facts
dated 29 th March, 2018, is eligible and the provision of Section 29A, as on 29 th March, 2018 is not attracted to the Numetal Ltd.?.	Facts
For the reasons aforesaid, we are of the view that the Resolution Plan? submitted by Numetal Ltd.?	Facts
on 29 th March, 2018 is required to be considered by the Committee of Creditors?	Facts
to find out its viability, feasibility and financial matrix.?	Facts
In the same order, insofar as AMIPL?s resolution plan was concerned, the Appellate Authority held as follows In the present case, the Expression of Interest?	None
was submitted by AM India Ltd.?	Facts
on 11th October, 2017 and by Numetal Ltd.?	Facts
on 20 th October, 2017, both prior to 23rd November, 2017 i.e. the date Section 29A was inserted by the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2017 but the Resolution Plans?	Facts
were submitted by both AM India Ltd.?	Facts
and Numetal Ltd.?	Facts
on 12th February, 2018.	Facts
108.	None
The question arises for consideration is as to what will be the position if, on the basis of Information Memorandum?	Facts
the Expression of Interest?	Facts
is submitted by the Resolution Applicants?	Facts
prior to 23 rd November, 2017 and whether they are eligible to take advantage of 2 nd proviso to subsection (4) of Section 30.?	Facts
109.	None
Section 29A came into force on 23rd November, 2017.	Facts
Those who submitted Resolution Plan?	Facts
prior to the said date and if covered by clause (c) of Section 29A are entitled to derive benefit of second proviso to subsection (4) of Section 30.	Facts
Under IB Code?	Facts
there is no provision to submit Expression of Interest?	Facts
prior to Resolution Plan?.	Facts
What we find from the invitation seeking Expression of Interest?	Facts
to submit a Resolution Plan?	Facts
for Essar Steel Limited?	Facts
published on 6th October, 2017 is the first stage of Resolution Plan?.	Facts
Therefore, we hold that Expression of Interest?	Facts
is part of the Resolution Plan?, which follows the Resolution Plan?.	Facts
In such case, the date of submission of the Expression of Interest?	Facts
should be treated to be the date of submission of the Resolution Plan?.	Facts
In this background, we hold that the date of submissions of the 1st Resolution Plan(s)?	Facts
of AM India Ltd.?	Facts
and Numetal Ltd.?	Facts
will be deemed to be 11th October, 2017/12th February, 2018 and 20th October, 2017/12th February, 2018 respectively.	Facts
110.	None
If the aforesaid proposition is not accepted, it will deprive the Resolution Applicants?	Facts
from deriving advantage of second proviso to subsection (4) of Section 30 inserted on 23rd November, 2017, even though they acted to submit the Resolution Plan?	Facts
by submitting the Expression of Interest?	Facts
of Resolution Plan?.	Facts
111.	None
In view of the aforesaid finding, we hold that the Adjudicating Authority rightly held that the Appellant AM India Ltd.?	Facts
should have been given the opportunity by the Committee of Creditors?	Facts
in terms of second proviso to subsection (4) of Section 30.	Facts
112.	None
The question arises for consideration is whether the AM Netherlands?	Facts
is eligible, having transferred its entire shareholding of Uttam Galva?	Facts
on 7th February, 2018 and by transferring of its entire shareholding of Fraseli?	Facts
in KSS Global?	Facts
on 9th February, 2018 i.e. two to four days prior to the submission of Expression of Interest?	Facts
(first phase of Resolution Plan?).	Facts
113.	None
Proviso to clause (c) of Section 29A reads as follows?Provided that the person shall be eligible to submit a resolution plan if such person makes payment of all overdue amounts with interest thereon and charges relating to nonperforming asset accounts before submission of resolution plan?	Facts
The aforesaid proviso to clause (c) makes it clear that the person shall be eligible to submit a Resolution Plan?	Facts
if such person makes payment of all overdue amounts with interest thereon and charges relating to nonperforming asset accounts before submission of Resolution Plan?.	Facts
It does not stipulate any other mode to become eligible and thereby does not prescribe any other mode to become ineligible, including by selling the shares thereby existing as a member of the Company whose account has been classified as non performing asset accounts in accordance with the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India.	Facts
115.	None
Second proviso to subsection (4) of Section 30 also stipulates, as follows?30.	Facts
Submission of resolution plan.	Facts
(4) xxx xxx xxx Provided further that where the resolution applicant referred to in the first proviso is ineligible under clause (c) of section 29A, the resolution applicant shall be allowed by the committee of creditors such period, not exceeding thirty days, to make payment of overdue amounts in accordance with the proviso to clause (c) of section 29A?	Facts
From both the aforesaid provisions, it is clear that except in the manner the Resolution Applicants?	Facts
can make it eligible and get rid of ineligibility under clause (c) of Section 29A that is by making payment of all overdue amounts in accordance with the proviso to clause (c) of Section 29A, no other manner a person, who is otherwise ineligible under clause (c) of Section 29A, can become eligible.	Facts
There is no provision in the IB Code?	Facts
which permits an ineligible person to become eligible by selling or transferring its shares of the Company whose accounts have been declared as NPA in accordance with the guidelines of Reserve Bank of India.	Facts
117.	None
Admittedly, AM Netherlands?	Facts
is related party of AM India Ltd.?.	Facts
AM Netherlands?	Facts
was the promoter of Uttam Galva?	Facts
on the date	Facts
when the Uttam Galva?	Facts
classified as NPA in accordance with the guidelines of Reserve Bank of India and a period of one year has elapsed from the date of such classification, at the time of commencement of Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process?	Facts
of the Corporate Debtor?.	None
118.	None
Once the stigma of ?classification of the account as NPA? has been labelled on the promoter of the Uttam Galva?, even after sale of shares by AM Netherlands?	Facts
it may ceased to be a member or promoter of the Uttam Galva?, but stigma as was attached with it will continue for the purpose of ineligibility under clause (c) of Section 29A, till payment of all overdue amount with interest and charges relating to NPA account of the Uttam Galva?	Facts
is paid.	None
119. AM Netherlands?	None
is 100 subsidiary of AMSA?	Facts
which is a listed company incorporated in Luxemburg.	Facts
AM India Ltd.?	Facts
is also a subsidiary of AMSA?	Facts
having 99.99 shareholding in it.	Facts
Accordingly, AMSA?	Facts
is also a promoter, in the management and in control of AM India Ltd.?.	Facts
Fraseli?	Facts
is a company owned and controlled by a company called by Mittal Investments?	Facts
acquired about one third of the share capital of KSS Global BV?.	Facts
Pursuant to such acquisition, Fraseli? acquired control over KSS Global BV?	Facts
which in turn controls KSS Petron?	Facts
and Petron Engineering?.	Facts
Mittal Investments?	Facts
is owned and controlled by LN Mittal Group, the promoters of the AM India Pvt. Ltd?.	Facts
120. AM India Ltd.?	Facts
divested its shareholding in KSS Global BV?	Facts
which is 100 owner of KSS Petron?	Facts
(a Company whose account has been declared as NPA).	Facts
AM India Ltd.?	Facts
has its control over it will be evident from the fact that it has nominee Directors, who also resigned on 9 th February, 2018 i.e. 3 days before submission of the Expression of Interest?	Facts
of Resolution Plan?	Facts
by AM India Ltd.?	Facts
This will be also clear from the fact that the AM India Ltd.?	Facts
was nothing that an entity controlling and managing in KSS Global BV?	Facts
(which is 100 owner of KSS Petron?	Facts
an NPA Company) divested its shareholding in KSS Global BV?	Facts
on 9th February, 2018 i.e. 3 days before submission of the Expression of Interest?	Facts
of Resolution Plan?.	Facts
121.	None
We have also noticed that consequent to such acquisition of control by Fraseli?, on 23rd May, 2011 a public announcement was made under SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeover) Regulations, 1997?	Facts
for the acquisition of shares of Petron Engineering?	Facts
inter alia by KSS Global BV?	Facts
and Fraseli?.	Facts
Therefore, we hold that Mr. L.N. Mittal Group, a connected person of AM India Ltd.?	Facts
being the promoter and in the control and management of KSS Petron?	Facts
since 2011 and KSS Petron?	Facts
having classified as NPA?	Facts
by multiple banks, the stigma attached to it cannot be cleared by KSS Global?	Facts
by divesting its shares in KSS Petron?	Facts
on 9th February, 2018 and the stigma will continue for the purpose of ineligibility under clause (c) Section 29A, till the payment of all overdue amount with interest thereon and charges relating to NPA account of KSS Petron?.	Facts
122.	None
Admittedly, there are three nominee Directors of AM India Ltd.?	Facts
in KSS Petron?, one of the NPA Company.	Facts
The nominee Directors of the Appellant AM India Ltd.? had also resigned on 9th February, 2018 i.e. three days?	Facts
before the submission of the Resolution Plan?.	Facts
Therefore, it is clear that the AM India Ltd.?	Facts
had complete control over the KSS Petron?.	Facts
123.	None
It is informed that after impugned order passed by the Adjudicating Authority, the AM India Ltd.? had made conditional deposit of Rs. 7,000 Crores in its own current account (Escrow Account).	Facts
Such depositation of the amount in its own Escrow Account does not qualify as a payment of overdue amounts in terms of proviso to clause (c) of Section 29A. A conditional offer to pay the over dues amount cannot be accepted till it is complied in the light of proviso to clause (c) of Section 29A unconditionally.	Facts
124.	None
Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of AM India Ltd.?	Facts
when asked, on instruction, submitted that if this Appellate Tribunal accept the Resolution Plan? submitted by the AM India Ltd.?, it may deposit the nonperforming assets amount with interest in the respective accounts which were declared as NPA in accordance with the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India.	Facts
125.	None
As we hold that AM India Ltd.?	Facts
is also entitled to the benefit of second proviso to subsection (4) of Section 30, we give one opportunity to the Resolution Applicant?	Facts
AM India Ltd.?	Facts
to make payment of all overdue amount with interest thereon and charges relating to Non Performing Accounts of both the Uttam Galva?	Facts
and the KSS Petron?	Facts
in their respective accounts within three days i.e. by 11th September, 2018.	Facts
If such amount is deposited in the accounts of both NonPerforming Accounts of Uttam Galva?	Facts
and KSS Petron?	Facts
within time aforesaid and is informed, the Committee of Creditors?	Facts
will consider the Resolution Plan? submitted by AM India Ltd.?	Facts
along with other Resolution Plans?, including the Resolution Plan?	Facts
submitted by the Numetal Ltd.?	Facts
on 29th March, 2018, and if so necessary, may negotiate with the Resolution Applicant(s)?.	Facts
An early decision should be taken by the Committee of Creditors?	Facts
and on approval of the Resolution Plan?, the Resolution Professional?	Facts
will place the same immediately before the Adjudicating Authority who in its turn will pass order under Section 31 in accordance with law.	Facts
The Successful Resolution Applicant? will take steps for execution of its Resolution Plan?	Facts
and deposit the upfront money if proposed, in terms of the Resolution Plan?.	Facts
126.	None
Taking into consideration the fact that a long period has taken due to pendency of the case before the Adjudicating Authority and thereafter, before this Appellate Tribunal, we direct the Adjudicating Authority to exclude the period the appeal was pending before this Appellate Tribunal i.e. from 26th April, 2018 till today (7th September, 2018) for the purpose of counting the total period of 270 days.	Facts
The impugned order dated 19th April, 2018 passed by the Adjudicating Authority so far as it relates to eligibility of Numetal Ltd.?	Facts
as on the date of the submission of the Resolution Plan?	Facts
dated 29th March, 2018 is set aside.	Facts
The impugned judgment order in respect to AM India Ltd.? is affirmed with conditions as mentioned in the preceding paragraphs.	Facts
All the appeals are disposed of with aforesaid observations and directions.	Facts
The parties will bear their respective cost.?	None
This is how both AMIPL and Numetal are before us in appeals from the Appellate Authority?s order dated 7.9.2018.	Facts
14.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Harish N. Salve, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of AMIPL, argued that Section 29A, as originally enacted, disqualified a person who has an account of a corporate debtor under the management or control of such person, or of whom such person is a promoter, which account was declared as a non performing asset.	Arguments of Petitioner
The further condition is that one year should have elapsed from the date of such declaration till the date of commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution process of the corporate debtor.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, a plain reading of the same establishes that the ineligibility under Section 29A is in relation to the submission of a resolution plan, which must consist of the elements set out in Section 30.	Arguments of Petitioner
Responding to preliminary enquiries, i.e., an expression of interest, is not the subject matter of a resolution plan, and therefore, the relevant time is the time of submission of a resolution plan.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further argued that the amendment made to Section 29A in June, 2018, expressly stating that the relevant time was the time of submission of a resolution plan, is clarificatory in nature.	Arguments of Petitioner
Once this becomes clear, everything on facts falls into place.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned Senior Advocate, AMIPL is an indirect subsidiary of one ArcelorMittal Societe Anonyme?	Arguments of Petitioner
(hereinafter referred to as ?AMSA?), which is a listed company in Luxemburg.	Arguments of Petitioner
AMSA holds 100 shares in one ArcelorMittal Belvel Differdange Societe Anonyme?	Arguments of Petitioner
(hereinafter referred to as ?AMBD?),	Arguments of Petitioner
a company incorporated in Luxemburg, which in turn holds 100 in one Oakey Holding BV?, a company incorporated in the Netherlands, which in turn holds 99.99 shares in AMIPL.	Arguments of Petitioner
ArcelorMittal Netherlands BV (hereinafter referred to as ?AMNLBV?), which is a member of the L.N. Mittal Group incorporated in the Netherlands, is 100 held by AMSA (the Chairman and CEO of AMSA being Shri L.N. Mittal).	Arguments of Petitioner
AMNLBV held 29.05 in one Uttam Galva Steels Limited?	Arguments of Petitioner
(hereinafter referred to as ?Uttam Galva?) which is an Indian company, listed in India.	Arguments of Petitioner
Uttam Galva was declared as a nonperforming asset on 31.3.2016, with a debt of around Rs. 6000 crores.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Shri Salve, Uttam Galva, though it entered into a CoPromotion Agreement with AMNLBV on 4.9.2009, was really promoted by the Miglani Group of businessmen who are Indian citizens residing in Mumbai.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Co Promotion Agreement conferred on AMNLBV the right to appoint 50 of the nonindependent directors on the board, as well as certain affirmative voting rights.	Arguments of Petitioner
This required that the Articles of Association be amended, which was never in fact done.	Arguments of Petitioner
In 2015 itself, AMNLBV had written off the investment in Uttam Galva from its books, seeking an exit from Uttam Galva at this time.	Arguments of Petitioner
AMNLBV never appointed any director or exercised any voting rights in Uttam Galva.	Arguments of Petitioner
What is important to note is that it had transferred its entire shareholding in Uttam Galva on 7.2.2018 to one Sainath Trading Company Private Limited?, which was a Miglani Group Company, for Re.1 per share (having purchased the shares at Rs.120 per share).	Arguments of Petitioner
The depository participant account of AMNLBV ceased to show the said shares with effect from 7.2.2018.	Arguments of Petitioner
The CoPromotion Agreement dated 4.9.2009, pursuant to which the status of ?promoter?	Arguments of Petitioner
had been conferred on AMNLBV, stood automatically terminated vide clause 21.6 thereof on 7.2.2018.	Arguments of Petitioner
In order to put the matter beyond any doubt, the parties also executed a CoPromotion Termination Agreement on 7.2.2018.	Arguments of Petitioner
On 8.2.2018, Uttam Galva filed the necessary forms with the Registrar of Companies and made the necessary disclosures with the National Stock Exchange and Bombay Stock Exchange to declassify AMNLBV as a promoter of Uttam Galva.	Arguments of Petitioner
This was accordingly done on 21.3.2018 and 23.3.2018 before the NSE and BSE respectively.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such declassification, being a ministerial act, is relatable to the date of sale of shares, i.e., 7.2.2009, and considered effective from the said date.	Arguments of Petitioner
Inasmuch as AMNLBV therefore ceased to be a promoter in Uttam Galva prior to 12.2.2018, the resolution plan is not hit by Section 29A(c).	Arguments of Petitioner
Similarly, according to the learned Senior Advocate, insofar as KSS Petron Private Limited (hereinafter referred to as ?KSS Petron?) is concerned, it is an admitted case that Fraseli Investments Sarl?	Arguments of Petitioner
(hereinafter referred to as ?	Arguments of Petitioner
Fraseli?) is a company owned and controlled by one Mittal Investments Sarl,?	Arguments of Petitioner
which in turn is owned and controlled by the L.N. Mittal Group, the promoters of AMIPL.	Arguments of Petitioner
Fraseli held 32.22 in one KazStroy Service Global BV?	Arguments of Petitioner
(hereinafter referred to as ?KSS Global?), a company incorporated in the Netherlands which in turn held 100 of KSS Petron, an Indian company.	Arguments of Petitioner
The shareholders agreement entered into between Fraseli and KSS Global permitted Fraseli to appoint two out of six nominee directors in KSS Global, and provided for an affirmative vote of shareholders with respect to certain matters.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned Senior Advocate, if the definition of ?control?	Arguments of Petitioner
in Section 2(27) of the Companies Act, 2013 is applied, the relationship of KSS Global with KSS Petron would not constitute ?control?	Arguments of Petitioner
over the wholly owned subsidiary in India.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any case, the entire shareholding of Fraseli in KSS Global was transferred back to the promoters of KSS Global on 9.2.2018, i.e., 3 days before submission of the resolution plan.	Arguments of Petitioner
KSS Petron has been classified as a nonperforming asset by multiple banks, and the corporate insolvency resolution process was initiated against it on 1.8.2017 before the NCLT.	Arguments of Petitioner
It may be added that KSS Petron was declared a nonperforming asset on 30.9.2015 with a debt of around Rs. 1000 crores.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Senior Advocate therefore attacked the finding of the Appellate Authority on this score, and stated that, as Section 29A was not attracted, the question of paying off the debts of Uttam Galva and KSS Petron would not arise.	Arguments of Petitioner
15.	Arguments of Petitioner
When it came to Numetal?s resolution plan, the learned Senior Advocate argued that it is important to remember that Numetal was incorporated on 13.10.2017 by Shri Rewant Ruia, son of Shri Ravi Ruia (who was a promoter of the corporate debtor of ESIL), with the specific objective of trying to acquire ESIL.	Arguments of Petitioner
At the time of its incorporation, one Aurora Enterprises Limited?	Arguments of Petitioner
(hereinafter referred to as ?AEL?), a Ruia Group Company, held 100 shareholding of Numetal.	Arguments of Petitioner
In turn AEL?s 100 shareholding was held by one Aurora Holdings Limited?	Arguments of Petitioner
(hereinafter referred to as ?AHL?), 100 of whose shareholding was held by Shri Rewant Ruia, who was a former director of the corporate debtor, i.e. ESIL.	Arguments of Petitioner
On 18.10.2017, a few weeks before Section 29A was introduced, AEL transferred 26.1 of its shares in Numetal to one Essar Communications Limited?	Arguments of Petitioner
(hereinafter referred to as ?ECL?), a group company of the corporate debtor.	Arguments of Petitioner
On 19.10.2017 Shri Rewant Ruia settled an irrevocable discretionary trust, called the Crescent Trust?, which purchased the shares of AHL at par value.	Arguments of Petitioner
On 20.10.2017, when Numetal submitted its expression of interest, it had two share holders, i.e., AEL (holding 73.9) and ECL (holding 26.1).	Arguments of Petitioner
On 22.11.2017, when the Finance Minister made a statement that the Code would be amended in order to prevent unscrupulous persons from submitting resolution plans, AEL transferred 13.9 of its shareholding in Numetal, and ECL its entire 26.1 shareholding, to one Crinium Bay Holdings Limited?	Arguments of Petitioner
(hereinafter referred to as ?Crinium Bay?), a 100 indirectly held subsidiary of one VTB Bank?, which in turn was a Russian company, the majority of whose shares were held by the Russian Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
Crinium Bay thus became the owner of 40 of the shareholding of Numetal.	Arguments of Petitioner
AEL subsequently transferred 25.1 of the shareholding in Numetal to one Indo International Trading FZCO?	Arguments of Petitioner
(hereinafter referred to as ?	Arguments of Petitioner
Indo?), a Dubai company, and 9.9 of the shareholding to one JSC VO Tyazhpromexport?	Arguments of Petitioner
(hereinafter referred to as ?TPE?), a Russian company.	Arguments of Petitioner
AEL was left with only a 25 shareholding in Numetal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even this holding in Numetal was ultimately divested on 29.3.2018, so that Crinium Bay held 40, TPE held 25.9 and Indo held 34.1 in Numetal, with AEL?s holding becoming Nil?.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Salve has argued that Numetal is hit by Section 29A(i) of the Code, as VTB Bank, the parent of Crinium Bay, stands prohibited from accessing the securities markets in the European Union pursuant to an order dated 31.7.2004, and in the United States by two orders.	Arguments of Petitioner
This being the case, Numetal is directly hit by subsection (f) read with subsection (i) of Section	Arguments of Petitioner
29A. It is also hit by Section 29A(j) as Crinium Bay, being a subsidiary of VTB Bank, becomes a ?connected person?	Arguments of Petitioner
as defined under subclauses (i) and (iii) of Explanation 1 to Section 29A(j).	Arguments of Petitioner
One very important fact that was stressed by him was that an amount of Rs. 500 crores was given by AEL to Numetal so that it could deposit the requisite earnest money that had to be made along with the resolution plan furnished by Numetal.	Arguments of Petitioner
This amount, that was admittedly furnished by AEL, continues to remain with the Resolution Professional, and has till date not been withdrawn by AEL, showing that Shri Rewant Ruia continues to be vitally interested and linked with the resolution plan of Numetal, even after the complete exit of AEL as its shareholder.	Arguments of Petitioner
He therefore submitted that, given these facts, whereas AMIPL should have been held eligible, it was wrongly held to be ineligible by the Appellate Authority and that Numetal, being clearly hit by several provisions of Section 29A, was wrongly held to be eligible.	Arguments of Petitioner
He stressed the fact that one of the core objectives of Section 29A was to ensure that the promoter of the corporate debtor should not through or by circular means come back in order to regain the company that he himself had run to the ground.	Arguments of Petitioner
For this purpose, he relied upon the Finance Minister?s statement on 29.12.2017, while introducing the Bill to amend the Code by introducing Section 29A, together with the Statements of Objects and Reasons appended to the said Bill. 16.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dr. A.M. Singhvi, learned Senior Advocate, supported the arguments of Shri Salve.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, Section 29A(c) always had the application of the resolution plan date as the relevant date, given the in praesenti ?has?	Arguments of Petitioner
which is also there in clauses (h) and (j), and is similar to the expression ?is?	Arguments of Petitioner
which is to be found in clauses (a), (b), (e) and (f), as contrasted with the expression ?has been? used in clauses (d) and (g), of Section	Arguments of Petitioner
29A. According to him, the amendment made in 2018 is in any case clarificatory in nature.	Arguments of Petitioner
He supported the attack of Shri Salve on the Appellate Authority?s judgment, stating that so far as Uttam Galva is concerned, it is well established that the sale of shares is complete once they move out of the demat account of the seller, which in this case took place five days before 12.2.2008.	Arguments of Petitioner
For this he cited certain judgments.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also supported Shri Salve?s argument by stating that Numetal is clearly disqualified under several clauses of Section 29A. On the other hand, Shri Mukul Rohatgi, learned Senior Advocate, appearing on behalf of Numetal, stated that Numetal was a company which was therefore a separate person in law from its shareholders.	Arguments of Respondent
He contended that on the date of submission of the resolution plan (i.e., 12.2.2018), AEL held only 25, which would be below the figure of 26 mentioned in the request for proposal dated 24.12.2017, wherein ?control?	Arguments of Respondent
has been defined as a person holding more than 26 of the voting share capital in the company.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, in any case by 2.4.2018, when it submitted a fresh resolution plan, AEL had walked out completely, leaving behind two Russian companies holding 40 and 25.9 respectively of Numetal, and Indo, a Dubai Company, holding 34.1.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned Senior Advocate, Numetal cannot possibly be described as a joint venture of its shareholders, and for this purpose he cited some of our judgments.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, a joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity which is subject to joint control, which is missing in the present case as a shareholder in a company is distinct from the company itself.	Arguments of Respondent
He added that Section 29A(c) requires that Numetal as a person, together with any other person acting jointly or in concert, has to have an account of a corporate debtor under its management or control, or of whom such person is a promoter (which is classified as a non performing asset for a period of at least one year before the date of commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution process of the corporate debtor).	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned Senior Advocate, Shri Rewant Ruia would not fall within any of these categories, on a reading of Section 2(27) of the Companies Act, 2013, which defines ?	Arguments of Respondent
control?	Arguments of Respondent
Section 2(69) of the Companies Act, 2013, which defines ?promoter?	Arguments of Respondent
and	Arguments of Respondent
Sections 2(53) and 2(54) of the Companies Act, 2013, which define ?manager?	Arguments of Respondent
and ?managing director?	Arguments of Respondent
respectively.	Arguments of Respondent
He emphatically argued that though Shri Rewant Ruia is the son of Shri Ravi Ruia, who is a promoter of the corporate debtor, and though he may be deemed to be a ?person acting in concert?	Arguments of Respondent
within the definition contained in Regulation 2(1) (q) of the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 (hereinafter referred to as the ?2011	Arguments of Respondent
Takeover Regulations?), yet, he cannot be considered to be a ?connected person?	Arguments of Respondent
under Section 29A(j) of the Code.	Arguments of Respondent
This is for the reason that under Explanation 1 to Section 29A(j), the expression ?connected person?	Arguments of Respondent
can only mean a related party or a person who is referred to in subclauses (i) and (ii) of Explanation 1, and since Shri Rewant Ruia is neither a promoter of nor in the management or control of the resolution applicant Numetal, he would fall outside of subclause (iii) of Explanation 1.	Arguments of Respondent
According to Shri Rohatgi, the Appellate Authority was absolutely correct in saying that Numetal would not be ineligible under Section 29A. He strongly attacked Shri Salve?s argument that VTB Bank, the holding company of Crinium Bay, was barred from accessing the securities market by either the European Union or the United States.	Arguments of Respondent
He took us to the original orders and argued that the document of the European Union, being Council Regulation 833 of 2014 dated 31.7.2014, pursuant to Article 215 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, was owing to restrictive measures taken in view of Russia?s actions destabilizing the situation in Ukraine.	Arguments of Respondent
Because Russia had illegally annexed Crimea, political sanctions were imposed by this document, which cannot possibly be said to be sanctions imposed by an authority equivalent to SEBI in India.	Arguments of Respondent
The sanctions also did not relate in any manner to the securities market.	Arguments of Respondent
Equally, insofar as the two orders of the United States are concerned, they were also political sanctions imposed against Russian companies for the same reason by the Office of Foreign Assets Control by a Presidential Order.	Arguments of Respondent
He even argued that insofar as the European Union is concerned, the corresponding ?authority?	Arguments of Respondent
to SEBI is the European Securities and Market Authority?, whereas in the United States it would be the Securities Exchange Commission,?	Arguments of Respondent
neither of whom has issued any sanctions which would interdict VTB Bank from accessing or trading in the securities market.	Arguments of Respondent
He also countered Shri Salve?s submission that the Rs. 500 crores that was advanced by AEL and given as earnest money for the resolution plan was not yet withdrawn, contending that this was so because the validity of the first bid by Numetal continues to be sub judice.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Rohatgi then attacked AMIPL by stating that even a literal reading of Section 29A(c) would make it clear that in the case of Uttam Galva, AMNLBV, which is admittedly an L.N. Mittal Group Company, was directly covered by subclause (c) as it had been shown as a ?promoter?	Arguments of Respondent
in the annual reports of Uttam Galva, and would therefore fit the definition of ?promoter? contained in Section 2(69) of the Companies Act, 2013.	Arguments of Respondent
What is of great importance, and what is in fact not disclosed, is that a Non Disposal Undertaking was issued to the State Bank of India, the secured creditor of Uttam Galva, on 12.7.2011 by AMNLBV, agreeing that it would not sell, transfer or dispose of any shares held by it without the consent of the lenders of Uttam Galva.	Arguments of Respondent
According to Shri Rohatgi, therefore, the transfer of these shares, the recognition of such transfer by Uttam Galva, and the consequent application to the Stock Exchanges for declassification as promoter, without obtaining the consent of the State Bank of India, is invalid in law and a fraud played by AMNLBV.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, in the disclosures that were made under the 2011 Takeover Regulations, the column relatable to the existence of any non disposal undertakings was left blank.	Arguments of Respondent
In addition, since a sale of shares between copromoters inter se is exempted from the requirement of making a public offer under Regulation 3(1) read with Regulation 10(1)(a)(2) of the 2011 Takeover Regulations, it is clear that on the one hand promoter status is claimed in order to avail of the regulation, whereas, in the present case, it is argued that, in substance, AMNLBV is not in fact a promoter.	Arguments of Respondent
Equally, leaving a blank in the form against the column which required disclosure of nondisposal undertakings, is a fraud played on SEBI, and on the shareholders of Uttam Galva as otherwise, in the public offer that would have had to be made, the shares of Uttam Galva would have had to be purchased at the higher price that is mentioned in the said Regulations.	Arguments of Respondent
Incidentally, according to Shri Rohatgi, in any case, getting out of Uttam Galva by paying a price of Re.1 per share when the market value on that date was Rs.19.50 per share is again a fraudulent transaction, which cannot possibly pass muster under Section 29A. Further, insofar as KSS Petron is concerned, it is clear that Fraseli?s holding of 32.22 in KSS Global would certainly amount to de facto control, if not de jure control, of KSS Petron, its wholly owned subsidiary, as defined under Section 2(27) of the Companies Act, 2013.	Arguments of Respondent
The transfer of Fraseli?s shareholding on 9.2.2018, before submission of the resolution plan on 12.2.2018, is again a dubious and fraudulent act squarely hit by Section 29A. Shri Rohatgi further argued that Shri Pramod Mittal, brother of Shri L.N. Mittal, is a connected person, which would trigger Section 29A(j).	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Pramod Mittal is a promoter and director of one Gontermann Piepers (India) Limited?, which has also been declared an NPA, rendering Shri L.N. Mittal ineligible under Section 29A(j).	Arguments of Respondent
Equally, Shri L.N. Mittal, Shri Pramod Mittal and other members of the Mittal family are promoters of one Ispat Profiles India Limited?.	Arguments of Respondent
This company was ordered to be wound up by the BIFR, appeals from which have been dismissed by the AAIFR.	Arguments of Respondent
Consequently, Shri L.N. Mittal, as a related party of Shri Pramod Mittal, would render AMIPL ineligible under subclause (c) read with subclause (j) of Section 29A of the Code.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Gopal Subramanium, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the Committee of Creditors, has placed before us the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2017, introducing Section 29A, and commented on the difference between the opening lines of the said Ordinance as compared with those of the Amendment Act of 2017.	Arguments of Respondent
The Amendment Act of 2017 brings in ?persons acting in concert?.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned senior counsel, ?persons acting in concert? has been dealt with by the Justice P.N. Bhagwati Committee Report on Takeovers, 1997, which he read out to us in copious detail.	Arguments of Respondent
He also referred to some of our judgments on tearing the corporate veil, and on persons acting in concert.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, there should be no interference by the appropriate authority at the behest of a resolution applicant at the stage of a Resolution Professional processing resolution applications, and the subsequent stage of a Committee of Creditors disapproving a resolution plan.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, the period of 270 days is a watertight compartment, within which either a resolution plan will be approved, or the corporate debtor be wound up.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, the practice of interlocutory applications being filed at anterior stages of the proceedings before the Adjudicating Authority, and orders of remand to the Committee of Creditors, should be stopped.	Arguments of Respondent
However, the time taken by the Adjudicating Authority and the Appellate Authority in deciding disputes that may arise before them should be excluded from the computation of 270 days as aforesaid.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned Senior Advocate, the expressions ?	Arguments of Respondent
persons acting in concert?	Arguments of Respondent
and ?control?	Arguments of Respondent
are broad enough to bring all associated persons within the dragnet of Section	Arguments of Respondent
29A. He cited a number of judgments on how this provision should be construed in accordance with the object sought to be achieved by the said provision, which should never be stultified or defeated, so as to get to the real state of affairs of the facts of every given case.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, it is very important to remember that phrases such as ?persons acting in concert?	Arguments of Respondent
and ?control?	Arguments of Respondent
are meant not only to pierce the corporate veil, but also to get to the real persons who present resolution plans.	Arguments of Respondent
On the facts of each case, according to Shri Subramanium, both resolution plans were correctly rejected by the Resolution Professional and the Committee of Creditors, as they were both hit by the provisions of Section	Arguments of Respondent
29A. Any circular method, by which payment of debts of an NPA of a person acting jointly or in concert under the proviso to Section 29A(c) is sought to be avoided, should be interdicted.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned Senior Advocate, both resolution plans are hit by Section 29A(c), and the only way out is for both resolution applicants to pay up the debts of the respective NPAs of the corporate debtors who are associated with them.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri K.V. Viswanathan, learned Senior Advocate, appearing on behalf of the Resolution Professional, drew our attention to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2016 (hereinafter referred to as the ?CIRP Regulations?), and stated that the role of the Resolution Professional is essentially to do a due diligence on each resolution plan submitted before it.	Arguments of Respondent
It is only after such due diligence is done that this plan is to be forwarded to the Committee of Creditors.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, even if it is found that the resolution plan in question contravenes any law, such finding would only be a tentative opinion formed by the Resolution Professional, who has to submit the plan to the Committee of Creditors once it is complete in all respects.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, a conjoint reading of Section 25(2)(i) of the Code, read with Section 30(3) and the second proviso to Section 30(4), would necessarily lead to this conclusion.	Arguments of Respondent
Also, according to the learned Senior Advocate, the expression ?	Arguments of Respondent
control?	Arguments of Respondent
contained in Section 29A(c) should be construed noscitur a sociis with the word ?management?, and so construed, would only mean positive, de facto, control of such person.	Arguments of Respondent
At this point, it is necessary to first set out Section 29A in its various forms as first introduced by the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2017 and the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Act, 2017, together with the amendment made by the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Act, 2018.	None
Section 29A, as introduced by the Insolvency Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2017, on 23.11.2017, reads as follows 29A.A person shall not be eligible to submit a resolution plan, if such person, or any other person acting jointly with such person, or any person who is a promoter or in the management or control of such person, (a) is an undischarged insolvent (b) has been identified as a wilful defaulter in accordance with the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India issued under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949) (c) Whose account is classified as nonperforming asset in accordance with the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India issued under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949) and period of one year or more has lapsed from the date of such classification and who has failed to make the payment of all overdue amounts with interest thereon and charges relating to non performing asset before submission of the resolution plan (d) Has been convicted for any offence punishable with imprisonment for two years or more or (e) Has been disqualified to act as a director under the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) (f) Has been prohibited by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from trading in securities or accessing the securities markets (g) Has indulged in preferential transaction or undervalued transaction or fraudulent transaction in respect of which an order has been made by the Adjudicating Authority under this Code (h) Has executed an enforceable guarantee in favour of a creditor, in respect of a corporate debtor under insolvency resolution process or liquidation under this Code (i) Where any connected person in respect of such person meets any of the criteria specified in clauses (a) to (h).	None
Explanation For the purposes of this clause, the expression ?connected person? means (i) any person who is promoter or in the management or control of the resolution applicant or (ii) any person who shall be the promoter or in management or control of the business of the corporate debtor during the implementation of the resolution plan or (iii) the holding company, subsidiary company, associate company or related party of a person referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) (j) Has been subject to any disability, corresponding to clauses (a) to (i), under any law in a jurisdiction outside India.?	None
The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Act, 2017, received the assent of the President on 28.1.2018, but came into force with retrospective effect from 23.11.2017. Section 29A, as contained therein, reads as follows ?	None
29A. Persons not eligible to be resolution applicant.  	None
A person shall not be eligible to submit a resolution plan, if such person, or any other person acting jointly or in concert with such person (a) is an undischarged insolvent (b) is a wilful defaulter in accordance with the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India issued under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949) (c) has an account, or an account of a corporate debtor under the management or control of such person or of whom such person is a promoter, classified as non performing asset in accordance with the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India issued under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949) and at least a period of one year has lapsed from the date of such classification till the date of commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution process of the corporate debtor Provided that the person shall be eligible to submit a resolution plan if such person makes payment of all overdue amounts with interest thereon and charges relating to nonperforming asset accounts before submission of resolution plan (d) has been convicted for any offence punishable with imprisonment for two years or more (e) is disqualified to act as a director under the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) (f) is prohibited by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from trading in securities or accessing the securities markets (g) has been a promoter or in the management or control of a corporate debtor in which a preferential transaction, undervalued transaction, extortionate credit transaction or fraudulent transaction has taken place and in respect of which an order has been made by the Adjudicating Authority under this Code (h) has executed an enforceable guarantee in favour of a creditor in respect of a corporate debtor against which an application for insolvency resolution made by such creditor has been admitted under this Code has been subject to any disability, corresponding to clauses (a) to (h), under any law in a jurisdiction outside India or (j) has a connected person not eligible under clauses (a) to (i).	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this clause, the expression connected person means any person who is the promoter or in the management or control of the resolution applicant or any person who shall be the promoter or in management or control of the business of the corporate debtor during the implementation of the resolution plan or the holding company, subsidiary company, associate company or related party of a person referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) Provided that nothing in clause (iii) of this Explanation shall apply to (A) a scheduled bank or (B) an asset reconstruction company registered with the Reserve Bank of India under section 3 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (54 of 2002) or (C) an Alternate Investment Fund registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India.?	None
Finally, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Act, 2018, received the assent of the President on 17.8.2018, but came into force with retrospective effect from 6.6.2018.	None
The said amendment inter alia amended Section 29A, which now reads as follows 29A. Persons not eligible to be resolution applicant.	None
A person shall not be eligible to submit a resolution plan, if such person, or any other person acting jointly or in concert with such person (a) is an undischarged insolvent (b) is a wilful defaulter in accordance with the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India issued under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949) (c) at the time of submission of the resolution plan has an account, or an account of a corporate debtor under the management or control of such person or of whom such person is a promoter, classified as non performing asset in accordance with the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India issued under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949) or the guidelines of a financial sector regulator issued under any other law for the time being in force, and at least a period of one year has lapsed from the date of such classification till the date of commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution process of the corporate debtor Provided that the person shall be eligible to submit a resolution plan if such person makes payment of all overdue amounts with interest thereon and charges relating to nonperforming asset accounts before submission of resolution plan Provided further that nothing in this clause shall apply to a resolution applicant where such applicant is a financial entity and is not a related party to the corporate debtor.	Facts
Explanation I.For the purposes of this proviso, the expression ?	None
related party?	None
shall not include a financial entity, regulated by a financial sector regulator, if it is a financial creditor of the corporate debtor and is a related party of the corporate debtor solely on account of conversion or substitution of debt into equity shares or instruments convertible into equity shares, prior to the insolvency commencement date.	None
Explanation II.For the purposes of this clause, where a resolution applicant has an account, or an account of a corporate debtor under the management or control of such person or of whom such person is a promoter, classified as nonperforming asset and such account was acquired pursuant to a prior resolution plan approved under this Code, then, the provisions of this clause shall not apply to such resolution applicant for a period of three years from the date of approval of such resolution plan by the Adjudicating Authority under this Code (d) has been convicted for any offence punishable with imprisonment (i) for two years or more under any Act specified under the Twelfth Schedule or (ii) for seven years or more under any other law for the time being in force Provided that this clause shall not apply to a person after the expiry of a period of two years from the date of his release from imprisonment Provided further that this clause shall not apply in relation to a connected person referred to in clause (iii) of Explanation I (e) is disqualified to act as a director under the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) Provided that this clause shall not apply in relation to a connected person referred to in clause (iii) of Explanation I (f) is prohibited by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from trading in securities or accessing the securities markets (g) has been a promoter or in the management or control of a corporate debtor in which a preferential transaction, undervalued transaction, extortionate credit transaction or fraudulent transaction has taken place and in respect of which an order has been made by the Adjudicating Authority under this Code	None
Provided that this clause shall not apply if a preferential transaction, undervalued transaction, extortionate credit transaction or fraudulent transaction has taken place prior to the acquisition of the corporate debtor by the resolution applicant pursuant to a resolution plan approved under this Code or pursuant to a scheme or plan approved by a financial sector regulator or a court, and such resolution applicant has not otherwise contributed to the preferential transaction, undervalued transaction, extortionate credit transaction or fraudulent transaction (h) has executed a guarantee in favour of a creditor in respect of a corporate debtor against which an application for insolvency resolution made by such creditor has been admitted under this Code and such guarantee has been invoked by the creditor and remains unpaid in full or part (i) is subject to any disability, corresponding to clauses (a) to (h), under any law in a jurisdiction outside India or (j) has a connected person not eligible under clauses (a) to (i).	None
Explanation I.For the purposes of this clause, the expression ?	None
connected person? means (i) any person who is the promoter or in the management or control of the resolution applicant or (ii) any person who shall be the promoter or in management or control of the business of the corporate debtor during the implementation of the resolution plan or (iii) the holding company, subsidiary company, associate company or related party of a person referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) The Hon?ble Minister of Finance and Minister of Corporate Affairs, Shri Arun Jaitley, while moving the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill, 2017, stated on 29.12.2017 ?	None
The core and soul of this new Ordinance is really Clause 5, which is Section 29A of the original Bill.	None
I may just explain that once a company goes into the resolution process, then applications would be invited with regard to the potential resolution proposals as far as the company is concerned or the enterprise is concerned.	None
Now a number of ineligibility clauses were not there in the original Act and, therefore, Clause 29A introduces those who are not eligible to apply.	None
For instance there is a clause with regard to an undischarged insolvent who is not eligible to apply a person who has been disqualifies under the Companies Act as a director cannot apply and a person who is prohibited under the SEBI Act cannot apply.	None
So these are statutory disqualifications.	None
And there is also a disqualification in Clause (c) with regard to those who are corporate debtors and who as on the date of the application making a bid do not operationalise the account by paying the interest itself i.e. you cannot say that I have an NPA.	None
I am not making the account operational.	None
The accounts will continue to be NPAs and yet I am going to apply for this.	None
Effectively this clause will mean that those who are in management and on account of whom this insolvent or nonperforming asset has arisen will now try and say.	None
I do not discharge any of the outstanding debts in terms of making the accounts operational and yet I would like to apply and set the enterprise back at a discount value, for this is not the object of this particular Act, So clause 5 has been brought in with that purpose in mind.?	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the aforesaid Bill lays down ?	None
2.	None
The provisions for insolvency resolution and liquidation of a corporate person in the Code did not restrict or bar any person from submitting a resolution plan or participating in the acquisition process of the assets of the company at the time of liquidation.	None
Concerns have been raised that persons who, with their misconduct contributed to defaults of companies or are otherwise undesirable, may misuse this situation due to lack of prohibition or restrictions to participate in the resolution or liquidation process, and gain or regain control of the corporate debtor.	None
This may undermine the processes laid down in the Code as the unscrupulous person would be seen to be rewarded at the expense of the creditors.	None
In addition, in order to check that the undesirable persons who may have submitted their resolution plans in the absence of such a provision, responsibility is also being entrusted on the committee of creditors to give a reasonable period to repay overdue amounts and become eligible.?	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
It is in this background that the section has to be construed.	None
In Ms. Eera Through Dr. Manjula Krippendorf v. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi) Anr., (2017) 15 SCC 133 , this Court, after referring to the golden rule of literal construction, and its older counterpart the ?object rule?	None
in Heydon?s case, referred to the theory of creative interpretation as follows Instances of creative interpretation are when the Court looks at both the literal language as well as the purpose or object of the statute in order to better determine what the words used by the draftsman of legislation mean.	None
In D.R. Venkatachalam v. Transport Commr.	None
D.R. Venkatachalam v. Transport Commr., (1977) 2 SCC 273 , an early instance of this is found in the concurring judgment of Beg, J.	None
The learned Judge put it rather well when he said (SCC p. 287, para 28) 28.	None
It is, however, becoming increasingly fashionable to start with some theory of what is basic to a provision or a chapter or in a statute or even to our Constitution in order to interpret and determine the meaning of a particular provision or rule made to subserve an assumed ?basic?	None
requirement.	None
I think that this novel method of construction puts, if I may say so, the cart before the horse.	None
It is apt to seriously mislead us unless the tendency to use such a mode of construction is checked or corrected by this Court.	None
What is basic for a section or a chapter in a statute is provided firstly, by the words used in the statute itself secondly, by the context in which a provision occurs, or, in other words, by reading the statute as a whole thirdly, by the Preamble which could supply the ?key?	None
to the meaning of the statute in cases of uncertainty or doubt	None
and, fourthly, where some further aid to construction may still be needed to resolve an uncertainty, by the legislative history which discloses the wider context or perspective in which a provision was made to meet a particular need or to satisfy a particular purpose.	None
The last mentioned method consists of an application of the mischief rule laid down in Heydon case Heydon case, (1584) 3 Co Rep 7a 76 ER 637 long ago.?	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx 127.	None
It is thus clear on a reading of English, US, Australian and our own Supreme Court judgments that the ?Lakshman Rekha?	None
has in fact been extended to move away from the strictly literal rule of interpretation back to the rule of the old English case of Heydon Heydon case, (1584)	None
3 Co Rep 7a 76 ER 637, where the Court must have recourse to the purpose, object, text and context of a particular provision before arriving at a judicial result.	None
In fact, the wheel has turned full circle.	None
It started out by the rule as stated in 1584 in Heydon case Heydon case, (1584) 3 Co Rep 7a 76 ER 637, which was then waylaid by the literal interpretation rule laid down by the Privy Council and the House of Lords in the mid1800s, and has come back to restate the rule somewhat in terms of what was most felicitously put over 400 years ago in Heydon case Heydon case, (1584) 3 Co Rep 7a 76 ER 637.?	None
A purposive interpretation of Section 29A, depending both on the text and the context in which the provision was enacted, must, therefore, inform our interpretation of the same.	None
We are concerned in the present matter with subclauses (c), (f), (i) and (j) thereof.	None
It will be noticed that the opening lines of Section 29A contained in the Ordinance of 2017 are different from the opening lines of Section 29A as contained in the Amendment Act of 2017.	None
What is important to note is that the phrase ?persons acting in concert?	Arguments of Respondent
is conspicuous by its absence in the Ordinance of 2017.	None
The concepts of ?promoter?, ?management?	None
and ?control?	Arguments of Respondent
which were contained in the opening lines of Section 29A under the Ordinance have now been transferred to subclause (c) in the Amendment Act of 2017.	None
It is, therefore, important to note that the Amendment Act of 2017 opens with language which is of wider import than that contained in the Ordinance of 2017, evincing an intention to rope in all persons who may be acting in concert with the person submitting a resolution plan.	None
The opening lines of Section 29A of the Amendment Act refer to a de facto as opposed to a de jure position of the persons mentioned therein.	None
This is a typical instance of a ?see through provision?, so that one is able to arrive at persons who are actually in ?control?, whether jointly, or in concert, with other persons.	None
A wooden, literal, interpretation would obviously not permit a tearing of the corporate veil when it comes to the ?person?	None
whose eligibility is to be gone into.	None
However, a purposeful and contextual interpretation, such as is the felt necessity of interpretation of such a provision as Section 29A, alone governs.	None
For example, it is well settled that a shareholder is a separate legal entity from the company in which he holds shares.	None
This may be true generally speaking, but when it comes to a corporate vehicle that is set up for the purpose of submission of a resolution plan, it is not only permissible but imperative for the competent authority to find out as to who are the constituent elements that make up such a company.	None
In such cases, the principle laid down in Salomon v. A Salomon and Co. Ltd.	None
1897 AC 22 will not apply.	None
For it is important to discover in such cases as to who are the real individuals or entities who are acting jointly or in concert, and who have set up such a corporate vehicle for the purpose of submission of a resolution plan.	None
The doctrine of piercing the corporate veil is as well settled as the Salomon (supra.)	None
principle itself.	None
In Life Insurance Corporation of India v. Escorts Ltd.	None
Ors., (1986) 1 SCC 264 , this Court held It was submitted that the thirteen Caparo companies were thirteen companies in name only they were but one and that one was an individual, Mr Swraj Paul.	None
One had only to pierce the corporate veil to discover Mr Swraj Paul lurking behind.	None
It was submitted that thirteen applications were made on behalf of thirteen companies in order to circumvent the scheme which prescribed a ceiling of one per cent on behalf of each nonresident of Indian nationality or origin, or each company 60 per cent of whose shares were owned by nonresidents of Indian nationality origin.	None
Our attention was drawn to the picturesque pronouncement of Lord Denning M.R. in Wallersteiner v. Moir (1974) 3	None
All ER 217 and the decisions of this Court in Tata Engineering and Locomotive Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar (1964) 6	None
SCR 885 , CIT v. Sri Meenakshi Mills Ltd. (1967) 1	None
SCR 934 and Workmen v. Associated Rubber Industry Ltd. (1985) 4 SCC 114 .	None
While it is firmly established ever since Salomon	None
v. A. Salomon Co. Ltd.	None
1897 AC 22 was decided that a company has an independent and legal personality distinct from the individuals who are its members, it has since been held that the corporate veil may be lifted, the corporate personality may be ignored and the individual members recognised for who they are in certain exceptional circumstances Pennington in his Company Law (4th Edn.)	None
states?Four inroads have been made by the law on the principle of the separate legal personality of companies.	None
By far the most extensive of these has been made by legislation imposing taxation.	None
The government, naturally enough, does not willingly suffer schemes for the avoidance of taxation which depend for their success on the employment of the principle of separate legal personality, and in fact legislation has gone so far that in certain circumstances taxation can be heavier if companies are employed by the taxpayer in an attempt to minimise his tax liability than if he uses other means to give effect to his wishes.	None
Taxation of companies is a complex subject, and is outside the scope of this book.	None
The reader who wishes to pursue the subject is referred to the many standard text books on corporation tax, income tax, capital gains tax and capital transfer tax.	None
The other inroads on the principle of separate corporate personality have been made by two sections of the Companies Act, 1948, by judicial disregard of the principle where the protection of public interest is of paramount importance, or where the company has been formed to evade obligations imposed by the law, and by the courts implying in certain cases that a company is an agent or trustee for its members.?	None
In Palmers Company Law (23rd Edn.), the present position in England is stated and the occasions when the corporate veil may be lifted have been enumerated and classified into fourteen categories.	None
Similarly in Gowers Company Law (4th Edn.), a chapter is devoted to lifting the veil?	None
and the various occasions when that may be done are discussed.	None
In Tata Engineering and Locomotive Co. Ltd. (1964) 6	None
SCR 885 the company wanted the corporate veil to be lifted so as to sustain the maintainability of the petition, filed by the company under Article 32 of the Constitution, by treating it as one filed by the shareholders of the company.	None
The request of the company was turned down on the ground that it was not possible to treat the company as a citizen for the purposes of Article 19.	None
In CIT v. Sri Meenakshi Mills Ltd. (1967) 1	None
SCR 934 the corporate veil was lifted and evasion of income tax prevented by paying regard to the economic realities behind the legal facade.	None
In Workmen v. Associated Rubber Industry Ltd. (1985) 4 SCC 114 resort was had to the principle of lifting the veil to prevent devices to avoid welfare legislation.	None
It was emphasised that regard must be had to substance and not the form of a transaction.	None
Generally and broadly speaking, we may say that the corporate veil may be lifted where a statute itself contemplates lifting the veil, or fraud or improper conduct is intended to be prevented, or a taxing statute or a beneficent statute is sought to be evaded or where associated companies are inextricably connected as to be, in reality, part of one concern.	None
It is neither necessary nor desirable to enumerate the classes of cases where lifting the veil is permissible, since that must necessarily depend on the relevant statutory or other provisions, the object sought to be achieved, the impugned conduct, the involvement of the element of the public interest, the effect on parties who may be affected etc.?	None
(Emphasis supplied.)	None
This statement of the law was followed in Union of India v. ABN Amro Bank and others, (2013) 16 SCC 490 , at paragraphs 43 and 44 as follows We are of the view that in a given situation the authorities functioning under FERA find that there are attempts to overreach the provision of Section 29(1) (a), the authority can always lift the veil and examine whether the parties have entered into any fraudulent, sham, circuitous device so as to overcome statutory provisions like Section 29(1)(a).	None
It is trite law that any approval permission obtained by nondisclosure of all necessary information or making a false representation tantamount to approval permission obtained by practising fraud and hence a nullity.	None
Reference may be made to the judgment of this Court in Union of India v. Ramesh Gandhi (2012) 1 SCC 476 .	None
44.	None
Even in Escorts case (1986) 1 SCC 264 , this Court has taken the view that it is neither necessary nor desirable to enumerate the classes of cases where lifting the veil is permissible, since that must necessarily depend on the relevant statutory or other provisions, the object sought to be achieved, the impugned conduct, the involvement of the element of the public interest, the effect on parties who may be affected, etc.	None
In Escorts case (1986) 1 SCC 264 , this Court held as follows (SCC pp. 33536, para 90)?90.	None
Generally and broadly speaking, we may say that the corporate veil may be lifted where a statute itself contemplates lifting the veil, or fraud or improper conduct is intended to be prevented, or a taxing statute or a beneficent statute is sought to be evaded or where associated companies are inextricably connected as to be, in reality, part of one concern.?	None
Similarly in Balwant Rai Saluja Anr. etc. etc. v. Air India Ltd.	None
Ors., (2014) 9 SCC 407 , this Court in following Escorts Ltd. (supra.)	None
, held The doctrine of ?piercing the corporate veil?	None
stands as an exception to the principle that a company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its shareholders with its own legal rights and obligations.	None
It seeks to disregard the separate personality of the company and attribute the acts of the company to those who are allegedly in direct control of its operation.	None
The starting point of this doctrine was discussed in the celebrated case of Salomon	None
v. Salomon Co. Ltd.	None
1897 AC 22 Lord Halsbury LC, negating the applicability of this doctrine to the facts of the case, stated that (AC pp.	None
30 31)?a company must be treated like any other independent person with its rights and liabilities legally appropriate to itself whatever may have been the ideas or schemes of those who brought it into existence.?	None
Most of the cases subsequent to Salomon case 1897 AC 22, attributed the doctrine of piercing the veil to the fact that the company was a ?sham?	None
or a ?faade?.	None
However, there was yet to be any clarity on applicability of the said doctrine.	None
71.	None
In recent times, the law has been crystallised around the six principles formulated by Munby, J. in Ben Hashem v. Ali Shayif Ben Hashem v. Ali Shayif, 2008 EWHC 2380 (Fam).	None
The six principles, as found at paras 15964 of the case are as follows(i) Ownership and control of a company were not enough to justify piercing the corporate veil (ii) The court cannot pierce the corporate veil, even in the absence of thirdparty interests in the company, merely because it is thought to be necessary in the interests of justice (iii)	None
The corporate veil can be pierced only if there is some impropriety (iv) The impropriety in question must be linked to the use of the company structure to avoid or conceal liability (v) To justify piercing the corporate veil, there must be both control of the company by the wrongdoer(s) and impropriety, that is use or misuse of the company by them as a device or facade to conceal their wrongdoing and (vi)	None
The company may be a ?faade?	None
even though it was not originally incorporated with any deceptive intent, provided that it is being used for the purpose of deception at the time of the relevant transactions.	None
The court would, however, pierce the corporate veil only so far as it was necessary in order to provide a remedy for the particular wrong which those controlling the company had done 72.	None
The principles laid down by Ben Hashem case Ben Hashem v. Ali Shayif, 2008 EWHC 2380 (Fam) have been reiterated by the UK Supreme Court by Lord Neuberger in Prest v. Petrodel Resources Ltd. (2013) 2 AC 415, UKSC at para 64.	None
Lord Sumption, in Prest case (2013) 2 AC 415, finally observed as follows (AC p. 488, para 35)?35.	None
I conclude that there is a limited principle of English law which applies when a person is under an existing legal obligation or liability or subject to an existing legal restriction which he deliberately evades or whose enforcement he deliberately frustrates by interposing a company under his control.	None
The court may then pierce the corporate veil for the purpose, and only for the purpose, of depriving the company or its controller of the advantage that they would otherwise have obtained by the companys separate legal personality.	None
The principle is properly described as a limited one, because in almost every case where the test is satisfied, the facts will in practice disclose a legal relationship between the company and its controller which will make it unnecessary to pierce the corporate veil.?	None
The position of law regarding this principle in India has been enumerated in various decisions.	None
A Constitution Bench of this Court in LIC v. Escorts Ltd. (1986) 1 SCC 264 , while discussing the doctrine of corporate veil, held that (SCC pp. 33536, para 90)?90.	None
Generally and broadly speaking, we may say that the corporate veil may be lifted where a statute itself contemplates lifting the veil, or fraud or improper conduct is intended to be prevented, or a taxing statute or a beneficent statute is sought to be evaded or where associated companies are inextricably connected as to be, in reality, part of one concern.	None
It is neither necessary nor desirable to enumerate the classes of cases where lifting the veil is permissible, since that must necessarily depend on the relevant statutory or other provisions, the object sought to be achieved, the impugned conduct, the involvement of the element of the public interest, the effect on parties who may be affected, etc. ?	None
Similarly in Delhi Development Authority v. Skipper Construction Company (	None
P) Ltd.	None
Another, (1996) 4 SCC 622 , this Court held In Salomon v.	None
Salomon Co. Ltd.	None
1897 AC 22 the House of Lords had observed,?the company is at law a different person altogether from the subscribers and, though it may be that after incorporation the business is precisely the same as it was before, the same persons are managers, and the same hands receive the profits, the company is not in law the agent of the subscribers or trustee for them.	None
Nor are the subscribers as members liable, in any shape or form, except to the extent and in the manner provided by that Act.?	None
Since then, however, the courts have come to recognise several exceptions to the said rule.	None
While it is not necessary to refer to all of them, the one relevant to us is ?	None
when the corporate personality is being blatantly used as a cloak for fraud or improper conduct? .	None
Gower Modern Company Law 4th Edn.	None
(1979) at p. 137.	None
Pennington ( Company Law 5th Edn. 1985 at p. 53) also states that ?where the protection of public interests is of paramount importance or where the company has been formed to evade obligations imposed by the law?	None
, the court will disregard the corporate veil.	None
A Professor of Law, S. Ottolenghi in his article ?	None
From peeping behind the Corporate Veil, to ignoring it completely? says ?	None
the concept of piercing the veil?	None
in the United States is much more developed than in the UK.	None
The motto, which was laid down by Sanborn, J. and cited since then as the law, is that when the notion of legal entity is used to defeat public convenience, justify wrong, protect fraud, or defend crime, the law will regard the corporation as an association of persons?.	None
The same can be seen in various European jurisdictions.?	None
(1990) 53 Modern Law Review 338 Indeed, as far back as 1912, another American Professor L. Maurice Wormser examined the American decisions on the subject in a brilliantly written article ?	None
Piercing the veil of corporate entity?	None
published in (1912) XII Columbia Law Review 496 and summarised their central holding in the following words?The various classes of cases where the concept of corporate entity should be ignored and the veil drawn aside have now been briefly reviewed.	None
What general rule, if any, can be laid down?	None
The nearest approximation to generalisation which the present state of the authorities would warrant is this When the conception of corporate entity is employed to defraud creditors, to evade an existing obligation, to circumvent a statute, to achieve or perpetuate monopoly, or to protect knavery or crime, the courts will draw aside the web of entity, will regard the corporate company as an association of live, upanddoing, men and women shareholders, and will do justice between real persons.?	None
In Palmers Company Law, this topic is discussed in Part II of Vol.	None
I. Several situations where the court will disregard the corporate veil are set out.	None
It would be sufficient for our purposes to quote the eighth exception.	None
It runs?The courts have further shown themselves willing to lifting the veil?	None
where the device of incorporation is used for some illegal or improper purpose.	None
Where a vendor of land sought to avoid the action for specific performance by transferring the land in breach of contract to a company he had formed for the purpose, the court treated the company as a mere sham?	None
and made an order for specific performance against both the vendor and the company.?	None
Similar views have been expressed by all the commentators on the Company Law which we do not think necessary to refer to.	None
26.	None
The law as stated by Palmer and Gower has been approved by this Court in TELCO v. State of Bihar (1964) 6	None
SCR 885 .	None
The following passage from the decision is apposite?	None
Gower has classified seven categories of cases where the veil of a corporate body has been lifted.	None
But, it would not be possible to evolve a rational, consistent and inflexible principle which can be invoked in determining the question as to whether the veil of the corporation should be lifted or not.	None
Broadly stated, where fraud is intended to be prevented, or trading with an enemy is sought to be defeated, the veil of a corporation is lifted by judicial decisions and the shareholders are held to be the persons who actually work for the corporation.?	None
In DHN Food Distributors Ltd. v. London Borough of Tower Hamlets (1976) 3	None
All ER 462 the court of appeal dealt with a group of companies.	None
Lord Denning quoted with approval the statement in Gowers Company Law that ?	None
there is evidence of a general tendency to ignore the separate legal entities of various companies within a group, and to look instead at the economic entity of the whole group? .	None
The learned Master of Rolls observed that ?	None
this group is virtually the same as a partnership in which all the three companies are partners? .	None
He called it a case of ?	None
three in one?	None
and, alternatively, as ?one in three?.	None
28.	None
The concept of corporate entity was evolved to encourage and promote trade and commerce but not to commit illegalities or to defraud people.	None
Where, therefore, the corporate character is employed for the purpose of committing illegality or for defrauding others, the court would ignore the corporate character and will look at the reality behind the corporate veil so as to enable it to pass appropriate orders to do justice between the parties concerned.	None
The fact that Tejwant Singh and members of his family have created several corporate bodies does not prevent this Court from treating all of them as one entity belonging to and controlled by Tejwant Singh and family if it is found that these corporate bodies are merely cloaks behind which lurks Tejwant Singh and or members of his family and that the device of incorporation was really a ploy adopted for committing illegalities and or to defraud people.?	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
It is thus clear that, where a statute itself lifts the corporate veil, or where protection of public interest is of paramount importance, or where a company has been formed to evade obligations imposed by the law, the court will disregard the corporate veil.	Reasoning
Further, this principle is applied even to group companies, so that one is able to look at the economic entity of the group as a whole.	None
The expression ?acting jointly?	Arguments of Respondent
in the opening sentence of Section 29A cannot be confused with ?joint venture agreements?, as was sought to be argued by Shri Rohatgi.	Arguments of Respondent
He cited various judgments including Faqir Chand Gulati v. Uppal Agencies Pvt.	Arguments of Respondent
Ltd. Anr., (2008) 10 SCC 345 , and Laurel Energetics Private Limited v. Securities and Exchange Board of India, (2017) 8 SCC 541 , to buttress his submission that a joint venture is a contractually agreed sharing of control over an economic activity.	Arguments of Respondent
We are afraid that these judgments are wholly inapplicable.	None
All that is to be seen by the expression ?acting jointly?	Reasoning
is whether certain persons have got together and are acting ?jointly?	Reasoning
in the sense of acting together.	Reasoning
If this is made out on the facts, no super added element of ?joint venture?	Reasoning
as is understood in law is to be seen.	Reasoning
The other important phrase is ?in concert?.	Reasoning
By Section 3(37) of the Code, words and expressions used but not defined in the Code but defined inter alia by the SEBI Act, 1992, and the Companies Act, 2013, shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in those Acts.	Reasoning
In exercise of powers conferred by Sections 11 and 30 of the SEBI Act, 1992, the 2011 Takeover Regulations have been promulgated by SEBI.	Reasoning
Originally, the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1994, defined ?	Arguments of Respondent
persons acting in concert?	Arguments of Respondent
as follows (d) ?person acting in concert?	None
comprises persons who, pursuant to an agreement or understanding acquires or agrees to acquire shares in a company for a common objective o purpose of substantial acquisition of shares and includes i. a company, its holding company, or subsidiaries of such companies or companies under the same management either individually or all with each other.	None
ii.	None
a company with any of its directors, or any person entrusted with the management of the funds of the company iii. directors of companies, referred to in clause (i) and his associates and iv. mutual fund, financial institution, merchant banker, portfolio manager and any investment company in which any person has an interest as director, fund manager, trustee, or as a shareholder having not less than 2 of the paidup capital of that company.	None
Explanation For the purposes of this clause ?	None
associate?	None
means A.	None
Any relative of that person within the meaning of section 6 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)	None
B. the director or his relative whether individually or in aggregate holding more than 2 of the paidup equity capital of such company.?	None
This was replaced in 1997 by the Regulations of 1997, and then further by the 2011 Takeover Regulations.37.	None
The Justice P.N. Bhagwati Committee Report on Takeovers, 1997, pursuant to which the Regulations of 1997 were framed, stated as follows 2.22 Definition of Persons acting in concert? ?	None
Persons acting in concert?	Arguments of Respondent
have particular relevance to public offers, for often an acquirer can acquire shares or voting rights in a company ?in concert?	None
with any other person in a manner that the acquisitions made by him remain below the threshold limit, though taken together with the voting rights of persons in concert, the threshold may well be exceeded.	None
It is therefore, important to define ?persons acting in concert?.	None
To be acting in concert with an acquirer, persons must fulfil certain ?bright line?	None
tests.	None
They must have commonality of objectives and a community of interests which could be acquisition of shares or voting rights beyond the threshold limit, or gaining control over the company and their act of acquiring the shares or voting rights in a company must serve this common objective.	None
Implicit in the concerted action of these persons must be an element of cooperation.	None
And as has been observed, this cooperation could be extended in several ways, directly or indirectly, or through an agreement formal or informal.	None
The committee was of the view that the present definition of ?persons acting in concert?	None
in subclause (d) of regulation 2 needed to be strengthened by incorporating all the ingredients discussed in the foregoing paragraph to bring out clearly the import of acting in concert.	None
Any person fulfilling the ?bright line?	None
tests would be acting in concert.	None
But there could also be certain persons who, by their position in relation to an acquirer or by the very nature of their business, could be generally presumed to be acting in concert, unless proved to the contrary.	None
In other words, a rebuttable presumption of being persons in concert with burden of proof cast on them will be raised against these persons.	None
The Committee was of the view that while the net of presumption should be cast to include all such persons, it should not be cast too widely so as to impinge on the freedom of any person to carry on his normal business activities.	None
In other words, there should be well defined bounds of presumption.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx 2.23 Burden of proof on persons acting in concert?	None
The Committee further noted that in the existing Regulations, there is no burden of proof on the persons acting in concert?.	None
Once the burden of proof is cast on the persons presumed to be acting in concert, it would be important to ensure that the persons are grouped in categories such that the persons may be presumed to be acting in concert only with another person belonging to the same category.	None
A general reading of the existing provisions implies that a person belonging to any one of the categories mentioned in subclauses (i) to (iv) of clause (d) of regulation 2 could be presumed to be acting in concert with a person belonging to any other category.	None
Thus, a company could be presumed to be acting in concert with a merchant banker, mutual fund, or any other body even though they may all be distinctly independent entities without any connection whatsoever.	None
Such irrebuttable presumption of a common motive amongst unrelated parties would be illogical and not legally tenable.	None
A distinction must be made between persons who could be presumed to be acting in concert unless proved to the contrary and others who may be acting in concert even though such a presumption cannot be raised against them.	None
In this context, it may be noted that the UK City Code of Takeovers and Mergers, for this very reason, has divided the persons acting in concert into groups in such a manner that these persons would in the natural course of affairs be presumed to be acting in concert only with another person in the same group.	None
This served to set the pattern for raising rebuttable presumptions.	None
The Committee recommends that .	None
In the definition of persons acting in concert, the persons be grouped in such a manner in the same group or category that they bear such relationship amongst themselves as could justify raising of a presumption in the normal course of affairs that they are acting in concert.	None
For example, a sponsor of a mutual fund could be presumed to be acting in concert with the trustee company or asset management company of the same mutual fund similarly a merchant banker may be presumed to be acting in concert with his client as acquirer.	None
But no presumption may be made that persons in one group are acting in concert with persons in another group.	None
It has to be proved by evidence that they are acting in concert.	None
(Reference Part II of the Report subclause (e) of subregulation (1) of regulation (2) .	None
The definition of the persons acting in concert as defined above would imply a rebuttable presumption.	None
The question which arises is who would rule whether the presumption has been rebutted.	None
The responsibility of ruling will lie with SEBI and over a period of time, jurisprudence on the subject will develop.?	None
By Regulation 2(1)(q) of the 2011 Takeover Regulations, ?persons acting in concert? is defined as follows (q) ?	None
persons acting in concert?	Arguments of Respondent
means, (1) persons who, with a common objective or purpose of acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or exercising control over a target company, pursuant to an agreement or understanding, formal or informal, directly or indirectly cooperate for acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or exercise of control over the target company.	None
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the persons falling within the following categories shall be deemed to be persons acting in concert with other persons within the same category, unless the contrary is established, (i) a company, its holding company, subsidiary company and any company under the same management or control (ii) a company, its directors, and any person entrusted with the management of the company (iii) directors of companies referred to in item (i) and (ii) of this subclause and associates of such directors (iv) promoters and members of the promoter group (v) immediate relatives (vi) a mutual fund, its sponsor, trustees, trustee company, and asset management company (vii) a collective investment scheme and its collective investment management company, trustees and trustee company (viii) a venture capital fund and its sponsor, trustees, trustee company and asset management company (viiia) an alternative investment fund and its sponsor, trustees, trustee company and manager (ix) (x) a merchant banker and its client, who is an acquirer (xi) a portfolio manager and its client, who is an acquirer (xii) banks, financial advisors and stock brokers of the acquirer, or of any company which is a holding company or subsidiary of the acquirer, and where the acquirer is an individual, of the immediate relative of such individual Provided that this subclause shall not apply to a bank whose sole role is that of providing normal commercial banking services or activities in relation to an open offer under these regulations (xiii) an investment company or fund and any person who has an interest in such investment company or fund as a shareholder or unitholder having not less than 10 per cent of the paidup capital of the investment company or unit capital of the fund, and any other investment company or fund in which such person or his associate holds not less than 10 per cent of the paidup capital of that investment company or unit capital of that fund Provided that nothing contained in this sub clause shall apply to holding of units of mutual funds registered with the Board Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this clause ? ?	None
associate?	None
of a person means, (a) any immediate relative of such person (b) trusts of which such person or his immediate relative is a trustee (c) partnership firm in which such person or his immediate relative is a partner and (d) members of Hindu undivided families of which such person is a coparcener?	None
It will be seen from the wide language used, that any understanding, even if it is informal, and even if it is to indirectly cooperate to exercise control over a target company, is included.	None
Under subclause (2) of clause (q), a deeming fiction is enacted, by which a presumption is raised in the categories mentioned, that a person falling within one category is deemed to be acting in concert with another person mentioned in the same category, unless the contrary is established.	None
The corporate veil is not merely torn but is left in tatters by subclauses (i) to (iv) of Regulation 2(1) (q)(2).	None
What is also important to note is that ?immediate relatives?	None
are also covered by subclause (v) i.e., father and son, brothers, etc.	None
Also of importance is the definition of ?associate?	None
in the explanation to Regulation 2(1)(q)(2), which subsumes not merely immediate relatives but other forms in which a person can be associated with another  which includes the form of trust, partnership firm and HUF.	None
What is of great importance is that wherever persons act jointly or in concert with the ?person?	None
who submits a resolution plan, all such persons are covered by Section	None
29A. It is interesting to note that the report of the Insolvency Law Committee of March, 2018, wanted to curtail the wide definition of persons acting jointly or in concert as follows 14.3 The term person acting jointly or in concert has not been defined in the Code and using the definition provided in the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 results in inclusion of an extremely wide gamut of person within the scope of section	None
29A. In practice, it is unclear whether the term connected person in clause (j) applies to only the resolution applicant or even persons acting jointly or in concert with such person.	None
If the latter interpretation is taken, this provision would be applicable to multiple layers of persons who are related to the resolution applicant even remotely.	None
Further, ARCs, banks and alternate investment funds which are specifically excluded from the definition of connected person provided in section 29A may be caught by the term person acting jointly or in concert with such person.	None
The Committee felt that section 29A was introduced to disqualify only those who had contributed in the downfall of the corporate debtor or were unsuitable to run the company because of their antecedents whether directly or indirectly.	None
Therefore, extending the disqualification to a resolution application owing to infirmities in persons remotely related may have adverse consequences.	None
Such interpretation of this provision may shrink the pool of resolution applicants.	None
Accordingly, the Committee felt that the words,?, if such person, or any other person acting jointly or in concert with such person in the first line of section 29A must be deleted.	None
This would clarify that section 29A is applicable to the resolution applicant and its connected person only.	None
Further, in order to ensure that anyone who acts with a common objective along with the resolution applicant to acquire shares, voting rights or control of the corporate debtor is required to pass the test laid down in section 29A, the Committee felt that the following clause must be added as clause (iv) to the definition of connected person in the explanation to clause (j), (iv) any persons who along with the resolution applicant, with a common objective or purpose of acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or exercising control over a corporate debtor, pursuant to an agreement or understanding, formal or informal, directly or indirectly cooperate for acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or exercise of control over the corporate debtor.?	None
This part of the report has not been accepted by the legislature, as none of the suggested changes in the law have been made.	None
In Technip SA v. SMS Holding (Pvt.)	None
Ltd.	None
Ors., (2005) 5 SCC 465 , this Court after referring to the Bhagwati Committee Report of 1997, stated as follows The standard of proof required to establish such concert is one of probability and may be established?if having regard to their relation etc., their conduct, and their common interest, that it may be inferred that they must be acting together evidence of actual concerted acting is normally difficult to obtain, and is not insisted upon?	None
CIT v. East Coast Commercial Co. Ltd., (1967) 1	None
SCR 821 .	None
(SCR p. 829 H) While deciding whether a company was one in which the public were substantially interested within the meaning of Section 23A of the Income Tax Act, 1922 this Court said?The test is not whether they have actually acted in concert but whether the circumstances are such that human experience tells us that it can safely be taken that they must be acting together.	None
It is not necessary to state the kind of evidence that will prove such concerted actings.	None
Each case must necessarily be decided on its own facts.?	None
CIT v. Jubilee Mills Ltd., (1963) 48 ITR 9 (SC), p. 20	None
In Guinness PLC and Distillers Co. PLC Guinness PLC and Distillers Company PLC (Panel hearing on 2581987 and 291987 at p. 10052 Reasons for decisions of the Panel.)	None
the question before the Takeover Panel was whether Guinness had acted in concert with Pipetec when Pipetec purchased shares in Distillers Company PLC.	None
Various factors were taken into consideration to conclude that Guinness had acted in concert with Pipetec to get control over Distillers Company.	None
The Panel said?The nature of acting in concert requires that the definition be drawn in deliberately wide terms.	None
It covers an understanding as well as an agreement, and an informal as well as a formal arrangement, which leads to cooperation to purchase shares to acquire control of a company.	None
This is necessary, as such arrangements are often informal, and the understanding may arise from a hint.	None
The understanding may be tacit, and the definition covers situations where the parties act on the basis of a nod or a wink?.	None
Unless persons declare this agreement or understanding, there is rarely direct evidence of action in concert, and the Panel must draw on its experience and common sense to determine whether those involved in any dealings have some form of understanding and are acting in cooperation with each other.?	None
Guinness PLC and Distillers Company PLC (Panel hearing on 2581987 and 291987 at p. 10052	None
Reasons for decisions of the Panel.)?	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
In M s. Daiichi Sankyo Company Ltd. v. Jayaram Chigurupati Ors., (2010) 7 SCC 449 , this Court referred to the concept of ?persons acting in concert?	None
and held that there must be a shared common objective for substantial acquisition of shares of a target company under the SEBI regulations.	None
A fortuitous relationship coming into existence by accident or chance obviously cannot amount to ?persons acting in concert?.	None
This Court held The other limb of the concept requires two or more persons joining together with the shared common objective and purpose of substantial acquisition of shares, etc. of a certain target company.	None
There can be no ?persons acting in concert?	None
unless there is a shared common objective or purpose between two or more persons of substantial acquisition of shares, etc. of the target company.	None
For, dehors the element of the shared common objective or purpose the idea of ?person acting in concert? is as meaningless as a criminal conspiracy without any agreement to commit a criminal offence.	None
The idea of ?persons acting in concert? is not about a fortuitous relationship coming into existence by accident or chance.	None
The relationship can come into being only by design, by meeting of minds between two or more persons leading to the shared common objective or purpose of acquisition or substantial acquisition of shares, etc. of the target company.	None
It is another matter that the common objective or purpose may be in pursuance of an agreement or an understanding, formal or informal the acquisition of shares, etc. may be direct or indirect or the persons acting in concert may cooperate in actual acquisition of shares, etc. or they may agree to cooperate in such acquisition.	None
Nonetheless, the element of the shared common objective or purpose is the sine qua non for the relationship of ?persons acting in concert?	None
to come into being.?	None
(emphasis supplied) When coming to the presumption created by the provision, this Court held that the deeming provision is left open to rebuttal as indicated by the words ?	None
unless the contrary is established?	None
(see paragraph 54 of Daiichi (supra.)).	None
Finally, this Court held that whether a person is or is not acting in concert would depend upon the facts of each case.	None
(see paragraph 57 of Daiichi (supra.)).	None
When we come to subclause (c) of Section 29A, the first thing that was argued, at which the parties were at loggerheads, was the time at which subclause (c) can be said to operate.	None
According to Shri Rohatgi, in the original subclause (c), pre amendment, the time must necessarily be the date of commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution process, as is mentioned by the Section itself.	None
According to Messrs Salve and Singhvi, it is clear that since submission of a resolution plan is spoken of, it is the time of submission of such plan and not any anterior stage.	None
According to us, it is clear that the opening words of Section 29A furnish a clue as to the time at which subclause (c) is to operate.	Reasoning
The opening words of Section 29A state ?	None
a person shall not be eligible to submit a resolution plan? .	None
It is clear therefore that the stage of ineligibility attaches when the resolution plan is submitted by a resolution applicant.	Reasoning
The contrary view expressed by Shri Rohatgi is obviously incorrect, as the date of commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution process is only relevant for the purpose of calculating whether one year has lapsed from the date of classification of a person as a non performing asset.	Reasoning
Further, the expression used is ?has?, which as Dr. Singhvi has correctly argued, is in praesenti.	Reasoning
This is to be contrasted with the expression ?has been?, which is used in sub clauses (d) and (g), which refers to an anterior point of time.	Reasoning
Consequently, the amendment of 2018 introducing the words ?	Reasoning
at the time of submission of the resolution plan?	Reasoning
is clarificatory, as this was always the correct interpretation as to the point of time at which the disqualification in subclause (c) of Section 29A will attach.	Reasoning
In fact, the amendment was made pursuant to the Insolvency Law Committee Report of March, 2018.	None
That report clearly stated ?	None
In relation to applicability of section 29A(c), the Committee also discussed that it must be clarified that the disqualification pursuant to section 29A(c) shall be applicable if such NPA accounts are held by the resolution applicant or its connected persons at the time of submission of the resolution plan to the RP.?	None
The ingredients of subclause (c) are that, the ineligibility to submit a resolution plan attaches if any person, as is referred to in the opening lines of Section 29A, either itself has an account, or is a promoter of, or in the management or control of, a corporate debtor which has an account, which account has been classified as a nonperforming asset, for a period of at least one year from the date of such classification till the date of commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution process.	Reasoning
For the purpose of applying this subsection, any one of three things, which are disjunctive, needs to be established.	Reasoning
The corporate debtor may be under the management of the person referred to in Section 29A, the corporate debtor may be a person under the control of such person, or the corporate debtor may be a person of whom such person is a promoter.	Reasoning
The expression ?management? would refer to the de jure management of a corporate debtor.	None
The de jure management of a corporate debtor would ordinarily vest in a Board of Directors, and would include, in accord with the definitions of ?manager?, ?managing director?	None
and ?officer?	None
in Sections 2(53), 2(54) and 2(59) respectively of the Companies Act, 2013, the persons mentioned therein.	None
The expression ?control?	None
is defined in Section 2(27) of the Companies Act, 2013 as follows (27) ?	None
control?	Arguments of Respondent
shall include the right to appoint majority of the directors or to control the management or policy decisions exercisable by a person or persons acting individually or in concert, directly or indirectly, including by virtue of their shareholding or management rights or shareholders agreements or voting agreements or in any other manner?	None
The expression ?control?	None
is therefore defined in two parts.	None
The first part refers to de jure control, which includes the right to appoint a majority of the directors of a company.	None
The second part refers to de facto control.	None
So long as a person or persons acting in concert, directly or indirectly, can positively influence, in any manner, management or policy decisions, they could be said to be ?in control?.	None
A management decision is a decision to be taken as to how the corporate body is to be run in its day to day affairs.	None
A policy decision would be a decision that would be beyond running day to day affairs, i.e., long term decisions.	None
So long as management or policy decisions can be, or are in fact, taken by virtue of shareholding, management rights, shareholders agreements, voting agreements or otherwise, control can be said to exist.	None
Thus, the expression ?control?, in Section 29A(c), denotes only positive control, which means that the mere power to block special resolutions of a company cannot amount to control. ?	None
Control?	Arguments of Respondent
here, as contrasted with ?management?, means de facto control of actual management or policy decisions that can be or are in fact taken.	None
A judgment of the Securities Appellate Tribunal in M s Subhkam Ventures (I) Private Limited v. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Appeal No. 8 of 2009 decided on 15.1.2010), made the following observations	None
qua ?	None
control?	Arguments of Respondent
under the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeover) Regulations, 1997, wherein ?control?	None
is defined in Regulation 2(1) (e) in similar terms as in Section 2(27) of the Companies Act, 2013.	None
The Securities Appellate Tribunal held The term control has been defined in Regulation 2(1)(c) of the takeover code to include the right to appoint majority of the directors or to control the management or policy decisions exercisable by a person or persons acting individually or in concert, directly or indirectly, including by virtue of their shareholding or management rights or shareholders agreements or voting agreements or in any other manner.	None
This definition is an inclusive one and not exhaustive and it has two distinct and separate features i) the right to appoint majority of directors or, ii) the ability to control the management or policy decisions by various means referred to in the definition.	None
This control of management or policy decisions could be by virtue of shareholding or management rights or shareholders agreement or voting agreements or in any other manner.	None
This definition appears to be similar to the one as given in Blacks Law Dictionary (Eighth Edition) at page 353 where this term has been defined as under ?	None
Control  The direct or indirect power to direct the management and policies of a person or entity, whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise the power or authority to manage, direct, or oversee.?	None
Control, according to the definition, is a proactive and not a reactive power.	None
It is a power by which an acquirer can command the target company to do what he wants it to do.	None
Control really means creating or controlling a situation by taking the initiative.	None
Power by which an acquirer can only prevent a company from doing what the latter wants to do is by itself not control.	None
In that event, the acquirer is only reacting rather than taking the initiative.	None
It is a positive power and not a negative power.	None
In a board managed company, it is the board of directors that is in control.	None
If an acquirer were to have power to appoint majority of directors, it is obvious that he would be in control of the company but that is not the only way to be in control.	None
If an acquirer were to control the management or policy decisions of a company, he would be in control.	None
This could happen by virtue of his shareholding or management rights or by reason of shareholders agreements or voting agreements or in any other manner.	None
The test really is whether the acquirer is in the driving seat.	None
To extend the metaphor further, the question would be whether he controls the steering, accelerator, the gears and the brakes.	None
If the answer to these questions is in the affirmative, then alone would he be in control of the company.	None
In other words, the question to be asked in each case would be whether the acquirer is the driving force behind the company and whether he is the one providing motion to the organization.	None
If yes, he is in control but not otherwise.	None
In short control means effective control.?	None
We think that these observations are apposite, and apply to the expression ?	None
control?	Arguments of Respondent
in Section 29A(c).	None
Section 29A(c) speaks of a corporate debtor ?	None
under the management or control of such person?.	None
The expression ?under? would seem to suggest positive or proactive control, as opposed to mere negative or reactive control.	None
This becomes even clearer when subclause (g) of Section 29A is read, wherein the expression used is ?in the management or control of a corporate debtor?.	None
Under subclause (g), only a person who is in proactive or positive control of a corporate debtor can take the proactive decisions mentioned in subclause (g), such as, entering into preferential, undervalued, extortionate credit, or fraudulent transactions.	None
It is thus clear that in the expression ?management or control?, the two words take colour from each other, in which case the principle of noscitur a sociis must also be held to apply.	None
Thus viewed, what is referred to in subclauses (c) and (g) is de jure or de facto proactive or positive control, and not mere negative control which may flow from an expansive reading of the definition of the word ?control?	None
contained in Section 2(27) of the Companies Act, 2013, which is inclusive and not exhaustive in nature.	Reasoning
In a recent judgment delivered by one of us (Nariman, J.) in Chintalapati Srinivasa Raju v. Securities and Exchange Board of India, (2018) 7 SCC 443 , this Court after referring to the definition of ?control?	None
in the SEBI regulations, held on facts that an executive director, on a fixed monthly salary, post resignation, cannot be held to be a person exercising ?control?	None
within the meaning of the SEBI regulations.	None
This Court referred to with approval the following test laid down in Securities and Exchange Board of India v. Kishore R. Ajmera, (2016) 6 SCC 368  ?	None
26.	None
It is a fundamental principle of law that proof of an allegation levelled against a person may be in the form of direct substantive evidence or, as in many cases, such proof may have to be inferred by a logical process of reasoning from the totality of the attending facts and circumstances surrounding the allegations charges made and levelled.	None
While direct evidence is a more certain basis to come to a conclusion, yet, in the absence thereof the Courts cannot be helpless.	None
It is the judicial duty to take note of the immediate and proximate facts and circumstances surrounding the events on which the charges allegations are founded and to reach what would appear to the Court to be a reasonable conclusion therefrom.	None
The test would always be that what inferential process that a reasonable prudent man would adopt to arrive at a conclusion.?	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The third concept is that of a promoter. ?	None
Promoter? is defined by Section 2(69) of the Companies Act, 2013 as follows (69) ?	Arguments of Respondent
promoter? means a person (a) who has been named as such in a prospectus or is identified by the company in the annual return referred to in Section 92 or (b) who has control over the affairs of the company, directly or indirectly whether as a shareholder, director or otherwise or (c) in accordance with whose advice, directions or instructions the Board of Directors of the company is accustomed to act Provided that nothing in subclause (c) shall apply to a person who is acting merely in a professional capacity?	None
Here again, subclause (a) refers to a de jure position, namely, where a person is expressly named in a prospectus or identified by the company in an annual return as a promoter.	None
Sub clauses (b) and (c) speak of a de facto position.	None
Under subclause (b), so long as a person has ?control?	None
over the affairs of a company, directly or indirectly, in any manner, he could be said to be a promoter of such company.	None
Under subclause (c), such person need not be a member of the Board of Directors of a company, but can be a person who in fact advises, directs or instructs the Board to act.	None
Under the proviso, only a person who acts in a professional capacity is excluded from the talons of sub clause (c).	None
The interpretation of Section 29A(c) now becomes clear.	Reasoning
Any person who wishes to submit a resolution plan, if he or it does so acting jointly, or in concert with other persons, which person or other persons happen to either manage or control or be promoters of a corporate debtor, who is classified as a nonperforming asset and whose debts have not been paid off for a period of at least one year before commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution process, becomes ineligible to submit a resolution plan.	Reasoning
This provision therefore ensures that if a person wishes to submit a resolution plan, and if such person or any person acting jointly or any person in concert with such person, happens to either manage, control, or be promoter of a corporate debtor declared as a nonperforming asset one year before the corporate insolvency resolution process begins, is ineligible to submit a resolution plan.	Reasoning
The first proviso to subclause (c) makes it clear that the ineligibility can only be removed if the person submitting a resolution plan makes payment of all overdue amounts with interest thereon and charges relating to the nonperforming asset in question before submission of a resolution plan.	Reasoning
The position in law is thus clear.	Reasoning
Any person who wishes to submit a resolution plan acting jointly or in concert with other persons, any of whom may either manage, control or be a promoter of a corporate debtor classified as a nonperforming asset in the period abovementioned, must first pay off the debt of the said corporate debtor classified as a nonperforming asset in order to become eligible under Section 29A(c).	Reasoning
However, Messrs Salve and Singhvi have argued that the expression ?	Arguments of Petitioner
before submission of resolution plan?	Arguments of Petitioner
contained in the proviso must be read in a commercially sensible manner.	Arguments of Petitioner
The provision must, therefore, be interpreted to make it workable, and create a situation so that banks can recover the maximum possible amounts from the NPAs generally, and not merely from the NPAs of the corporate debtor in respect of which it is receiving resolution plans.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this context, therefore, if there is a system by which a person who presents a resolution plan can pay off the entire amount of the NPAs as a part of its resolution plan, to be appropriated before the resolution plan is accepted and implemented, it would fully subserve the object of both the proviso and the statute generally.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to them, the words of a statute can be altered suitably to avoid hardship or absurdity.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are afraid that we cannot accept the aforesaid submission.	None
The plain language of the proviso makes it clear, that ineligibility can only be removed if the necessary payment is made before submission of a resolution plan.	Reasoning
It is not possible to accede to the argument that, commercially speaking, no person would ever make a speculative bid, where he would pay off the debt of another related corporate debtor, classified as an NPA, without being certain that his resolution plan would be accepted, as this would narrow the pool of resolution applicants to nil, and therefore stultify the object sought to be achieved by the proviso to Section 29A(c).	Reasoning
First, it is clear that there may be persons who may submit resolution plans, either by themselves, or in concert, or jointly with other persons who do not have debts which are declared as NPAs.	Reasoning
Also, it is very difficult to say that in no circumstance whatsoever would a person submitting a resolution plan pay off the NPA dues of another person, with whom it is acting in concert or jointly.	Reasoning
The dues may be such that it may be worth the while of the person, together with the persons with whom he is acting in concert or jointly, to first pay off the dues of the concerned corporate debtor whose account has been declared to be an NPA, as such dues may be negligible when compared with the gaining of control of the corporate debtor that is sought to be run as a going concern as per a resolution plan submitted.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, impossible to say that the plain, literal, meaning of the language used by the proviso leads to absurdity or hardship.	Reasoning
This interpretation is also in line with the object sought to be achieved, namely, that other corporate debtors who are declared as NPAs, whose debts may never be cleared in full, are required to be cleared as a condition precedent to submission of a resolution plan under the Code.	Reasoning
In order, therefore, to make the statute ?workable?, as is suggested by Messrs Salve and Singhvi, we cannot disregard the plain language of the proviso and substitute words which would have the opposite effect.	Reasoning
Since Section 29A(c) is a seethrough provision, great care must be taken to ensure that persons who are in charge of the corporate debtor for whom such resolution plan is made, do not come back in some other form to regain control of the company without first paying off its debts.	None
The Code has bifurcated such persons into two groups, as a perusal of subclauses (c) and (g) of Section 29A shows.	None
If a person has been a promoter, or in the management, or control, of a corporate debtor in which a preferential transaction, undervalued transaction, extortionate credit transaction or fraudulent transaction has taken place, and in respect of which an order has been made by the Adjudicating Authority under the Code, such person is ineligible to present a resolution plan under Section 29A(g).	None
This ineligibility cannot be cured by paying off the debts of the corporate debtor.	None
Therefore, it is only such persons who do not fall foul of subclause (g), who are eligible to submit resolution plans under subclause (c) of Section 29A, if they happen to be persons who were in the erstwhile management or control of the corporate debtor.	None
It is important for the competent authority to see that persons, who are otherwise ineligible and hit by subclause (c), do not wriggle out of the proviso to subclause (c) by other means, so as to avoid the consequences of the proviso.	Reasoning
For this purpose, despite the fact that the relevant time for the ineligibility under sub clause (c) to attach is the time of submission of the resolution plan, antecedent facts reasonably proximate to this point of time can always be seen, to determine whether the persons referred to in Section 29A are, in substance, seeking to avoid the consequences of the proviso to subclause (c) before submitting a resolution plan.	Reasoning
If it is shown, on facts, that, at a reasonably proximate point of time before the submission of the resolution plan, the affairs of the persons referred to in Section 29A are so arranged, as to avoid paying off the debts of the nonperforming asset concerned, such persons must be held to be ineligible to submit a resolution plan, or otherwise both the purpose of the first proviso to subsection (c) of Section 29A, as well as the larger objective sought to be achieved by the said subclause in public interest, will be defeated.	Reasoning
When we come to subclause (f), it is clear that, if any of the persons mentioned in Section 29A is prohibited by SEBI from either trading in securities or accessing the securities market again, ineligibility of the person submitting the resolution plan attaches.	None
Under subclause (i), if a person situate abroad is subject to any disability which corresponds to subclause (f), such person also gets interdicted.	None
In E.V. Mathai v. Subordinate Judge, Kottayam Ors., (1969) 2 SCC 194 , the expression ?corresponding to?	None
was explained as follows It was argued by Mr Daphtary that Section 4 was not applicable because a different intention appeared from Section 34(1) of the Act of 1965.	None
We find ourselves unable to accept this contention.	None
The proviso to Section 34(1) lays down that a legal proceeding which could have been instituted, continued or enforced under the repealed Act of 1959 may be instituted under the corresponding provisions of the new Act.	None
Mr Daphtary tried to meet this by urging that Section 11(4) of the Act of 1959 did not contain any corresponding provision.	None
Subsection (1) of Section 11 of the 1959 Act laid down that ?	None
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law or contract a tenant shall not be evicted, whether in execution of a decree or otherwise except in accordance with the provisions of this Act Provided?	None
Subsection (4)(i) of Section 11 however gave the landlord a right to apply for eviction and for an order directing him to be put in possession of the building ?	None
if the tenant has without the consent of the landlord transferred his right under the lease or sublet the entire building or any portion thereof, if the lease does not confer on him any right to do so, or the landlord has not consented to such subletting?	None
We find ourselves unable to accept Mr Daphtary?s argument that the above quoted provision of Section 11 of the Act of 1959 was not ?	None
a corresponding provision?	None
within the meaning of the proviso to sub section (1) of Section 34 of the Act of 1965.	None
To correspond means to ?be in harmony with or be similar, analogous to?.	None
It does not mean to ?be identical with?	None
and therefore the relevant provisions of Section 34 (1) of the Act of 1965 must be held to be a provision corresponding to Section 11(4) of the Act of 1959.?	None
In the light thereof, it is clear that if a person is prohibited by a regulator of the securities market in a foreign country from trading in securities or accessing the securities market, the disability under subclause (i) would then attach.	Reasoning
When we come to subclause (j), a ?connected person?	None
is defined as meaning the three categories of persons mentioned in the three subclauses therein.	None
The first subclause of Explanation 1 again takes us back to the same three definitions of ?promoter?, ?management?	None
and ?control?	Arguments of Respondent
of the resolution applicant.	Facts
Under subclause (ii), again, a ?connected person?	None
is a person who is either the promoter, or in management or control, of the business of the corporate debtor during implementation of the resolution plan.	None
And under subclause (iii), holding companies, subsidiary companies and associate companies as defined under the Companies Act, 2013, or related parties of persons referred to in clauses (1) and (2) also become connected persons.	None
We now come to the equally important question as to the timelines within which the insolvency process is to be completed.	Issue
Previous legislation, namely, the Sick Industrial Companies(Special Provisions) Act, 1985, and the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993, which made provision for rehabilitation of sick companies and repayment of loans availed by them, were found to have completely failed.	None
This was taken note of by our judgment in Madras Petrochem Ltd. and Anr.	None
v. Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction and Ors., (2016) 4 SCC 1 ?40.	None
An interesting pointer to the direction Parliament has taken after enactment of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 is also of some relevance in this context.	None
The Eradi Committee Report relating to insolvency and winding up of companies dated 317 2000, observed that out of 3068 cases referred to BIFR from 1987 to 2000 all but 1062 cases have been disposed of.	None
Out of the cases disposed of, 264 cases were revived, 375 cases were under negotiation for revival process, 741 cases were recommended for winding up, and 626 cases were dismissed as not maintainable.	None
These facts and figures speak for themselves and place a big question mark on the utility of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985.	None
The Committee further pointed out that effectiveness of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 as has been pointed out earlier, has been severely undermined by reason of the enormous delays involved in the disposal of cases by BIFR.	None
(See Paras 5.8, 5.9 and 5.15 of the Report.)	None
Consequently, the Committee recommended that the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 be repealed and the provisions thereunder for revival and rehabilitation should be telescoped into the structure of the Companies Act, 1956 itself.	None
Pursuant to the Eradi Committee Report, the Companies Act was amended in 2002 by providing for the constitution of a National Company Law Tribunal as a substitute for the Company Law Board, the High Court, BIFR and AAIFR.	None
The Eradi Committee Report was further given effect to by inserting Sections 424A to 424H into the Companies Act, 1956 which, with a few changes, mirrored the provisions of Sections 15 to 21 of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985.	None
Interestingly, the Companies Amendment Act, 2002 omitted a provision similar to Section 22(1) of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985.	None
Consequently, creditors were given liberty to file suits or initiate other proceedings for recovery of dues despite pendency of proceedings for the revival or rehabilitation of sick companies before the National Company Law Tribunal.	None
This Amendment Act came under challenge, which challenge culminated in the Constitution Bench decision in Union of India v. R, Gandhi, President, Madras Bar Association, (2010) 11 SCC 10 by which the amendments were upheld, with certain changes recommended by the Constitution Bench of this Court.	None
Close on the heels of the amendment made to the Companies Act came the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Repeal Act, 2003.	None
This particular Act was meant to repeal the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 consequent to some of its provisions being telescoped into the Companies Act.	None
Thus, the Companies Amendment Act, 2002 and the SICA Repeal Act formed part of one legislative scheme, and neither has yet been brought into force.	None
In fact, even the Companies Act, 2013, which repeals the Companies Act, 1956, contains Chapter 19 consisting of Sections 253 to 269 dealing with revival and rehabilitation of sick companies along the lines of Sections 424A to 424H of the amended Companies Act, 1956.	None
Conspicuous by its absence is a provision akin to Section 22(1) of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 in the 2013 Act.	None
However, this Chapter is also yet to be brought into force.	None
These statutory provisions, though not yet brought into force, are also an important pointer to the fact that Section 22(1) of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 has been statutorily sought to be excluded, Parliament veering around from wanting to protect sick industrial companies and rehabilitate them to giving credence to the public interest contained in the recovery of public monies owing to banks and financial institutions.	None
These provisions also show that the aforesaid construction of the provisions of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 visvis the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985, leans in favour of creditors being able to realise their debts outside the court process over sick industrial companies being revived or rehabilitated.	None
In fact, another interesting document is the Report on Trend and Progress of Banking in India 20112012 for the year ended 3062012 submitted by Reserve Bank of India to the Central Government in terms of Section 36(2) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.	None
In Table IV.14	None
the Report provides statistics regarding trends in nonperforming assets bankwise, groupwise.	None
As per the said Table, the opening balance of nonperforming assets in public sector banks for the year 20112012 was Rs 746 billion but the closing balance for 2011 2012 was Rs 1172 billion only.	None
The total amount recovered through the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 during 20112012 registered a decline compared to the previous year, but, even then, the amounts recovered under the said Act constituted 70 of the total amount recovered.	None
The amounts recovered under the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 constituted only 28.	None
All this would go to show that the amounts that public sector banks and financial institutions have to recover are in staggering figures and at long last at least one statutory measure has proved to be of some efficacy.	None
This Court would be loathe to give such an interpretation as would thwart the recovery process under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 which Act alone seems to have worked to some extent at least.?	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
These two enactments were followed by the Securitization and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Securities Interest Act, 2002.	None
As has been noted hereinabove, amounts recovered under the said Act recorded improvement over the previous two enactments, but this was yet found to be inadequate.	None
The Code was passed after great deliberation and pursuant to various Committee Reports, as has been held in Innoventive Industries Ltd. v. ICICI Bank Anr.	None
(2018) 1 SCC 407 at paragraph 12.	None
The Statement of Objects and Reasons, which is reproduced in the said paragraph, makes it clear that the existing framework for insolvency and bankruptcy was not only inadequate and ineffective, but resulted in undue delays in resolution.	None
One of the primary objects of the Code, therefore, is to resolve such matters in a time bound manner.	None
This would not only support the development of credit markets and encourage entrepreneurship, but would also improve ease of doing business and facilitate more investment, leading to higher economic growth and development.	None
Paragraph 16 of the said judgment refers to the report of November, 2015 of the Bankruptcy Law Reforms Committee and refers to speed being of essence as follows Speed is of essence Speed is of essence for the working of the bankruptcy code, for two reasons.	None
First, while the ?calm period?	None
can help keep an organisation afloat, without the full clarity of ownership and control, significant decisions cannot be made.	None
Without effective leadership, the firm will tend to atrophy and fail.	None
The longer the delay, the more likely it is that liquidation will be the only answer.	None
Second, the liquidation value tends to go down with time as many assets suffer from a high economic rate of depreciation.	None
From the viewpoint of creditors, a good realisation can generally be obtained if the firm is sold as a going concern.	None
Hence, when delays induce liquidation, there is value destruction.	None
Further, even in liquidation, the realisation is lower when there are delays.	None
Hence, delays cause value destruction.	None
Thus, achieving a high recovery rate is primarily about identifying and combating the sources of delay.?	None
The Committee then chose certain principles within which the new Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code would work.	None
One of them is that the Code will ensure a time bound process, which will not be extended, to better preserve the economic value of the asset (see Principle No.8 set out at page 427 of Innoventive Industries (supra.)).	None
After setting out the Scheme of the Code, this Court further went on to hold ?	None
31.	None
The rest of the insolvency resolution process is also very important.	None
The entire process is to be completed within a period of 180 days from the date of admission of the application under Section 12 and can only be extended beyond 180 days for a further period of not exceeding 90 days if the committee of creditors by a voting of 75 of voting shares so decides.	None
It can be seen that time is of essence in seeing whether the corporate body can be put back on its feet, so as to stave off liquidation.?	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
Under Section 30, any person who is interested in putting the corporate body back on its feet may submit a resolution plan to the resolution professional, which is prepared on the basis of an information memorandum.	None
This plan must provide for payment of insolvency resolution process costs, management of the affairs of the corporate debtor after approval of the plan, and implementation and supervision of the plan.	None
It is only when such plan is approved by a vote of not less than 75 of the voting share of the financial creditors and the adjudicating authority is satisfied that the plan, as approved, meets the statutory requirements mentioned in Section 30, that it ultimately approves such plan, which is then binding on the corporate debtor as well as its employees, members, creditors, guarantors and other stakeholders.	None
Importantly, and this is a major departure from previous legislation on the subject, the moment the adjudicating authority approves the resolution plan, the moratorium order passed by the authority under Section 14 shall cease to have effect.	None
The scheme of the Code, therefore, is to make an attempt, by divesting the erstwhile management of its powers and vesting it in a professional agency, to continue the business of the corporate body as a going concern until a resolution plan is drawn up, in which event the management is handed over under the plan so that the corporate body is able to pay back its debts and get back on its feet.	None
All this is to be done within a period of 6 months with a maximum extension of another 90 days or else the chopper comes down and the liquidation process begins.?	None
It is in this backdrop that we must consider the provisions of the Code, insofar as the Code requires either that the corporate debtor be taken over by another management and run as a going concern or, if that fails, go into liquidation.	None
Some of the relevant provisions of the Code, insofar as this case is concerned, are set out hereinbelow 5.	None
(12) ?insolvency commencement date? means the date of admission of an application for initiating corporate insolvency resolution process by the Adjudicating Authority under Sections 7, 9 or Section 10, as the case may be Provided that where the interim resolution professional is not appointed in the order admitting application under Section 7, 9 or Section 10, the insolvency commencement date shall be the date on which such interim resolution professional is appointed by the Adjudicating Authority	None
xxx xxx xxx (14) ?insolvency resolution process period?	None
means the period of one hundred and eighty days beginning from the insolvency commencement date and ending on one hundred and eightieth day	None
xxx xxx xxx (25) ?	None
resolution applicant? means a person, who individually or jointly with any other person, submits a resolution plan to the resolution professional pursuant to the invitation made under clause (h) of subsection (2) of Section 25 (26) ?	None
resolution plan?	Facts
means a plan proposed by resolution applicant for insolvency resolution of the corporate debtor as a going concern in accordance with Part II (27) ?	None
resolution professional?, for the purposes of this Part, means an insolvency professional appointed to conduct the corporate insolvency resolution process and includes an interim resolution professional	None
xxx xxx xxx 7.	None
Initiation of corporate insolvency resolution process by financial creditor.(1)	None
A financial creditor either by itself or jointly with other financial creditors, or any other person on behalf of the financial creditor, as may be notified by the Central Government, may file an application for initiating corporate insolvency resolution process against a corporate debtor before the Adjudicating Authority when a default has occurred.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this subsection, a default includes a default in respect of a financial debt owed not only to the applicant financial creditor but to any other financial creditor of the corporate debtor.	None
(2) The financial creditor shall make an application under subsection (1) in such form and manner and accompanied with such fee as may be prescribed.	None
(3) The financial creditor shall, along with the application furnish (a) record of the default recorded with the information utility or such other record or evidence of default as may be specified (b) the name of the resolution professional proposed to act as an interim resolution professional and (c) any other information as may be specified by the Board.	None
(4) The Adjudicating Authority shall, within fourteen days of the receipt of the application under subsection (2), ascertain the existence of a default from the records of an information utility or on the basis of other evidence furnished by the financial creditor under sub section (3).	None
(5) Where the Adjudicating Authority is satisfied that (a) a default has occurred and the application under subsection (2) is complete, and there is no disciplinary proceedings pending against the proposed resolution professional, it may, by order, admit such application or (b) default has not occurred or the application under subsection (2) is incomplete or any disciplinary proceeding is pending against the proposed resolution professional, it may, by order, reject such application Provided that the Adjudicating Authority shall, before rejecting the application under clause (b) of sub section (5), give a notice to the applicant to rectify the defect in his application within seven days of receipt of such notice from the Adjudicating Authority.	None
(6) The corporate insolvency resolution process shall commence from the date of admission of the application under subsection (5).	None
(7) The Adjudicating Authority shall communicate (a) the order under clause (a) of subsection (5) to the financial creditor and the corporate debtor (b) the order under clause (b) of subsection (5) to the financial creditor, within seven days of admission or rejection of such application, as the case may be.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx 12.	None
Timelimit for completion of insolvency resolution process.(1)	None
Subject to subsection (2), the corporate insolvency resolution process shall be completed within a period of one hundred and eighty days from the date of admission of the application to initiate such process.	None
(2) The resolution professional shall file an application to the Adjudicating Authority to extend the period of the corporate insolvency resolution process beyond one hundred and eighty days, if instructed to do so by a resolution passed at a meeting of the committee of creditors by a vote of sixtysix per cent of the voting shares.	None
(3) On receipt of an application under subsection (2), if the Adjudicating Authority is satisfied that the subject matter of the case is such that corporate insolvency resolution process cannot be completed within one hundred and eighty days, it may by order extend the duration of such process beyond one hundred and eighty days by such further period as it thinks fit, but not exceeding ninety days Provided that any extension of the period of corporate insolvency resolution process under this section shall not be granted more than once.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx 30.	None
Submission of resolution plan.(1) A resolution applicant may submit a resolution plan along with an affidavit stating that he is eligible under Section 29A to the resolution professional prepared on the basis of the information memorandum.	None
(2) The resolution professional shall examine each resolution plan received by him to confirm that each resolution plan (a) provides for the payment of insolvency resolution process costs in a manner specified by the Board in priority to the payment of other debts of the corporate debtor (b) provides for the payment of the debts of operational creditors in such manner as may be specified by the Board which shall not be less than the amount to be paid to the operational creditors in the event of a liquidation of the corporate debtor under Section 53 (c) provides for the management of the affairs of the corporate debtor after approval of the resolution plan (d) the implementation and supervision of the resolution plan (e) does not contravene any of the provisions of the law for the time being in force (f) conforms to such other requirements as may be specified by the Board.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of clause (e), if any approval of shareholders is required under the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) or any other law for the time being in force for the implementation of actions under the resolution plan, such approval shall be deemed to have been given and it shall not be a contravention of that Act or law.	None
(3) The resolution professional shall present to the committee of creditors for its approval such resolution plans which confirm the conditions referred to in sub section (2).	None
(4) The committee of creditors may approve a resolution plan by a vote of not less than sixtysix per cent of voting share of the financial creditors, after considering its feasibility and viability, and such other requirements as may be specified by the Board Provided that the committee of creditors shall not approve a resolution plan, submitted before the commencement of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2017 (Ord. 7 of 2017), where the resolution applicant is ineligible under Section 29A and may require the resolution professional to invite a fresh resolution plan where no other resolution plan is available with it Provided further that where the resolution applicant referred to in the first proviso is ineligible under clause (c) of Section 29A, the resolution applicant shall be allowed by the committee of creditors such period, not exceeding thirty days, to make payment of overdue amounts in accordance with the proviso to clause (c) of Section 29A Provided also that nothing in the second proviso shall be construed as extension of period for the purposes of the proviso to subsection (3) of Section 12, and the corporate insolvency resolution process shall be completed within the period specified in that sub section.	None
Provided also that the eligibility criteria in Section 29A as amended by the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2018 (Ord. 6 of 2018) shall apply to the resolution applicant who has not submitted resolution plan as on the date of commencement of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2018.	None
(5) The resolution applicant may attend the meeting of the committee of creditors in which the resolution plan of the applicant is considered Provided that the resolution applicant shall not have a right to vote at the meeting of the committee of creditors unless such resolution applicant is also a financial creditor.	None
(6) The resolution professional shall submit the resolution plan as approved by the committee of creditors to the Adjudicating Authority.	None
31.	None
Approval of resolution plan.(1) If the Adjudicating Authority is satisfied that the resolution plan as approved by the committee of creditors under subsection (4) of Section 30 meets the requirements as referred to in subsection (2) of Section 30, it shall by order approve the resolution plan which shall be binding on the corporate debtor and its employees, members, creditors, guarantors and other stakeholders involved in the resolution plan Provided that the Adjudicating Authority shall, before passing an order for approval of resolution plan under this subsection, satisfy that the resolution plan has provisions for its effective implementation.	None
(2) Where the Adjudicating Authority is satisfied that the resolution plan does not confirm to the requirements referred to in subsection (1), it may, by an order, reject the resolution plan.	None
(3) After the order of approval under subsection (1), (a) the moratorium order passed by the Adjudicating Authority under Section 14 shall cease to have effect and (b) the resolution professional shall forward all records relating to the conduct of the corporate insolvency resolution process and the resolution plan to the Board to be recorded on its database.	None
(4) The resolution applicant shall, pursuant to the resolution plan approved under subsection (1), obtain the necessary approval required under any law for the time being in force within a period of one year from the date of approval of the resolution plan by the Adjudicating Authority under subsection (1) or within such period as provided for in such law, whichever is later Provided that where the resolution plan contains a provision for combination, as referred to in Section 5 of the Competition Act, 2002 (12 of 2003), the resolution applicant shall obtain the approval of the Competition Commission of India under that Act prior to the approval of such resolution plan by the committee of creditors.	None
32.	None
Appeal.	None
Any appeal from an order approving the resolution plan shall be in the manner and on the grounds laid down in subsection (3) of Section 61.	None
xxxxxx xxx 33.	None
Initiation of liquidation.(1) Where the Adjudicating Authority, (a) before the expiry of the insolvency resolution process period or the maximum period permitted for completion of the corporate insolvency resolution process under Section 12 or the fast track corporate insolvency resolution process under Section 56, as the case may be, does not receive a resolution plan under subsection (6) of Section 30 or (b) rejects the resolution plan under Section 31 for the noncompliance of the requirements specified therein, it shall (i) pass an order requiring the corporate debtor to be liquidated in the manner as laid down in this Chapter (ii) issue a public announcement stating that the corporate debtor is in liquidation and (iii) require such order to be sent to the authority with which the corporate debtor is registered.	None
(2) Where the resolution professional, at any time during the corporate insolvency resolution process but before confirmation of resolution plan, intimates the Adjudicating Authority of the decision of the committee of creditors approved by not less than sixtysix per cent of the voting share to liquidate the corporate debtor, the Adjudicating Authority shall pass a liquidation order as referred to in subclauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of clause (b) of subsection (1).	None
(3) Where the resolution plan approved by the Adjudicating Authority is contravened by the concerned corporate debtor, any person other than the corporate debtor, whose interests are prejudicially affected by such contravention, may make an application to the Adjudicating Authority for a liquidation order as referred to in subclauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of clause (b) of sub section (1).	None
(4) On receipt of an application under subsection (3), if the Adjudicating Authority determines that the corporate debtor has contravened the provisions of the resolution plan, it shall pass a liquidation order as referred to in subclauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of clause (b) of subsection (1).	None
(5) Subject to Section 52, when a liquidation order has been passed, no suit or other legal proceeding shall be instituted by or against the corporate debtor Provided that a suit or other legal proceeding may be instituted by the liquidator, on behalf of the corporate debtor, with the prior approval of the Adjudicating Authority.	None
(6) The provisions of subsection (5) shall not apply to legal proceedings in relation to such transactions as may be notified by the Central Government in consultation with any financial sector regulator.	None
(7) The order for liquidation under this section shall be deemed to be a notice of discharge to the officers, employees and workmen of the corporate debtor, except when the business of the corporate debtor is continued during the liquidation process by the liquidator.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx 60.	None
Adjudicating Authority for corporate persons.	None
(1) The Adjudicating Authority, in relation to insolvency resolution and liquidation for corporate persons including corporate debtors and personal guarantors thereof shall be the National Company Law Tribunal having territorial jurisdiction over the place where the registered office of the corporate person is located.	None
(2) Without prejudice to subsection (1) and notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Code, where a corporate insolvency resolution process or liquidation proceeding of a corporate debtor is pending before a National Company Law Tribunal, an application relating to the insolvency resolution or liquidation or bankruptcy of a corporate guarantor or personal guarantor, as the case may be, of such corporate debtor shall be filed before such National Company Law Tribunal.	None
(3) An insolvency resolution process or liquidation or bankruptcy proceeding of a corporate guarantor or personal guarantor, as the case may be, of the corporate debtor pending in any court or tribunal shall stand transferred to the Adjudicating Authority dealing with insolvency resolution process or liquidation proceeding of such corporate debtor.	None
(4) The National Company Law Tribunal shall be vested with all the powers of the Debts Recovery Tribunal as contemplated under Part III of this Code for the purpose of subsection (2).	None
(5) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the time being in force, the National Company Law Tribunal shall have jurisdiction to entertain or dispose of (a) any application or proceeding by or against the corporate debtor or corporate person (b) any claim made by or against the corporate debtor or corporate person, including claims by or against any of its subsidiaries situated in India and (c) any question of priorities or any question of law or facts, arising out of or in relation to the insolvency resolution or liquidation proceedings of the corporate debtor or corporate person under this Code.	None
(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963) or in any other law for the time being in force, in computing the period of limitation specified for any suit or application by or against a corporate debtor for which an order of moratorium has been made under this Part, the period during which such moratorium is in place shall be excluded.	None
61. Appeals and Appellate Authority.  	None
(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained under the Companies Act, 2013, any person aggrieved by the order of the Adjudicating Authority under this part may prefer an appeal to the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal.	None
(2) Every appeal under subsection (1) shall be filed within thirty days before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal Provided that the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal may allow an appeal to be filed after the expiry of the said period of thirty days if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing the appeal but such period shall not exceed fifteen days.	None
(3) An appeal against an order approving a resolution plan under Section 31 may be filed on the following grounds, namely (i) the approved resolution plan is in contravention of the provisions of any law for the time being in force (ii) there has been material irregularity in exercise of the powers by the resolution professional during the corporate insolvency resolution period (iii) the debts owed to operational creditors of the corporate debtor have not been provided for in the resolution plan in the manner specified by the Board (iv) the insolvency resolution process costs have not been provided for repayment in priority to all other debts or (v) the resolution plan does not comply with any other criteria specified by the Board.	None
(4) An appeal against a liquidation order passed under Section 33 may be filed on grounds of material irregularity or fraud committed in relation to such a liquidation order.	None
62.	None
Appeal to Supreme Court.(1)	None
Any person aggrieved by an order of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal may file an appeal to the Supreme Court on a question of law arising out of such order under this Code within fortyfive days from the date of receipt of such order.	None
(2) The Supreme Court may, if it is satisfied that a person was prevented by sufficient cause from filing an appeal within fortyfive days, allow the appeal to be filed within a further period not exceeding fifteen days.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx 64.	None
Expeditious disposal of applications.(1) Where an application is not disposed of or an order is not passed within the period specified in this Code, the National Company Law Tribunal or the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, shall record the reasons for not doing so within the period so specified and the President of the National Company Law Tribunal or the Chairperson of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, may, after taking into account the reasons so recorded, extend the period specified in the Act but not exceeding ten days.	None
(2) No injunction shall be granted by any court, tribunal or authority in respect of any action taken, or to be taken, in pursuance of any power conferred on the National Company Law Tribunal or the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal under this Code.?	None
Since the present case deals, on facts, with financial creditors, we may set out how the corporate insolvency resolution process is to work from the inception.	None
Before admission of an application under Section 7 by a financial creditor, the Adjudicating Authority is, under Section 7(4), to first ascertain the existence of a default within 14 days of receipt of the application, as specified in Section 7(4).	None
Upon satisfaction that such default has occurred, it may then admit such application, subject to rectification of defects, which the proviso in Section 7(5) says must be done within 7 days of receipt of such notice from the Adjudicating Authority by the applicant.	None
The time frame within which ascertainment of default is to take place, as well as the time within which the defect is to be rectified, have both been held by a judgment of this Court to be directory in nature, the reason being that the stage of these provisions is before admission of the application (see Surendra Trading Co. v. Juggilal Kamlapat Jute Mills Company Ltd. Ors.	None
(2017) 16 SCC 143 ).	None
The corporate insolvency resolution process commences from the date of admission of the application vide Section 7(6).	None
Section 7(7) makes it incumbent upon the Adjudicating Authority to communicate the order accepting or rejecting the application to the financial creditor and the corporate debtor within a period of 7 days of such admission or rejection.	None
The time limit for completion of the insolvency resolution process is laid down in Section 12.	Reasoning
A period of 180 days from the date of admission of the application is given by Section 12(1).	Reasoning
This is extendable by a maximum period of 90 days only if the Committee of Creditors, by a vote of 66, votes to extend the said period, and only if the Adjudicating Authority is satisfied that such process cannot be completed within 180 days.	Reasoning
The authority may then, by order, extend the duration of such process by a maximum period of 90 days (see Sections 12(2) and 12(3)).	Reasoning
What is also of importance is the proviso to Section 12(3) which states that any extension of the period under Section 12 cannot be granted more than once.	Reasoning
This has to be read with the third proviso to Section 30(4), which states that the maximum period of 30 days mentioned in the second proviso is allowable as the only exception to the extension of the aforesaid period not being granted more than once.	Reasoning
What is important to note is that a consequence is provided, in the event that the said period ends either without receipt of a resolution plan or after rejection of a resolution plan under Section 31.	Reasoning
This consequence is provided by Section 33, which makes it clear that when either of these two contingencies occurs, the corporate debtor is required to be liquidated in the manner laid down in Chapter III.	Reasoning
Section 12, construed in the light of the object sought to be achieved by the Code, and in the light of the consequence provided by Section 33, therefore, makes it clear that the periods previously mentioned are mandatory and cannot be extended.	Reasoning
In fact, even the literal language of Section 12(1) makes it clear that the provision must read as being mandatory.	Reasoning
The expression ?shall be completed?	Reasoning
is used.	Reasoning
Further, subsection (3) makes it clear that the duration of 180 days may be extended further ?	Reasoning
but not exceeding 90 days?, making it clear that a maximum of 270 days is laid down statutorily.	Reasoning
Also, the proviso to Section 12 makes it clear that the extension ?shall not be granted more than once?.	Reasoning
After admission of the application under Section 7 by the Adjudicating Authority, the scheme of the Code is as follows .	None
Under Sections 13 to 15, a moratorium is declared a public announcement of the initiation of the corporate insolvency resolution process and call for submission of claims is made and an Interim Resolution Professional is to be appointed under Section 16 of the Code.	None
This action is to be completed by the Adjudicating Authority within a period of 14 days from the insolvency commencement date, i.e., the date of admission of the application under Section 7 by the Adjudicating Authority. .	None
(ii) Under Section 17, the corporate debtor?s affairs are to be managed by the Interim Resolution Professional so appointed, and the Board of Directors of the corporate debtor shall stand superseded.	None
The officers and managers of the corporate debtor are now to report to the Interim Resolution Professional, who has the authority to act on behalf of the corporate debtor. . .	None
(iii) Under Section 18(1), some of the important duties of this Interim Resolution Professional are set out, which are to collect all information relating to the financial position of the corporate debtor and, most importantly, to constitute a Committee of Creditors.	None
That this has to be done at the very earliest, is clear from the scheme of the corporate insolvency resolution process which, as has been stated earlier, cannot exceed the maximum period of 270 days from the date of admission of the financial creditors?	None
application. . .	None
(iv) Under Section 21, the Interim Resolution Professional is to constitute this Committee of Creditors after collating all claims received against the corporate debtor and after determination of the financial position of the corporate debtor, both of which need to be done at the very earliest.	None
This Committee of Creditors is to comprise of financial creditors of the corporate debtor.	None
All decisions of this Committee of Creditors are to be taken by a majority vote of not less than 51 of the voting share of each financial creditor. . .	None
(v) Under Section 22, the first meeting of the Committee of Creditors is to be held within 7 days of its constitution in order to appoint a Resolution Professional.	None
The Committee of Creditors either continues the Interim Resolution Professional or replaces the Interim Resolution Professional by a majority vote of 66.	None
The application to replace the Interim Resolution Professional is then to be sent to the Adjudicating Authority, who is to forward the same to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (hereinafter referred to as the ?IBBI?) for confirmation.	None
Upon such confirmation, the Adjudicating Authority then appoints the Resolution Professional.	None
In case the IBBI does not confirm the name of the proposed Resolution Professional within 10 days of receipt of the same, the Adjudicating Authority is then to direct the Interim Resolution Professional to continue to function as the Resolution Professional until such time as the IBBI confirms the appointment of the Resolution Professional. . .	None
(vi) It is this Resolution Professional who is then to conduct the corporate insolvency resolution process, which really begins at this stage (see Section 23).	None
Section 25 then lays down some of the duties of this Resolution Professional, which are to continue the business operations of the corporate debtor, subject to the prior approval of the Committee of Creditors over the matters stated in Section 28.	None
One of the important duties of the Resolution Professional under Section 25 is to invite prospective resolution applicants to submit resolution plans. . .	None
(vii) Under Section 29, the Resolution Professional is to prepare an information memorandum giving relevant information, as may be specified by the IBBI, to persons interested in formulating a resolution plan. .	None
(viii) Section 30 is an important provision in that a resolution applicant may submit a resolution plan to the Resolution Professional, who is then to examine the said plan to see that it conforms to the requirements of Section 30(2).	None
Once this plan conforms to such requirements, the plan is then to be presented to the Committee of Creditors for its approval under Section 30(3).	None
This can then be approved by the Committee of Creditors by a vote of not less than 66 under subsection (4).	None
What is important to note is that the Committee of Creditors shall not approve a resolution plan where the resolution applicant is ineligible under Section 29A, and may require the Resolution Professional to invite a fresh resolution plan where no other resolution plan is available.	None
Once approved by the Committee of Creditors, the resolution plan is to be submitted to the Adjudicating Authority under Section 31 of the Code.	None
It is at this stage that a judicial mind is applied by the Adjudicating Authority to the resolution plan so submitted, who then, after being satisfied that the plan meets (or does not meet) the requirements mentioned in Section 30, may either approve or reject such plan. .	None
(ix) An appeal from an order approving such plan is only on the limited grounds laid down in Section 61(3).	None
However, an appeal from an order rejecting a resolution plan would also lie under Section 61. .	None
(x) As has been stated hereinbefore, the liquidation process gets initiated under Section 33 if, (1) either no resolution plan is submitted within the time specified under Section 12, or a resolution plan has been rejected by the Adjudicating Authority (2) where the Resolution Professional, before confirmation of the resolution plan, intimates the Adjudicating Authority of the decision of the Committee of Creditors to liquidate the corporate debtor or (3) where the resolution plan approved by the Adjudicating Authority is contravened by the concerned corporate debtor.	None
Any person other than the corporate debtor whose interests are prejudicially affected by such contravention may apply to the Adjudicating Authority, who may then pass a liquidation order on such application.	None
Regulation 40A of the CIRP Regulations presents a model timeline of the corporate insolvency resolution process, on the basis that the time available is 180 days.	None
It states as follows ?	None
40A. Model timeline for corporate insolvency res olution process.	None
The following Table presents a model timeline of corpo rate insolvency resolution process on the assumption that the interim resolution professional is appointed on the date of commencement of the process and the time available is hundred and eighty days Section Regulation Description of Activity Norm Latest Timeline Section 16(1)	None
Commencement of CIRP and appointment of IRP .	None
T Regulation 6(1)	None
Public announcement inviting claims Within 3 Days of Appointment of IRP T3 Section 15(1) (c) Regulations 6(2)	None
(c) and 12 (1) Submission of claims For 14 Days from Appointment of IRP T14 Regulation 12(2) Submission of claims Up to 90th day of commencement T90 Regulation 13(1) Verification of claims received under regulation 12(1)	None
Within 7 days from the receipt of the claim T21 Regulation 13(2) Verification of claims received under regulation 12(2) T97 Section 21(6A) (b) Regulation 16A Application for appointment of AR Within 2 days from verification of claims received under regulation 12(1) T23 Regulation 17(1) Report certifying constitution of CoC T23 Section 22(1)	None
Regulation 19(1) 1 st meeting of the CoC	None
Within 7 days of the constitution of the CoC, but with seven days?	None
notice T30 Section 22(2)	None
Resolution to appoint RP by the CoC	None
In the first meeting of the CoC T30 Section 16(5) Appointment of RP On approval by the AA Regulation 17(3) IRP performs the functions of RP till the RP is appointed.	None
If RP is not appointed by 40th day of commencement T40 Regulation 27 Appointment of valuer Within 7 days of appointment of RP, but not later than 40th day of commencement T47 Section 12A Regulation 30A	None
Submission of application for withdrawal of application admitted.	None
Before issue of EoI W CoC to dispose of the application Within 7 days of its receipt or 7 days of constitution of CoC, whichever is later.	None
W7 Filing application of withdrawal, if approved by CoC with 90 majority voting, by RP to AA Within 3 days of approval by CoC W10 Regulation 35A RP to form an opinion on preferential and other transactions Within 75 days of the commencement T75 RP to make a determination on preferential and other transactions Within 115 days of commencement T115 RP to file applications to AA for appropriate relief Within 135 days to commencement T135 Regulation 36(1) Submission of IM to CoC Within 2 weeks of appointment of RP, but not later than 54th day of commencement T54 Regulation 36A Publish Form G	None
Within 75 days of commencement T75 Invitation of EoI Submission of EoI At least 15 days from issue of EoI (Assume 15 days) T90 Provisional List of RAs by RP	None
Within 10 days from the last day of receipt of EoI T100 Submission of objections to provisional list For 5 days from the date of provisional list T105 Final List of RAs by RP Within 10 days of the receipt of objections T115 Regulation 36B Issue of RFRP, including Evaluation Matrix and IM Within 5 days of the issue of the provisional list T105 Receipt of Resolution Plans At least 30 days from issue of RFRP (Assume 30 days)	None
T135 Regulation 39(4) Submission of CoC approved Resolution Plan to AA As soon as approved by the CoC T165 Section 31(1) Approval of resolution plan by AA T180	None
It is of utmost importance for all authorities concerned to follow this model timeline as closely as possible.	None
What has now to be determined is whether any challenge can be made at various stages of the corporate insolvency resolution process.	Issue
Suppose a resolution plan is turned down at the threshold by a Resolution Professional under Section 30(2).	Issue
At this stage is it open to the concerned resolution applicant to challenge the Resolution Professional?s rejection?	Issue
It is settled law that a statute is designed to be workable, and the interpretation thereof should be designed to make it so workable.	None
In Commissioner of Income Tax, Delhi v. S. Teja Singh, 1959 Supp. 1 S.C.R. 394, this Court said, at page 403 We must now refer to an aspect of the question, which strongly reinforces the conclusion stated above.	None
On the construction contended for by the respondent, S.18 A(9)(b) would become wholly nugatory, as ss.22(1) and 22(2) can have no application to advance estimates to be furnished under s.18A(3), and if we accede to this contention, we must hold that though the legislature enacted s.18A(9)(b) with the very object of bringing the failure to send estimates under s.18A(3) within the operation of s.28, it signally failed to achieve its object.	None
A construction which leads to such a result must, if that is possible, be avoided, on the principle expressed in the maxim, ut res magis valeat quam pereat.	None
Vide Curtis v. Stovin 1889 22 Q.B.D.513 and in particular the following observations of Fry, L. J., at page 519	None
The only alternative construction offered to us would lead to this result, that the plain intention of the legislature has entirely failed by reason of a slight inexactitude in the language of the section.	None
If we were to adopt this construction, we should be construing the Act in order to defeat its object rather than with a view to carry its object into effect.	None
Vide also Craies on Statute Law, p. 90 and Maxwell on The Interpretation of Statutes, Tenth Edn., pp. 236237.	None
A statute is designed, observed Lord Dunedin in Whitney v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue 1925 10 Tax Cas.88, 110, to be workable, and the interpretation thereof by a court should be to secure that object, unless crucial omission or clear direction makes that end unattainable.	None
Given the timeline referred to above, and given the fact that a resolution applicant has no vested right that his resolution plan be considered, it is clear that no challenge can be preferred to the Adjudicating Authority at this stage.	Reasoning
A writ petition under Article 226 filed before a High Court would also be turned down on the ground that no right, much less a fundamental right, is affected at this stage.	Reasoning
This is also made clear by the first proviso to Section 30(4), whereby a Resolution Professional may only invite fresh resolution plans if no other resolution plan has passed muster.	Reasoning
However, it must not be forgotten that a Resolution Professional is only to ?examine?	None
and ?confirm?	None
that each resolution plan conforms to what is provided by Section 30(2).	None
Under Section 25(2)(i), the Resolution Professional shall undertake to present all resolution plans at the meetings of the Committee of Creditors.	None
This is followed by Section 30(3), which states that the Resolution Professional shall present to the Committee of Creditors, for its approval, such resolution plans which confirm the conditions referred to in subsection (2).	None
This provision has to be read in conjunction with Section 25(2)(i), and with the second proviso to Section 30(4), which provides that where a resolution applicant is found to be ineligible under Section 29A(c), the resolution applicant shall be allowed by the Committee of Creditors such period, not exceeding 30 days, to make payment of overdue amounts in accordance with the proviso to Section 29A(c).	Facts
A conspectus of all these provisions would show that the Resolution Professional is required to examine that the resolution plan submitted by various applicants is complete in all respects, before submitting it to the Committee of Creditors.	None
The Resolution Professional is not required to take any decision, but merely to ensure that the resolution plans submitted are complete in all respects before they are placed before the Committee of Creditors, who may or may not approve it.	None
The fact that the Resolution Professional is also to confirm that a resolution plan does not contravene any of the provisions of law for the timebeing in force, including Section 29A of the Code, only means that his prima facie opinion is to be given to the Committee of Creditors that a law has or has not been contravened.	None
Section 30(2)(e) does not empower the Resolution Professional to ?decide?	None
whether the resolution plan does or does not contravene the provisions of law.	None
Regulation 36A of the CIRP Regulations specifically provides as follows ?	None
(8) The resolution professional shall conduct due diligence based on the material on record in order to satisfy that the prospective resolution applicant complies with (a) the provisions of clause (h) of subsection (2) of section 25 (b) the applicable provisions of section 29A, and (c) other requirements, as specified in the invitation for expression of interest.	None
The resolution professional may seek any clarification or additional information or document from the prospective resolution applicant for conducting due diligence under subregulation (8).	None
The resolution professional shall issue a provisional list of eligible prospective resolution applicants within ten days of the last date for submission of expression of interest to the committee and to all prospective resolution applicants who submitted the expression of interest.	None
Any objection to inclusion or exclusion of a prospective resolution applicant in the provisional list referred to in subregulation (10) may be made with supporting documents within five days from the date of issue of the provisional list.	None
On considering the objections received under sub regulation (11), the resolution professional shall issue the final list of prospective resolution applicants within ten days of the last date for receipt of objections, to the committee.?	None
Thus, the importance of the Resolution Professional is to ensure that a resolution plan is complete in all respects, and to conduct a due diligence in order to report to the Committee of Creditors whether or not it is in order.	Reasoning
Even though it is not necessary for the Resolution Professional to give reasons while submitting a resolution plan to the Committee of Creditors, it would be in the fitness of things if he appends the due diligence report carried out by him with respect to each of the resolution plans under consideration, and to state briefly as to why it does or does not conform to the law.	Reasoning
Take the next stage under Section 30.	None
A Resolution Professional has presented a resolution plan to the Committee of Creditors for its approval, but the Committee of Creditors does not approve such plan after considering its feasibility and viability, as the requisite vote of not less than 66 of the voting share of the financial creditors is not obtained.	None
As has been mentioned hereinabove, the first proviso to Section 30(4) furnishes the answer, which is that all that can happen at this stage is to require the Resolution Professional to invite a fresh resolution plan within the time limits specified where no other resolution plan is available with him.	None
It is clear that at this stage again no application before the Adjudicating Authority could be entertained as there is no vested right or fundamental right in the resolution applicant to have its resolution plan approved, and as no adjudication has yet taken place.	None
It is the Committee of Creditors which will approve or disapprove a resolution plan, given the statutory parameters of Section 30.	None
Under Regulation 39 of the CIRP Regulations, sub clause (3) thereof provides ?	None
(3) The committee shall evaluate the resolution plans received under subregulation (1) strictly as per the evaluation matrix to identify the best resolution plan and may approve it with such modifications as it deems fit Provided that the committee shall record the reasons for approving or rejecting a resolution plan.?	None
This regulation shows that the disapproval of the Committee of Creditors on the ground that the resolution plan violates the provisions of any law, including the ground that a resolution plan is ineligible under Section 29A, is not final.	Reasoning
The Adjudicating Authority, acting quasijudicially, can determine whether the resolution plan is violative of the provisions of any law, including Section 29A of the Code, after hearing arguments from the resolution applicant as well as the Committee of Creditors, after which an appeal can be preferred from the decision of the Adjudicating Authority to the Appellate Authority under Section 61.	Reasoning
If, on the other hand, a resolution plan has been approved by the Committee of Creditors, and has passed muster before the Ad judicating Authority, this determination can be challenged before the Appellate Authority under Section 61, and may further be chal lenged before the Supreme Court under Section 62, if there is a question of law arising out of such order, within the time specified in Section 62.	Reasoning
Section 64 also makes it clear that the timelines that are to be adhered to by the NCLT and NCLAT are of great	Reasoning
im portance, and that reasons must be recorded by either the NCLT or NCLAT if the matter is not disposed of within the time limit spec ified.	Reasoning
Section 60(5), when it speaks of the NCLT having jurisdiction to entertain or dispose of any application or proceeding by or against the corporate debtor or corporate person, does not invest the NCLT with the jurisdiction to interfere at an applicant?s behest at a stage before the quasijudicial determination made by the Ad judicating Authority.	Reasoning
The nonobstante clause in Section 60(5) is designed for a different purpose to ensure that the NCLT alone has jurisdiction when it comes to applications and proceedings by or against a corporate debtor covered by the Code, making it clear that no other forum has jurisdiction to entertain or dispose of such applications or proceedings.	Reasoning
One thing that must be made clear at this stage is that when Section 33 speaks of the ?Adjudicating Authority?	None
in subsection (1), it is referring to both the Adjudicating Authority as well as the Appellate Authority.	None
An Adjudicating Authority may decide in favour of a resolution plan, which order may then be set aside by the Appellate Authority.	None
This order of the Appellate Authority, setting aside the order of the Adjudicating Authority, would then be the order which rejects the resolution plan for the purposes of Section 33.	None
The same would apply to an ultimate order of rejection by the Supreme Court under Section 62.	None
This is on the principle that, as stated in Lachmeshwar Prasad Shukul Ors.	None
v. Keshwar Lal Chaudhuri Ors.	None
AIR 1941 FC 5 and followed in a number of our judgments, an appeal is a continuation of the original proceedings.	None
Given the fact that both the NCLT and NCLAT are to decide matters arising under the Code as soon as possible, we cannot shut our eyes to the fact that a large volume of litigation has now to be handled by both the aforesaid Tribunals.	None
What happens in a case where the NCLT or the NCLAT decide a matter arising out of Section 31 of the Code beyond the time limit of 180 days or the extended time limit of 270 days?	None
Actus curiae neminem gravabit  the act of the Court shall harm no man  is a maxim firmly rooted in our jurisprudence (see Jang Singh v. Brijlal Ors.	None
1964 2 S.C.R. 146 at page 149, and A.S. Antulay v. R.S.	None
Nayak Ors. 1988 Supp.	None
1 S.C.R. 1 at page 71).	None
It is also true that the time taken by a Tribunal should not set at naught the time limits within which the corporate insolvency resolution process must take place.	None
However, we cannot forget that the consequence of the chopper falling is corporate death.	None
The only reasonable construction of the Code is the balance to be maintained between timely completion of the corporate insolvency resolution process, and the corporate debtor otherwise being put into liquidation.	None
We must not forget that the corporate debtor consists of several employees and workmen whose daily bread is dependent on the outcome of the corporate insolvency resolution process.	None
If there is a resolution applicant who can continue to run the corporate debtor as a going concern, every effort must be made to try and see that this is made possible.	None
A reasonable and balanced construction of this statute would therefore lead to the result that, where a resolution plan is upheld by the Appellate Authority, either by way of allowing or dismissing an appeal before it, the period of time taken in litigation ought to be excluded.	None
This is not to say that the NCLT and NCLAT will be tardy in decision making.	None
This is only to say that in the event of the NCLT, or the NCLAT, or this Court taking time to decide an application beyond the period of 270 days, the time taken in legal proceedings to decide the matter cannot possibly be excluded, as otherwise a good resolution plan may have to be shelved, resulting in corporate death, and the consequent displacement of employees and workers.	None
Coming to the facts of the present case, let us first examine the resolution plan presented by Numetal.	Reasoning
Numetal was incorporated in Mauritius on 13.10.2017, expressly for the purpose of submission of a resolution plan qua the corporate debtor, i.e., ESIL.	Reasoning
Two other companies, viz., AHL and AEL, were also incorporated on the same day in Mauritius.	Reasoning
Shri Rewant Ruia, son of Shri Ravi Ruia (who was the promoter of ESIL) held the entire share capital of AHL, which in turn held the entire shareholding of AEL, which in turn held the entire share capital of Numetal.	Reasoning
At this stage there can be no doubt whatsoever that Shri Rewant Ruia, being the son of Shri Ravi Ruia, would be deemed to be a person acting in concert with the corporate debtor, being covered by Regulation 2(1)(q)(v) of the 2011 Takeover Regulations.	Reasoning
On 18.10.2017, AEL transferred its shareholding of 26.1 in Numetal to a group company, viz., ECL.	Arguments of Petitioner
This group company is ultimately owned by Virgo Trust?	None
and Triton Trust?, the beneficiaries of which are companies owned by Shri Ravi Ruia, his brother Shri Shashikant Ruia and their immediate family members.	None
The object of including ECL, as stated in the relevant extract from Numetal?s expression of interest is as follows ?	None
The Company satisfies the minimum tangible net worth requirement of INR 30 Billion considering ECL, as a group company that holds 26.1 (Twenty Six point one Percent) shares in the Company, has net worth of USD 2,974 million (US Dollars Two Thousand Nine Hundred Seventy Four million) or INR 192.8 Billion (Rupees One Hundred Ninety Two Point Eight Billion) as on 31 st March 201 (immediately preceding completed financial year).	None
Please refer Annexure I for the certificate of Chartered Accountant of the Company certifying satisfaction of the minimum tangible net worth requirement in terms of the Eligibility Criteria which includes A, a certificate of Chartered Accountant certifying ECL?s tangible net worth.	None
It is pertinent to note that in case the company is considered as a consortium potential resolution applicant, it continues to satisfy the minimum tangible net worth requirement since the total tangible net worth of the Company, computed on the basis of the weighted average of AEI?s and ECL?s net worth proportionate to their respective shareholding in the Company, is INR 50.33 Billion, which is in excess of INR 30 Billion?	None
.86.	None
The very next day, Shri Rewant Ruia settled an irrevocable and discretionary trust, viz., the Crescent Trust?, and settled the entire share capital of AHL into the Trust, at a par value of USD 10,000.	Arguments of Petitioner
The beneficiaries of this Trust were general charities, as well as entitles owned by Shri Shashikant Ruia (brother of Shri Ravi Ruia, promoter of the corporate debtor), and entities owned by Shri Rewant Ruia himself.	None
On 20.11.2017, Shri Rewant Ruia settled Prisma Trust?, another irrevocable and discretionary trust, whose beneficiaries are ?general charities?	None
and one Solis Enterprises Limited?, a company incorporated in Bermuda, whose share capital is held by Shri Rewant Ruia.	None
Numetal, vide a response dated 30.3.2018, admitted that while the trust deed relating to Prisma Trust allowed the trustee to benefit any English or Bermuda charity, ?	None
no particular charity is named at this stage?.	None
The Trustee of AEL is one Rhone Trustee?, Singapore.	None
What is important to note is that Shri Rewant Ruia was the ultimate natural person who held the beneficial interest in AEL through Prisma Trust, through Solis Enterprises Limited.	None
This emerges from Section 6.7 of the resolution plan submitted by Numetal to the Resolution Professional.	None
Interestingly enough, in an affidavit dated 5.3.2018, the Trustee of Prisma Trust submitted ?that the Trustee (for itself and each person controlled by it), hereby confirm that AEL or Rewant Ruia neither are nor will, following the implementation of the Resolution Plan, be a promoter of or have control over or have any management rights in the RA or ESIL (or the resultant company upon completion of the Merger) (including without limitation, the rights to appoint directors on the board of the RA or ESIL, or any specific veto rights or the right to direct the policy or management of the RA or ESIL in any manner).?	None
The Resolution Professional, after looking at this affidavit, correctly noted that statements of such a nature would not have been made by a truly independent trustee of a discretionary trust, which demonstrates that the trustee was under the complete control of Shri Rewant Ruia.	Reasoning
This in turn indicates that Prisma Trust is one more smokescreen in the chain of control, which would conceal the fact that the actual control over AEL is by none other than Shri Rewant Ruia himself.	Reasoning
89. ?	None
Curiouser and Curiouser?	None
was the expression of Alice, in Lewis Carroll?s Alice in Wonderland.	None
In this wonderland of Shri Rewant Ruia, one day later on 22.11.2017, the trustees of the Prisma Trust now acquired 100 of the shareholding of AHL for a par value of approximately USD 10,000 from the trustees of the Crescent Trust.	None
On this very date, merely one day before the Ordinance bringing into force Section 29A was promulgated, ECL transferred its shareholding of 26.1 of the share capital of Numetal to Crinium Bay, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of VTB Bank, whose shares in turn are held by the Russian Government.	None
AEL also transferred shares representing 13.9 of the share capital of Numetal to Crinium Bay, thus making Crinium Bay?s total holding in Numetal 40.	None
On the same date, AEL also transferred shares representing 25.1 of the share capital of Numetal to Indo, and also transferred shares representing 9.9 of the share capital of Numetal to TPE.	None
These transfers are likely to have taken place between 10.2.2018 and 12.2.2018.	None
At the time of submission of its first Resolution Plan dated 12.2.2018, the shareholding of Numetal was as follows Crinium Bay 40 Indo 25.1 TPE 9.9 AEL 25	None
It is important to note that, as of this date, Shri Rewant Ruia, who is the ultimate beneficiary in the chain of control of the trusts which in turn controlled AEL, was very much on the scene, holding through AEL 25 of the shareholding of Numetal.	None
One other extremely important fact needs to be noticed at this stage.	Reasoning
The earnest money in the form of Rs. 500 crores, credited to the account of the corporate debtor, has been provided to Numetal by AEL as a shareholder of the resolution applicant, viz.	Reasoning
Numetal.	Reasoning
It is important to note that this earnest money deposit of Rs.500 crores made by AEL continues to remain with the Resolution Professional till date, despite the fact that, by the time the second resolution plan was submitted by Numetal on 2.4.2018, AEL had exited as a shareholder of Numetal.	Reasoning
It is also important to note that under clause 4.4.4 of the request for proposal for submission of resolution plans for ESIL, the earnest money deposit stands to be forfeited if any condition thereof is breached or the qualifications of the potential resolution applicant are found to be untrue.	Reasoning
At this stage, it is important to reproduce relevant extracts of the resolution plan first submitted by Numetal in response to the request for proposal.	None
The same are as under 4.	None
the Resolution Applicant is a newly established company that has been incorporated to provide a platform to create and sustain a leading Indian steel business and is focused on the acquisition and turnaround of the Corporate Debtor.	None
Accordingly, to implement the Plan, Numetal believes that it has access to the right mix and balance of the financial and technical market experience which can be provided to the Corporate Debtor.	None
Numetal is held by four independent shareholders, who possess complementary skillsets in financial, operational, trading and industrial sectors together with regional expertise that will support the business in the medium and longer term.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
5.2.	None
(i) Numetal is backed by seasoned and experienced shareholders who bring deep expertise from different industries covering Finance, Steel, Oil and Gas, Metal Mining, Trading expertise across geographies.	None
Crinium Bay Holdings Limited ( ?Crinium Bay?)	None
an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of VTB Bank PJSC ( ?VTB Bank?).	None
VTB Bank is one of the largest emerging market groups listed on Moscow Exchange ( ?MOEX?)	None
and London Stock Exchange ( ?LSE?) with current market capitalization of approximately US 12.3bn (approximately INR 79,000 Crores) and total assets in excess of approximately US 220bn (approximately INR 14,08,000).	None
xxx xxx xxx VTB Banks support to provide financing, credit assistance to the Resolution Applicant is set out in Annexure 2 and is subject to the terms of the letter provided therein.	None
The other shareholders in Numetal also have material businesses with international operations focused on the steel, materials and resources sector (a) Tyazhpromexport JSC ( ?TPE?)	None
a leading engineering agency in Russia in ferrous and non ferrous metallurgy project operations and construction with experience with over 60 years and wholly owned by Russian State corporation, Rostec (b) Indo International Trading FZCO ( ?Indo?	None
or ?IITF?), a leading commodity trading company and (c) Aurora Enterprise Trading (sic) Limited ( ?AEL?	None
or ?Aurora?)	None
a financial investor with regional expertise.	None
Numetals (sic) shareholders bring together a wealth of experience in technical and operational capabilities, banking and finance, commodity trading and regional expertise for the benefit of creating long term steel business.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx 6.3.	None
The shareholders of Numetal bring to the table, considerable experience from difference industries covering finance, steel, oil and gas, metals and mining chemicals and other sectors across geographies.	None
They have extensive experience in the field of management of distressed assets situations, restructuring of debt, turnaround of corporates and improvement of strategies for cash flows.	None
In addition these shareholders have a good understanding of Asian markets having dealt with large corporates in these markets.	None
The above factors coupled with the financial strength of its shareholders, put Numetal in a strong position to implement the turnaround successfully.	None
xxx xxx xxx (c) Aurora Enterprises Limited ( ?AEL?) brings a careful focus on financial returns and expertise of the Indian business and commercial sector to Numetal.	None
AEL is a pure financial investor.	None
The beneficiaries of such discretionary trust are general charities and Solis Enterprise Limited, a company incorporated in Bermuda, the share capital of which is held by Mr. Rewant Ruia.	None
Mr. Rewant Ruia is the son of Ravi Ruia, who is one of the existing promoters of the Corporate Debtor.?	None
Clause 6.7 of Numetal?s resolution plan stipulated that it satisfied the minimum tangible net worth requirement, as set out under the request for proposal, because Crinium Bay held 40 of the shareholding of Numetal, and that VTB Bank, Crinium Bay?s holding company had sufficient net worth, as on 31.12.2016, to comply with the requirement under the request for proposal.	None
The Resolution Professional, in its affidavit before the Adjudicating Authority, took note of this plan and, therefore, stated Under Para 1 of the Eligibility Criteria for Potential Resolution Applicants published by this Respondent on the website of the Corporate Debtor, potential resolution applicants were given the option of satisfying the minimum tangible net worth net owned funds requirement at a ?Group Level?	None
by taking into consideration the financial of entities controlling or controlled by or under common control with the potential resolution applicant.	None
It is evident from the foregoing that Numetal took advantage of this provision and relied upon the financial wherewithal of its constituents shareholders.	None
Numetal has not submitted or relied upon its standalone financials to satisfy the eligibility criteria.	None
It is submitted that having taken advantage of this provision it is not open to Numetal to contend that this Respondent cannot look at its constituents shareholders when determining the issue of eligibility under Section 29A of the Code.	None
Further, it is submitted that even though the RFP document does not allow a resolution applicant to look at its constituents shareholders for the purposes of demonstrating its experience, it is clear from the foregoing that Numetal has extensively relied on the experience of its constituents shareholders to demonstrate its experience.	None
It is submitted that having relied on the experience of its constituents shareholders it is not open to Numetal to contend that this Respondent cannot look at its constituents shareholders when determining the issue of eligibility under Section 29A of the Code.?	None
The excerpted portions of Numetal?s resolution plan make it clear that, since Numetal itself was a newly incorporated entity, with no financial or experience credentials of its own, it therefore relied entirely on the credentials of each of its constituent shareholders.	Reasoning
This shows that Numetal itself revealed in its resolution plan that its corporate veil should be lifted, for without lifting this veil, none of the parameters of the request for proposal could have been met by Numetal itself.	Reasoning
It is thus clear that the four shareholders of Numetal were persons ?acting jointly?	Reasoning
within the meaning of Section 29A. This being the case, it is clear that Shri Salve?s argument that VTB Bank is a ?connected person?, being ineligible under subclause (j), would have to be rejected, as VTB Bank is itself, through its wholly owned subsidiary of Crinium Bay, a person acting jointly with the three other shareholders of Numetal, and would, therefore, fall within the first part of Section 29A itself.	Reasoning
This being so, it cannot be said that VTB Bank is a person ?connected to?	Reasoning
any one of the persons acting jointly, as it is itself a person acting jointly, and therefore covered by the first part of Section	Reasoning
29A. It is important to note that on 29.3.2018, AEL transferred its 25 shareholding in Numetal to the other three constituent shareholders, thereby leaving its shareholding in Numetal as Nil?.	Reasoning
In response to the Resolution Professional?s invitation, the second Resolution Plan, therefore, submitted by Numetal on 2.4.2018, did not have AEL as a constituent of Numetal instead, Crinium Bay continued with 40 of the shareholding of Numetal, with TPE?s holding now augmented to 29.5 and Indo?s to 34.1.	Reasoning
Given the fact that Shri Rewant Ruia is a person deemed to be acting in concert with his father Shri Ravi Ruia (who was a promoter of the corporate debtor ESIL), there is no doubt whatsoever that Section 29A(c) would be attracted as on the date of submission of the first resolution plan, viz.	Reasoning
12.2.2018, as AEL was held by Prisma Trust, whose ultimate beneficiary is Shri Rewant Ruia himself.	Reasoning
This would show that the NPA declared over a year before the date of commencement of the corporate resolution process of ESIL (i.e. in 2015) would render Numetal ineligible to submit a resolution plan.	Reasoning
The only manner in which Numetal could successfully present a resolution plan would be to first pay off the debts of ESIL, as well as those of such other corporate debtors of the Ruia group of companies, which were declared as NPAs prior to the aforesaid period of one year, before submitting its resolution plan.	Reasoning
However, if the date of the second resolution plan is to be seen, Shri Rewant Ruia appears to have disappeared from the scene altogether, as the three entities left are stated to be independent entities in the form of two Russian entities and one UAE entity.	Reasoning
Viewed on 2.4.2018, therefore, could it be said that Shri Rewant Ruia had disappeared from the scene altogether, so as to obviate the application of Section 29A(c)?	Reasoning
The obvious answer is no.	Reasoning
This is for two reasons.	Reasoning
First, as has been stated earlier, the Rs.500 crores that has been deposited towards submission of earnest money continues to remain deposited by AEL even post 2.4.2018, showing thereby that Shri Rewant Ruia continues to be present, insofar as Numetal?s second resolution plan is concerned.	Reasoning
Further, having regard to the reasonably proximate state of affairs before submission of the resolution plan on 2.4.2018, beginning with Numetal?s initial corporate structure, and continuing with the changes made till date, it is evident that, the object of all the transactions that have taken place after Section 29A came into force on 23.11.2017 is undoubtedly to avoid the application of Section 29A(c), including its proviso.	Reasoning
We therefore hold that, whether the first or second resolution plan is taken into account, both would clearly be hit by Section 29A(c), as the looming presence of Shri Rewant Ruia has been found all along, from the date of incorporation of Numetal, till the date of submission of the second resolution plan.	Reasoning
Another argument raised by Shri Salve is that VTB Bank is ineligible to present a resolution plan, as the major constituent of Numetal, through its wholly owned subsidiary of Crinium Bay, as VTB Bank is ineligible as subclause (f) read with subclause (i) of Section 29A have been attracted.	Arguments of Petitioner
In February March 2014, the Russian Federation annexed the Ukrainian region of Crimea.	None
Consequently, on 6.3.2014, the President of the United States issued Executive Order 13660, pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and the National Emergencies Act.	None
The said order sought to block the property of Russian entities contributing to the situation in Ukraine.	None
Summarizing the executive order issued by the President, the Department of Treasury?s Office of Foreign Assets Control commented ?	None
The Ukraine Russiarelated sanctions program implemented by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) began on March 6, 2014, when the President, in Executive Order (E.O.) 13660, declared a national emergency to deal with the threat posed by the actions and policies of certain persons who had undermined democratic processes and institutions in Ukraine threatened the peace, security, stability, sovereignty, and territorial integrity of Ukraine and contributed to the misappropriation of Ukraine?s assets.	None
In further response to the actions and polices of the Government of the Russian Federation, including the purported annexation of the Crimea region of Ukraine, the President issued three subsequent Executive orders that expanded the scope of the national emergency declared in E.O. 13660.	None
Together, these orders authorize, among other things, the imposition of sanctions against persons responsible for or complicit in certain activities with respect to Ukraine against officials of the Government of the Russian Federation against persons operating in the arms or related materiel sector of the Russian Federation and against individuals and entities operating in the Crimea region of Ukraine.	None
E.O. 13662 also authorizes the imposition of sanctions on certain entities operating in specified sectors of the Russian Federation economy.	None
Finally, E.O. 13685 also prohibits the importation or exportation of goods, services, or technology to or from the Crimea region of Ukraine, as well as new investment in the Crimea region of Ukraine by a United States person, wherever located.?	None
The Office of Foreign Assets Control thereafter issued Directive Number 1 under Executive Order 13662, stating DIRECTIVE 1 (AS AMENDED ON SEPTEMBER 29, 2017) UNDER EXECUTIVE ORDER 13662	None
Pursuant to sections 1(a)(i), 1(b), and 8 of Executive Order 13662 of March 20, 2014, ?	None
Blocking Property of Additional Persons Contributing to the Situation in Ukraine?	None
(the Order) and 31 C.F.R. 589.802, taking appropriate account of the Countering Russian Influence in Europe and Eurasia Act of 2017, and following the Secretary of the Treasury?s determination under section 1(a)(i) of the Order with respect to the financial services sector of the Russian Federation economy, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control has determined, in consultation with the Department of State, that the following activities by a U.S. person or within the United States are prohibited?	None
After this, the Office of Foreign Assets Control issued Directive Number 2, under Executive Order 13662, stating DIRECTIVE 2 (AS AMENDED ON SEPTEMBER 29, 2017) UNDER EXECUTIVE ORDER 13662	None
Pursuant to sections 1(a)(i), 1(b), and 8 of Executive Order 13662 of March 20, 2014, ?	None
Blocking Property of Additional Persons Contributing to the Situation in Ukraine?	None
(the Order) and 31 C.F.R. 589.802, taking appropriate account of the Countering Russian Influence in Europe and Eurasia Act of 2017, and following the Secretary of the Treasury?s determination under section 1(a)(i) of the Order with respect to the energy sector of the Russian Federation economy, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control has determined, in consultation with the Department of State, that the following activities by a U.S. person or within the United States are prohibited, except to the extent provided by law or unless licensed or otherwise authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (1) For new debt issued on or after July 16, 2014 and before November 28, 2017, all transactions in, provision of financing for, and other dealings in new debt of longer than 90 days maturity of persons determined to be subject to this Directive or any earlier version thereof, their property, or their interests in property.	None
(2) For new debt issued on or after November 28, 2017, all transactions in, provision of financing for, and other dealings in new debt of longer than 60 days maturity of persons determined to be subject to this Directive or any earlier version thereof, their property, or their interests in property.	None
All other activities with these persons or involving their property or interests in property are permitted, provided such activities are not otherwise prohibited pursuant to Executive Orders 13660, 13661, 13662, or 13685 or any other sanctions program implemented by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.?	None
The names of persons determined to be subject to the directives issued under Executive Order 13662 are published in the Sectoral Sanctions Identification List?, published by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.	None
A perusal of this list shows that VTB Bank is listed therein, along with various entities affiliated to it.	None
Similarly, under EU Council Regulation 833 of 2014 dated 31.7.2014, certain restrictive measures in view of Russian actions destabilizing the situation in Ukraine were taken against certain Russian entities, of which VTB Bank was one.	None
These measures included ?	None
(5) It is also appropriate to apply restrictions on access to the capital market for certain financial institutions, excluding Russiabased institutions with international status established by intergovernmental agreements with Russia as one of the shareholders.	None
Other financial services such as deposit business, payment services and loans to or from the institutions covered by this Regulation, other than those referred to in Article 5, are not covered by this Regulation.?	None
Under Article I of this regulation, transferable securities?	None
was defined as ?(f) transferable securities?	None
means those classes of securities which are negotiable on the capital market, with the exception of instruments of payment, such as shares in companies and other securities equivalent to shares in companies, partnerships or other entities, and depositary receipts in respect of shares, bonds or other forms of securitised debt, including depositary receipts in respect of such securities, any other securities giving the right to acquire or sell any such transferable securities or giving rise to a cash settlement?	None
Article V thereto provided ?	None
It shall be prohibited to directly or indirectly purchase, sell, provide brokering or assistance in the issuance of, or otherwise deal with transferable securities and moneymarket instruments with a maturity exceeding 90 days, issued after 1 August 2014 by?	None
Further, Annexure III thereto listed VTB Bank as one of the institutions subject to the restrictive measures?.	None
What has been argued on behalf of Shri Rohatgi is that, in order to be covered by subclause (f) read with subclause (i) of Section 29A, the person must be subject to a disability, which corresponds to a prohibition by SEBI in India from trading in securities or accessing the securities markets.	Arguments of Respondent
Subclauses (f) and (i) therefore refer to persons who, on account of their antecedents, may adversely impact the credibility of the processes under the Code.	None
This is in fact stated in the Preamble of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2017, dated 23.11.2017, which introduced Section 29A into the Code, as follows ?	None
AND WHEREAS in order to strengthen further the insolvency resolution process, it has been considered necessary to provide for prohibition of certain persons from submitting a Resolution Plan who, on account of their antecedents, may adversely impact the credibility of the processes under the Code.?	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
What is stressed by Shri Rohatgi is that, in his speech while introducing the Amendment Bill in Parliament, the Finance Minister stated ?	None
and a person who is prohibited under SEBI cannot apply.	None
So these are statutory disqualifications.?	None
In the light of this object, Section 29A(i) will have to be read as a disability which corresponds to Section 29A(f) in view of the antecedent conduct on the part of the person applying as a resolution applicant in a jurisdiction outside India.	Arguments of Respondent
What will be noticed is that the sanctions that have been imposed by the authorities of both the United States and the Council of the European Union are not on account of any misconduct on the part of VTB Bank.	Reasoning
Rather, they have been imposed politically, because of the conduct of a particular country, i.e. Russia, which has sought to undermine Ukraine?s territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence, by illegally annexing Crimea and Sevastopol.	Reasoning
We are of the view that Shri Rohatgi is right, inasmuch as VTB Bank cannot be said to have been prohibited by an authority outside India from trading in securities or accessing the securities markets, due to any fraudulent and or unfair trade practices relating to the securities market generally.	Reasoning
A prohibitory sanction by an authority situate outside India for political reasons would thus not be covered by subclause (i).	Reasoning
However, Shri Salve pointed to an order dated 19.9.2017 of the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which held ?A. Respondents Violated Section 4c(a)(1) and (2) of the Act Respondents RUB USD block trades constituted unlawful fictitious sales and caused prices to be reported or recorded that were not true and bona fide prices.	None
Section 4c(a)(1) and (2) of the Act makes it unlawful for any person to offer to enter into, enter into, or confirm the execution of a transaction that is a fictitious sale or that is used to cause any price to be reported, registered, or recorded that is not a true and bona fide price.	None
xxx xxx xxx Respondents RUB USD block trades were fictitious sales under the Act.	None
Respondents designed the block trades to accomplish through the use of the futures market that which was not otherwise possible for VTB to accomplish in the swaps market.	None
Through the block trades, VTB was able to transfer its crosscurrency risk to VTB Capital which could then hedge the risk in the swaps market.	None
VTB obtained pricing from VTB Capital for these transactions that was more favorable than it admittedly could have obtained from thirdparties in the futures market.	None
With this structure, Respondents, as intended, negated market risk and avoided price competition.	None
Accordingly, Respondents block trades were fictitious from the standpoint of reality and substance and in violation of Section 4c(a)(1) and (2) (A) of the Act.	None
In re Goldwurm, 7 Agric.	None
Dec. 265, 275 (providing that cotton futures trades entered for purpose of accomplishing income tax reporting goals were fictitious from the standpoint of reality and substance).	None
Further, Respondents trades caused prices to be reported to or recorded by the CME that were not true and bona fide prices in violation of Section 4c(a)(2)(B) of the Act.	None
See In re Morgan Stanley Co., 2012 Transfer Binder Comm.	None
Fut. L. Rep. (CCH) 32,218 (CFTC June 5, 2012) (settlement order) (finding violation of Section 4c(a) where unlawfully executed exchanges for related positions caused nonbona fide prices to be reported or recorded).	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx FINDINGS OF VIOLATION Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that, during the Relevant Period, VTB and VTB Capital violated Section 4c(a)(1) and (2) of the Act and Regulation 1.38(a).?	None
VTB Bank had submitted an offer before the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission, in which it, without admitting or denying the findings or conclusions, had offered to cease and desist from violating the regulations aforementioned, to pay a civil monetary penalty in the amount of USD five million, and had ordered its successors and assigns to comply with the conditions consented to.	None
This offer was accepted by the Commission, and by way of settlement, apart from what was offered by the respondents, the respondents further agreed, in the said Order dated 19.9.2017 as follows ?	None
3. Respondents further agree that they shall comply with the following additional undertakings Respondents shall not enter into privately negotiated futures, options or combination transactions with one another on or through any U.S.based futures exchange for a period of two years from the date of this Order?	None
A reading of this order makes it clear that, even assuming that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission is an authority which corresponds with SEBI (Shri Rohatgi has argued that in the United States the Securities Exchange Commission is the authority which corresponds with SEBI in India), it is clear that there is no prohibition by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission of the United States interdicting VTB Bank from trading in securities or accessing the securities market.	Reasoning
All that VTB Bank has done is consent to a cease and desist order consent to pay a monetary penalty in the amount of USD five million and further consent to not enter into privately negotiated futures options with a particular subsidiary, viz.	Reasoning
VTB Capital, on or through any USbased futures exchange for a period of two years from the date of the order.	Reasoning
Obviously, a prohibition regarding privately negotiated futures options, or combination transactions with one another, is not a prohibition from trading in securities or accessing the securities market.	Reasoning
We thus agree with Shri Rohatgi that Crinium Bay, being a wholly owned subsidiary of VTB Bank, does not therefore incur any disqualification under subclause (f) read with subclause (i) of Section	Reasoning
29A. This brings us to the Appellant, i.e., AMIPL.	None
So far as Uttam Galva is concerned, the corporate structure is as follows AMSA is a listed company in Luxemburg.	None
This company is the ultimate parent company of the resolution applicant, through its wholly owned subsidiary AMBD, a company incorporated in Luxemburg, which in turn holds 100 of the shares in Oakey Holding BV, a company incorporated in the Netherlands, which in turn holds 99.99 shares in AMIPL, a company incorporated in India.	None
AMNLBV is a company incorporated in the Netherlands, and is a 100 subsidiary of AMSA.	None
It is this group company of Shri L.N. Mittal that held 29.05 of the shareholding in Uttam Galva (as on 7.2.2018).	None
On 4.9.2009, a CoPromotion Agreement was executed between AMNLBV and the Indian promoters of Uttam Galva, who are stated to be the Miglani family, who are residents of Mumbai.	Arguments of Petitioner
As per the CoPromotion Agreement, the foreign promoter, viz., AMNLBV was entitled to nominate one half of the nonindependent directors on the board of Uttam Galva, the other half being nominated by the Miglanis.	None
Both of them were to jointly nominate all of the independent directors.	None
Clause 16 of the said agreement, read with Schedule II thereof, provides a list of matters which require the affirmative vote of AMNLBV.	None
It is important to notice that the original shareholding of AMNLBV in Uttam Galva was 32.	None
This shareholding was reduced to 29.05 in the hands of AMNLBV, the Miglani group holding 31.82 as of December 2017.	None
The rest of the shares were held by the public.	None
This Co Promotion Agreement, therefore, not only names AMNLBV as the foreign promoter of Uttam Galva, but also makes it clear that Uttam Galva would be jointly managed and controlled by the foreign and Indian promoters.	None
Pursuant to this CoPromotion Agreement, on 7.9.2009 AMNLBV issued a letter of offer to acquire 35,226,233 fully paid shares of the face value of Rs.10, representing 25.76 of the share capital of Uttam Galva.	None
In this letter, it was disclosed to the public at large that AMNLBV was becoming a promoter of this company, with significant affirmative voting rights.	None
On 20.9.2011, a Non Disposal Undertaking was provided by AMNLBV, as promoter of Uttam Galva, to the lender banks of Uttam Galva, which included the State Bank of India.	Arguments of Respondent
On 31.3.2016, Canara Bank and Punjab National Bank declared Uttam Galva?s accounts as NPA.	None
It is important to note that, in all the annual returns of Uttam Galva till date, AMNLBV?s shareholding has been shown as promoter?s shareholding.?	None
All the annual reports, upto 2017, contained a list of promoters, which included AMNLBV as one such, holding 29.05 of the share capital of the company, and having significant influence over the company.	Reasoning
Shri Salve?s argument that, in point of fact, no control was actually exercised as AMNLBV never appointed any directors or exercised its voting rights, cannot be accepted as that makes no difference to the de jure position of AMNLBV being a ?promoter?	Reasoning
as defined in Section 2(69)(a) of the Companies Act, 2013.	Reasoning
On 7.2.2018, a few days before AMIPL submitted its first resolution plan, AMNLBV sold its entire shareholding in Uttam Galva by way of an off market sale, to a company of the Indian co promoters, viz., Sainath Trading Company Private Limited?.	Reasoning
Shares that were purchased for Rs.120 each, were sold for Re.1 each, when the market value of the shares on the said date was admittedly Rs.19.50 per share.	Reasoning
The aforesaid sale of shares was done without making an open offer under the 2011 Takeover Regulations, on the basis that it was an inter se transfer of shares between promoters, and therefore exempt from such requirement under Regulation 10 of the said regulations.	Reasoning
Also, as a matter of fact, the sale of the said shares was effected without taking the consent of the lenders of Uttam Galva, which consent was necessary as per the Non Disclosure Undertaking that was executed by AMNLBV.	Reasoning
On 7.2.2018, consequent to the aforesaid inter se transfer, the CoPromotion Agreement is said to have stood automatically terminated.	Reasoning
By way of abundant caution, a formal deed of termination was entered into.	Reasoning
AMNLBV addressed letters to the NSE and the BSE to record the aforesaid inter se transfer, who accordingly declassified AMNLBV as a promoter of Uttam Galva on 21.3.2018 and 23.3.2018 respectively.	Reasoning
It is absolutely clear that Shri L.N. Mittal, who is the ultimate shareholder of the resolution applicant, viz.	Reasoning
AMIPL, is directly the ultimate shareholder of AMNLBV as well, which is an L.N. Mittal Group Company.	Reasoning
When the corporate veil of the various companies aforementioned is pierced, both AMIPL and AMNLBV are found to be managed and controlled by Shri L.N. Mittal, and are therefore persons deemed to be acting in concert as per Regulation 2(1)(q)(2)(i) of the 2011 Takeover Regulations.	Reasoning
That AMNLBV is a promoter of Uttam Galva is clear from the aforementioned facts, being expressly stated as such in Uttam Galva?s annual returns.	Reasoning
The reasonably proximate facts prior to the submission of both resolution plans by AMIPL would show that there is no doubt whatsoever that AMNLBV?s shares in Uttam Galva were sold only in order to get out of the ineligibility mentioned by Section 29A(c), and consequently the proviso thereto.	Reasoning
The fact that the lenders with whom AMNLBV had a Non Disposal Undertaking have not yet moved any forum for a declaration that the sale of the shares, being without their consent, is non est, does not absolve AMNLBV from having failed to first obtain their consent before selling off its shares in Uttam Galva.	Reasoning
Such sale is directly contrary to the Non Disposal Undertaking given to the lenders.	Reasoning
Quite apart from this, it is also clear that shares worth Rs.19.50 each were sold at a distress value of Re.1 each, so as to overcome the provisions of Section 29A(c) and the proviso thereto.	Reasoning
It is clear therefore that the Uttam Galva transaction clearly renders AMIPL ineligible under Section 29A(c) of the Code.	Reasoning
Insofar as the transaction with regard to KSS Petron is concerned, the facts are as follows on 3.3.2011, Fraseli, an entity registered and incorporated in Luxemburg, which is managed and controlled by Shri L.N. Mittal, held 32.22 of the shareholding of KSS Global, a company domiciled in the Netherlands.	Reasoning
On 19.5.2011, by a Shareholders Agreement entered into between KSS Holding, KSS Infra EALQ, Fraseli and KSS Global, the first three companies were each given a right to appoint an equal number of directors on the board of directors of KSS Global, which in turn held 100 of the share capital of KSS Petron, a company incorporated in India.	Reasoning
Fraseli was also granted affirmative voting rights on decisions regarding certain specified matters, both at the board and the shareholder level, in respect of KSS Global and all companies controlled by it, which would include KSS Petron.	Reasoning
As has been stated hereinabove, KSS Petron was declared as an NPA on 30.9.2015.	Reasoning
As in the case of Uttam Galva, Fraseli divested its shareholding in KSS Petron on 9.2.2018, i.e., only three days before AMIPL submitted its first resolution plan.	Reasoning
On the same day, the directors nominated by Shri L.N. Mittal, through Fraseli, resigned from the board of KSS Global.	Reasoning
From the aforementioned facts, there can be no doubt whatsoever that Fraseli, being a company managed and controlled by Shri L.N. Mittal, holding one third of the shares in KSS Global, which in turn held 100 of the share capital in KSS Petron, was in joint control of KSS Petron, if the corporate veil of all these companies is disregarded.	Reasoning
Further, the Shareholders Agreement of 19.5.2011 makes it clear that the joint control of KSS Global would be between three entities, viz., KSS Holding, KSS Infra EALQ and Fraseli, each of whom had the right to appoint an equal number of directors on the board of directors of KSS Global.	Reasoning
Not only this, but Fraseli was also granted affirmative voting rights as aforementioned, on certain important specified matters.	Reasoning
There would be no doubt whatsoever that, just before presentation of the resolution plan of 12.2.2018, AMIPL would be hit by Section 29A(c), as a group company of Shri L.N. Mittal exercised positive control, by its shareholding, right to appoint directors and affirmative voting rights, over KSS Global, which in turn held 100 shareholding in KSS Petron.	Reasoning
Again, as in the case of Uttam Galva, there can be no doubt whatsoever that the sale of Fraseli?s shareholding in KSS Global, together with the resignation of the Mittal directors from the board of directors of KSS Global, is a transaction reasonably proximate to the date of submission of the resolution plan by AMIPL, undertaken with the sole object of avoiding the consequence mentioned in the proviso to Section 29A(c).	Reasoning
Having regard to the law laid down by us in this judgment, it is, therefore, clear that AMIPL is ineligible under Section 29A(c) of the Code, on this account as well.	Reasoning
Shri Rohatgi also argued before us that Shri Pramod Mittal, brother of Shri Laxmi Mittal, also held shares in two other companies which were declared to be NPAs more than one year prior to the date of commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution process of ESIL.	Arguments of Respondent
We have been informed by Shri Salve that Shri Pramod Mittal parted company with Shri L.N. Mittal as far back as 1994, and cannot therefore be regarded as a person acting in concert with Shri L.N. Mittal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since this aspect of the case has not been argued before the authorities below, though raised in an I.A. by Numetal before the Appellate Authority, we will not countenance such an argument for the first time before this Court.	None
Since it is clear that both sets of resolution plans that were submitted to the Resolution Professional, even on 2.4.2018, are hit by Section 29A(c), and since the proviso to Section 29A(c) will not apply as the corporate debtors related to AMIPL and Numetal have not paid off their respective NPAs, ordinarily, these appeals would have been disposed of by merely declaring both resolution applicants to be ineligible under Section 29A(c).	Decision
Shri Subramanium, on behalf of the Committee of Creditors, requested us to give one more opportunity to the parties before us to pay off their corporate debtors?	Decision
respective debts in accordance with Section 29A, as the best resolution plan can then be selected by the requisite majority of the Committee of Creditors, so that all dues could be cleared as soon as possible.	Decision
Acceding to this request, in order to do complete justice under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, and also for the reason that the law on Section 29A has been laid down for the first time by this judgment, we give one more opportunity to both resolution applicants to pay off the NPAs of their related corporate debtors within a period of two weeks from the date of receipt of this judgment, in accordance with the proviso to Section 29A(c).	Decision
If such payments are made within the aforesaid period, both resolution applicants can resubmit their resolution plans dated 2.4.2018 to the Committee of Creditors, who are then given a period of 8 weeks from this date, to accept, by the requisite majority, the best amongst the plans submitted, including the resolution plan submitted by Vedanta.	Decision
We make it clear that in the event that no plan is found worthy of acceptance by the requisite majority of the Committee of Creditors, the corporate debtor, i.e. ESIL, shall go into liquidation.	Decision
The appeals are disposed of, accordingly.	Decision
