 K. Agrawal, J. 1.	None
This appeal is preferred against the impugned judgment and order dated 18.09.2006 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Madras in S.A. No. 780 of 2006 whereby learned single Judge of the High Court dismissed the appeal filed by the Appellants herein at the admission stage.	Issue
2. Brief facts (a) The case of the Appellants, in a nutshell, is that the Appellants herein are the daughters of Late Shri T.G. Basuvan (died on 29.12.1979) and Late Smt.	Facts
Sundari (died on 22.07.1989) whereas Respondent No. 1 is the brother of the Appellants herein.	Facts
Late T.G. Basuvan left three properties consisting of agriculture land (Item Nos. 1 2) and dwelling house (Item No. 3) (b) Later on, due to the irresponsible behaviour of Respondent No. 1, suit properties at Item Nos. 1 and 2 were leased out to Respondent Nos. 2 to 4 herein during the lifetime of the mother of the Appellants herein.	Facts
(c) During the lease period, the mother of the Appellants died.	None
On the expiry of said lease deed, the Appellants herein through legal notice approached the Respondent Nos. 2 to 4 to deliver the vacant possession of Item Nos. 1 and 2.	Facts
In reply, it has been stated that the lands were sold to them by Defendant No. 1.	None
(d) Being aggrieved, the Appellants instituted a suit being O.S.	None
No. 202 of 2003 praying, interalia, for the partition and separate possession of the suit properties which consisted of three items, namely, agriculture land (Item Nos. 1 and 2) and building site with constructed building (Item No. 3) and arrayed the brother as Defendant No. 1 and lessees subsequent buyers as Defendant Nos. 2 to 4.	Facts
The Appellants herein were the Plaintiffs in the original suit (e) The trial Court, after hearing the suit at length, dismissed the same, vide judgment dated 28.09.2004 while holding, inter alia, that the plaint is the creature of the Defendant No. 1 and the Plaintiffs, who being the puppets in the hands of Defendant No. 1, are not entitled to any partition.	Facts
(f) Being dissatisfied, the Appellants took the matter before the District Judge, Udhagamandalam.	None
Learned District Judge, vide judgment dated 14.12.2005, dismissed the appeal while upholding the decision of the trial court.	None
(g) Feeling aggrieved with the decision, the Appellants herein preferred a Second Appeal being No. 780 of 2006 before the High Court of Judicature at Madras.	Facts
Learned single Judge of the High Court, vide order dated 18.09.2006, dismissed the appeal at the admission stage itself.	Facts
(h) Consequently, this appeal has been filed before this Court by way of special leave.	Facts
3.	None
We have given our solicitous consideration to the submissions of learned Counsel appearing for both the parties and perused the relevant material on record. Point(s) for consideration 4.	None
The short question that arises before this Court is whether in the light of present peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, any intervention of this Court is required with the impugned decision of the High Court?	Issue
Rival contentions 5.	None
At the outset, learned Counsel for the Appellants submitted that the High Court failed to appreciate that no limitation has been prescribed for filing a suit for partition by one or more cosharers, hence, a suit for partition cannot be dismissed as being barred by time.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, it was submitted that dismissal of a suit for partition by holding that the Appellants herein have not filed the suit within 12 years from the date of dispossession cannot be sustained in the eyes of law specially when there is no proof to prove dispossession and the Respondents have failed to plead and prove ouster.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, the impugned judgment of the High Court is liable to be set aside at the threshold.	Arguments of Petitioner
6.	None
Per contra, learned Counsel for Respondent No. 1 herein submitted that Respondent No. 1 had never been a drunkard and the Appellants made such allegations in order to defeat the sale made in favour of Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 and that during the lifetime of their mother, the suit properties remained unpartitioned and that the properties at Item Nos. 1 and 2 having been legally sold to Respondent Nos. 2 and 3, hence, the question of seeking partition and separate possession does not arise in any circumstance.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, it was also pointed out that the High Court rightly dismissed the case at admission case.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, this appeal also deserves to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Counsel appearing for other Respondents also submitted that they are the bona fide purchasers of the suit property, hence, this appeal deserves to be dismissed being devoid of merits.	Arguments of Respondent
Discussion 7.	None
Before proceeding further, it is apt to have an understanding of the concept of ancestral property in a nutshell.	None
Any property inherited upto four generations of male lineage from the father, fathers father or fathers fathers father i.e. father, grandfather etc., is termed as ancestral property.	None
In other words, property inherited from mother, grandmother, uncle and even brother is not ancestral property.	None
In ancestral property, the right of property accrues to the coparcener on birth.	None
The concept of ancestral property is in existence since time immemorial.	None
In the State of Tamil Nadu, in order to give equal position to the females in ancestral property, in the year 1989, the State Government enacted the Hindu Succession (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1989 effective from March 25, 1989 which brought an amendment in the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 (for brevity the Act) by adding Section 29A vide Chapter IIA under the heading of Succession by Survivorship.	None
It is apt to reproduce the said provision herein below.	None
29A. Equal rights to daughter in coparcenary propertyNotwithstanding anything contained in Section 6 of this Act, (i) in a Joint Hindu Family governed by Mitakshara Law, the daughter of a coparcener shall be birth become a coparcener in her own right in the same manner as a son and have the same rights in the coparcener property as she would have had if she had been a son, inclusive of the right to claim by survivorship and shall be subject to the same liabilities and disabilities in respect thereto as the son (ii) at a partition in such a Joint Family the coparcener property shall so divided as to allot to a daughter the same share as is allottable to a son Provided that the share which a predeceased son or a predeceased daughter would have got at the partition if he or she had been alive at the time of the partition shall be allotted to the surviving child of such predeceased son or of such predeceased daughter Provided further that the share allottable to the predeceased child of predeceased son or predeceased daughter, if such child had been alive at the time of the partition, shall be allotted to the child of such predeceased child of the predeceased son or of the predeceased daughter, as the case may be (iii) any property to which a female Hindu becomes entitled by virtue of the provisions of Clause (i) shall be held by her with the incidents of coparcenary ownership and shall be regarded, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for the time being in force, as property capable of being disposed of by her by will or other testamentary disposition (iv) nothing in this Chapter shall apply to a daughter married before the date of the commencement of the Hindu Succession (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1989 (v) nothing in Clause (ii) shall apply to a partition which had been effected before the date of commencement of the Hindu Succession (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1989.	None
8.	None
At this juncture, it is to be examined as to whether the Appellants were entitled to claim partition in ancestral property in view of the amendment?	Issue
If the answer to this question is affirmative then only further determination of dispute would arise.	Reasoning
Prior to the amendment, it was only the male who would have been coparcener and entitled to claim the partition and share from the joint family property.	Reasoning
On the other hand, daughter did not have any right to partition and to claim share in the ancestral property since she was not a coparcener.	Reasoning
At the most, at the time of partition, she could only ask for reasonable maintenance and marriage expenses.	Reasoning
9.	None
To cut a long story short, it is undisputed fact that Late T.G. Basuvan, father of the Appellants, had only ancestral properties and he did not left behind any self acquired properties.	Reasoning
On a plain reading of the newly added provision i.e., Section 29A of the Act, it is evident that, interalia, daughter of a coparcener ought not to have been married at the time of commencement of the amendment of 1989.	Reasoning
In other words, only unmarried daughter of a coparcener is entitled to claim partition in the Hindu Joint Family Property.	Reasoning
In the instant case, it is admitted position that both the Appellants, namely, Mangammal, got married in the year 1981 and Indira, got married in or about 1984 i.e., prior to the commencement of the 1989 amendment.	Reasoning
Therefore, in view of Clause (iv) of the Section 29A of the Hindu Succession (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 1989, Appellants could not institute the suit for partition and separate possession at first instance as they were not the coparceners.	Reasoning
10.	None
Moreover, Under Section 29A of the Act, legislature has used the word the daughter of a coparcener.	None
Here, the implication of such wordings mean both the coparcener as well as daughter should be alive to reap the benefits of this provision at the time of commencement of the Amendment of 1989.	None
The similar issue came up for the consideration before this Court in Prakash and Ors.	None
v. Phulavati and Ors., (2016) 2 SCC 36 , this Court while dealing with the identical matter held at Para 23 as under 23.	None
Accordingly, we hold that the rights under the amendment are applicable to living daughters of living coparceners as on 9th September, 2005 irrespective of when such daughters are born It is pertinent to note here that recently, this Court in Danamma Suman Surpur and Anr.	None
v. Amar and Ors., 2018	None
(1) Scale 657 dealt, interalia, with the dispute of daughters right in the ancestral property.	None
In the above case, father of the daughter died in 2001, yet court permitted the daughter to claim the right in ancestral property in view of the amendment in 2005.	None
On a perusal of the judgment and after having regard to the peculiar facts of the Danamma (supra), it is evident that the Division Bench of this Court primarily did not deal with the issue of death of the father rather	None
it was mainly related to the question of law whether daughter who born prior to 2005 amendment would be entitled to claim a share in ancestral property or not?	None
In such circumstances, in our view, Prakash and Ors.	None
(supra), would still hold precedent on the issue of death of coparcener for the purpose of right of daughter in ancestral property.	Reasoning
Shortly put, only living daughters of living coparceners would be entitled to claim a share in the ancestral property.	Reasoning
11.	None
Hence, without touching any other aspect in the present case, we are of the view that the Appellants were not the coparceners in the Hindu Joint Family Property in view of the 1989 amendment, hence, they had not been entitled to claim partition and separate possession at the very first instance.	Reasoning
At the most, they could claim maintenance and marriage expenses if situation warranted.	Reasoning
Division of the Property 12.	None
However, as appears from the record of the case and also in view of the contention of the parties, the coparcener property in the hand of Late T.G. Basuvan got divided between him and his son T.B. RajuRespondent No. 1.	Reasoning
In such partition, Late T.G. Basuvan got 1/2 share and T.B. Raju also got 1/2 share.	Reasoning
Now the property left in the hand of Late T.G. Basuvan would be his separate property.	Reasoning
On his death, such separate property would devolve through succession by applying the Rules of Sections 8, 9 10 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 in the following manner Widow i.e. mother of the Appellants would get 1/4 of the half share which stands at 1/8.	None
Daughter MangammalAppellant No. 1 would get 1/4 of the half share which stands at 1/8.	None
Daughter IndiraAppellant No. 2 would get the 1/4 of the half share which stands at 1/8.	None
Son T.B. RajuRespondent No. 1 would get the 1/4 of the half share which stands at 1/8.	None
This 1/8 share would be in addition of 1/2 share which he got in partition.	None
13.	None
On the death of the widow i.e., mother of the Appellants, her 1/8 share which she got in succession, would devolve through succession by applying the Rules of Sections 15 16 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 in the following manner Daughter MangammalAppellant No. 1 would get the 1/3 of the 1/8 which stands at 1/24.	None
Daughter IndiraAppellant No. 2 would get the 1/3 of the 1/8 which stands at 1/24.	None
Son T.B. RajuRespondent No. 1 would get the 1/3 of the 1/8 which stands at 1/24.	None
Final Share of Each Person 1.	None
Daughter MangammalAppellant No. 1, total share would be 1/8 1/24 4/24 or 1/6.	None
2. Daughter IndiraAppellant No. 2, total share would be 1/8 1/24 4/24 or 1/6.	None
3. Son T.B.Respondent No. 1, total share would be 1/2 1/8 1/24 16/24 or 2/3. 14.	None
At this juncture, we would like to make it clear that any sale which made to Respondent Nos. 2 3 in pursuance of two sale deeds dated 03.04.1996 and 24.08.1998 respectively shall not be disturbed anymore.	Reasoning
In lieu of the same, the Appellants shall be entitled to their legitimate share, if any, which belonged to them in such properties and which had been sold through sale deeds from Respondent No. 1 by way of money or some other property of the same amount.	Reasoning
The price of the properties shall be calculated according to the rate prevailing at the date of sale deeds respectively along with interest 9 per cent per annum from the date of sale deeds till the payment of money or transfer of property.	Reasoning
Here, legitimate share means share which Appellants have got through the division of property as mentioned above in paragraph Nos. 12 and 13.	Reasoning
15.	None
To sum up the case, the Appellants are not entitled to any share in coparcenary property since they were not the coparceners in view of 1989 amendment.	Decision
However, on the death of their father and mother, Appellants would get their property through succession in the above manner.	Decision
16.	None
In view of above discussion, we, hereby, partially allow the appeal in the above terms leaving the parties to bear their own cost.	Decision
