 K. SIKRI, J. All these appeals are filed against the orders dated 20 th December, 2013 passed by the Competition Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as COMPAT).	Facts
The COMPAT by the said judgment has upheld the findings of the Competition Commission of India (for short, CCI) that the appellants suppliers of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) Cylinders to the Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (for short, IOCL) had indulged in cartilisation, thereby influencing and rigging the prices, thus, violating the provisions of Section 3(3)(d) of the Competition Act, 2002 (for short, the Act).	Facts
The CCI, as a result, imposed severe penalties in the form of fines under Section 27 of the Act.	Facts
While maintaining the order of the CCI insofar as it found the appellants guilty of contravention of Section 3(3)(d) and also under Section 3(3)(a) of the Act, the COMPAT has reduced the amount of penalty.	Facts
These suppliers have filed the instant appeals on the ground that there was no cartilisation and they have not contravened the provisions of the Act.	Facts
On the other hand, CCI has also come up in appeal challenging latter part of the order whereby penalties inflicted on the suppliers stand reduced.	Facts
For the sake of convenience these suppliers will be referred to as the appellants hereinafter.	None
We may point out at the outset that all these appellants are manufacturing gas cylinders of a particular specification having capacity of 14.2 kg which are needed for use by the three oil companies in India, namely, IOCL, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (HPCL) all public sector companies.	Facts
It is also a matter of record that apart from the aforesaid three companies there are no other buyers for these cylinders manufactured by the appellants.	Facts
Insofar as IOCL is concerned, it is a leading market player in LPG as its market share is 48.	Facts
Thus, in case a particular manufacturer is not able to supply its cylinders to the aforesaid three companies, there is no other market for these cylinders and it may force that company to exit from its operations.	Facts
We may also point out at this stage itself that inquiry was started against 47 companies.	Facts
The CCI exonerated two companies and found that 45 companies had entered into an arrangement agreement insofar as statements of bids pursuant to tenders issued by IOCL are concerned.	Facts
Out of these 45 companies one did not challenge the orders before the COMPAT and other 44 had filed appeals which have been decided by the COMPAT.	None
The manner in which the inquiry was undertaken by the CCI, culminating into the finding of guilt and imposition of penalty, is succintly and sequally recorded by the COMPAT in its impugned order.	None
As there is no dispute about the said factual narration, it would be convenient to borrow the said discussion as recorded by the COMPAT.	None
The suomotu proceedings were started by the CCI on the basis of the information received by it in Case No. 10 of 2010 titled M s. Pankaj Gas Cylinders Ltd.	None
Vs. Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. in that case a complaint was made by M s. Pankaj Gas Cylinders before the CCI complaining about unfair conditions in the tender floated by IOCL for the supply of 105 lakh 14.2 Kg.	Facts
capacity LPG Cylinders with SC valves in the year 201011, the tender No. being LPGO M PT03/0910.	Facts
While considering the Director Generals investigation report in Case No. 10 of 2010, the CCI in pursuance of its duties under Section 18 felt that investigation was necessary in the case of all bidders who were the suppliers of 14.2 kg.	Facts
LPG cylinders in that tender.	Facts
In the investigation report in the said case, the Director General had noted that out of 63 bidders who participated in the tender, 50 bidders were qualified for opening of price bids, while 12 bidders were qualified as new vendors who were not required to submit price bids and one bidder was not qualified for the opening of the price bid.	Facts
The technical bid of the subject tender was opened on 3.3.2010 and the price bids of 50 qualified bidders were opened on 23.3.2010.	Facts
According to the Director General, there was a similar pattern in the bids by all the 50 bidders who submitted price bids for various States.	Facts
The bids of a large number of parties were exactly identical or near to identical for different States.	Facts
The Director General had observed that there were strong indications of some sort of agreement and understanding amongst the bidders to manipulate the process of bidding.	Facts
It was on this basis the CCI directed further investigation in the matter.	None
The Director General after careful consideration submitted a detailed investigation report to the CCI.	Facts
After the CCI considered the freshly ordered investigation report, it directed that a copy of the report be sent to the parties seeking their objections.	Facts
In all, 44 opposite parties submitted their objections.	Facts
After giving them the opportunity to be heard, the CCI passed the order in question.	None
As per the Director Generals report, the process of bidding followed by the IOCL in the tender was as under  The bidders would submit their quotations with the bid documents.	None
ii)	None
The existing bidders, who were existing suppliers, were required to submit the price bids and technical bids.	None
iii)	None
The bidders were to quote for supplies in different States of India in keeping with their installed capacity.	Facts
iv) After price bids were opened the bidders were arranged according to the rates in the categories of L1, L2 and L3.	None
The rates for the supplies in different States were approved after negotiations with L1 bidder.	Facts
In case the L1 bidder could not supply a required number of cylinders in a particular State, the orders of supplies went to L2 and also L3 bidder or likewise depending upon the requirement in that State as per fixed formula provided in the bid documents.	Facts
vi) Certain bidders were called new parties.	None
They were required to submit only technical bids and to supply as per L1 rates determined after the negotiations.	None
vii)	None
One bidder could quote for maximum eight States.	None
The Director General after analyzing the bids came to the conclusion that there was not only a similarity of pattern in the price bids submitted by the 50 bidders for making supply to the IOCL but the bids of large number of parties were exactly identical or near to identical in different States.	Facts
It was also found that bidders, who belonged to same group, might have submitted identical rates.	Facts
It was found that not only there was identical pricing in case of group concerns but the rates of other entities not belonging to the group were also found to be identical.	Facts
The D.G. painstakingly noted the names of group companies as well as nongroup companies.	Facts
He came to the conclusion that in all 37 entities could not be said to be belonging to any single group and were independently controlled.	Facts
The Director General found it unusual that unrelated firms had quoted identical rates in different States.	Facts
The D.G. had analyzed the bidding pattern for the various parties for all the 25 States.	Facts
He found that  The orders were placed on all the 50 successful bidders.	Facts
The contracts were awarded to the sets of bidders who had quoted identical rates or near to identical rates in a particular pattern in almost all the States.	Facts
There was a common pattern for quotation depending upon the State.	Facts
In case of North East the rates were highest, quoted at Rs. 1240	Facts
whereas in case of others rates were Rs.1100, Rs.1127 and Rs. 1151.	Facts
It was found that only for Andaman and Nicobar Islands there was a single party who had quoted the L1 rate and got the formal contract.	Facts
In other States the contracts were bagged in a group on the basis of identical or near to identical rates.	Facts
The similarity of the rates was found even in case of bidders whose factories and offices were not located at one and the same place in the States and where they were required to supply was far off from their factories located in different place.	Facts
The D.G. had found further that though the factors like market conditions and small number of companies were different, there was a large scale collusion amongst the bidding parties.	Facts
He also arrived at a finding to the effect that the LPG Cylinder Manufacturers had formed an Association in the name of Indian LPG Cylinders Manufacturers Association and the members were interacting through this Association and were using the same as a platform.	Facts
The date for submitting the bids in the case of the concerned tender was 3.3.2010 and just two days prior to it, two meetings were held on 1st and 2 nd March, 2010 in Hotel Sahara Star in Mumbai.	Facts
As many as 19 parties took part and discussed the tender and, in all probability, prices were fixed there in collusion with each other.	Facts
The D.G. reported that the bidders had agreed for allocation of territories, e.g., the bidders who quoted the bids for Western India had not generally quoted for Eastern India and that largely the bidders who quoted the lowest in the group in Northern India, had not quoted generally in Southern India.	Facts
The D.G. also concluded that this behavior created entry barrier and that there was no accrual of benefits of consumers nor were there any plus factors like improved production or distribution of the goods or the provision of services.	None
Ultimately, the D.G. came to the conclusion that there was a cartel like behavior on the part of the bidders and that the factors necessary for the formation of cartel existed in the instant case.	None
It was also found that there was certainly a ground to hold concerted action on the part of the bidders.	Facts
The D.G. had also noted that the rates quoted for the year 200910 and in years previous to that were also identical in some cases.	Facts
Thus, he came to the conclusion that the bids for the year 201011 had been manipulated by 50 participating bidders.	Facts
It was thereafter that the CCI decided to supply the D.G.s investigation report to the concerned parties and invite their objections.	Facts
A common reply came to be filed as also the individual replies.	None
After considering the same, the CCI formulated the following issue for determination Whether there was any collusive agreement between the participating bidders which directly or indirectly resulted in bid rigging of the tender floated by IOCL in March 2010 for procurement of 14.2 kg.	Facts
LPG cylinders in contravention of Section 3(3)(d) read with Section 3(1) of the Act?	Facts
After considering the oral as well as written submissions, the CCI answered the issue against the Cylinders Manufacturers and inflicted the penalties against the present appellants.	None
In its impugned order, while determining the issue, the CCI, in the first instance, considered the common replies to the DGs report filed by as many as 44 opposite parties.	Facts
It was more or less pleaded that every part of LPG Cylinder is regulated by the Rules through various Notifications and that the price of steel constitutes 50 of the total manufacturing cost, so also the price of the paint, it being an essential raw material.	Facts
All these factors, including the taxes which vary from State to State, determine the overall bidding pattern of the bidders.	Facts
In para5.2.3 of the common objection, it was added that these 44 parties had nominated six agents for depositing their bids on their behalf and it was a common practice amongst the bidders to direct their agents to keep close watch on the rates offered by their competitors in respect of a particular State and this led to the possibility of copying and matching of the rates quoted in the price bids by many suppliers in a particular State, who may have appointed common agents.	Facts
Due to this reason, cutting and overwriting in the price bids for the tender in question was noticed by the Director General.	None
It was further pointed out that there were only 62 qualified tenderers in the whole country, out of whom 12 bidders were classified as new parties, meaning thereby that they had not supplied Cylinders in last three years and were not required to bid in the tender.	None
Out of the remaining 50 bidders, there were group companies controlled by single management.	None
The CCI in its detailed order began with considering the scope of constructed bid rigging agreement and cartel.	None
In that the CCI also considered the 18 famous observations by Lord Denning in case of RRTA vs. W. H. Smith Sons Limited regarding the quiet and secret nature of the agreement between the parties.	Facts
The CCI then went on to record its inference holding that there was element of agreement and considered the following factors in coming to the conclusion.	Facts
They being Market conditions Small number of suppliers Few new entrants Active trade association Repetitive bidding Identical products Few or no substitutes No significant technological changes Meeting of bidders in Mumbai and its agenda.	None
Appointing common agents Identical bids despite varying cost.	None
After consideration of these factors, the CCI came to the conclusion that it did suggest collusive bidding.	None
Thereafter, the CCI analyzed these bids for each States and found that all 50 participating bidders had secured the order that the orders were placed on the said 50 bidders who had quoted identical rates or near to identical rates in a particular pattern common to all the parties.	Facts
CCI also highlighted the facts of absence of business justification.	Facts
According to the CCI, the material revealed that the supplies were effected at the higher cost.	Facts
After discussing the concepts of standards of proof and appreciable adverse effect on competition, the CCI considered the various arguments and repelled those arguments.	Facts
The CCI then went on to consider the case law, and in particular the judgment of this Court in Union of India vs. Hindustan Development Corporation (1993) 3 SCC 499 .	Facts
It also took into consideration the arguments raised by the individual parties and then came to record that cases of M s. JBM Industries and Punjab Cylinders, however, were exceptional ones and they could be exonerated.	Facts
After this the CCI went on to decide the penalty factor under Section 27 of the Act.	None
The COMPAT after discussing the findings of the CCI and also taking note of the arguments of the appellants which were advanced before the CCI, proceeded with its own discussion.	None
It started with the admitted facts of the case, and took note of the following such facts The tender offers were to be made at Mumbai on 03.03.2010.	None
Admittedly there were meetings in Hotel Sahara Star, Mumbai on 1 st and 2 nd March, 2010 which were attended by some of the appellants.	Facts
The D.G. has held that 19 appellants were represented by various persons in that meeting.	Facts
The fact of the meeting having been held was not disputed.	Facts
Though some of the appellants stated that they did not attend the meeting and those who attended the meeting maintained that nothing was disucssed about the tender, the same was not believed by the COMPAT and it held that these meetings did relate to the tender offers which were to be submitted on 03.03.2010.	Facts
This finding is premised on the basis that nobody came with the explanation as to what transpired in the meeting or gave any proof that prices were discussed.	Facts
Minutes of the meeting were also not produced.	None
There is an association of the cylinder manufacturers.	Facts
All the parties, except few competing with each other, stated that they were not the members of that association.	Facts
A feeble argument was also raised by some appellants that though they were the members but they were not the active members thereof.	Facts
Some of the appellants also argued that they had abandoned the membership by not contributing the subscription in the later years.	Facts
However, the appellants could not deny the position that there was an association called Indian LPG Cylinder Manufacturers Association.	Facts
It was a registered association, its Memorandum of Association provided that one of the objectives was to prtoect common interest and welfare of LPG cylinder manufacturers.	Facts
According to COMPAT, there was a definite platform available for all cylinder manufacturers and practically all the appllants appear to be the members of that Association.	Facts
A common written reply was submitted by as many as 44 parties.	None
Further, the appellants had nominated six agents for depositing bids on their behalf.	Facts
These common agents were instructed to keep a close watch on the price quoted by the competitors in a particular State.	Facts
Though some of the appellants had contended that they had not appointed the common agents, the plea was not accepted by the COMPAT.	Facts
The COMPAT, therefore, proceeded on the admitted grounds that there was an association of cyliner manufactures practically all the appellants were members of the said association this association was an active association it held meetings on the eve of entry tender obviously for discussing tenders, its conditions etc.	Facts
these meetings were attended by representatives of at least 19 appellants and these appellants had six common agents at Mumbai who were instructed to watch the prices offered by the others.	Facts
A dinner meeting as also a munch were held and one Mr. Chandi Prasad Bhartia of M s. Haldia Precision Engineering Private Limited paid the bill for the same.	Facts
Dinner and lunch held in Sahara hotel were attended by about 50 persons in all.	Facts
From this the COMPAT inferred that there was no reason to disbelieve that the parties had an access to each other through their association which was an active association.	Facts
The existence of such an association under the aegis of which meetings took place just before the submission of tender has been noted as a very relevant factor by the COMPAT in affirming the findings of CCI on cartelisation and it summed up the position in the following manner What is important is not whether a particular appellant was a member of the association or not.	Facts
The existence of an association is by itself sufficient, as it gives opportunity to the competitors to interact with each other and discuss the trade problems.	Facts
There will be no necessity to prove that any party actually discussed the prices by actively taking part in the meeting.	Facts
If there is a direct evidence to that effect that is certainly a pointer towards the fact that such party had a tacit agreement with its competitors.	Facts
However, the existence of an association and further holding of the meetings just one or two days prior to the last date of making offers and further admission that the parties had appointed common agents with the instructions to keep watch on the prices quoted by the competitors would go a long way in providing plus factors in favour of the agreement between the parties.	Facts
All these factors would form a back drop, in the light of which, the further evidence about agreement would have to be appreciated.	Facts
We have seen the comments of Director General as also the findings of the CCI.	Facts
We are convinced that CCI has not committed any error in considering all these factors as plus factors to come to the conclusion that there was a concerted agreement between the parties on the basis of which the identical or near identical prices came to be quoted in tenders for the supply of cylinders to the 25 States.	Facts
In view of this, we need not dilate on the individual claims by some of the appellants that they were not the members of the association or that they were only the dormant members or that they had abdicated their membership.	Facts
We also need not go on the claim that while the meeting was attended by the 19 parties as held by the D.G. and confirmed by the CCI, it was not attended by the rest of the appellants because that would be of no consequence.	Facts
Once there was a meeting, there was every opportunity to discuss or to communicate to each other whatever transpired in the meeting.	Facts
We have seen the order of the CCI and while commenting about the meeting, the CCI has painstakingly noted the details of that meeting.	Facts
The CCI has referred to the evidence of Mr. Dinesh Goyal, who was an active member of the Indian LPG Cylinder Manufacturers Association and noted that he had attended the meeting.	Facts
He has also referred to the statement of Mr. Sandeep Bhartia of Carbac Group though initially he denied to have organized the conference, he later on had confirmed about such a conference having been held along with Mr. Sandeep Bhartia of Carbac Group.	Facts
The CCI also noted that he admitted that in such meetings there were discussions on prebid issues.	Facts
He also admitted that though there are about 50 competitors, in fact about 25 persons control the whole affairs.	Facts
From this evidence, the CCI correctly deduced that prebid issues were discussed in that meeting.	Facts
The CCI has then referred to the evidence of Mr. Manvinder Singh of Bhiwadi Cylinders Limited, Mr. Chandi Prasad Bhartia of Haldia Precision Engineering P. Ltd., Mr. Vijay Kumar Agarwal of SM Sugar Pvt. Ltd., Mr. S. Kulandhaiswamy, MD of	Facts
Lite Containers Pvt. Ltd. and Secretary of the Association, Mr. Ramesh Kumar Batra, Director of Surya Shakti Vessels Pvt.	Facts
Ltd.	Facts
and on that basis came to the correct conclusion that not only was the meetings held on 1st and 2nd March, but thorough discussions went on in those meeting on the prebid issue of the concerned tender.	Facts
The CCI has also correctly noted about the agenda of the meeting and has also referred to an admission made by one of the witnesses that the matching of the quotation was a matter of coincidence and telephonic discussions do take place amongst the parties regarding the trends.	Facts
We are thus thoroughly convinced about holding of the meeting, the discussion held therein and also the discussion regarding the prebid issue having been taken place in that meeting.	Facts
The COMPAT thereafter took up for discussion the argument of the appellants that the CCI should have enquired IOCL also.	None
But rejected the same.	None
Another significant argument which was canvassed before us also with great emphasis was that it was an oligopolistic market wherein there was a likelihood of each player being aware of actions of the other and in such a situation price parallelism would be a common phenomena.	None
Thus, merely because there was a price parallalism, it would not be construed as evidence of collusion.	None
The COMPAT rejected this argument as well.	None
In the process, it analysed the order of CCI, conclusion whereof was founded on the following factors The prevailing market conditions were such that there was a constant demand for cylinders not only by IOCL but by other two oil manufacutring companies as well.	None
Therefore, there was a constant need for the cylinders which facilitated factor for the collusion.	None
There was small number of suppliers.	None
Among the 50 participating companies, only 37 companies could be said to be independant bidding companies and there were seven groups consisting of 20 participating companies.	None
This small number of suppliers should also be a facilitating factor.	None
There were very few new entrants.	None
The existence of an active trade association in which all the bidders, except seven companies, were members would be another facilitating factor.	None
Few other factors like repetitive bidding, identical products, few or no substitutes and no significant technological changes were the additional factors which persuaded the CCI to arrive at such a conclusion.	None
These manufacturing companies had their factories at different places in India, where the costs of the components would differ from State to State.	None
Even the taxing structure, the labour conditions and other factors like cost of electricity etc. were bound to be different.	None
Still the prices quoted were almost identical.	None
On the above considerations, the defence of the appellants was rejected as unconvincing, thereby undergoing the factors considered by the CCI.	None
According to the COMPAT all these could not have been possible unless there were internal agreements between the appellants.	None
The COMPAT has approved the finding of the CCI that owing to the collusion, the IOCL could not get lower or the competitive prices.	None
The rates quoted in 20102011 were higher as compared to the rate quoted in 200910.	None
From the year 200607, the prices had collectively been raised on an average of 30 for making supplies in different states.	None
According to the COMPAT, the CCI was right in concluding that it had appreciable adverse effect on competition as the conduct of the LPG cylinder manufacturers in coming together on a common platform and fixing the bid prices ensures that no new player could enter the relevant market and quote the prices independently.	None
Thus, these manufacturers would make entry of a new player into the relevant market difficult, because such new player would necessarily have to first negotiate with the existing players to get the business profitably.	None
Other factors were driving existing competitiors out of the market and foreclosure of competition by hindering entry into the market.	None
It negated the argument of the appellants that when the IOCL was placing orders on the basis of negotiated rates there could be no possibility of incentive to collude.	None
According to it, even where the rates are fixed, the bid rigging can still take place to keep the big amounts to a predetermined level.	None
Such predetermination can be by way of intentional manipulation by members of the bidding group and where the L1 rates themselves get fixed like in the present case at higher level even if there are negotations the negotiators would have to take into consideration the benchmark rates.	None
There is aslo a possibility that such benchmark rates could go higher in the subsequent tenders known as rippel effect in long term.	None
The COMPAT also took note of the provisions of Section 3, as per which once the agreement is proved there is a presumption about the appreciable adverse effect on competition on the mere proof of the agreement.	None
Thus, onus shifts on the other side to prove otherwise which according to the COMPAT was not discharged by the appellants.	None
The COMPAT thereafter took note of some arguments by certain counsel specific to their cases but did not find any substance in them.	None
Having examined the relevant provisions whereupon these appeals centre around, we proceed to take note of the arguments that were advanced by various counsel appearing for the appellants and the manner in which respondents endeavoured to meet the same.	None
Ms. Madhavi Divan, learned counsel appearing in the appeal filed by Rajasthan Cylinders and Containers Ltd., attacked the very basis and foundation on which CCI came to conclusion that there was an agreement or cartelisation by the appellants aimed at bid rigging.	Arguments of Petitioner
She premised her case on the following three propositions the inherent nature of the market of cylinder manufacturers itself precludes the possibility of competition alternatively, there is no collusive agreement or bidrigging in the present case and further, in the alternative, even assuming that there is a collusive agreement or bidrigging in the present case, there is no appreciable adverse effect on competition.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the first proposition, argument developed by Ms. Divan was that the Act prohibits anticompetitive practices, which would imply that there has to be a competition in the market, in the first place.	Arguments of Petitioner
As a corrolary, if there is no such competition, Section 3(1) of the Act does not get triggered.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to her, in the instant case, the fact would show that there was a tight control and regulation by the IOCL and, thus, it did not lead any scope of competition at the very threshold.	Arguments of Petitioner
She stressed that the conditions of monopsony oligopsony prevailed.	Arguments of Petitioner
For the existence of monopsony oligopsony, she referred to the Glossary of Industrial Organization Economics and Competition Law published by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), as per which a monopsony consists of a market with a single buyer.	Arguments of Petitioner
When there are only a few buyers, the market is described as an oligopsony.	Arguments of Petitioner
In general, when buyers have some influence over the price of their inputs they are said to have monopsony power.	Arguments of Petitioner
The ability of a firm to raise prices, even when it is a monopolist, can be reduced or eliminated by monopsony or oligopsony buyers.	Arguments of Petitioner
To the extent that input prices can be controlled in this way, consumers may be better off.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to her, these conditions were adequately present in the instant case.	Arguments of Petitioner
In her attempt to make this propositoin good, she highlighed the following features and conditions surrounding the contract Extremely limited number of buyers and for this particular kind of market  a sole buyer, i.e., IOCL.	Arguments of Petitioner
IOCL controls 48 of the market share.	Arguments of Petitioner
There are no other purchasers of 14.2 Kg gas cylinders except for HPCL and BPCL, both of whom invite etenders, having a market share of 26 and 25 respectively.	Arguments of Petitioner
The product is standardized and special to the extent that it is tightly controlled and regulated by the Government and also there are no other takers for it.	None
There are entry barriers in the market.	None
As per the Tender conditions, only those manufacturers having valid approval from the Chief Controller of Explosives (CCOE) and Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) license for manufacture of 14.2 kg LPG cylinders as per IS3196 (Part 1) could submit bids for the tender.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even the machinery used to manufacture this product is special and will become obsolete and reduceable to scrap if IOCL and the aforesaid two players were to discontinue contracts for supply of 14.2 kg cylinders.	Arguments of Petitioner
She pointed out that this was accepted in the Expert Report of Dr. Rughvir K.S. Khemani.	None
The tender conditions state that it can be rejected without furnishing reasons.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the lowest price is not sacrosanct (clause 11 of the contract).	Arguments of Petitioner
L2 and L3 have also been granted contracts irrespective of the price they have quoted.	None
Effective price has no sanctity since not only L2 and L3 also get contracts in addition to or in exclusion of L1 but further, the final negotiated price is determined on the basis of privately conducted negotiations with individual bidders for which the benchmark is not the price quoted by them but the internal estimates arrived on the basis of objective criteria.	Arguments of Petitioner
In most States, the final negotiated price was concluded at a rate lower than the internal estimate.	Arguments of Petitioner
The internal estimate had absolutely no correlation with the quoted rates by L1 or any other party.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this behalf, she pointed out that the IOCL had carried out the exercise of ascertaining the estimated cost of the cylinder through its experts.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the report given by the expert, the estimated cost per cylinder was arrived at Rs. 1106.61 paisa per cylinder.	Arguments of Petitioner
As against this, the final negotiated price at which the appellants had supplied cylinders to the IOCL was much lesser.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to her, in the whole process the price determination was on the basis of internal estimates by IOCL which could not be influenced by the appellants at all.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact, even after the tenderers submitted their bids, final price was the price negotiated by IOCL which fact was accepted by Mr. Y. Ramana Rao of IOCL in his deposition recorded by the Director General of CCI.	Arguments of Petitioner
This, according to the learned counsel, clearly proved that there was no adverse effect on competition, in any case.	Arguments of Petitioner
The internal estimates were drawn up long after the price bids were made, i.e., on 5 th May, 2010.	Arguments of Petitioner
Price bids were opened on 23 rd March, 2010 and negotiations were held only after the submission of Mott MacDonald Report on 05.05.2010.	Arguments of Petitioner
The pattern shows that since L1, L2 and even L3 were awarded the contract and not merely L1, quoting the lowest price did not even determine the identity of the parties who were to get the contract, therefore, the manner in which the process was conducted or controlled by IOCL, completely leaves no scope for either determination of price or the identity of the parties who would get the contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
She submitted that in such market conditions where on account of the vertical agreement there is virtually no scope of competitive forces between horizontal players, the question of anticompetitive conduct by virture of horizontal agreements does not arise.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no competition in the market even before a player enters the fray.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the first premise for the applciation of Section 3, i.e., the presence of an otherwise competitive market is absent.	Arguments of Petitioner
The burden of proof is on the respondent CCI to establish that there is competition in the market before it can justify invoking Section 3.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no automatic presumption under Section 3 that there is competition in the market.	Arguments of Petitioner
From the aforesaid factors, Ms. Divan tried to deduce that price control was entirely in the hands of IOCL and in a situation like this, question of entering into any agreement with the motive of bid rigging or collusive bidding did not arise.	Arguments of Petitioner
She also referred to LPG (Regulation of Supply and Distribution) Order, 2000 published vide Notification dated 26 th April, 2000 as per which only Government oil companies can supply LPG to domestic consumer of 14.2 kg LPG cylinders with dimensions as specified therein.	Arguments of Petitioner
Predicated thereupon, her submission was that the LPG supply in 14.2 kg gas cylinders is an essential commodity the distribution of such cylinders takes place only through Government oil companies the price to the consumer is controlled by the Government and parallel marketeers, supplier and distributor of LPG cylinders may do so only for cylinders and specifications other than 14.2 kg cylinders.	Arguments of Petitioner
This control of the Government, insofar as supply of 14.2 kg gas cylinders is concerned, would also show tight control over the pricing.	Arguments of Petitioner
In such a statutorily tight control price fixing mechanism there could not be bid rigging, was the submission of Ms. Divan.	Arguments of Petitioner
She supported this submission by drawing the attention of the Court to the following observations in Ashoka Smokeless Coal India (P) Ltd. v. Union of India (2007) 2 SCC 640	Arguments of Petitioner
It may be true that prices are required to be fixed having regard to the market forces.	Arguments of Petitioner
Demand and supply is a relevant factor as regards fixation of the price.	Arguments of Petitioner
In a market governed by free economy where competition is the buzzword, producers may fix their own price.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is, however, difficult to give effect to the constitutional obligations of a State and the principles leading to a free economy at the same time.	Arguments of Petitioner
A level playing field is the key factor for invoking the new economy.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such a level playing field can be achieved when there are a number of suppliers and when there are competitors in the market enabling the consumer to exercise choices for the purpose of procurement of goods.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the policy of the open market is to be achieved the benefit of the consumer must be kept uppermost in mind by the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
xxx	None
xxx xxx 127.	None
While fixing a fair and reasonable price in terms of the provisions of the Essential Commodities Act (although the price is not dual), it is essential that price is actually fixed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such price fixation is necessary in view of the fact that coal is an essential commodity.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is, therefore, vital that price is actually fixed and not kept variable.	Arguments of Petitioner
Fixation of price of coal is of utmost necessity as it is a mineral of grave national importance.	Arguments of Petitioner
Nonavailability of coal and consequently, the other products may lead to hardship to a section of citizens.	None
It may entail closure of factories and other industries which in turn would lead to loss to the State exchequer as they would be deprived of its taxes.	Arguments of Petitioner
It will lead to loss of employment of a large number of employees and would be detrimental to the avowed object of the Central Government to encourage smallscale industries.	None
She also referred to the following discussion in Excel Crop Care Limited v. Competition Commission of India Anr.	None
(2017) 8 SCC 47 ?	None
52.	None
We are here concerned with parallel behaviour.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are conscious of the argument put forth by Mr Venugopal that in an oligopoly situation parallel behaviour may not, by itself, amount to a concerted practice.	Arguments of Petitioner
It would be apposite to take note of the following observations made by European Court of Justice in Dyestuffs Imperial Chemical Industries Ltd. v. Commission of European Communities, 1972 ECR 619 (ECJ)	Arguments of Petitioner
By its very nature, then, the concerted practice does not have all the elements of a contract but may inter alia arise out of coordination which becomes apparent from the behaviour of the participants.	Arguments of Petitioner
Although parallel behaviour may not itself be identified with a concerted practice, it may however amount to strong evidence of such a practice if it leads to conditions of competition which do not respond to the normal conditions of the market, having regard to the nature of the products, the size and number of the undertakings, and the volume of the said market.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such is the case especially where the parallel behaviour is such as to permit the parties to seek price equilibrium at a different level from that which would have resulted from competition, and to crystallise the status quo to the detriment of effective freedom of movement of the products in the internal market and free choice by consumers of their suppliers.(emphasis supplied)	None
At the same time, the Court also added that the existence of a concerted practice could be appraised correctly by keeping in mind the following test If the evidence upon which the contested decision is based is considered, not in isolation, but as a whole, account being taken of the specific features of the products in question.	None
The learned counsel also referred to various judgments of other jurisdictions, primarily that of European Commission and the Court of Justice of European Union, which we shall discuss at the appropriate stage.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ms. Divan, also highlighted that in this entire scenario, it was necessary to have the views of IOCL.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, in a suo motu case, IOCL was not even served with any notice and therefore no evidence was elicited from IOCL on the issue whether there was any autnomy left to the manufacturer in the matter of price determination.	Arguments of Petitioner
She, thus, argued that merely because there was price parallelism, it could not have been the reason to arrive at a conclusion that there was a collusive agreement or bid rigging.	Arguments of Petitioner
She submitted that in a monopsonistic market where there are few buyers, the price is set by the buyers, and the conditions are such that sellers can predict demand, there is a repetitive bidding process and the products are identical and specilized, the likelihood of price parallelism is natural.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, price parallelism is inevitable where the buyer has a high degree of control and determines price, quantity, and even the identities of the awardees at its discretion.	Arguments of Petitioner
Referring to the following discussion in Union of India v. Hindustan Development Corporation (1993) 1 SCC 46 , she argued that mere identical pricing cannot lead to the conclusion of cartelisation 7. .	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) There is not enough of material to conclude that M s H.D.C., Mukand and Bhartiya formed a cartel.	Arguments of Petitioner
Because of mere quoting identical tender offers by the said three manufacturers for which there is some basis, the conclusion that the said manufacturers had formed a cartel does not appear to be correct.	Arguments of Petitioner
However since the offers of the said three tenderers were identical and the price was somewhat lower, the Tender Committee entertained a suspicion that a cartel had been formed and the same got further strengthened by the posttender attitude of the said manufacturers which further resulted in entertaining the same suspicion by the other authorities in the hierarchy of decision making body including the Minister of Railways. .	Arguments of Petitioner
She pointed out that this principle has also been stated in paragraph 17 of the Union of India v. Hindustan Development Coproration (1993)	Arguments of Petitioner
3 SCC 499	None
Her submission was that identical pricing may be further explained by the fact that, given the high degree of predictability of prices, bidders may take a business decision to mirror prices of competitiors in certain States, by adjusting or averaging prices in others.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel pointed out that the CCI arrived at an inference of a collusive agreement based, inter alia, on the presence of circumstances which have acted as facilitating factors for collusion.	Arguments of Petitioner
These factors which describe the nature of the industry are Predictability of demand Small number of suppliers Few new entrants Active trade association Repetitive bidding Identical products	None
Few or no substitutes No significant technological changes, i.e, a standardised product in repsect of which there has been no change or alteration in design.	Arguments of Petitioner
Her reply was that these are the characteristics which define the industry.	Arguments of Petitioner
Yet these very factors are relied upon to come to the consclusion that there is collusion and bid rigging.	Arguments of Petitioner
She submitted that if the very nature of the industry is such that there are very small numbers of suppliers, very few new entrants and a standard product being supplied to the same party year after year, such factors are beyond the control of the individual manufacturers and cannot be relied upon as factors to lead to a presumption that there is collusive conduct.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, the very nature of the industry cannot be used as a factor to presume collusion because collusion itself requires a state of mind or intent whereas in this case, most of these factors are inherent in the nature of the industry as described by the CCI itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
Adverting to her 2 nd proposition, namely, there was no collusive agreement or bid rigging in the present case, her submission was that CCI has relied on a dinner attended by some manufacturers on 1 st March, 2010 and a lunch on 2 nd March, 2010 as evidence of a price fixing agreement.	Arguments of Petitioner
Her response was that the factum of meetings of an association by itself in any case cannot lead to a conclusion of collusion.	Arguments of Petitioner
Likewise, the COMPAT also upheld that inference based on the factum of the meetings of the Associaiton.	Arguments of Petitioner
The COMPAT went to the extent of holding that it is irrelevant whether a particular party was a member of the Association or not and the existence of Association is by itself sufficient.	Arguments of Petitioner
This approach was attacked as contrary to the fundamental right to form an association under Article 19(1)(c)(g) of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
So far as the meetings over dinner and lunch are concerned, both were hosted by individual members.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the case of the dinner meeting on 1 st March, 2010, it was hosted by Mr. C.P. Bhartiya, MD of North India Wires.	Arguments of Petitioner
The lunch on 2 nd March, 2010 was hosted by Mr. Santosh Bhartiya of Haldia Precision.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not as if that the Association paid or the expenses were shared by all members who attended.	Arguments of Petitioner
She also submitted that insofar as appellant Rajasthan Cylinders and Containers Limited is concerned, no representatives of appellant attended the said meeting.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, many other members did not attend the meeting.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even as per the findings of the Director General, only 12 persons representing 19 parties are said to have attended the meeting.	None
Her submission was that as per the allegations, 45 persons had entered into an agreement of cartelisation which should not be established only with the said meeting which was not attended by all and in fact very few members.	None
In any case, according to her, it was expressly stated by at least two persons who attended the meeting that price was not discussed.	Arguments of Petitioner
These are Mr. Chandi Prasad Bhartia from Haldia Precision and Mr. Manvinder Singh of Bhiwadi Cylinders Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
40 Her further submission on this aspect was that the inference drawn on the basis of six agents being nominated for depositing 44 bids was also misconceived.	Arguments of Petitioner
The CCI holds that this might have held to the possibility of copying and matching of the rates quoted in the price bids by many suppliers in a particular state.	Arguments of Petitioner
The test as laid down in the case of Ahlstrom Osakeyhtio v. Commission is Is the concertation the only plausible explaination for the conduct?	None
Following that analysis, it must be stated that, in this case, concertation is not the only plausible explanation for the parallel conduct.	None
To begin with, the system of price announcements may be regarded as constituting a rational response to the fact that the pulp market constituted a longterm market and to the need felt by both buyers and sellers to limit commercial risks.	None
Further, the similarity in the dates of price announcements may be regarded as a direct result of the high degree of market transparency, which does not have to be described as artificial.	None
Finally, the parallelism of prices and the price trends may be satisfactorily explained by the oligopolistic tendencies of the market and by the specific circumstances prevailing in certain period.	None
Accordingly, the parallel conduct established by the Commission does not constitute evidence of concertation.	None
This test is not met in the present case for reasons that are enumerated.	None
Her third proposition was that in any case there was no appreciable adverse effect on competition.	None
She tried to make this submission good by contending that when industry is an oligopoly, the price parallel or a finding of identical quoting of price does not by itself lead to the conclusion of a conerted price.	None
Moreoever, in the instant case, number of entrants had increased as 12 new entrants submitted their bid for the year 201011.	None
Therefore, the finding of the CCI, upheld by the COMPAT, that there has been a creation of barriers for new entrants is without any basis.	None
Other counsel who appeared on behalf of the appellants made their submission almost on the same lines, albeit, with further elaborations on certain aspects, some of which are taken note of hereafter.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Jaiveer Shergil, who argued for the appellantOm Containers (C.A. No. 6369 of 2014) submitted that in order to attract the presumption contained in Section 3(3) about the appreciable adverse effect on competition, in the first instance, there has to be a finding that there has been an agreement of the kind set out in Section 3(3)(a) to (d).	Arguments of Petitioner
Since, the allegation against the appellants was that the agreement resulted in bid rigging and case is covered under Section 3(3)(d) of the Act, it was necessary that there is a positive finding to the aforesaid effect, namely, that there was agreement which had resulted in bid rigging.	Arguments of Petitioner
Accordoing to him, since the definition of bid rigging in Explanation to Section 3(3) uses the words means, the definition is a hard and fast definition and no other meaning can be assigned to the expression than is put down in the definition, as held in Punjab Land Developement Reclamation Corporation Ltd. vs. Presiding Officer, Labour Court (1990) 3 SCC 682 in the following words The definition has used the word means.	Arguments of Petitioner
When a statute says that a word or phrase shall mean not merely that it shall include certain things or acts the definition is a hardandfast definition, and no other meaning can be assigned to the expression than is put down in definition (per Esher, M.R., Gough v. Gough (1891) 2 QB 665 65 LT 110 ).	None
A definition is an explicit statement of the full connotation of a term.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, according to him, for it to be a case of bid rigging, the agreement must be such which is defined in the Explanation to Section 3(3)(d) creating the effect of ?	Arguments of Petitioner
a. Eliminating or reducing competition for bids or Adversely affecting the process for bidding or Manipulating the process for bidding.	None
He referred to the judgment in S. Sundaram Pillai vs. V.R. Pattabiraman (1985) 1 SCC 591 , on the purpose of an Explanation, viz.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have now to consider as to what is the impact of the Explanation on the proviso which deals with the question of willful default.	Arguments of Petitioner
Before, however, we embark on an inquiry into this difficult and delicate question, we must appreciate the intent, purpose and legal effect of an Explanation.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is now well settled that an Explanation added to a statutory provision is not a substantive provision in any sense of the term but as the plain meaning of the word itself shows it is merely meant to explain or clarify certain ambiguities which may have crept in the statutory provision.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sarathi in Interpretation of Statutes while dwelling on the various aspects of an Explanation observes as follows The object of an Explanation is to understand the Act in the light of the explanation.	Arguments of Petitioner
It does not ordinarily enlarge the scope of the original section which it explains, but only makes the meaning clear beyond dispute.	None
He submitted that there is no positive evidence of this nature at all and the CCI as well as COMPAT has proceeded on inferences as regards 8 (1985) 1 SCC 591 bid rigging and, therefore, such orders cannot be sustained.	None
In the absence thereof, submitted the learned counsel, doctrine of reverse burden which was put on the appellants would not apply.	Arguments of Petitioner
He referred to the following judgments 9 in support.	Arguments of Petitioner
The counsel relied upon the following observations in CCI v. Artistes Technicians of W.B. Film Television ?31.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Competition Act, 2002, as amended in 2007 and 2009, deals with antitrust issues viz.	Arguments of Petitioner
regulation of anticompetitive agreements, abuse of dominant position and a combination or acquisition falling within the provisions of the said Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since the majority view of CCI also accepted that the impugned activities of the Coordination Committee did not amount to abuse of dominant position, and it treated the same as anticompetitive having appreciable adverse effect on competition, our discussion would be focused only on anticompetitive agreements.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 3 of the Act is the relevant section in this behalf.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is intended to curb or prohibit certain agreements.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, in the first instance, it is to be found out that there existed an agreement which was entered into by enterprise or association of enterprises or person or association of persons.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereafter, it needs to be determined as to whether such an agreement is anticompetitive agreement within the meaning of the Act.	None
Once it is found to be so, other provisions relating to the treatment that needs to be given thereto get attracted.	None
Taking aid of the aforesaid legal principle, it was submitted that in the present case it will be seen that the CCI, rather arriving at a finding with focus on the aforesaid factors, proceeded to analyse factors which attach to the general market conditions of the industry to infer the possibility of bid rigging and then concluded that the facilitating factors which may be considered conducive for cartelisation are present.	Arguments of Petitioner
The D.G. found that in all the probability, prices were fixed there at the meeting in Bombay in collusion with each other.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such an inference and assumption based on higher chances, probability, tendencies or likelihood by the CCI does not meet the requirement of the definition contained in Explanation to Section 3(3) and certainly does not constitute a finding of bid rigging as defined therein.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Tribunal has also proceeded on the basis that it is to be deducedthat these meetings did relate to the tender offers.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was, thus, not clearcut, precise and consistent evidence to support that the alleged bid rigging took place.	Arguments of Petitioner
Next submission of Mr. Shergil was that apart from the complete absence of a finding of bid rigging, in the present IOCL tender, as a matter of fact there canot be any bid rigging as defined in Section 3(3).	Arguments of Petitioner
To take the first ingredient, i.e., eliminating or reducing competition for bids, the report of D.G. itself finds that out of the 60 bidding parties 37 entities were not belonging to any single group and are independently controlled.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, straight away there is no case of eliminating or reducing competition for bids which is one of the possible ingredients of bid rigging as there were 37 entities who were free of mind to participate and bid of their own accord in the absence of any control by any cartel.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regards the second and third requirement of bid rigging, i.e., adversely effecting or manipulating the bidding process, he argued that the submission of bids by the appellant (even if identical) can have no effect of adversely effecting or manipulating the bidding process this being on account of the very nature of the present tender process.	Arguments of Petitioner
Although, bids are invited from bidders, IOCL has a fixed base procurement price of Rs. 1106.61 per cylinder.	Arguments of Petitioner
IOCL then works out an estimated rate per State based on certain factors peculiar to that State such as octroi, freight etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
The bid offered by the L1 (lowest bidder) is then subject to further downward negotiations by IOCL as per the tender clause and a further finalised rate is arrived at.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such finalised rate is eventually even lower 10 than the L1 bid amount.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, factually, logically and in reality any bid submitted by any party can never be one which is said to adversely affect or manipulate the bidding process.	Arguments of Petitioner
All of this information is with IOCL as part of its bidding process preparations, estimates and financial workings and could easily have been taken into consideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support, Mr. Shergil also referred to the terms and conditions of the IOCL tender.	Arguments of Petitioner
His further submission was that CCI, or for that matter COMPAT, were wrong in getting influenced by the submissions of identical bids by the appellants as it could not be, ipso facto, inferance of bid rigging.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such identical prices could be for various reasons and he shared that the reasons given by Ms. Divan predicated her submissions on oligopsony monopsony.	Arguments of Petitioner
In addition, he relied upon the judgment of this Court in Union of India vs. Hindustan Development Corporation 11 and, in particular, para 17 thereof, which is as under Therefore, whether in a given case, there was formation of a cartel by some of the manufacturers which amounts to an unfair trade practice, depends upon the available evidence and the surrounding circumstances.	None
In the instant case, initially the Tender Committee formed the opinion that the three big manufacturers formed a cartel on the ground that the price initially quoted by them was identical and was only a cartel price.	Arguments of Petitioner
This, in our view, was only a suspicion which of course got strengthened by posttender attitude of the said manufacturers who quoted a much lesser price.	Arguments of Petitioner
As noticed above it cannot positively be concluded on the basis of these two circumstances alone.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the past these three big manufacturers also offered their own quotations and they were allotted quantities on the basis of the existing practice.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, a mere quotation of identical price and an offer of further reduction by themselves would not entitle them automatically to corner the entire market by way of monopoly since the final allotment of quantities vested in the authorities who in their discretion can distribute the same to all the manufacturers including these three big manufacturers on certain basis.	Arguments of Petitioner
No doubt there was an apprehension that if such predatory price has to be accepted the smaller manufacturers will not be in a position to compete and may result in elimination of free competition.	Arguments of Petitioner
But there again the authorities reserved a right to reject such lower price.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under these circumstances though the attitude of these three big manufacturers gave rise to a suspicion that they formed a cartel but there is not enough of material to conclude that in fact there was such formation of a cartel.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, such an opinion entertained by the concerned authorities including the Minister was not malicious nor was actuated by any extraneous considerations.	Arguments of Petitioner
They entertained a reasonable suspicion based on the record and other surrounding circumstances and only acted in a bona fide manner in taking the stand that the three big manufacturers formed a cartel.	Arguments of Petitioner
Some literature on the theory of oligopolistic interdependence as well as judgments of the European Union and European Commission were also cited.	None
Mr. Pradeep Aggarwal, in addition, argued that though there was no positive finding of cartelisation and the conclusion was merely presumptive, even if it is accepted that there was such an agreement of bid rigging or collusive bidding, there was no presumption of appreciable adverse effect on competiiton.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the alternative, he submitted that there was, in fact, no appreciable adverse effect on competition in the present case and the said presumption totally was rebutted by producing sufficient evidence on record.	Arguments of Petitioner
Various other counsel also argued on the same lines and in addition referred to facts or their specific cases and it is not necessary to state all those arguments to avoid repetition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, Mr. Salman Khurshid, learned senior counsel appearijng for CCI highlighted the purpose for which the Act is enacted and, in particular, objective behind Section 3 of the Act, whch is taken note of by this Court in Excel Crop Care Limited as well as West Bengal Artists Association.	Arguments of Respondent
Insofar as instant case is concerned, his submission was that it is a stark and clearcut case of bid rigging as a result of anticompetitive agreement amongst LPG manufacturers in respect of a tender (Tender No. LPGO M PT03/0910) floated by IOCL for procurement of approximately 1,05,00,000 (105 laks) LPG Cylinders.	Arguments of Respondent
This is a matter of serious public concern because these cylinders were to be used to supply Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) for domestic consumption across 25 States.	Arguments of Respondent
A rise in price resulting from anticompetitive activities would affect the cost of living for the common man, and has serious ramifications for the economy as a whole.	None
Mr. Khurshid referred to the findings of the CCI as approved by COMPAT and submitted that there was a strong economic evidence of collusion which is evident from the following aspects Identical or nearidentical bidding by all 50 empaneled LPG vendors resulting in bid rigging.	Arguments of Respondent
Results of the tender revealed that these bids were made in such a way that all the bidders were awarded some portion of the tender and no bidder was left empty handed, i.e., Market Sharing Arrangement.	None
Geographical Territorial allocation of market, i.e., the bids were placed in such a way that entities located in the northern parts of the country were awrded the tender in the northern States, entities located in the southern parts were awarded the tender in respect of southern States etc.	None
No plausible economic rationale or explanation was forthcoming for the identical bids, despite obvious difference in cost of production, location, input cost etc.	Arguments of Respondent
The overall effect of increase in price of procurement of LPG Cylinders over previous years.	None
He also submitted that pattern of identical and near identical bids, which was all pervasive through out, could not be brushed aside lightly as that was the clear indicator of price bidding as a result of agreement between the parties.	None
The analysis of the bids also shows that it had already been decided amongst the LPG Cylinder manufacturers as to who the L1 and L2 bidders were going to be prior to submission of bids.	Arguments of Respondent
For instance, in the State of Punjab, the L1 bidder (Shri Ram Cylinders) bid Rs. 1080 whereas the four L2 bidders placed identical bids at Rs, 1080.50, i.e., a difference of only 50 paise from the L1 bid.	Arguments of Respondent
Similarly, in Rajasthan, the L1 bidder (M s. Rajasthan Cylinders) quoted Rs. 1130, whereas nine L2 bidders quoted identically by just 50 paise more, at Rs. 1130.50.	Arguments of Respondent
This pattern is repeated across a number of States.	None
Not only this, in order to achieve the predecided outcome, some of the bidders hastily made corrections to their bid documents.	None
One such case is that of M s. Jesmajo Industrial Fabrications (appellant in C.A. No. 4868 of 2014).	Arguments of Respondent
In the bid documents, the bid of Rs. 1103 was cutcorrected to make it Rs. 1103.60 even though the calculation of VAT was done only on the figure of Rs. 1103.	Arguments of Respondent
The Director General has commented on this aspect as follows 6.13That bids were submitted after mutual discussion is apparent from the tender documents of Jesmajo Industrial Fabricators P. Ltd. (Exhibit 4P).	Arguments of Respondent
There are cuttings in the tender documents and financial bids of the company.	Arguments of Respondent
Since, there were discussions among all oil companies, the company might have decided to make alterations in the financial bids.	Arguments of Respondent
However, even in the financial bids of the company, it is noted that despite alterations, errors have remained.	Arguments of Respondent
It seems that the company had originally quoted Rs. 1103/ as the rate.	Arguments of Respondent
Subsequently it changed the rates to Rs. 1103.60.	Arguments of Respondent
However, VAT rate in the bid had been calculated on Rs. 1103/ only instead of Rs. 1103.60.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, while other component of rates has been changed altered, the calculation of VAT has been done on Rs. 1103 (originally quoted) instead of Rs. 1103.60 (altered quote).	Arguments of Respondent
This appears to have been done to match rates with other bidders who have quoted the similar rates in the State of Karnataka and to let Sanghvi group be L1 in that State.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Khurshid also refuted the submisison of the appellants that there was no competition and, therefore, Section 3 was not applicable.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, if the matters are examined on such basis most of the culprits will get away.	Arguments of Respondent
The purpose of the Act was not only to eliminate cartelisation but also to promote competition.	Arguments of Respondent
His submission was that once the findings of the CCI and COMPAT are accepted that there was an agreement, such an agreement was obviously for the purpose of curbing the competition.	None
Answering the argument of price parallelism which according to the appellants resulted in identical and near identical bids, Mr. Khurshid argued that legal submission in this respect was settled by this Court in Excel Crop Care case wherein such an argument was rejected in the following words ?	Arguments of Respondent
48It was argued that since dominant position is enjoyed by the buyer, it leads to parallel pricing and this conscious parallelism takes place leading to quoting the same price by the suppliers.	None
The explanation, thus, given for quoting identical price was the aforesaid economic forces and not because of any agreement or arrangement between the parties.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that merely because same price was quoted by the appellants in respect of the 2009 FCI tender, one could not jump to the conclusion that there was some agreement as well between these parties, in the absence of any other evidence corroborating the said factum of quoting identical price.	Arguments of Respondent
In respect of this submission, Mr Venugopal had also referred to a few judgments.	Arguments of Respondent
The aforesaid argument is highly misconceived.	Arguments of Respondent
A neat and pellucid reply of Mr. Kaul, which commands acceptance, is that argument of parallelism is not applicable in bid cases and it fits in the realm of market economy.	Arguments of Respondent
It is for this reason that entire history of quoting identical price before coming into operation of Section 3 and which continued much after Section 3 of the Act was enforced, has been highlighted 61	Arguments of Respondent
He also referred to the following findings of COMPAT with the submission that finding of facts need to be accepted We are thoroughly convinced by this analysis that all this could not have been possible unless there were internal agreements between the concerns.	None
What shocks us is that the quotations of the price did match to the last decimal and the quotations in some cases were in odd figures like Rs.1127 in the State of Tamil Nadu.	Arguments of Respondent
The record is replete with such odd figures.	Arguments of Respondent
It was strange that in some of the oral statements of the representatives of these parties, who were examined by the DG, some of them could not even justify these identical prices and tried to say that it was a mere coincidence.	Arguments of Respondent
We cannot accept the argument of coincidence as was rightly rejected by CCI.	Arguments of Respondent
There can be no explanation for this kind of identical or near identical pricing.	Arguments of Respondent
The CCI has rightly considered that the manufacturing cost of per cylinder varies in a wide spectrum ranging from Rs.870 to Rs.1095.89.	Arguments of Respondent
If this was the case, the prices had to be different, if they had been offered in a competitive spirit.	Arguments of Respondent
Either before the CCI or before us no material was produced, which would be able to rebut the presumption arising from the identity of rates.	Arguments of Respondent
The CCI, therefore, rightly concluded that this identity of prices was sinister and anticompetitive in nature.	None
Another feature which Mr. Salman Khurshid pointed out was that the analysis of bids revealed that there was a market sharing and territorial allocation of bids.	None
This, according to him, could be discerned from the following evidence emerging from record ?	None
Firstly, the economic evidence indicates that there was an understanding or arrangement or agreement by which each and every bidder would get some part of the allocation under the tender.	Arguments of Respondent
This is clear from the fact that each and every one of the 50 bidders who submitted price bids received some part of the allocation in one or more states, and no one went empty handed.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, the purpose of quoting identical bids in many instances was to achieve the objective of sharing the market, i.e., the IOCL requirement across 25 states was shared by each of the 50 bidders, through concerted action and predecided understanding.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Khurshid also highlighed that in spite of there being difference in location of appellants units and their input cost, the bids submitted by various tenderers were identical and there canot be any plausible economic rationale for such identical bidding.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the inference drawn by the CCI as well as COMPAT based on the aforesaid features and factors was justified and valid in law.	Arguments of Respondent
He also referred to certain judgements of this Court as well as other jurisdictions, such as, European Commission and the Court of Justice of European Union to which reference would be made at the appropriate stage.	Arguments of Respondent
Before we deal with the arguments advanced by various counsel who appeared for the appellants and rebuttal thereto by Mr. Salman Khurshid, learned senior counsel who appeared for CCI as also counsel for IOCL, we would like to reproduce the relevant provisions of the Act in the light of which these appeals are to be decided Section 2(c) defines cartel and reads as under Cartel includes an association of producers, sellers, distributors, traders or service providers who, by agreement amongst themselves, limit, control or attempt to control the production, distribution, sale or price of, or, trade in goods or provision of services Section 3 of the Act deals with and prohibits those agreements which cause and are likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition within india.	None
It reads as under Section 3 Anticompetitive agreements (1) No enterprise or association of enterprises or person or association of persons shall enter into any agreement in respect of production, supply, distribution, storage, acquisition or control of goods or provision of services, which causes or is likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition within India.	None
Any agreement entered into in contravention of the provisions contained in subsection (1) shall be void.	None
Any agreement entered into between enterprises or associations of enterprises or persons or associations of persons or between any person and enterprise or practice carried on, or decision taken by, any association of enterprises or association of persons, including cartels, engaged in identical or similar trade of goods or provision of services, which (a) directly or indirectly determines purchase or sale prices (b) limits or controls production, supply, markets, technical development, investment or provision of services (c) shares the market or source of production or provision of services by way of allocation of geographical area of market, or type of goods or services, or number of customers in the market or any other similar way (d) directly or indirectly results in bid rigging or collusive bidding, shall be presumed to have an appreciable adverse effect on competition Provided that nothing contained in this subsection shall apply to any agreement entered into by way of joint ventures if such agreement increases efficiency in production, supply, distribution, storage, acquisition or control of goods or provision of services.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this subsection, bid rigging means any agreement, between enterprises or persons referred to in subsection (3) engaged in identical or similar production or trading of goods or provision of services, which has the effect of eliminating or reducing competition for bids or adversely affecting or manipulating the process for bidding.	None
Certain factors are mentioned in Section 19 of the Act which have to be kept in mind while determining whether an agreement has an appreciable adverse effect on competition under Section 3.	None
We reproduce this Section hereinbelow Section 19(3) in the Competition Act, 2002 The Commission shall, while determining whether an agreement has an appreciable adverse effect on competition under section 3, have due regard to all or any of the following factors, namely (a) creation of barriers to new entrants in the market (b) driving existing competitors out of the market (c) foreclosure of competition by hindering entry into the market (d) accrual of benefits to consumers (e) improvements in production or distribution of goods or provision of services (f) promotion of technical, scientific and economic development by means of production or distribution of goods or provision of services.	None
In Excel Crop Care Limited, scope of Section 3 of the Act which prohibits three kinds of practices as anticompetitive, was taken note of as follows Chapter II of the Act deals with three kinds of practices which are treated as anticompetitive and prohibited.	None
These are (a) where agreements are entered into by certain persons with a view to cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition (b) where any enterprise or group of enterprises, which enjoys dominant position, abuses the said dominant position and (c) regulating the combination of enterprises by means of mergers or amalgamations to ensure that such mergers or amalgamations do not become anticompetitive or abuse the dominant position which they can attain.	None
In that case also the Court was concerned with the 1 st category, namely, those cases where certain persons enter into agreements with a view to cause an appreciable adverse effect of competition.	None
Purpose behind curbing such anticompetitive practices was mentioned in detail.	None
It is not necessary to restate the same in that expansive manner, however, we would still like to quote certain portions to capture the essence and purpose of the Act In the instant case, we are concerned with the first type of practices, namely, anticompetitive agreements.	None
The Act, which prohibits anticompetitive agreements, has a laudable purpose behind it.	None
It is to ensure that there is a healthy competition in the market, as it brings about various benefits for the public at large as well as economy of the nation.	None
In fact, the ultimate goal of competition policy (or for that matter, even the consumer policies) is to enhance consumer wellbeing.	None
These policies are directed at ensuring that markets function effectively.	None
Competition policy towards the supply side of the market aims to ensure that consumers have adequate and affordable choices.	None
Another purpose in curbing anticompetitive agreements is to ensure level playing field for all market players that helps markets to be competitive.	None
It sets rules of the game that protect the competition process itself, rather than competitors in the market.	None
In this way, the pursuit of fair and effective competition can contribute to improvements in economic efficiency, economic growth and development of consumer welfare xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
In fact, there is broad empirical evidence supporting the proposition that competition is beneficial for the economy.	None
Economists agree that it has an important role to play in improving productivity and, therefore, the growth prospects of an economy Productivity is increased through competition by putting pressure on firms to control costs as the producers strive to lower their production costs so that they can charge competitive prices.	None
It also improves the quality of their goods and services so that they correspond to consumers demands.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
When we recognise that competition has number of benefits, it clearly follows that cartels or anticompetitive agreements cause harm to consumers by fixing prices, limiting outputs or allocating markets.	None
Effective enforcement against such practices has direct visible effects in terms of reduced prices in the market and this is also supported by various empirical studies.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
Keeping in view the aforesaid objectives that need to be achieved, Indian Parliament enacted the Competition Act, 2002.	None
Need to have such a law became all the more important in the wake of liberalisation and privatisation as it was found that the law prevailing at that time, namely, Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 was not equipped adequately enough to tackle the competition aspects of the Indian economy.	None
The law enforcement agencies, which include CCI and COMPAT, have to ensure that these objectives are fulfilled by curbing anticompetitive agreements.	None
The Court also mentioned, in particular, that competition leads to economic efficiency, economic growth and development as well as consumers welfare.	None
The Court also spelled out the manner in which competition contributed to increase economic growth and increased productivity.	None
It follows from the above that whereas on the one hand the economic policy of the nation has ushered in the era of liberalisation and globalisation thereby giving freeplay to the private sector in the manner of conducting business, at the same time, in public interest and in the interest of consumers, a regime of regulators has also been brought to ensure certain checks and balances.	None
Since competition among the enterprises or businessmen is treated as service for a public purpose and, therefore, there is a need to curb anticompetitive practices, the CCI is given the task (as a regulator) to ensure that no such anticompetitive practices are undertaken.	None
In fact, Section 18 of the Act casts a specific and positive obligation on CCI to eliminate anticompetitive practices and promote competition, interest of the consmuer and free trade.	None
This objective was also emphasised by this Court in Competition Commission of India vs. Steel Authority of India Limited and Another which can be found in the following observations As far as the objectives of competition laws are concerned, they vary from country to country and even within a country they seem to change and evolve over the time.	None
However, it will be useful to refer to some of the common objectives of competition law.	None
The main objective of competition law is to promote economic efficiency using competition as one of the means of assisting the creation of market responsive to consumer preferences.	None
The advantages of perfect competition are threefold allocative efficiency, which ensures the effective allocation of resources, productive efficiency, which ensures that costs of production are kept at a minimum and dynamic efficiency, which promotes innovative practices.	None
These factors by and large have been accepted all over the world as the guiding principles for effective implementation of competition law.	None
As mentioned above, one of the anticompetitive practices is cartelisation, the essential postulate whereof is agreement between enterprises or association of enterprises or persons or associations of persons in respect of production, supply, distribution, storage, acquisition or control of goods or provisions of service, which causes or is likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition within India.	None
Such an agreement is treated as void.	None
The types of agreement which may fall foul of Section 3 are mentioned in subsection (3) thereof.	None
These include sharing the market by way of allocation of geographical areas of market clause (c) and the agreements which result in bidrigging or collusive bidding whether directly or indirectly clause (d).	None
There is a presumption that four types of agreements mentioned in subsection (3) will have an appreciable adverse effect on competition.	None
We may also state at this stage that Section 19(3) of the Act mentions the factors which are to be examined by the CCI while determining whether an agreement has an appreciable adverse effect on competition under Section 3.	None
However, this inquiry would be needed in those cases which are not covered by clauses (a) to (d) of subsection (3) of Section 3.	None
Reason is simple.	None
As already pointed out above, the agreements of nature mentioned in subsection (3) are presumed to have an appreciable effect and, therefore, no further exercise is needed by the CCI once a finding is arrived at that a particular agreement fell in any of the aforesaid four categories.	None
We may hasten to add, however, that agreements mentioned in Section 3(3) raise a presumption that such agreements shall have an appreciable adverse effect on competition.	None
It follows, as a fortiorari, that the presumption is rebuttable as these agreements are not treated as conclusive proof of the fact that it would result in appreciable adverse effect on competition.	None
What follows is that once the CCI finds that case is covered by one or more of the clauses mentioned in subsection (3) of Section 3, it need not undertake any further enquiry and burden would shift upon such enterprises or persons etc. to rebut the said presumption by leading adequate evidence.	None
In case such an evidence is led, which dispels the presumption, then the CCI shall take into consideration the factors mentioned in Section 19 of the Act and to see as to whether all or any of these factors are established.	None
If the evidence collected by the CCI leads to one or more or all factors mentioned in Section 19(3), it would again be treated as an agreement which may cause or is likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect of competition, thereby compelling the CCI to take further remedial action in this behalf as provided under the Act.	None
That, according to us, is the broad scheme when Sections 3 and 19 are to be read in conjuction.	None
In these appeals, the Court is concerned with the alleged agreement entered into between the appellants falling in clause (d) of subsection (3) of Section 3, which talks of bid rigging or collusive bidding.	None
Therefore, it would be necessary to understand the meaning of the expression bid rigging and collusive bidding.	None
Explanation to Section 3, which is reproduced, assigns meaning to bid rigging and states S. 3 Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this subsection, bid rigging means any agreement, between enterprises or persons referred to in subsection (3) engaged in identical or similar production or trading of goods or provision of services, which has the effect of eliminating or reducing competition for bids or adversely affecting or manipulating the process for bidding.	None
The necessary ingredients of bid rigging, thus, are (a) agreement between the parties (b) these parties are engaged in idential or similar production or trading of goods or provisions of services and (c) the agreement has the effect of eliminating or reducing competition of bids or adversely affect or manipulating the process for bidding.	None
Though the expression collusive bidding is not defined in the Act, it appears that both bid rigging and collusive bidding are overlapping concepts.	Reasoning
This position stands accepted in Excel Crop Care Limited case which should be found from the following discussion therefrom Mr Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned Additional Solicitor General, refuted the aforesaid submission with vehemence by urging that bid rigging and collusive bidding are not mutually exclusive and these are overlapping concepts.	None
Illustratively, he referred to the findings of CCI, as approved by COMPAT, in the instant case itself to the effect that the appellants herein had manipulated the process of bidding on the ground that bids were submitted on 852009 collusively, which was only the beginning of the anticompetitive agreement between the parties and this continued through the opening of the price bids on 162009 and thereafter negotiations on 1762009 when all the parties reduced their bids by same figure of Rs 2 to bring their bid down to Rs 386 per kg from Rs 388 per kg.	Reasoning
From this example, he submitted that on 852009 there was a collusive bidding but with concerted negotiations on 1762009, in the continued process, it was rigging of the bid that was practiced by the appellants.	Reasoning
We are inclined to agree with this pellucid submission of the learned Additional Solicitor General.	Reasoning
Richard Whish and David Bailey Competition Law, 7th Edn., p. 536.	None
, in their book, have given illustrations of various forms of collusive bidding bid rigging, which include Level tendering bidding (i.e. bidding at same price as in the present case).	None
Cover bidding courtesy bidding.	None
Bid rotation.	None
(d) Bid allocation.	None
Even internationally, collusive bidding is not understood as being different from bid rigging.	None
These two expressions have been used interchangeably in the following international commentaries glossaries and websites of competition authorities UNCTAD Competition Glossary dated 2262016 Bid rigging or collusive tendering is a manner in which conspiring competitors may effectively raise prices where business contracts are awarded by means of soliciting competitive bids.	None
Essentially, it relates to a situation where competitors agree in advance who will win the bid and at what price, undermining the very purpose of inviting tenders which is to procure goods or services on the most favourable prices and conditions.(b)	None
OECD Glossary of Industrial Organisation Economics and Competition Law Bid rigging is a particular form of collusive pricefixing behaviour by which firms coordinate their bids on procurement or project contracts.	None
There are two common forms of bid rigging.	None
In the first, firms agree to submit common bids, thus eliminating price competition.	None
In the second, firms agree on which firm will be the lowest bidder and rotate in such a way that each firm wins an agreed upon number or value of contracts.	None
Since most (but not all) contracts open to bidding involve Governments, it is they who are most often the target of bid rigging.	None
Bid rigging is one of the most widely prosecuted forms of collusion.	None
Collusive bidding (tendering) See bid rigging.	None
(This shows collusive bidding and bid rigging are treated as one and the same.)	None
OECD Guidelines for fighting bid rigging Bid rigging (or collusive tendering) occurs when businesses, that would otherwise be expected to compete, secretly conspire to raise prices or lower the quality of goods or services for purchasers who wish to acquire products or services through a bidding process.(d) United States Office of the Inspector General, Investigations (Fraud Indicators Handbook) Collusive bidding, price fixing or bid rigging, are commonly used interchangeable terms which describe many forms of an illegal anticompetitive activity.	None
The common thread throughout all these activities is that they involve any agreements or informal arrangements among independent competitors, which limit competition.	None
Agreements among competitors which violate the law include but are not limited to Agreements to adhere to published price lists.	None
Agreements to raise prices by a specified increment.	None
Agreements to establish, adhere to, or eliminate discounts.	None
Agreements not to advertise prices.	None
Agreements to maintain specified price differentials based on quantity, type or size of product.(e) Australian Competition and Consumer Commission Bid rigging, also referred to as collusive tendering, occurs when two or more competitors agree they will not compete genuinely with each other for tenders, allowing one of the cartel members to win the tender.	None
Participants in a bid rigging cartel may take turns to be the winner by agreeing about the way they submit tenders, including some competitors agreeing not to tender.41.	None
As the Liegeman of the law, it is our task, nay a duty, to give proper meaning and effect to the aforesaid Explanation.	None
It can easily be discussed that the legislature had in mind that the two expressions are interchangeably used.	None
It is also necessary to keep in mind the purport behind Section 3 and the objective it seeks to achieve 41.1.	None
Subsection (1) of Section 3 is couched in the negative terms which mandates that no enterprise or association of enterprises or person or association of persons shall enter into any agreement, when such agreement is in respect of production, supply, distribution, storage, acquisition or control of goods or provision of services and it causes or is likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition within India.	None
It can be discerned that first part relates to the parties which are prohibited from entering into such an agreement and embraces within it persons as well as enterprises thereby signifying its very wide coverage.	None
This becomes manifest from the reading of the definition of enterprise in Section 2(h) and that of person in Section 2(l) of the Act.	None
The second part relates to the subjectmatter of the agreement.	None
Again it is very wide in its ambit and scope as it covers production, supply, distribution, storage, acquisition or control of goods or provision of services.	None
The third part pertains to the effect of such an agreement, namely, appreciable adverse effect on competition, and if this is the effect, purpose behind this provision is not to allow that.	None
Obvious purpose is to thwart any such agreements which are anticompetitive in nature and this salubrious provision aims at ensuring healthy competition.	None
Subsection (2) of Section 3 specifically makes such agreements as void.	None
41.2.	None
Subsection (3) mentions certain kinds of agreements which would be treated as ipso facto causing appreciable adverse effect on competition.	None
It is in this backdrop and context that Explanation beneath subsection (3), which uses the expression bid rigging, has to be understood and given an appropriate meaning.	None
It could never be the intention of the legislature to exclude collusive bidding by construing the expression bid rigging narrowly.	None
No doubt, clause (d) of subsection (3) of Section 3 uses both the expressions bid rigging and collusive bidding, but the Explanation thereto refers to bid rigging only.	None
However, it cannot be said that the intention was to exclude collusive bidding.	None
Even if the Explanation does contain the expression collusive bidding specifically, while interpreting clause (d), it can be inferred that collusive bidding relates to the process of bidding as well.	None
Keeping in mind the principle of purposive interpretation, we are inclined to give this meaning to collusive bidding.	None
It is more so when the expressions bid rigging and collusive bidding would be overlapping, under certain circumstances which was conceded by the learned counsel for the appellants as well.	None
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the two expressions are to be interpreted using the principle of noscitur a sociis i.e. when two or more words which are susceptible to analogous meanings are coupled together, the words can take colour from each other.	None
(See Leelabai Gajanan Pansare v. Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd.	None
Leelabai Gajanan Pansare v. Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd., (2008) 9 SCC 720 , Thakorlal D. Vadgama v. State of Gujarat Thakorlal D. Vadgama v. State of Gujarat, (1973) 2 SCC 413 1973 SCC (Cri) 835 and M.K. Ranganathan v. State of MadrasM.K. Ranganathan v. State of Madras, (1955) 2	None
SCR 374 AIR 1955 SC 604 .)	None
The first proposition of Ms. Divan, viz.	None
there is no competition, has two facets.	Reasoning
First, the legal one which concerns the jurisdiction of the CCI to deal with such matters and the other is factual, which is to be examined on the basis of facts in these cases.	Reasoning
Insofar as the first component is concerned, having regard to the aforesaid scheme of the Act, we are not convinced with the argument of Ms. Madhavi Divan that there is no possibility of a competition in these cases and, therefore, CCI had no jurisdiction to carry out any such investigation.	Reasoning
The scope and ambit of the provisions of Section 3 have been considered in detail in Excel Crop Care Limited case.	Reasoning
This Section prohibits anticompetitive agreements and brings about the prime objective of the Competition Act.	Reasoning
These aspects were noted in Excel Crop Care Limited, relevant portions whereof are already extracted above.	Reasoning
We may also quote the following portion from the judgment of this Court in Steel Authority of India Limited wherein objective behind the Act was highlighted in the following manner We have already noticed that the principal objects of the Act, in terms of its Preamble and the Statement of Objects and Reasons, are to eliminate practices having adverse effect on the competition, to promote and sustain competition in the market, to protect the interest of the consumers and ensure freedom of trade carried on by the participants in the market, in view of the economic developments in the country.	None
In other words, the Act requires not only protection of free trade but also protection of consumer interest.	Reasoning
The delay in disposal of cases, as well as undue continuation of interim restraint orders, can adversely and prejudicially affect the free economy of the country.	Reasoning
Efforts to liberalise the Indian economy to bring it on a par with the best of the economies in this era of globalisation would be jeopardised if timebound schedule and, in any case, expeditious disposal by the Commission is not adhered to.	Reasoning
The scheme of various provisions of the Act which we have already referred to including Sections 26, 29, 30, 31, 53B(5) and 53T and Regulations 12, 15, 16, 22, 32, 48 and 31 clearly show the legislative intent to ensure timebound disposal of such matters.	None
We would like to reemphasise that the purpose of the Act is not only to illuminate practices having adverse effect on the competition but also to promote and sustain competition in the market.	None
Enforcement provides remedies to avoid situation that will lead to decrease competition in the market.	Reasoning
Therefore, effective enforcement is important not only to sanction anticompetitive conduct but also to deter future competitive practices.	Reasoning
In the present case itself, there are sixty suppliers of the product for which there are three buyers.	Reasoning
After all, each supplier would like to be L1 or L2 so that it is able to get order for larger quantities than the other.	None
In this sense, there would be a competition among them.	Reasoning
Further, it would also be in the interest of the buyers like IOCL etc. that the elements of healthy competition persists in the market.	Reasoning
In any case, it is the duty of the CCI to ensure that the conditions which have tendency to kill the competition are to be curbed.	Reasoning
It is also the function of the CCI to ensure that there is a competition so that benefits of such competition are reaped by the consumers.	Reasoning
However, insofar as certain factual aspects highlighted by the appellants are concerned, they would be dealt with while examining the third proposition, as we deem it more appropriate to discuss these two aspects together.	None
Second proposition of Ms. Divan was that there was no collusive bidding in the present case.	None
The CCI and COMPAT have rejected this argument in view of the fact that there is an active trade association of the suppliers a meeting took place couple of days before the date of bidding common changes were pointed out by these appellants who submitted bids on their behalf and bids were of identical amounts despite varying cost, which were repetitive in nature.	None
The respondents may be right in their submission that there may not be a direct evidence on the basis of which cartalisation or such agreement between the parties can be proved as these arguments are normally entered into in closed doors.	None
The standard of proof which is required is one of probability, which is a principle accepted in Technip SA vs.	None
SMS Holding (P) Ltd.	None
Ors.	None
wherein the Court stated and discussed this aspect in the following manner The standard of proof required to establish such concert is one of probability and may be established if having regard to their relation etc., their conduct, and their common interest, that it may be inferred that they must be acting together evidence of actual concerted acting is normally difficult to obtain, and is not insisted uponCIT v. East Coast Commercial Co. Ltd., (1967)	None
1	None
SCR 821 AIR 1967 SC 768 .	None
(SCR p. 829 H) While deciding whether a company was one in which the public were substantially interested within the meaning of Section 23A of the Income Tax Act, 1922 this Court said The test is not whether they have actually acted in concert but whether the circumstances are such that human experience tells us that it can safely be taken that they must be acting together.	None
It is not necessary to state the kind of evidence that will prove such concerted actings.	None
Each case must necessarily be decided on its own facts.	None
CIT v. Jubilee Mills Ltd., (1963) 48 ITR 9 (SC), p. 20	None
In Guinness PLC and Distillers Co. PLC Guinness PLC and Distillers Company PLC (Panel hearing on 2581987 and 291987 at p. 10052 Reasons for decisions of the Panel.)	None
the question before the Takeover Panel was whether Guinness had acted in concert with Pipetec when Pipetec purchased shares in Distillers Company PLC.	None
Various factors were taken into consideration to conclude that Guinness had acted in concert with Pipetec to get control over Distillers Company.	None
The Panel said The nature of acting in concert requires that the definition be drawn in deliberately wide terms.	None
It covers an understanding as well as an agreement, and an informal as well as a formal arrangement, which leads to cooperation to purchase shares to acquire control of a company.	None
This is necessary, as such arrangements are often informal, and the understanding may arise from a hint.	None
The understanding may be tacit, and the definition covers situations where the parties act on the basis of a nod or a wink.	None
Unless persons declare this agreement or understanding, there is rarely direct evidence of action in concert, and the Panel must draw on its experience and common sense to determine whether those involved in any dealings have some form of understanding and are acting in cooperation with each other.	None
Guinness PLC and Distillers Company PLC (Panel hearing on 2581987 and 291987 at p. 10052	None
Reasons for decisions of the Panel.)	None
We would also like to reproduce the following discussion in Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay City I, Bombay vs. Jubilee Mills Ltd., Bombay	None
At the hearing a point was raised that it has to be proved as a fact that the persons constituting the group which owns shares carrying more than seventyfive per cent of the voting power, were acting in unison.	None
The test is not whether they have actually acted in concert but whether the circumstances are such that human experience tells us that it can safely be tak en that they must be acting together.	None
It is not necessary to state the kind of evidence that will prove such concerted actings.	None
Each case must necessarily be decided on its own facts.	None
The exclusion of public in the manner indicated generally from more than 75 of the shares and the concentration of such a holding in a single person or a group acting in concert is what attracts Section 23(A).	None
It is also significant to state that respondents had drawn attention of this Court to OECD Policy Roundtables Prosecuting Cartels without Direct Evidence 2006 which discussed the nature of evidence that is required for proving cartel agreement, relevant portion thereof contained in para 2 of the said Policy is reproduced below Available evidence for proving cartel agreements 2.1 Categories of evidence 14 Evidence used to prove a cartel agreement can be classified into two types direct and circumstantial.	None
Circumstantial evidence, in turn, consists of communication evidence and economic evidence, which include firm conduct, market structure, and evidence of facilitating practices.	None
Common types of direct evidence include  A document or documents (including email messages) essentially embodying the agreement, or parts of it, and identifying the parties to it.	None
Oral or written statements by cooperative cartel participants describing the operation of the cartel and their participation in it.	None
There are different types of circumstantial evidence.	None
One is evidence that cartel operators met or otherwise communicated but does not describe the substance of their communications.	None
It might be called communication evidence for purposes of this discussion.	None
It includes Records of telephone conversations between competitors (but not their substance), or of travel to a common destination or of participation in a meeting, for example during a trade conference.  	None
other evidence that the parties communicated about the subject e.g., minutes or notes of a meeting showing that prices, demand or capacity utilisation were discussed internal documents evidencing knowledge or understanding of a competitors pricing strategy, such as an awareness of a future price increase by a rival.	None
A broader category of circumstantial evidence is often called economic evidence.	None
Economic evidence identifies primarily firm conduct that suggests that an agreement was reached, but also conduct of the industry as a whole, elements of market structure which suggest that secret price fixing was feasible, and certain practices that can be used to sustain a cartel agreement.	None
Conduct evidence is the single most important type of economic evidence.	None
As noted earlier, observation of certain, suspicious conduct frequently triggers an investigation of a possible cartel.	None
And as the section in this paper on economics highlights 11 careful analysis of the conduct of parties is important to identify behaviours that can be characterised as contrary to the parties unilateral selfinterest and which therefore supports the inference of an agreement.	None
Conduct evidence includes, first and foremost  Parallel pricing changes in prices by rivals that are identical, or nearly so, and simultaneous, or nearly so.	None
It includes other forms of parallel conduct, such as capacity reductions, adoption of standardised terms of sale, and suspicious bidding patterns, e.g., a predictable rotation of winning bidders.	None
Industry performance could also be described as conduct evidence.	None
It includes  abnormally high profits  stable market shares  A history of competition law violations.	None
Evidence related to market structure can be used primarily to make the finding of a cartel agreement more plausible, even though market structure factors do not prove the existence of such an agreement.	None
Relevant economic evidence relating to market structure includes  high concentration  low concentration on the opposite side of the market  high barriers to entry  high degree of vertical integration  Standardised or homogeneous product.	None
The evidentiary value of structural evidence can be limited, however.	None
There can be highly concentrated industries selling homogeneous products in which all parties compete.	None
Conversely, the absence of such evidence cannot be used to show that a cartel did not exist.	None
Cartels are known to have existed in industries with numerous competitors and differentiated products.	None
A specific kind of economic conduct evidence is facilitating practices practices that can make it easier for competitors to reach or sustain an agreement.	None
It is important to note that conduct described as facilitating practices is not necessarily unlawful.	None
But where a competition authority has found other circumstantial evidence pointing to the existence of a cartel agreement, the existence of facilitating practices can be an important complement.	None
They can explain what kind of arrangements the parties set up to facilitate the formation of a cartel agreement, monitoring, detection of defection, and or punishment, thus supporting the collusion story put together by the competition law enforcer.	None
Facilitating practices include  information exchanges  price signalling  freight equalisation  price protection and most favoured nation policies  Unnecessarily restrictive product standards.	None
Thus, even in the absence of proof of concluded formal agreement, when there are indicators that there was practical cooperation between the parties which knowingly substitute the risk of competition, that would amount to anticompetitive practices.	None
This has been discussed in Coordination Committee of Artistes and Technicians of West Bengal Film and Television Ors.	None
(see paras 44 and 45).	None
Then, there are guidelines on the applicability of Article 101 of the Treaty on the functioning of the E.U. to horizontal cooperation agreements which records as under Information exchange can only be addressed under Article 101 if it establishes or is part of an agreement, a concerted practice or a decision by an association of undertakings.	None
The existence of an agreement, a concerted practice or decision by an association of undertakings does not prejudge whether the agreement, concerted practice or decision by an association of undertakings gives rise to a restriction of competition within the meaning of Article 101(1).	None
In line with the caselaw of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the concept of a concerted practice refers to a form of coordination between undertakings by which, without it having reached the stage where an agreement properly socalled has been concluded, practical cooperation between them is knowingly substituted for the risks of competition.	None
The criteria of coordination and cooperation necessary for determining the existence of a concerted practice, far from requiring an actual plan to have been worked out, are to be understood in the light of the concept inherent in the provisions of the Treaty on competition, according to which each company must determine independently the policy which it intends to adopt on the internal market and the conditions which it intends to offer to its customers.	None
This does not deprive companies of the right to adapt themselves intelligently to the existing or anticipated conduct of their competitors.	None
It does, however, preclude any direct or indirect contact between competitors, the object or effect of which is to create conditions of competition which do not correspond to the normal competitive conditions of the market in question, regard being had to the nature of the products or services offered, the size and number of the undertakings, and the volume of the said market.	None
This precludes any direct or indirect contact between competitors, the object or effect of which is to influence conduct on the market of an actual or potential competitor, or to disclose to such competitor the course of conduct which they themselves have decided to adopt or contemplate adopting on the market, thereby facilitating a collusive outcome on the market.	None
Hence, information exchange can constitute a concerted practice if it reduces strategic uncertainty in the market thereby facilitating collusion, that is to say, if the data exchanged is strategic.	None
Consequently, sharing of strategic data between competitors amounts to concentration, because it reduces the independence of competitors conduct on the market and diminishes their incentives to compete.	None
A situation where only one undertaking discloses strategic information to its competitor(s) who accept(s) it can also constitute a concerted practice.	None
Such disclosure could occur, for example, through contacts via mail, emails, phone calls, meetings etc.	None
It is then irrelevant whether only one undertaking unilaterally informs its competitors of its intended market behaviour, or whether all participating undertakings inform each other of the respective deliberations and intentions.	None
When one undertaking alone reveals to its competitors strategic information concerning its future commercial policy, that reduces strategic uncertainty as to the future operation of the market for all the competitors involved and increases the risk of limiting competition and of collusive behaviour.	None
For example, mere attendance at a meeting where a company disclose its pricing plans to its competitors is likely to be caught by Article 101, even in the absence of an explicit agreement to raise prices.	None
When a company receives strategic data from a competitor (be it in a meeting, by mail or electronically), it will be presumed to have accepted the information and adapted its market conduct accordingly unless it responds with a clear statement that it does not wish to receive such data.	None
(emphasis added)	None
According to us, the real question in the present case is as to whether there was a possibility of such an agreement having regard to market conditions even when we proceed on the basis that meeting did take place.	Issue
Possibility of such an agreement has been inferred by the CCI on the grounds that identical bidding takes place thereafter and various suppliers gave such a bid despite varying cost and also that they have appoined common changes etc.	None
as pointed out above.	None
The first and foremost issue which needs to be considered is that whether there was a situation of monopsony or oligopsony.	None
From the aforesaid discussion, it is clear that as far as CCI is concerned, it has come to the conclusion that there was a cartelisation among the appellants herein and a concerted decision was taken to rig the bids which were submitted persuant to the tenders issued by IOCL.	Reasoning
On the other hand, the appellants argue that there was no such agreement and even if the bids of many bidders were identical in nature, the bids were driven by market conditions.	Reasoning
Their plea is that there was a situation of oligopsony and the modus which was adopted by IOCL in floating the tenders and awarding the contracts would show that the determination of price was entirely within the control of the IOCL.	Reasoning
As per them, the way price was determined for supply of these cylinders, it had become an open secret known to everybody.	Reasoning
Therefore, there was no question of any competition and no possibility of adversely affecting that competition by entering into any contract.	Reasoning
The factors which have influenced the authorities below in coming to the conclusion that the appellants had colluded and formed a cartel which led to bid rigging have already been noted above.	None
To recaptulate, the authorities below have been influenced by the following factors Market conditions Small number of suppliers Few new entrants Active trade association Repetitive bidding Identical products	None
Few or no substitutes No significant technological changes Meeting of bidders in Mumbai and its agenda.	None
Appointing common agents Identical bids despite varying cost.	None
After deliberating on the aforesaid aspects, the CCI has concluded that there is an active trade association in which many of the appellants are members.	None
That product in question, namely, gas cylinder is of a particular specification which is needed by IOCL in large numbers every year and there are very few manufacturers and suppliers of this product to IOCL and two other buyers.	None
For this identical product which is to be supplied by all the suppliers, there is no substitute and no significant technology change.	None
Further, there is an active trade association in which most of the appellants are the members.	None
Their interest is to ensure that no new entrants are able to join.	None
Further, the trade association also ensures that all the members are able to get some order.	None
It is for this reason the bids submitted in various standards which are floated by IOCL at different places are almost identical despite varying cost.	None
The authorities below attributed this identical bidding to the concerted action of the appellants.	None
This has been inferred from the fact that 23 days before the submission of bids, meeting of the association took place which most of the appellants attended.	None
Not only this, common agents, six in number, were appointed who submitted the bids on behalf of these appellants.	Facts
We may say at the outset that if these factors are taken into consideration by themselves, they may lead to the inference that there was bid rigging.	None
We may, particularly, emphasise the fact that there is an active trade association of the appellants and a meeting of the bidders was held in Mumbai just before the submission of the tenders.	None
Another very important fact is that there were identical bids despite varying cost.	None
Further, products are identical and there are small number of suppliers with few new entrants.	None
These have become the supporting factors which persuaded the CCI to come to the conclusion that these are suggestive of collusive bidding.	None
However, that is only one side of the coin.	None
The aforesaid factors are to be analysed keeping in mind the ground realities that were prevailing, which are pointed out by the appellants.	Reasoning
These attendant circumstances are argued in detail by the counsel for the appellants which have already been taken note of.	Reasoning
We may recapitulate the same in brief hereinbelow In the present case there are only three buyers.	None
Among them, IOCL is the biggest buyer with 48 market share.	Reasoning
It is also a matter of record that all these appellants are manufacturers of 14.2 kg gas cylinders to the three buyers who are available in the market, nanely, IOCL, HPCL and BPCL.	Reasoning
If these three buyers do not purchase from any of the appellants, that particular appellant would not be in a position to sell those cylinder to any other entity as there are no other buyers.	Reasoning
There are only three buyers, it may not attract many to enter the field and manufacture these cylinders.	Reasoning
It is because of limited number of buyers and for some reason if they do not purchase, the manufacturer would be nowhere.	Reasoning
That may deter the persons to enter the field.	Reasoning
The manner in which the tenders are floated by IOCL and the rates at which these are awarded, are an indicator that it is the IOCL which calls the shots insofar as price control is concerned.	Reasoning
It has come in evidence that the IOCL undertakes the exercise of having its internal estimates about the cost of these cylinders.	Reasoning
Their own expert arrived at a figue of Rs. 1106.61 paisa per cylinder.	Reasoning
All the tenders which have been accepted are for a price lesser than the aforesaid estimate of IOCL itself.	Reasoning
That apart, the modus adopted by the IOCL is that that final price is negotiated by it and the contract is not awarded at the rate quoted by bidder who turns out to be L1.	Reasoning
Negotiations are held with such a bidder who is L1 which generaly leads to further reduction of price than the one quoted by L1.	Reasoning
Thereafter, the other bidders who may be L2 or L3 etc. are awarded the contract at the rate at which it is awarded to L1.	Reasoning
Thus, ultimately, all the bidders supply the goods at the same rate which is fixed by the IOCL after negotiating with L1 bidder.	Reasoning
The only difference is that bidder who is L1 would be able to receive the order for larger quantity than L2 and L2 may get an order of more quantity than L3.	None
It has also come on record that there are very few suppliers.	Reasoning
For the tender in question, there were 50 parties already in the fray and 12 new entrants were admitted.	Reasoning
Number of 12, in such a scenario, cannot be treated as less.	Reasoning
Therefore, the conclusion of CCI that the appellants ensured that there should not be entry of new entrant may not be correct.	Reasoning
Since there are not many manufacturers and supplies are needed by the three buyers on regular basis, IOCL ensures that all those manufacturers whose bids are technically viable, are given some order for the supply of specific cylinder.	Reasoning
For this purpose, it has framed its broad policy as well.	Reasoning
This also shows that control remains with IOCL.	Reasoning
Thus, the appellants appear to be correct when they say that all the participants in the bidding process were awarded contracts in some State or the other which was aimed at ensuring a bigger pool of manufacturers so that the supply of this essential product is always maintained for the benefit of the general public.	Reasoning
Had IOCL left some manufacturers empty handed, in all likelihood, they would have shut their shops.	Reasoning
However, IOCL wanted all manufacturers to be in the fray in its own interest.	Reasoning
Therefore, it was necessary to keep all parties afloat and this explains why all 50 parties obtained order along with 12 new entrants.	Reasoning
There is another very relevant factor pointed out by the appellants, viz., the governmental control which is regulated by law.	Reasoning
As pointed out above, it is not only the three oil companies which can supply LPG to domestic consumers in 14.2 kg LPG cylinders as mandated in the LPG (Regulation and Distribution) Order, 2000 which is issued under the provisions of Essential Commodities Act, 1955, even the price at which the LPG cylinder is to be supplied to the consumer is controlled by the Government.	Reasoning
Following features of the aforesaid LPG Order, 2000, are significant The LPG suppliedin 14.2 kg gas cylinders is an essential commodity.	Reasoning
The distribution of LPG in 14.2 kgs cylinders takes place as part of a public distribution system defined under clause 2(1) of the Order as the system of distribution, marketing or selling of liquefied petroleum gas by a Government Oil Company at the Government controlled or declared price through a distribution system approved by the Central or State Government .	Reasoning
The price to the consumer is controlled by the Government.	Reasoning
The supply of LPG to domestic consumers shall be made only in 14.2 kg gas cylinders.	Reasoning
According to clauses 4 and 5 read with Schedule III of the LPG Order, parallel marketeers who supply and distribute LPG cylinders, may do so only for cylinders with size and specifications other than those specified in Schedule II.	None
The manner in which tendering process takes place would show that in such a competitive scenariao, the bid which the different bidder would be submitting becomes obvious.	None
It has come on record that just a few days before the tender in question, another tender was floated by BPCL and on opening of the said tender the rates of L1, L2 etc. came to be known.	Reasoning
In a scenario like this, that obviously becomes a guiding factor for the bidders to submit their bids.	Reasoning
When we keep in mind the aforesaid fact situation on the ground, those very factors on the basis of which the CCI has come to the conclusion that there was cartelization, in fact, become valid explanations to the indicators pointed out by the CCI.	Reasoning
We have already commented about the market conditions and small number of suppliers.	Reasoning
We have also mentioned that 12 new entrants cannot be considered as entry of very few new suppliers where the existing suppliers were only 50.	Reasoning
Identical products along with market conditions for which there would be only three buyers, in fact, would go in favour of the appellants.	Reasoning
The factor of repetitive bidding, though appears to be a factor against the appellants, was also possible in the aforesaid scneario.	Reasoning
The prevailing conditions in fact rule out the possibility of much price variations and all the manufacturers are virtually forced to submit their bid with a price that is quite close to each other.	Reasoning
Therefore, it became necessary to sustain themselves in the market.	Reasoning
Hence, the factor that these suppliers are from different region having different cost of manufacture would lose its significance.	Reasoning
It is a situation where prime condition is to quote the price at which a particular manufacturer can bag an order even when its manufacturing cost is more than the manufacturing cost of others.	Reasoning
The main purpose for such a manufacuring would be to remain in the fray and not to lose out.	Reasoning
Therefore, it would be ready to accept lesser margin.	Reasoning
This would answer why there were near identical bids despite varying cost.	None
Insofar as meeting of bidders in Mumbai just before the date of submission of tender is concerned, some aspects pointed out by the appellants are not considered by the CCI or the COMPAT at all.	None
No doubt, the meeting took place a couple of days before the date of tender.	None
No doubt, the absence of agenda coming on record would not make much difference.	None
However, only 19 appellants had attended that meeting.	None
Many others were not even members or did not attend the meeting.	Arguments of Petitioner
In spite thereof, even they quoted almost same rates as the one who attended the meeting.	None
This would lead us to the inference that reason for quoting similar price was not the meeting but something else.	None
The question is what would be the other reason and whether the appellants have been able to satisfactorily explain that and rebut the presumption against them?	None
The explanation is market conditions leading to the situation of oligopsony that prevailed because of limited buyers and influence of buyers in the fixation of prices was all prevalent.	None
This seems to be convincing in the given set of facts.	None
The situation of oligopsony can be both ways.	None
There may be a situation where the sellers are few and they may control the market and by their concerted action indulge into cartelization.	None
It may also be, as in the present case, a situation where buyers are few and that results in the situation of oligopsony with the control of buyers.	None
To recapitulate, the two prime factors against the appellants, which are discussed by the CCI, are that there was a collusive tendering, which is inferred from the parallel behaviour of the appellants, namely, quoting almost the same rates in their bids.	None
The parameters on the basis of which these aspects are to be judged are stated in Excel Crop Care Limited as follows ?	None
50.	None
It needs to be emphasised that collusive tendering is a practice whereby firms agree amongst themselves to collaborate over their response to invitations to tender.	None
Main purpose for such collusive tendering is the need to concert their bargaining power, though, such a collusive tendering has other benefits apart from the fact that it can lead to higher prices.	None
Motive may be that fewer contractors actually bother to price any particular deal so that overheads are kept lower.	None
It may also be for the reason that a contractor can make a tender which it knows will not be accepted (because it has been agreed that another firm will tender at a lower price) and yet it indicates that the said contractor is still interested in doing business, so that it will not be deleted from the tenderees list.	None
It may also mean that a contractor can retain the business of its established, favoured customers without worrying that they will be poached by its competitors.	None
Collusive tendering takes many forms.	None
Simplest form is to agree to quote identical prices with the hope that all will receive their fair share of orders.	None
That is what has happened in the present case.	None
However, since such a conduct becomes suspicious and would easily attract the attention of the competition authorities, more subtle arrangements of different forms are also made between colluding parties.	None
One system which has been noticed by certain competition authorities in other countries is to notify intended quotes to each other, or more likely to a Central secretariat, which will then cost the order and eliminate those quotes that it considers would result in a loss to some or all members of the cartel.	None
Another system, which has come to light, is to rotate orders.	None
In such a case, the firm whose turn is to receive an order will ensure that its quote is lower than the quotes of others.	None
We are here concerned with parallel behaviour.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are conscious of the argument put forth by Mr Venugopal that in an oligopoly situation parallel behaviour may not, by itself, amount to a concerted practice.	Arguments of Petitioner
It would be apposite to take note of the following observations made by European Court of Justice in Dyestuffs By its very nature, then, the concerted practice does not have all the elements of a contract but may inter alia arise out of coordination which becomes apparent from the behaviour of the participants.	None
Although parallel behaviour may not itself be identified with a concerted practice, it may however amount to strong evidence of such a practice if it leads to conditions of competition which do not respond to the normal conditions of the market, having regard to the nature of the products, the size and number of the undertakings, and the volume of the said market.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such is the case especially where the parallel behaviour is such as to permit the parties to seek price equilibrium at a different level from that which would have resulted from competition, and to crystallise the status quo to the detriment of effective freedom of movement of the products in the internal market and free choice by consumers of their suppliers.(emphasis supplied)	None
At the same time, the Court also added that the existence of a concerted practice could be appraised correctly by keeping in mind the following test If the evidence upon which the contested decision is based is considered, not in isolation, but as a whole, account being taken of the specific features of the products in question.	None
Having regard to the aforesaid principles in mind, we deal with the arugment on oligopsony raised by the appellants.	None
Monopsony consists of a market with a single buyer.	None
When there are only few buyers the market is described as an oligopsony.	Arguments of Petitioner
What is emphasised is that in such a situation a manufacturer with no buyers will have to exit from the trade.	None
Therefore, first condition of oligopsony stands fulfilled.	None
The other condition for the existence of oligopsony is whether the buyers have some influence over the price of their inputs.	None
It is also to be seen as to whether the seller has any ability to raise prices or it stood reduced eliminated by the aforesaid buyers.	None
On a hollistic view of the matter, we find that the appellants have been able to discharge the onus by referring to various indicators which go on to show that parallel behaviour was not the result of any concerted practice.	None
In Dyestuffs, the European Court held that parallel behaviour does not, by itself, amount to a concerted practice, though it may provide a strong evidence of such a practice.	None
Nevertheless, it is a strong evidence of such a practice.	None
However, before such an inference is drawn it has to be seen that this parallel behaviour has led to conditions of competition which do not correspond to the normal conditions of the market, having regard to the nature of the products, size and volume of the undertaking of the said market.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, we examine the matter from the stand point of market economy where question of oligopsony assumes relevance.	None
Whenever there is a situation of oligopsony, parallel pricing simplicitor would not lead to the conclusion that there was a concerted practice there has to be other credible and corroborative evidence to show that in an oligopoly a reduction in price would swiftly attract the customers of the other two or three rivals, the effect upon whom would be so devastating that they would have to react by matching the cut.	None
In Richard Whish David Bailey in Oxfords Competition Law discussed the Theory of Oligopolistic Interdependence as under In an oligopoly a reduction in price would swiftly attract the customers of the other two or three rivals, the effect upon whom would be so devastating that they would have to react by matching the cut.	None
Similarly an oligopolist could not increase its price unilaterally, because it would be deserted by its customers if it did so.	None
Thus the theory runs that in an oligopolistic market rivals are interdependent they are acutely aware of each others presence and are bound to match one anothers marketing strategy.	None
The result is that price competition between them will be minimal or nonexistent oligopoly produces noncompetitive stability Oligopolists recognize their interdependence as well as their own selfinterest.	None
By matching each others conduct they will be able to achieve and charge a profitmaximising price which will be set at a supracompetitive level, without actually communicating with one another.	None
There does not need to be any communication the structure of the market is such that, through interdependence and mutual selfawareness, prices will rise towards the monopolistic level.	None
The logical conclusion of the case against oligopoly is that, since it is the market structure itself which produces the problem, structural measures should be taken to remedy it by deconcentrating the market.	None
Unless this is done, there will be an area of consciously parallel action in pricing strategies which is beyond the reach of laws against cartels and yet which has serious implications for consumers welfare.	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
A regulatory approach 15 A different possibility would be to regulate the prices of undertakings that operate in an oligopolistic environment.	None
This, however, would be a counsel of despair.	None
As a matter of policy direct regulation should be a remedy of last resort.	None
Competition authorities should not be price regulators they should be the guardians of the competitive process.	None
Where markets are oligopolistic and entry is limited, competition authorities should be concerned with the question of whether there are barriers to entry and whether the state itself, for example through restrictive licensing rules, regulation or legislation, is responsible for a lack of competition.	None
In Theatre Enterprises v. Paramount Films , the Supreme Court of United States held as under 13 The crucial question is whether respondents conduct toward petitioner stemmed from independent decision or from an agreement, tacit or express.	None
To be sure, business behavior is admissible circumstantial evidence from which the fact finder may infer agreement.	Reasoning
Interstate Circuit.	Reasoning
But this Court has never held that proof of parallel business behavior conclusively establishes agreement or, phrased differently, that such behavior itself constitutes a Sherman Act offence.	Reasoning
Circumstantial evidence of consciously parallel behavior may have made heavy inroads into the traditional judicial attitude toward conspiracy but conscious parallelism has not yet read conspiracy out of the Sherman Act entirely.	Reasoning
In this regard, the test laid down by the Supreme Court of United States in Monsanto Co. v. SprayRite Service Corp. 17 is relevant and is reproduced hereunder 16 17 The correct standard is that there must be evidence that tends to exclude the possibility that the manufacturer and nonterminated distributors were acting independently.	None
That is, there must be direct or circumstantial evidence that reasonably tends to prove that the manufacturer and others had a conscious commitment to a common scheme designed to achieve an unlawful objective.	None
This test was reiterated by the Supreme Court of United States in Matsushita v.	None
Zenith Ratio Corp.	None
But antitrust law limits the range of permissible inferences from ambiguous evidence in a 1 case.	None
Thus, in Monsanto Co. v. SprayRite Service Corp., 465 U.S. 752 (1984), we held that conduct as consistent with permissible competition as with illegal conspiracy does not, standing alone, support an inference of antitrust conspiracy.	Reasoning
Id., at 764.	Reasoning
See also Cities Service, supra, at 280.	Reasoning
To survive a motion for summary judgment or for a directed verdict, a plaintiff seeking damages for a violation of 1 must present evidence that tends to exclude the possibility that the alleged conspirators acted independently.	Reasoning
465 U.S., at 764 .	None
petitioners had no motive to enter into the alleged conspiracy.	None
To the contrary, as presumably rational businesses, petitioners had every incentive not to engage in the conduct with which they are charged, for its likely effect would be to generate losses for petitioners with no corresponding gains.	Reasoning
Cf. Cities Service, 391 U.S., at 279 .	Reasoning
The Court of Appeals did not take account of the absence of a plausible motive to enter into the alleged predatory pricing conspiracy.	Reasoning
It focused instead on whether there was direct evidence of concert of action.	Reasoning
723 F.2d, at 304.	Reasoning
The Court of Appeals erred in two respects (i) the direct evidence on which the court relied had little, if any, relevance to the alleged predatory pricing conspiracy and (ii) the court failed to consider the absence of a plausible motive to engage in predatory pricing	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx Lack of motive bears on the range of permissible conclusions that might be drawn from ambiguous evidence if petitioners had no rational economic motive to conspire, and if their conduct is consistent with other, equally plausible explanations, 475 U.S. 574, 597 the conduct does not give rise to an inference of conspiracy.	None
See Cities Service, supra, at 278280.	None
Similarly, in Bell Atlantic Corp v. Twombly , the U.S. Supreme Court held as under 13 Because 1 of the Sherman Act does not prohibit all unreasonable restraints of trade but only restraints effected by a contract, combination, or conspiracy, Copperweld Corp. v. Independence Tube Corp.,467 U.S. 752,775(1984) , the crucial question is whether the challenged anticompetitive conduct stems from independent decision or from an agreement, tacit or express, Theatre Enterprises, 346 U. S., at 540.	None
While a showing of parallel business behavior is admissible circumstantial evidence from which the fact finder may infer agreement, it falls short of conclusively establishing agreement or itself constituting a Sherman Act offense.	Reasoning
Id., at 540541.	None
Even conscious parallelism, a common reaction of firms in a concentrated market that recognize their shared economic interests and their interdependence with respect to price and output decisions is not in itself unlawful.	Reasoning
Brooke Group Ltd. v. Brown Williamson Tobacco Corp., 509 U. S. 209, 227 (1993) see 6 P. Areeda H. Hovenkamp, Antitrust Law 1433a, p. 236	Reasoning
(2d ed. 2003) (hereinafter Areeda Hovenkamp)	None
(	None
The courts are nearly unanimous in saying that mere interdependent parallelism does not establish the contract, combination, or conspiracy required by Sherman Act 1 ) Turner, The Definition of Agreement Under the Sherman Act Conscious Parallelism and Refusals to Deal, 75Harv.	Reasoning
L. Rev. 655, 672 (1962) ( Mere interdependence of basic price decisions is not conspiracy).	Reasoning
46	None
The inadequacy of showing parallel conduct or interdependence, without more, mirrors the ambiguity of the behavior consistent with conspiracy, but just as much in line with a wide swath of rational and competitive business strategy unilaterally prompted by common perceptions of the market.	Reasoning
See, e.g., AEIBrookings Joint Center for Regulatory Studies, Epstein, Motions to Dismiss Antitrust Cases Separating Fact from Fantasy, Related 19 Publication 0608, pp. 34 (2006) (discussing problem of false positives in 1 suits).	None
Accordingly, we have previously hedged against false inferences from identical behavior at a number of points in the trial sequence.	Reasoning
An antitrust conspiracy plaintiff with evidence showing nothing beyond parallel conduct is not entitled to a directed verdict, see Theatre Enterprises, supra proof of a 1 conspiracy must include evidence tending to exclude the possibility of independent action, see Monsanto Co. v. SprayRite Service Corp., 465 U. S. 752 (1984) and at the summary judgment stage a 1 plaintiffs offer of conspiracy evidence must tend to rule out the possibility that the defendants were acting independently, see Matsushita Elec.	Reasoning
Industrial Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U.S. 574(1986).	None
After taking note of the test that needs to be applied in such cases, which was laid down in Dyestuffs and accepted in Excel Crop Care Limited, we come to the conclusion that the inferences drawn by the CCI on the basis of evidence collected by it are duly rebutted by the appellants and the appellants have been able to discharge the onus that shifted upon them on the basis of factors pointed out by the CCI.	Reasoning
However, at that stage, the CCI failed to carry the matter further by having required and necessary inquiry that was needed in the instant case.	None
We are emphasising here that in such a watertight tender policy of IOCL which gave IOCL full control over the tendering process, it was necessary to summon IOCL.	None
This would have cleared many aspects which are shrouded in mystery and the dust has not been cleared.	None
We, thus, arrive at a conclusion that there is no sufficient evidence to hold that there was any agreement between the appellants for bid rigging.	None
Accordingly, we allow these appeals and set aside the order of the Authorities below.	Decision
As a consequence, since no penalty is payable, appeals of the CCI are rendered infructuous and dismissed as such.	Decision
All the pending applications stand disposed of.	Decision
No orders as to costs.	Decision
