 F. Nariman, J. Leave granted in SLP(C)	None
Nos.15253/2015, 1864619117/2015, 1008110124/2015.	None
This group of appeals concerns the rate of taxability of declared goods i.e. goods declared to be of special importance under Section 14 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956.	Facts
The question that has to be answered in these appeals is whether iron and steel reinforcements of cement concrete that are used in buildings lose their character as iron and steel at the point of taxability, that is, at the point of accretion in a works contract.	Facts
All these appeals come from the State of Karnataka and can be divided into two groups one group relatable to the provisions of the Karnataka Sales Tax Act, 1957 and post 1.4.2005, appeals that are relatable to the Karnataka Value Added Tax Act, 2003.	Facts
The facts in these appeals are more or less similar.	Facts
Iron and Steel products are used in the execution of works contracts for reinforcement of cement, the iron and steel products becoming part of pillars, beams, roofs, etc. which are all parts of the ultimate immovable structure that is the building or other structure to be constructed.3.	Facts
Before coming to the submissions of learned counsel for the parties, it is necessary to first set out the relevant provisions of the Constitution, the Central Sales Tax Act and the two Karnataka Acts in question.	None
Article 286(3) of the Constitution reads as follows Article 286.	None
Restrictions as to imposition of tax on the sale or purchase of goodsxx xx	None
xx(3)	None
Any law of a State shall, in so far as it imposes, or authorises the imposition of,(a) a tax on the sale or purchase of goods declared by Parliament by law to be of special importance in inter State trade or commerce or(b) a tax on the sale or purchase of goods, being a tax of the nature referred to in sub clause (b), sub clause (c) or sub clause (d) of clause 29	None
A of Article 366, be subject to such restrictions and conditions in regard to the system of levy, rates and other incidents of the tax as Parliament may by law specify.	None
Section 14 of the Central Sales Tax Act, insofar as it is relevant to the present case reads as follows Section14Certain goods to be of special importance in interState trade or commerce.	None
It is hereby declared that the following goods are of special importance in interState trade or commerce(iv) iron and steel, that is to say,(i) pig iron, sponge iron and cast iron including ingot moulds, bottom plates, iron scrap, cost iron scrap, runner scrap and iron skull scrap(ii) Steel semis (ingots, slabs, blooms and billets of all qualities, shapes and sizes)(iii) Skelp bars, tin bars, sheet bars, hoebar and sleeper bars(iv) Steel bars, rounds, rods, squares, flat, octagons and hexagons, plain and ribbed or twisted, in coil form as well as straight lengths(v) steel structurals (angles, joists, channels, tees, sheet piling sections, Zsections or any other rolled sections)(vi) sheets, hoops, strips and skelp, both black and galvanized, hot and cold rolled plain and corrugated, in all qualities, in straight lengths and in coil form, as rolled and in riveted condition(vii) Plates both plain and chequered in all qualities(viii) Discs, rings, forgings and steel castings(ix) Tools, alloy and special steels of any of the above categories(x) Steel melting scrap in all forms including steel skull, turnings and borings(xi) Steel tubes, both welded and seamless, of all diameters and lengths including tube fittings(xii) Tinplates, both hot dipped and electrolytic and tin free plates(xiii)	None
Fist plate bars, bearing plate bars, crossing sleeper bars, fish plates, bearing plates, crossing sleepers and pressed steel sleepersheavy and light crane rails(xiv) Wheels, tyres, axles and wheels sets(xv) Wire rods and wiresrolled, drawn, galvanized, aluminized, tinned or coated such as by copper(xvi) Defectives, rejects, cuttings, or end pieces of any of the above categoriesSection 15Restrictions and conditions in regard to tax on sale or purchase of declared goods within a State.	None
Every sales tax law of a State shall, in so far as it imposes or authorizes the imposition of a tax on the sale or purchase of declared goods, be subject to the following restrictions and conditions, namelyThe tax payable under that law in respect of any sale or purchase of such goods inside the State shall not exceed five per cent.	None
of the sale or purchase price	None
thereof By the 46th Amendment of the Constitution, Article 366 (29A) was added, by which it became possible by a deeming fiction to tax sale of goods involved in a works contract.	None
Declared goods were taxable under Section 5(4) of the Act, which is set out hereunder Section 5(4)Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1) or Section 5B or Section 5C a tax under this Act shall be levied in respect of the sale or purchase of any of the declared goods mentioned in column (2) of the Fourth Schedule at the rate and only at the point specified in the corresponding entries of columns (4) and (3) of the said Schedule on the dealer liable to tax under this Act on his taxable turnover of sales or purchase in each year relating to such goods The Karnataka Sales Tax Act was amended to tax goods involved in works contracts.	None
Taking advantage of the constitutional amendment, Section 5B was inserted in the Karnataka Sales Tax Act, 1957.	None
This Section reads as follows Section 5B Levy of tax on transfer of property in goods (whether as goods or in some other forms) involved in the execution of works contracts.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1) or subsection (3) or subsection (3C) of Section 5, but subject to subsection (4), (5) or (6) of the said Section, every dealer shall pay for each year, a tax under this Act on his taxable turnover of transfer of property in goods (whether as goods or in some other form) involved in the execution of works contract mentioned in column (2) of the Sixth Schedule at the rates specified in the corresponding entries in column (3) of the said Schedule.	None
The Fourth Schedule of the said Act, which deals with declared goods in respect of which a single point tax is leviable under Section 5(4) reads as follows Act 3 of 1983 (From 1111982)Sl NoDescription of the GoodsPoint of levyPeriod for which applicableRate of tax123452.Iron and steel, that is to say,(a)	None
(i) pig iron and cast iron including ingot moulds, bottom platesdoFrom 11182 4(ii) steel semis (ingots, slabs, blooms and billets of all qualities, shapes and sizes)(iii) skelp bars, tin bars, sheet bars, hoebars and sleeper bars(iv) steel bars (rounds, rods, squares, flats, octagon and hexagons, plain and ribbed or twisted, in coil form as well as straight lengths)(v) steel structurals (angles, joists, channels, tees, sheet piling sections, Z sections or any other rolled sections)(vi) sheets, hoops, strips and skelp, both black and galvanized, hot and cold rolled, plain and corrugated, in all qualities, in straight lengths and in coil form, as rolled and in riveted condition(vii) plates both plain and chequered in all qualities(viii) discs, rings, forgings and steel castings sales by the first or the earliest of the successive dealers in the state liable to tax under this Act.(ix) tool, alloy and special steels of any of the above categories(iii) skelp bars, tin bars, sheet bars, hoebars and sleeper barsAct 30 of 1975 (15775 to 311082)(x) steel melting scrap in All forms including steel skull turnings and boringsdoFrom 15775do415.7.75 to 4 31.10.82 Similarly, the Sixth Schedule, which is to be read with Section 5B, insofar as it is relevant, reads as under Sl.	None
No.Description of worksperiod for which applicableRate of Tax 1234 Civil works like construction of building, bridges, roads, etc.1486 to 313951495 to 31391Five per centEight per cent Post 1.4.2005, the Karnataka Value Added Tax Act, 2003, taxed declared goods and works contracts generally as follows Section 4  Liability to tax and rates thereof.	None
Every dealer who is or is required to be registered as specified in Sections 22 and 24, shall be liable to pay tax, on his taxable turnover, (a) in respect of goods mentioned in,(i)	None
Second Schedule, at the rate of one per cent,(ii) Third Schedule, at the rate of four per cent in respect of goods specified in serial number 30 and five per cent in respect of other goods, and(iii)	None
Fourth Schedule, at the rate of twenty per cent.(b) in respect of.(i) cigarettes, cigars, gutkha and other manufactured tobacco at the rate of fifteen per cent(ii) other goods at the rate of thirteen and one half per cent.(c) in respect of transfer of property in goods (whether as goods or in some other form) involved in the execution of works contract specified in column (2) of the Sixth Schedule, subject to Sections 14 and 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (Central Act 74 of 1956), at the rates specified in the corresponding entries in column (3) of the said Schedule.	None
Third Schedule30.	None
Declared goods as specified in Section 14 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (Central Act 74 of 1956)Sixth Schedule23.All other works contracts not specified in any of the above categories including composite contracts with one or more of The above categories Fourteen and one half per centFourteen and one half per cent We have in the main to deal with the impugned judgment dated 1.9.2006 in Civil Appeal No.4318 of 2007, and judgment dated 12.8.2004 in Civil Appeal No. 4149 of 2007 in favour of Revenue, and a detailed impugned judgment which is challenged by the State of Karnataka dated 10.12.2013 in State of Karnataka and etc. etc. v. M s. Reddy Structures Pvt. Ltd. and etc. etc.	None
in Civil Appeals arising out of SLP (Civil) Nos.1864619117/2015.	None
Shri N. Venkatraman led the arguments on behalf of the assessees, after whom Shri S.K. Bagaria, Shri K.V. Viswanathan, and some others followed.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to learned counsel, the present matter is concluded by two judgments of this Court, namely, Builders Assn. of India v. Union of India, (1989) 2 SCC 645 , and Gannon Dunkerley and Co. v. State of Rajasthan, (1993) 1 SCC 364.	Arguments of Petitioner
The detailed judgment dated 10.12.2003 correctly extracts all the relevant passages from the aforesaid judgments to reach the conclusion that under the Karnataka Value Added Tax Act, 2003, the iron and steel products that are reinforced for cement concrete used in buildings and structures, remains exactly the same goods at the point of taxability that is, the point of accretion, and that mere cutting into different shapes and bending does not make these items lose their identity as declared goods.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, according to learned counsel, only tax at the rate of 4 can be levied, and not the higher rate levied in respect of civil construction works generally.	Arguments of Petitioner
Other learned counsel more or less argued along the same lines as Shri N. Venkatraman, only adding that it cannot be said that the identity of the iron and steel goods had changed at the point of taxability, and they cited several judgments to show that mere cutting and shaping of these products would not amount to manufacture and hence the very goods that were declared goods alone were taxable at the rate of 4, both under the Karnataka Sales Tax Act as well as the Karnataka Value Added Tax Act, 2003.12.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri K.N. Bhat, learned senior advocate appearing on behalf of the State, relied strongly on State of Tamil Nadu v. M s. Pyare Lal Malhotra and Others, (1976) 1 SCC 834 , in order to buttress his submission that the iron and steel products did not continue as iron and steel products but somehow became different goods at the point of accretion and that, therefore, they could be taxed at the higher rate applicable to civil constructions generally.	Arguments of Respondent
He did not dispute the law laid down in the two Supreme Court judgments cited by Shri N. Venkatraman, and very fairly submitted that if the iron and steel products continued as declared goods then even though they were in a works contract they were subject to the drill of Section 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act, and would therefore be chargeable at 4 if it were found that the said products continue to remain the same.13.	Arguments of Respondent
Having heard learned counsel for the parties, we are of the opinion that Shri N. Venkatraman is right.	None
The matter is no longer res integra.	None
Two important propositions emerge on a conjoint reading of Builders Association and M s. Gannon Dunkerley (supra).	None
First, that works contracts that are liable to be taxed after the 46th Constitution Amendment are subject to the drill of Article 286(3) read with Section 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act, namely, that they are chargeable at a single point and at a rate not exceeding 4 at the relevant time.	None
Further, the point at which these iron and steel products are taxable is the point of accretion, that is, the point of incorporation into the building or structure.	None
The relevant paragraphs from these two decisions, therefore, need to be set out.	None
In Builders Association (supra), this Court held We are of the view that all transfers, deliveries and supplies of goods referred to in clauses (a) to (f) of clause (29A) of Article 366 of the Constitution are subject to the restrictions and conditions mentioned in clause (1), clause (2) and subclause (a) of clause (3) of Article 286 of the Constitution and the transfers and deliveries that take place under subclauses (b), (c) and (d) of clause (29A) of Article 366 of the Constitution are subject to an additional restriction mentioned in subclause (b) of Article 286(3) of the Constitution.	None
para 32 In Benjamins Sale of Goods (3rd Edn.)	None
in para 43 at p. 36 it is stated thusChattel to be affixed to land or another chattel.	None
Where work is to be done on the land of the employer or on a chattel belonging to him, which involves the use or affixing of materials belonging to the person employed, the contract will ordinarily be one for work and materials, the property in the latter passing to the employer by accession and not under any contract of sale.	None
Sometimes, however, there may instead be a sale of an article with an additional and subsidiary agreement to affix it.	None
The property then passes before the article is affixed, by virtue of the contract of sale itself or an appropriation made under it.	None
In view of the foregoing statements with regard to the passing of the property in goods which are involved in works contract and the legal fiction created by clause (29A) of Article 366 of the Constitution it is difficult to agree with the contention of the States that the properties that are transferred to the owner in the execution of a works contract are not the goods involved in the execution of the works contract, but a conglomerate, that is the entire building that is actually constructed.	None
After the 46th Amendment it is not possible to accede to the plea of the States that what is transferred in a works contract is the right in the immovable property.	None
The 46th Amendment does no more than making it possible for the States to levy sales tax on the price of goods and materials used in works contracts as if there was a sale of such goods and materials.	None
We are surprised at the attitude of the States which have put forward the plea that on the passing of the 46th Amendment the Constitution had conferred on the States a larger freedom than what they had before in regard to their power to levy sales tax under entry 54 of the State List.	None
The 46th Amendment does no more than making it possible for the States to levy sales tax on the price of goods and materials used in works contracts as if there was a sale of such goods and materials.	None
We do not accept the argument that subclause (b) of Article 366(29A) should be read as being equivalent to a separate entry in List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution enabling the States to levy tax on sales and purchases independent of entry 54 thereof.	None
As the Constitution exists today the power of the States to levy taxes on sales and purchases of goods including the deemed sales and purchases of goods under clause (29A) of Article 366 is to be found only in entry 54 and not outside it.	None
We may recapitulate here the observations of the Constitution Bench in the case of Bengal Immunity Company Ltd. AIR 1955 SC 661 (1955) 2	None
SCR 603 (1955) 6	None
STC 446 in which this Court has held that the operative provisions of the several parts of Article 286 which imposes restrictions on the levy of sales tax by the States are intended to deal with different topics and one could not be projected or read into another and each one of them has to be obeyed while any sale or purchase is taxed under entry 54 of the State List.	None
We, therefore, declare that sales tax laws passed by the legislatures of States levying taxes on the transfer of property in goods (whether as goods or in some other form) involved in the execution of a works contract are subject to the restrictions and conditions mentioned in each clause or subclause of Article 286 of the Constitution.	None
We, however, make it clear that the cases argued before and considered by us relate to one specie of the generic concept of works contracts.	None
The casebook is full of the illustrations of the infinite variety of the manifestation of works contracts.	None
Whatever might be the situational differences of individual cases, the constitutional limitations on the taxing power of the State as are applicable to works contracts represented by building contracts in the context of the expanded concept of tax on the sale or purchase of goods as constitutionally defined under Article 366(29A), would equally apply to other species of works contracts with the requisite situational modifications.	None
(Paras 3841)	None
In M s. Gannon Dunkerley (supra), this Court held Apart from the limitations referred to above which curtail the ambit of the legislative competence of the State Legislatures, there is clause (3) of Article 286 which enables Parliament to make a law placing restrictions and conditions on the exercise of the legislative power of the State under Entry 54 in State List in regard to the system of levy, rates and other incidents of tax.	None
Such a law may be in relation to (a) goods declared by Parliament by law to be of special importance in interState trade or commerce, or (b) to taxes of the nature referred to in subclauses (b), (c) and (d) of clause (29A) of Article 366.	None
When such a law is enacted by Parliament the legislative power of the States under Entry 54 in State List has to be exercised subject to the restrictions and conditions specified in that law.	None
In exercise of the power conferred by Article 286(3) (a) Parliament has enacted Sections 14 and 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956.	None
No law has, however, been made by Parliament in exercise of its power under Article 286(3)(b).For the same reasons Sections 14 and 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act would also be applicable to the deemed sales resulting from transfer of property in goods involved in the execution of a works contract and the legislative power under Entry 54 in State List will have to be exercised subject to the restrictions and conditions prescribed in the said provisions in respect of goods that have been declared to be of special importance in interState trade or commerce.	None
So also it is not permissible for the State Legislature to impose a tax on goods declared to be of special importance in interState trade or commerce under Section 14 of the Central Sales Tax Act except in accordance with the restrictions and conditions contained in Section 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act.	None
Since the taxable event is the transfer of property in goods involved in the execution of a works contract and the said transfer of property in such goods takes place when the goods are incorporated in the works, the value of the goods which can constitute the measure for the levy of the tax has to be the value of the goods at the time of incorporation of the goods in the works and not the cost of acquisition of the goods by the contractor.	None
We are also unable to accept the contention urged on behalf of the States that in addition to the value of the goods involved in the execution of the works contract the cost of incorporation of the goods in the works can be included in the measure for levy of tax.	None
Incorporation of the goods in the works forms part of the contract relating to work and labour which is distinct from the contract for transfer of property in goods and, therefore, the cost of incorporation of the goods in the works cannot be made a part of the measure for levy of tax contemplated by Article 366(29A)(b).	None
paras 31, 37, 41 and 45 At this juncture, it is important to note the fact situation in a typical case before us.	None
The Karnataka Appellate Tribunal in an order dated 18.10.2010 in Civil Appeals arising out of SLP(C)	None
Nos. 1864619117 of 2015 narrates the factual position thus Different types of steel bars rods of different diameters are used as reinforcement (like TMT bars, CTD bars etc).	None
The reinforcement bars rods need to be bent at the ends in a particular fashion to withstand the bending moments and flexural shear.	None
The main reinforcement bars rods have to be placed parallely along the direction of the longer span.	None
The diameters of such main reinforcement rods bars and the distance between any two main reinforcement bars rods is calculated depending on the required loads to be carried by the reinforced cement concrete structure to be built based on various engineering parameters.	None
At right angles to the main reinforcement bas rods, distribution bars rods of appropriate lesser diameters are placed and the intersections between the distribution bars rods and main reinforcement bars rods are tied together with binding wire.	None
The tying is not for the purposes of fabrication but is to see that the iron bars or rods are not displaced during the course of concreting from the assigned positions as per the drawings.	None
Welding of longitudinal main bars and transverse distribution bars is not done.	None
In fact, welding is contraindicated because it imparts too much rigidity to the reinforcement which hampers the capacity of the roof structure to oscillate or bend to compensate varying loads on the structure besides welding reduces the cross section of the bars rods weakening their tensile strength.	None
The reinforcements are placed and tied together in appropriate locations in accordance with the detailed principles and drawings found in standard bar bending schedules which lay down the exact parameters of interspaces between bars rods, the required diameters of the steel reinforcement bars rods and contain the required engineering drawings for placement of bars in a particular manner.	None
The placement of reinforcement bars rods for different structures is done under the supervision of qualified bar tenders and site engineers who are well versed with the engineering aspects related to steel reinforcement for creating reinforced cement concrete of desired load bearing capacities.	None
The appellant company has submitted general photographs showing the progress of the work of placement and binding of reinforcement bars rods at its work sites.	None
The said photographs also establish the correctness of the aforesaid findings relating to placement and binding together of steel reinforcement bars rods before such bars rods are embedded in cement concrete mixtures.	None
In another case in STA No.1328/2008 decided by this Tribunal on 10.2.2009 (in the case of Sri J. Bhaskar Rao) which is relied on by the appellant, in the agreement between the Government of Karnataka, Minor Irrigation Department and the said appellant (who was a civil contractor engaged in the civil construction activity), specification for placement and binding together of reinforcement bars rods were stipulated by the Government of Karnataka as followsReinforcing steel shall conform accurately to the dimensions given in the bar bending schedules shown on the relevant drawings.	None
Bars shall be bent cold to the specific shape and dimensions or as directed by the Engineer incharge using a proper bar bender, operated by hand or power to attain proper radii of bends.	None
PLACING OF REINFORCEMENTSAll reinforcement bars shall be accurately placed in exact position shown on the drawings and shall be securely held in position during placing of concrete by annealed binding wire not less than 1mm.	None
in size and conforming to IS280, and by using stays, blocks or metal chairs, spacers, metal hangers, supporting wires or other approved devices at sufficiently close intervals.	None
Bars will not be allowed to end between supports not displaced during concreting or any other operation over the work .	None
As far as possible, bars of full length shall be used.	None
In case this is not possible, overlapping bars shall not touch each other, but be kept apart by 25mm, or 1 (1/4) times the maximum size of the coarse aggregate whichever is greater, by concrete between them.	None
Where not feasible, overlapping bars shall be bound with annealed steel wire, not less than, 1mm.	None
thickness twisted tight.	None
The overlaps shall be staggered for different bars and located at points along the span where neither shear nor bending moment is maximum.	None
The above specification which are standard for all civil construction works also confirms the correctness of the findings recorded by us supra.	None
Welding of bars rods reduces their cross section and to that extent decreases the tensile strength of the reinforcement bars rods defeating the very purpose of steel reinforcement in cement concrete.	None
When bars rods are just joined together loosely by the use of binding wires, the elasticity of the steel bar rod is in no way hampered and each reinforcement bar rod acts independently.	None
By the combined action of the main reinforcement bars rods and the distribution bars rods, the reinforced cement structures like roofs act as a rigid diaphragm whose elements displace equally in the direction of the applied inplane loads.	None
From the above discussion it is clear that largely in building construction works, no prefabrication of any steel structure is done before embedding them in cement concrete mixture to form reinforced cement concrete structures.	None
The findings of the lower authorities to the contrary effect in the cases on hand are entirely opposed to facts.	None
The only process to which the steel reinforcement rods bars are subjected to before being embedded with cement concrete mixture is bending at its ends after cutting of steel rods bars to the required size and tying them at the intersections with binding wire.	None
None of these processes constitute a manufacturing process and no new commodity is produced before incorporation into the works.	None
Given this factual scenario, Shri K.N. Bhat referred to the judgment in State of Tamil Nadu v. M s. Pyare Lal Malhotra and Others, (1976) 1 SCC 834 , and relied on paragraphs 9 and 10 of this judgment which read as follows If the object was to make iron and steel taxable as a substance, the entry could have been Goods of Iron and Steel.	None
Perhaps even this would not have been clear enough.	None
The entry, to clearly have that meaning, would have to be Iron and Steel irrespective of change of form or shape or character of goods made out of them.	None
This is the very unusual meaning which the respondents would like us to adopt.	None
If that was the meaning, sales tax law itself would undergo a change from being a law which normally taxes sales of goods to a law which taxes sales of substances, out of which goods are made.	None
We, however, prefer the more natural and normal interpretation which follows plainly from the fact of separate specification and numbering of each item.	None
This means that each item so specified forms a separate species for each series of sales although they may all belong to the genus Iron and Steel.	None
Hence, if iron and steel plates are melted and converted into wire and then sold in the market, such wire would only be taxable once so long as it retains its identity as a commercial goods belonging to the category wire made of either iron or steel.	None
The mere fact that the substance or raw material out of which it is made has also been taxed in some other form, when it was sold as a separate commercial commodity, would make no difference for purposes of the law of sales tax.	None
The object appears to us to be to tax sales of goods of each variety and not the sale of the substance out of which they are made.	None
As we all know, sales tax law is intended to tax sales of different commercial commodities and not to tax the production or manufacture of particular substances out of which these commodities may have been made.	None
As soon as separate commercial commodities emerge or come into existence, they become separately taxable goods or entities for purposes of sales tax.	None
Where commercial goods, without change of their identity as such goods, are merely subjected to some processing or finishing or are merely joined together, they may remain commercially the goods which cannot be taxed again, in a series of sales, so long as they retain their identity as goods of a particular type.	None
paras 9 and 10 Given the fact situation in these appeals, it is obvious that paragraph 10 of this judgment squarely covers the case against the State, where, commercial goods without change of their identity as such, are merely subject to some processing or finishing, or are merely joined together, and therefore remain commercially the same goods which cannot be taxed again, given the rigor of Section 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act.	None
We fail to see how the aforesaid judgment can further carry the case of the revenue.	None
We may note that in Civil Appeal No.4318 of 2007, Larsen Toubro Ltd. v. State of Karnataka Another, the Appellate Tribunal had passed an order dated 11.1.2002 in which it decided the case against the assessee on the ground that since the iron and steel products went into cement concrete, they changed form, and since they changed form, they were no longer declared goods and could be taxed without the constraints mentioned in Section 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act.	None
A Sales Tax Revision Petition filed before the High Court yielded an order dated 14.6.2007 by which the assessee was sent back to the Appellate Tribunal for rectification.	None
This rectification petition was dismissed by an order dated 30.11.2005.	None
A Sales Tax Revision Petition was thereafter filed against both orders, namely, 11.1.2002 and 30.11.2005.	None
The High Court, in the impugned judgment dated 1.9.2006, unfortunately adverted only to the rectification order dated 30.11.2005 and not to the original order of 11.1.2002 and thus dismissed the revision petition stating that no question of law arose.	None
Ordinarily, we would have set aside the judgment and remanded the matter back to the High Court to determine the matter on merits, but at this point of time we find this would not serve any purpose.	None
Instead, it is enough to set aside both the judgments impugned by the assessees, dated 1.9.2006 and 12.8.2004, in light of the law laid down in Builders Association and M s. Gannon Dunkerley (supra), and declare that the declared goods in question can only be taxed at the rate of 4.	None
In the State Appeals, we find that the lead impugned judgment in Civil Appeals arising out of SLP(C)	None
Nos.1864619117 of 2015 dated 10.12.2013 is an exhaustive judgment which has considered not only the facts in great detail but also the law laid down by the Supreme Court.	None
We affirm the said judgment and dismiss the appeals of the State of Karnataka.	None
Civil Appeal No.4319 of 2007 M s. Ananth Engineering Works v. State of Karnataka	None
This appeal is by the assessee from a judgment dated 26.10.2006 allowing a revision against the Appellate Tribunals order dated 19.1.2006.	None
In this appeal, we are concerned with Rule 6(4)(m) of the Karnataka Sales Tax Rules, 1957.	None
Rule 6(4)6.	None
DETERMINATION OF TOTAL AND TAXABLETURNOVER(1)(4) In determining the table turnover, the amount specified in clause (a) to (p) shall, subject to the conditions specified therein, be deducted from the total turnover of a dealer as determined under clauses (a) to (e) of subRule (1).(a)(b)(m)	None
In the case of works contract specified in Serial Numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 17, 26, 27, 35, 36, 40 and 42 of the Sixth Schedule(i) all amounts received or receivable in respect of goods other than the goods taxable under subsection (1A) or (1B) or Section 5 which are purchased form registered dealers liable to pay tax under the Act and used in the execution of works contract in the same form in which such goods are purchased.(ii) .EXPLANATIONIIIFor	None
the purpose of subrule (4), the expression in the same form used in subclause (i) of clause (m) shall not include such goods which, after being purchased, are either consumed or used in the manufacture of other goods which in turn are used in the execution of works contract.	None
On facts in this case, it has been found that the appellant is engaged in works contracts of fabrication and creation of doors, window frames, grills, etc. in which they claimed exemption for iron and steel goods that went into the creation of these items, after which the said doors, window frames, grills, etc. were fitted into buildings and other structures.	Reasoning
On facts, therefore, we find that the High Courts judgment is correct and does not need to be interfered with inasmuch as the iron and steel goods, after being purchased, are used in the manufacture of other goods, namely, doors, window frames, grills, etc. which in turn are used in the execution of works contracts and are therefore not exempt from tax.22.	Reasoning
The appeal of the assessee is therefore dismissed.	Decision
