 Gopala Gowda, J. This appeal by special leave arises out of the impugned judgment and order dated 16.01.2012 passed by the High Court of Delhi in LPA No. 857 of 2010 in and by which, the High Court, while dismissing the appeal held that this matter does not fall within its writ jurisdiction which requires determination by the High Court.	Issue
Brief facts which led to the filing of this appeal are as under The appellant is residing on the second floor of D1 Hauz Khas, New Delhi.	None
Dr. Navin Dang and Dr. Manju Dang, the respondent Nos. 6 and 7 (hereinafter referred to as the respondentowners) initially started a Pathological Lab in the name of Dr. Dangs Diagnostic Centre in the year 1995 on the basement and ground floor of the concerned building and later on, in the year 20052006 the first floor of the premises was also purchased by them from its owner Mrs. Shanti Chatterjee whereby they expanded the activities of the Pathological Lab even to mezzanine floor and first floor by installing heavy medical equipments to make it fully equipped with the latest technology.	Facts
When the Diagnostic Centre was started, it employed about 50 people and installed 25 Air Conditioners, two diesel generator sets of 25 KVA and 40 KVA each in the setback area of the building along with kerosene oil tanks, gas cylinders and electric panels.	Facts
There was a major parking problem in and around the vicinity of the Diagnostic center since a large number of patients visited the centre every day.	Facts
The appellant made various complaints pertaining to the violation of the Master Plan to the concerned authorities, namely 1)Respondent No.1 Dy. Commissioner, Municipal Corporation of Delhi(for shot the MCD), 2)Respondent No.2  SHO of the area, 3)Respondent No.3  Executive Engineer, Delhi Electricity Supply Undertaking.	Facts
As no heed was given to the same by the aforesaid respondent, a writ petition No. 8808 of 2004 was filed by the appellant before the High Court of Delhi.	Facts
During the pendency of the said writ petition, contrary to the averments made by the MCD before the High Court that prosecution had been initiated against the responsible persons under Sections 347/461 of the Delhi Development Act, 1957, the Regularisation Certificate was issued on 11.07.2006 to the respondentowners by the MCD under Mixed Land Use for running the Pathological Lab on the ground floor and first floor of the concerned building.	Facts
Aggrieved by the grant of Regularisation Certificate, the appellant withdrew the writ petition No.8808 of 2004 and a fresh writ petition No. 225 of 2008 was filed by the appellant before the High Court praying for quashing of the Regularisation Certificate wherein, the learned single Judge issued limited notice to the respondents with respect to Clauses 3 and 7 of the Regularisation Certificate.	Facts
The Learned single Judge rejected the challenge to the Regularisation Certificate issued on 11.07.2006 as the same was issued by MCD under Clause 15.7.1 of the MPD 2021 approved by the Ministry of Urban Development, Government of India which reads thus 15.7 OTHER ACTIVITY 15.7.1 Subject to the general conditions given in para 15.4 and additional conditions given in para 15.7.3, the following public and semipublic activities shall also be permitted in the residential plots abutting roads of minimum ROW prescribed in 15.7.2, whether or not the road is notified as Mixed Use street Preprimary school (including nursery Montessori school, creche.)	Facts
(b) i. Nursing Home ii.	None
Clinic, Dispensary, Pathology lab .	None
and Diagnostic center Further, the learned single Judge vide order dated 5.10.2010 refused to decide the violation under Clause 7 of the Regularisation Certificate on the ground that the petition is motivated by a private dispute than owing to any nuisance and hardship to any local resident as none of the other local residents had approached the Court with any complaint pertaining to nuisance.	Facts
The first respondent  MCD confirmed that onetime parking charges of Rs.9,35,673/ in terms of the Regularisation Certificate had been paid by the respondent owners and that respondentowners had also deposited Rs.8,39,916/ as conversions charges.	Facts
The appellant challenged the order dated 11.01.2008 issuing limited notice in writ petition No.225 of 2008 passed by the learned single Judge by filing LPA No. 267 of 2009 before the Division Bench of the High Court and later on withdrew the same.	Facts
Aggrieved by the Order dated 5.10.2010 passed by learned single Judge, the appellant filed LPA No.857 of 2010 before the High Court praying for issuance of a writ of prohibition prohibiting the owners of the Pathological Lab from running the Diagnostic Centre in the concerned building, which was also dismissed by the High Court of Delhi vide its order dated 16.01.2012.	Facts
Hence, this appeal by special leave is filed by the appellant.	Facts
Heard Mr. H.P. Rawal, learned senior counsel on behalf of the appellant and Mr. K.K. Venugopal, and Ms. Indu Malhotra, learned senior counsel on behalf of the respondentowners and Mr. L. Nageshwar Rao, Additional Solicitor General and other learned counsel on behalf of the respondent.	None
The learned senior counsel on behalf of the appellant contended that the appellant made various complaints to the concerned authorities, namely, 1) Respondent No.1  Dy. Commissioner, MCD regarding the commercial activity of the respondentsowners.	Arguments of Petitioner
2) Respondent No.2  SHO of the area for forceful installation of the Generator sets in the setback area of the concerned property and blocking the underground water tanks and 3) Respondent No.3  Executive Engineer, Delhi Electricity Supply Undertaking about the installation of the Generator sets.	Arguments of Petitioner
8.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended by the learned senior counsel for the appellant that the authorities were called upon by the appellant to take some preventive action against the respondentowners as they have not taken any license or permission from the MCD prior to setting up of the Diagnostic Centre in the residential area which is admitted by the concerned respondents themselves.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the sanctioned building plan, the basement and the mezzanine floor could be used only for storage purpose and for no other purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
9.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further contended by him that the MCD never sought permission of the High Court before issuing Regularisation Certificate in favour of the respondentowners when W.P. No. 8808 of 2004 was pending before the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further contended by him that the said Regularisation Certificate dated 11.7.2006 which was allegedly granted under the MPD 2021 which could not have retrospective effect but in fact, is prospective in nature.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further it has been contended by him that the MPD 2021 was notified by the Ministry of Urban Development Vide Notification No.S.O.141 and was brought into force on 07.02.2007.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said plan was only at its proposal stage, which fact was taken note of by the Division Bench of the High Court in its impugned judgment.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, it can be said that even before the MPD 2021 was brought into effect, the MCD went ahead with issuing Regularisation Certificate under the said plan in favour of the respondentowners of the Pathological Lab. 10.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, it is submitted by the learned senior counsel on behalf of the appellant that on 27.04.2006, the complaint made by the 18 residents of the area to the Commissioner, MCD about the hardship and nuisance faced by them were not taken note of or given heed to by the authorities.	Arguments of Petitioner
Again on 24.07.2009, 32 residents of Hauz Khas complained to the ACP (Traffic) about the great hardship they have been facing due to the continuous nuisance being committed by the said Diagnostic and Pathological Lab. 11.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further contended by the learned senior counsel for the appellant that no person shall, without the previous consent of Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC)respondent No. 5 herein shall establish or take any steps to establish any industry, operation or process or any treatment and disposal system or any extension or addition thereto which is likely to discharge sewage or trade effluent into a stream or well or sewer or land.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is mandatory on the part of such establishment to first obtain consent from the DPCC for establishing or operating any industry, operation or process or any treatment and disposal system or any extension or addition thereto as envisaged under Section 25 of Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1986.	Arguments of Petitioner
Admittedly, no such consent was obtained or granted by the DPCC.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said fact has not been placed before the learned single Judge, Division Bench or this Court by any of the respondents.	Arguments of Petitioner
The DPCC has stated in its counter statement that the Pathological Lab is being run by the respondentowners in the basement, ground floor, first floor and mezzanine floor of the concerned property.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, it is being run by them not only in violation of the Master Plan for Delhi 2001 but also MPD2021.	Arguments of Petitioner
12.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further contended that the area illegally permitted by the MCD in pursuance of the alleged Regularisation Certificate dated 11.07.2006 mentions the area to be 222.25 sq meters and confines the activity of respondentowners to the ground floor and the first floor only.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, the respondentowners have been using the area much more in excess of the said permitted area by using the mezzanine floor of the building also.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said fact pleaded by the appellant is corroborated by the inspection report submitted by the DPCC in these proceedings.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further contended that the respondentowners have neither refuted nor pleaded anything contrary to the same, but on the other hand, for the first time before this Court, the learned senior counsel on behalf of the respondentowners have stated that the mezzanine floor does not exist in the building.	Arguments of Petitioner
This plea urged by the respondentowners is not only contrary to the pleadings before the courts below but the same is made with a mala fide intention and is an incorrect statement of fact and therefore, requested this Court to reject the said contention.	Arguments of Petitioner
13.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, it is contended by the learned senior counsel that the appellant has been complaining about the setback area of the building being illegally covered by the respondentowners contrary to the building byelaws and for the first time before this Court, a new plea has been taken by the respondentowners that they have kept the generator sets in the setback area of the building allegedly because they have not been allowed to install it on the terrace of the concerned building.	Arguments of Petitioner
This alleged fact is contrary to the facts and the title deeds of the property.	Arguments of Petitioner
The terrace in the building was purchased by the appellant separately and he is the exclusive owner of the terrace.	Arguments of Petitioner
14.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further contended that the appellant is living on the second floor of the building and enough damage has been done to the same and cracks have occurred therein due to the installation of heavy equipments including generator sets.	Arguments of Petitioner
The effect of such installation of such heavy equipments like generator sets on the terrace is not only dangerous but would also make it impossible for the appellant as well as the surrounding neighboring residents to live peacefully.	Arguments of Petitioner
15.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further urged by the learned senior counsel for the appellant that the impugned order is liable to be set aside as the dispute between the parties is not a private dispute and respondent Nos. 1 to 5 are required in law to take appropriate legal action against the respondentowners to stop the illegal and unauthorized activities in the concerned building.	Arguments of Petitioner
These activities of running the Pathological Lab are also contrary to Clause 7 of the conditions mentioned in the Regularisation Certificate dated 11.07.2006 issued by the MCD to the respondentowners for running of the Pathological Lab in the concerned building.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, the learned senior counsel on behalf of the respondents have alleged that the appellant himself has not approached this Court with clean hands and has deliberately suppressed material information and documents with a view to prejudice this Court against the answering respondents and has raised unauthorized construction on the roof above the second floor of the concerned building.	Arguments of Respondent
It is alleged by them that this appeal filed by the appellant is motivated by personal animus against the answering respondents.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further contented that the contentions urged by the appellant both in the writ petition and in this appeal do not raise any question of law or question of public importance, therefore, the same does not call for interference of this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further contended by the learned senior counsel for the respondentowners that the Delhi Master Plan 2001 classifies a Clinical Laboratory under Section 2 Development Code, Clause 8 (3) Sl.	Arguments of Respondent
No. 077 as an activity permissible in a residential area.	Arguments of Respondent
A clinical laboratory being a utility service is permitted to be run in both the residential and commercial areas and this facility must be easily accessible and in close proximity to people in residential zones.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, it is submitted by them that the MPD2021 which came into force on 07.02.2007, provides for Mixed Use Regulations.	Arguments of Respondent
Regulation 15.7.2 reads thus 15.7.2	Arguments of Respondent
The minimum ROW of a street or stretch of road on which other activities are permissible is as follows In A B Colonies 18m ROW in regular plotted development 13.	Arguments of Respondent
Added vide S.O. 2034(E) dated 12082008 184 Notes In C D colonies 18 m ROW in regular residential plotted development Further, it is submitted that as Hauz Khas area has been classified as a Class B Colony as per MPD 2021, the aforesaid activities of the respondentowners in the residential building are permissible in a Class B Colony, having an 18 m ROW in regular plotted development.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further contended that it is relevant to mention that there is no restriction with respect to the area that can be used for a Nursing Home, Clinic, Dispensary, Pathological Lab and Diagnostic Centre covered by Regulation 15.7.1 of the MPD 2021.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted by the respondentowners in their written submissions that they have installed generator sets for running their Pathological Lab in the rear set back area of the concerned building, since the appellant did not permit access to the roof of the second floor for utilities even though they have a right of access to the terrace to repair and clean the overhead tanks, to install TV antenna etc., under their registered sale deed of the building.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, it is contended by the learned senior counsel for the respondentowners of the Pathological Lab that they have not constructed any shed in the rear setback area and generators have been kept in the soundproof enclosures and the noise generated from them is within the permissible limits and therefore, there is no air and sound pollution in the area.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, it is contended by the learned senior counsel for the respondentowners that respondent No. 5, DPCC has given the permission to install the aforesaid generators in the building after conducting an inspection of the same and certified that the air quality standards are being complied with by them.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, as advised by DPCC, the respondentowners have installed stacks above the height of the building but the appellant broke the stack on several occasions, and thereby prevented the respondentowners from complying with the said directions.	Arguments of Respondent
Ultimately, the respondentowners were constrained to construct a steel structure which is independent of the building, so as to ensure that the exhaust pipe of the generators is raised by 1.5.	Arguments of Respondent
meters above the height of the building.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further contended that the respondentowners have only one gascylinder connection in the Pathological Lab, which is used for making tea, coffee etc. for the Doctors and staff who are working in the lab, which cannot be termed as hazardous material as it is only used for domestic purposes.	Arguments of Respondent
We have heard the learned senior counsel for both the parties and after considering the rival legal contentions urged by them, we have to answer each one of the rival legal contentions in seriatim by assigning the following reasons.	None
It is pertinent to note that during the pendency of this appeal, the parties have tried to reach an amicable settlement, however the same remained unsuccessful.	None
Be as that may, this nature of ligation cannot be allowed to be settled between the parties as it involves public interest and violation of rule of law.	None
The writ petition was dismissed by the learned single Judge and the same was affirmed by the Division Bench in its impugned judgment and order on the question that the proceedings initiated by the appellant are not in the nature of public interest but is only private interest litigation and therefore, the High Court had held that the writ does not lie against the respondents.	None
The said reasoning of the Division Bench in the impugned judgment is not acceptable to us based on the pleadings and documentary evidence produced before us as it is clear that several representations have been made by the affected neighbours of the building at different stages with regard to the nuisance created by the Pathological Lab right from 29.12.1995 till date including the complaint made by the 32 residents of Hauz Khas to the Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) on 27.07.2009.	None
The running of the Pathological Lab in the building by the respondentowners amount to violation of the rule of law and affects the public interest, therefore, it is public interest litigation even though the appellant herein is a resident of the second floor of the concerned building and simultaneously he has been fighting for the cause of all the local residents.	None
This legal principle has been laid down by the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of S. P. Gupta and Others v. President of India and Others ((1981) supp.	None
SCC 87), which legal principle has been reiterated recently by this Court in the case of State Of Uttaranchal v. Balwant Singh Chaufal (2010 (3 ) SCC 402)after adverting to the entire case law on the question of public interest litigation, the relevant paragraph from the decision of the S. P. Gupta case (supra) is extracted hereunder It may therefore now be taken as well established that where a legal wrong or a legal injury is caused to a person or to a determinate class of persons by reason of violation of any constitutional or legal right or any burden is imposed in contravention of any constitutional or legal provision or without authority of law or any such legal wrong or legal injury or illegal burden is threatened and such person or determinate class of persons is by reason of poverty, helplessness or disability or socially or economically disadvantaged position, unable to approach the court for relief, any member of the public can maintain an application for an appropriate direction, order or writ in the High Court under Article 226 and in case of breach of any fundamental right of such person or determinate class of persons, in this Court under Article 32 seeking judicial redress for the legal wrong or injury caused to such person or determinate class of persons.	None
The court has to innovate new methods and devise new strategies for the purpose of providing access to justice to large masses of people who are denied their basic human rights and to whom freedom and liberty have no meaning.	None
The only way in which this can be done is by entertaining writ petitions and even letters from publicspirited individuals seeking judicial redress for the benefit of persons who have suffered a legal wrong or a legal injury or whose constitutional or legal right has been violated but who by reason of their poverty or socially or economically disadvantaged position are unable to approach the court for relief. .	None
We may also point out that as a matter of prudence and not as a rule of law, the court may confine this strategic exercise of jurisdiction to cases where legal wrong or legal injury is caused to a determinate class or group of persons or the constitutional or legal right of such determinate class or group of persons is violated and as far as possible, not entertain cases of individual wrong or injury at the instance of a third party, where there is an effective legalaid organization which can take care of such cases.	None
The relevant para from Balwant Singhs case is extracted hereunder	None
The High Courts followed this Court and exercised similar jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution.	None
The Courts expanded the meaning of right to life and liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution.	None
The rule of locus standi was diluted and the traditional meaning of aggrieved person was broadened to provide access to justice to a very large section of the society which was otherwise not getting any benefit from the judicial system.	None
We would like to term this as the first phase or the golden era of the public interest litigation.	None
We would briefly deal with important cases decided by this Court in the first phase after broadening the definition of aggrieved person.	None
This Court in Akhil Bharatiya Soshit Karamchari Sangh (Railway) v. Union of India, at AIR p. 317, held that Our current processual jurisprudence is not of individualistic AngloIndian mould.	None
It is broadbased and peopleoriented, and envisions access to justice through class actions, public interest litigation and representative proceedings.	None
Indeed, little Indians in large numbers seeking remedies in courts through collective proceedings, instead of being driven to an expensive plurality of litigations, is an affirmation of participative justice in our democracy.	None
We have no hesitation in holding that the narrow concept of cause of action and person aggrieved and individual litigation is becoming obsolescent in some jurisdictions.	None
In Bandhua Mukti Morcha v. Union of India this Court entertained a petition even of an unregistered association espousing the cause of over downtrodden or its members observing that the cause of little Indians can be espoused by any person having no interest in the matter.	None
In the said case, this Court further held that where a public interest litigation alleging that certain workmen are living in bondage and under inhuman conditions is initiated, it is not expected of the Government that it should raise a preliminary objection that no fundamental rights of the petitioners or the workmen on whose behalf the petition has been filed, have been infringed.	None
On the contrary, the Government should welcome an inquiry by the Court, so that if it is found that there are in fact bonded labourers or even if the workers are not bonded in the strict sense of the term as defined in the Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act, 1976 but they are made to provide forced labour or are consigned to a life of utter deprivation and degradation, such a situation can be set right by the Government.	None
Public interest litigation is not in the nature of adversarial litigation but it is a challenge and an opportunity to the Government and its officers to make basic human rights meaningful to the deprived and vulnerable sections of the community and to assure them social and economic justice which is the signature tune of our Constitution.	None
The Government and its officers must welcome public interest litigation because it would provide them an occasion to examine whether the poor and the downtrodden are getting their social and economic entitlements or whether they are continuing to remain victims of deception and exploitation at the hands of strong and powerful sections of the community and whether social and economic justice has become a meaningful reality for them or it has remained merely a teasing illusion and a promise of unreality, so that in case the complaint in the public interest litigation is found to be true, they can in discharge of their constitutional obligation root out exploitation and injustice and ensure to the weaker sections their rights and entitlements.	None
In Fertilizer Corpn.	None
Kamagar Union v. Union of India this Court observed that Public interest litigation is part of the process of participative justice and standing in civil litigation of that pattern must have liberal reception at the judicial doorsteps.	None
In Ramsharan Autyanuprasi v. Union of India this Court observed that the public interest litigation is for making basic human rights meaningful to the deprived and vulnerable sections of the community and to assure them social, economic and political justice. .	None
The development of public interest litigation has been an extremely significant development in the history of the Indian jurisprudence.	None
The decisions of the Supreme Court in the 1970s loosened the strict locus standi requirements to permit filing of petitions on behalf of marginalised and deprived sections of the society by public spirited individuals, institutions and or bodies.	None
The higher courts exercised wide powers given to them under Articles 32 and 226 of the Constitution.	None
The sort of remedies sought from the Courts in the public interest litigation goes beyond award of remedies to the affected individuals and groups.	None
In suitable cases, the Courts have also given guidelines and directions.	None
The Courts have monitored implementation of legislation and even formulated guidelines in the absence of legislation.	None
If the cases of the decades of 70s and 80s are analysed, most of the public interest litigation cases which were entertained by the courts are pertaining to enforcement of fundamental rights of marginalised and deprived sections of the society.	None
This can be termed as the first phase of the public interest litigation in India.	None
Apart from this, reliance has been placed by the learned senior counsel on behalf of the appellant upon the judgment of this Court to maintain the Writ Petition as a PIL as the appellant is a person who is also empowered to file a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India challenging the validity of the Regularisation Certificate as per the decision of this Court in Gadde Venkateswara Rao v. State of A.P. (AIR 1966 SCC 828), wherein it was held thus The first question is whether the appellant had locus standi to file a petition in the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution.	None
This Court in Calcutta Gas Company (Proprietary) Ltd. v. State of West Bengal dealing with the question of locus standi of the appellant in that case to file a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution in the High Court, observed Article 226 confers a very wide power on the High Court to issue directions and writs of the nature mentioned therein for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by Part III or for any other purpose.	None
It is, therefore, clear that persons other than those claiming fundamental right can also approach the court seeking a relief thereunder.	None
The Article in terms does not describe the classes of persons entitled to apply thereunder but it is implicit in the exercise of the extraordinary jurisdiction that the relief asked for must be one to enforce a legal right .	None
The right that can be enforced under Article 226 also shall ordinarily be the personal or individual right of the petitioner himself, though in the case of some of the writs like habeas corpus or quo warranto this rule may have to be relaxed or modified.	None
This Court held in the decision cited supra that ordinarily the petitioner who seeks to file an application under Article 226 of the Constitution should be one who has a personal or individual right in the subjectmatter of the petition.	None
A personal right need not be in respect of a proprietary interest it can also relate to an interest of a trustee.	None
That apart, in exceptional cases, as the expression ordinarily indicates, a person who has been prejudicially affected by an act or omission of an authority can file a writ even though he has no proprietary or even fiduciary interest in the subjectmatter thereof.	None
The appellant has certainly been prejudiced by the said order.	None
The petition under Article 226 of the Constitution at his instance is, therefore, maintainable.	None
In view of the above mentioned decisions of this Court, we hold that the findings and reasons recorded by both the learned single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court that it is not public interest litigation is contrary to the law laid down by the Constitution Bench of this Court and other decisions referred to supra.	Reasoning
The said reasoning is liable to be set aside, accordingly it is set aside.	Reasoning
Further, notice was issued by the High Court for limited purpose to examine the correctness of Clauses 3 and 7 of the Regularisation Certificate issued to the respondentowners by the MCD in exercise of its authority to grant the same.	Reasoning
However, the MCD has ignored the relevant aspects of the case of deviation of the then relevant Delhi Master Plan and unauthorised use of the basement, ground floor, mezzanine floor and the first floor of the concerned building.	Reasoning
The said act of the MCD is contrary to the legal principles laid down by this Court in the case of Priyanka Estate International (P) Ltd. v. State of Assam ((2010) 2 SCC 27), wherein it was held thus Even though on earlier occasions also, under similar circumstances, there have been judgments of this Court which should have been a pointer to all the builders that raising unauthorised construction never pays and is against the interest of society at large, but, no heed has been given to it by the builders.	None
Rules, regulations and byelaws are made by Corporations or by Development Authorities, taking in view the larger public interest of the society and it is a bounden duty of the citizens to obey and follow such rules which are made for their benefit.	None
If unauthorised constructions are allowed to stand or given a seal of approval by court then it is bound to affect the public at large.	None
An individual has a right, including a fundamental right, within a reasonable limit, it inroads the public rights leading to public inconvenience, therefore, it is to be curtailed to that extent.	None
In addition to this, the appellant being a resident of the second floor of the building, questioned the legality and validity of the Regularisation Certificate issued by the MCD under Clause 15.7.1 of the MPD2021 approved by the Ministry of Urban Development, Government of India.	Reasoning
In the second Writ Petition (c) 225 of 2008 filed by the appellant, the challenge was on the basis of the said certificate, for which the learned single Judge at the time of preliminary hearing of the said petition, has issued limited notice dated 11.1.2008 to the respondents with respect to Clause 3 of the Regularisation Certificate dealing with parking arrangements which would affect the neihbouring local residents of the colony and Clause 7 of the Regularisation Certificate which states that the respondentowners shall ensure no nuisance or hardship would be created for the local residents in running the Nursing Home.	Reasoning
However, contrary to this, they have been running a large Pathological Lab in the name of Nursing Home, named Dr. Dangs Diagnostic Centre in the basement, ground floor, mezzanine floor and the first floor of the building.	Reasoning
The respondentowners have refuted the same.	Reasoning
According to the learned senior counsel on behalf of the respondentowners of the Pathological Lab, the mezzanine floor does not exist in the building.	None
This plea is contrary to the pleadings made before the courts below and even before this Court and the same is made with a mala fide intention to conceal unauthorized construction and contravention of the building byelaws.	None
Therefore, the said plea cannot be accepted by us.	None
Further, we are satisfied that the issuance of the said Regularisation Certificate in favour of the respondentowners of the Pathological Lab is in contravention of the building byelaws and MPD2021 referred to supra.	Reasoning
The relevant paras from the MPD 2021 are extracted hereunder for better appreciation of our conclusions on the contentious points raised by the learned senior counsel on behalf of the parties 15.1 GOVERNING PRINCIPLES FOR MIXED USE Mixed Use means the provision for nonresidential activity in residential premises.	None
15.2 MIXED USE IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS 15.2.1.	None
DIFFERENTIATED APPROACH	None
The need for differentiated approach to mixed use policy arises from the fact that Delhi, being the countrys capital and an important centre of economic activity has a large diversity in the typology of residential areas.	None
Apart from the planned residential colonies built as part of Lutyens Delhi as well as through the process of planned development undertaken by the Delhi Development Authority, there are authorized residential areas in the Walled City, Special areas and urban villages.	None
Other planned areas include resettlement colonies and preDelhi Development Act colonies, including postpartition rehabilitation colonies and pre1962 residential colonies as per list given in Annexure I. There are also regularizedunauthorized colonies unauthorized colonies as well as slums and jhuggi jhompri clusters in various parts of Delhi.	None
iii)	None
Hence, it is proposed to follow a differentiated approach in the application of the mixeduse policy in Delhi.	None
The differentiated approach would be based on categorization of colonies from A to G as adopted by MCD for unit area method of property tax assessment as applicable on 7.9.2006.	None
Any change in the categorization of these colonies shall not be made applicable for the purpose of this chapter without prior approval of Central Government 15.3.2	None
The extent of Mixed Use permissible in various categories of colonies is further clarified as follows In colonies falling in categories A and B	None
No commercial activities will be permissible in the colonies of A B categories except the following Other activity restricted to guest houses, Nursing Homes and preprimary schools, as defined in para 15.7.1, subject to conditions contained in para 15.7, in plots abutting roads of minimum 18m ROW in regular plotted development, since these activities are in the nature of Public and SemiPublic facilities.	None
New banks and fitness centres, wellness centres and NGOs will not be permissible.	None
Banks which existed as on 7.9.2006, fitness centres, wellness centres and NGOs which existed as on 7.2.2007, (as defined in para 15.7.1), in accordance with notifications issued in this regard from time to time, and are on plots abutting roads of minimum 18m ROW, on the date of notification, shall however, continue.	None
15.4 GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS GOVERNING MIXED USE Where there are more than one dwelling units in a residential plot, each of the dwelling units will be permitted to have only type of Mixed Use activity (either retail shop as per para 15.6.	None
or professional activity or any one of the other activities listed in para 15.7).	None
15.5 PERMISSIBLE AND NONPERMISSIBLE USES Any trade or activity involving any kind of obnoxious, hazardous, inflammable, noncompatible and polluting substance or process shall not be permitted.	None
15.7 OTHER ACTIVITY 15.7.1 Subject to the general conditions given in para 15.4 and additional conditions given in para 15.7.3, the following public and semipublic activities shall also be permitted in the residential plots abutting roads of minimum ROW prescribed in 15.7.2, whether or not the road is notified as Mixed Use street Preprimary school (including nursery Montessori school, creche.)	None
(b) i. Nursing Home ii.	None
Clinic, Dispensary, Pathology lab and Diagnostic center.	None
15.7.2	None
The minimum ROW of a street or stretch of road on which the abovementioned other activities are permissible is as follows In A B Colonies 18m ROW in regular plotted development iii. .pathology labs shall be permissible on minimum plot size of 100 sqm in regular plotted development on 13.5 m ROW in C D colonies and 9 m ROW in E, F G colonies.	None
However, the minimum plot size shall be 50 sqm for clinics, dispensaries and pathology labs running in these colonies and also in E, F and G category colonies.	None
In Walled City, Walled city extension, villages and unauthorizedregularized colonies, conditions of plot size and minimum ROW shall not be applicable.	None
(emphasis supplied by this Court)	None
Now, we have to examine whether this residential property comes under the Mixed Use or not.	None
Clause 15.2.1 (i) referred to supra clearly states in the Master Plan issued by the Planning Authority under the heading Mixed Use in the area in question to meet the growing demand of commercial activities and overcome the shortfall of commercial space.	None
A liberalised provision of Mixed Use in the residential areas has been adopted adhering to the requisites of the environment while achieving better synergy between workplace, residence and transportation.	None
Further, the report of the DPCC clearly states that the Regularisation Certificate was granted for running a Nursing Home whereas a Pathological Lab in the name of Dr. Dang Diagnostic Centre has been functioning on the basement, ground floor of the building since the year 1995.	None
In view of the Clause 15.4(ii) of the MPD2021, the general terms and conditions governing Mixed Use provides that where there are more than one dwelling units in a residential plot, each of the dwelling units will be permitted to have only type of Mixed Use activity (either retail shop as per Clause 15.5 or professional activity or any one of the other activities as provided in Clause 15.7).	None
In the residential plot in question there are more than two residential flats and once again such kind of use of premises in the dwelling unit will be permitted to have only one kind of activity.	None
Further, we have examined the Major Highlights of the Master Plan of Delhi 2021 as penned by the Ministry of Urban Development, wherein, the focal points of the Master Plan have been discussed.	None
The relevant point (n) from the above said Highlights is extracted hereunder Health Infrastructure ?	None
Health facilities proposed to achieve norms of 5 beds 1000 population ?	None
Enhancement of FAR for hospitals and other health facilities. ?	None
Nursing Homes, clinics etc. also allowed under relaxed Mixed Use Norms.	None
Further, it is necessary for us to examine Clause 15.8 of MPD 2021 which states thus 15.8 PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITY i. .	None
In the case of plotted development with single dwelling unit, professional activity shall be permissible on any one floor only, but restricted to less than 50 of the permissible or sanctioned FAR whichever is less on that plot.	None
Professional activity in basements is permissible in plotted development, subject to relevant provisions of Building ByeLaws, structural safety norms and fire safety clearance.	None
In case, the use of basement for professional activity leads to exceeding the permissible FAR on the plot, such FAR in excess shall be used subject to payment of appropriate charges prescribed with the approval of Government.	None
(Emphasis laid down by this Court) From a careful reading of the above provision emphasised by us, it is clear that if the use of basement for professional activity exceeds the FAR, then such excess usage shall be subject to payment of appropriate charges prescribed with the approval of the Government of India.	None
Neither the MCD nor the respondentowners in their pleadings have brought this fact to the notice of this Court that they have complied with the above said provision by paying the appropriate charges for usage of the basement when the same is exceeding the permissible FAR on the plot of the building.	None
From a careful reading of the aforesaid extracted portions of the Master Plan 2021 and upon which reliance has been placed by Mr. H.P.Rawal, learned senior counsel on behalf of appellant and Mr. K. K. Venugopal and Ms. Indu Malhotra, learned senior counsel on behalf of the respondents, we have to hold that the grant of Regularisation Certificate under Mixed Use Regulations of the MPD 2021 giving retrospective effect enabling respondentowners to run a Pathological Lab in the guise of a Nursing Home in the residential area falling in categories A and B is not sustainable in law and liable to be set aside.	Reasoning
Further, in view of the facts of the case on hand, the relevant provisions of MPD 2021 and the evidence on record, we have to hold that the writ appeal filed by the appellant has been wrongly dismissed by the Division Bench of the High Court without examining the legality and validity of the issuance of the Regularisation Certificate on 11.06.2007 allegedly under the MPD 2021 which was still at the proposal stage at that time and the said Plan came into effect only on 07.02.2007, enabling the respondentowners to use the premises for commercial activity which in our view is prohibited in the residential plot of the building under the various Clauses of the Master Plan 2021 extracted above.	Reasoning
Further, the said Regularisation Certificate granted by the MCD is contradictory to the Mixed Use Regulations under the Delhi Master Plan 2001 as well which was relevant and in force at the time of granting of the Regularisation Certificate to the respondentowners.	Reasoning
The provision for Mixed Use under the MPD 2001 clearly states that the area street for Mixed Use activity should be identified by conducting a study of the impact on the traffic in that area street in which such Mixed Use activity is likely to take place and also evaluate the environmental needs and impact on municipal services of the area if Mixed Use is allowed.	Reasoning
In the present case, no report or document of evaluation or study conducted by the MCD has been brought to the notice of the courts below or this Court to establish and prove that the concerned building is an appropriate premises to allow a nonresidential or Mixed Use activity in residential premises.	Reasoning
The Mixed Use Regulations under MPD 2001 further states that if after the above said evaluation and study it is found that the Mixed Use activity in the street area is feasible, then such activity shall be allowed only on the ground floor of the premises to the extent of 25 of the area or 50sqm, whichever is less and that such establishment can be run by the resident of the dwelling unit only.	Reasoning
In the present case, the Pathological Lab is being run on the basement, ground floor, first floor and the mezzanine floor and the respondentowners of the Pathological Lab are not the residents of the concerned building, thus it is a clear violation of the provisions for Mixed Use of residential premises under the Master Plan 2001.	Reasoning
The Master Plan 2001 also provides that activities such as running of a nursing home should not be allowed, whereas in the Regularisation Certificate, it is clearly stated that permission is being granted for running of a nursing home.	Reasoning
The relevant paras of the said plan are extracted hereunder CLAUSE 10 MIXED USE REGULATIONS (NONRESIDENTIAL ACTIVITY ON RESIDENTIAL PREMISES) Mixed Use here, essentially means permission of nonresidential activity on residential plot or residential flat.	None
Specific provision for Mixed Use have been given for walled city, Karol Bagh and other parts of the Special Area in the relevant sections in the Master Plan.	None
At the time of preparation of Zonal (divisional) plans, in residential plotted development in areas other than the Walled City and Karol Bagh and other urban renewal areas, streets of Mixed Use activity shall be identified by (i) conducting a traffic study in each individual case to see whether after permission of Mixed Use activity, there will be no adverse effect in traffic circulation in that area street and it would be built to take additional traffic which is likely to be generated because of the Mixed Use.	None
(ii)by evaluation its impact on the municipal services and environmental needs of the area.	None
As a part of the traffic study, the traffic management solutions like traffic free pedestrianised streets areas and on way traffic etc. could also be considered for introduction as a solution to the traffic parking problem of the area.	None
In case it is found feasible to permit Mixed Use in a street area, the same would be subject to the following conditions The commercial activity allowed shall be only on the ground floor to the extent of 25 or 50 sqm which ever is less.	Reasoning
The establishment shall be run only by the resident of the dwelling unit.	None
The following activities shall not be allowe d	None
Retail Shops Repair Shops Service Shops Nursing Hom e	None
In view of the reasoning discussed above, the impugned judgment passed by the Division Bench in not accepting the case of the appellant is not only erroneous on factual position but also error in law and the same is liable to be set aside.	None
The learned senior counsel for the respondentowners has placed strong reliance on the grant of Regularisation Certificate dated 11.07.2006 by the MCD in favour of the respondentowners to justify that the running of the Pathological Lab in the concerned building is valid and legal as the said certificate was granted by the competent authority.	Reasoning
Therefore, it is necessary for us to examine the Regularisation Certificate issued by the MCD.	None
The relevant portion of the Certificate for running the Pathological Laboratory in the concerned building is extracted hereunder .the	None
competent authority has granted permission for running a clinical Pathological Laboratory at ground floor and first floor (area for this purpose is 222.25 sqm) in premises No. D1, Hauz Khas, New Delhi under the Mixed Land Use Regulations of Government of India, subject to following conditions xxxxxxx xxxxxxx	None
All parking arrangements will be made by you within the plot in question.	None
No commercial activity in the form of canteen or restaurant will be permitted.	None
However, catering will be allowed only for the residents of the nursing home.	None
The applicant will ensure that no nuisance or hardship is created for the local residents You are required to deposit permission fee for the financial years 20042005 and 20052006 and 20062007 amounting to Rs.8,39,916/ on account of Regularisation of running of nursing home in the aforesaid premises within a week.	None
On examining the Regularisation Certificate issued by the MCD, it is clear that the Regularisation Certificate is for running of a Pathological Lab whereas the conditions mentioned therein are directed towards running of a nursing home.	Reasoning
Therefore, there is a lot of inconsistency within the Regularisation Certificate itself and due to the same, the Regularisation Certificate cannot be accepted by us as it is impermissible not only in law but also because the same was granted without seeking permission from the High Court during the pendency of the earlier Writ Petition No. 8808 of 2004 filed by the appellant.	Reasoning
In view of the aforesaid reasons, we have to hold that the grant of the Regularisation Certificate with the alleged retrospective effect to run the Nursing Home in favour of respondentowners w.e.f. 11.7.2006 cannot be accepted by us and the same is liable to be quashed.	None
With regard to the environmental impact due the running of the Pathological Lab in the concerned building, we first examine Clause 15.5 of MPD 2021, which clearly states that any trade or activity involving any kind of abnoxious, hazardous, inflammable activities, noncompatible activities and polluting substance or process shall not be permitted.	None
It is worthwhile to extract the definition of Process which in the absence of a definition under the Environment Protection Laws, we are required to borrow it from Oxford Dictionary A systematic series of.mechanized or chemical operation that are performed in order to produce something.	None
It is also necessary to extract the definition of hazardous substance under Section 2 (e) of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 which word occurred in Clause 15.5 of MPD 2021.	None
(e) hazardous substance means any substance or preparation which, by reason of its chemical or physicochemical properties or handling, is liable to cause harm to human beings, other living creatures, plant, microorganism, property or the environment As per the report of the DPCC, it is clear that chemical substances emitted from the Pathological Lab will be obnoxious, noncompatible, polluting and therefore, the same are not permissible under Clause 15.5 of the MPD 2021.	Reasoning
Further, when the respondentowners started the Diagnostic Centre, they employed about more than 50 people and installed 25 Air Conditioners, two diesel generator sets of 25 KVA and 40 KVA each in the set back area, along with kerosene oil tanks, gas cylinders and electric panels.	Reasoning
Around 300 patients visit the centre per day and more than 100 cars are parked in the vicinity.	Reasoning
All these factors lead to air pollution which is in contravention of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981.	Reasoning
At present, 80 employees are working and around 300 patients visit the Pathological Lab every day and vehicles are parked in and around the surrounding area which is also creating a parking problem to the residents of the area.	Reasoning
The nuisance created by all these factors not only leads to air pollution but also noise pollution to a great extent.	Reasoning
In this regard, it is necessary for us to examine the decision of this Court in the case of Noise Pollution (V) in RE ((2005) 5 SCC 733 ) at paras 11, 103 and 104 wherein it was held that noise generated upto unpleasant or obnoxious levels violates the rights of the people to a peaceful, comfortable and pollutionfree life guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
The said paras are quoted hereunder Those who make noise often take shelter behind Article 19(1)A pleading freedom of speech and right to expression.	None
Undoubtedly, the freedom of speech and right to expression are fundamental rights but the rights are not absolute.	None
Nobody can claim a fundamental right to create noise by amplifying the sound of his speech with the help of loudspeakers.	None
While one has a right to speech, others have a right to listen or decline to listen.	None
Nobody can be compelled to listen and nobody can claim that he has a right to make his voice trespass into the ears or mind of others.	None
Nobody can indulge into aural aggression.	None
If anyone increases his volume of speech and that too with the assistance of artificial devices so as to compulsorily expose unwilling persons to hear a noise raised to unpleasant or obnoxious levels then the person speaking is violating the right of others to a peaceful, comfortable and pollutionfree life guaranteed by Article 21.	None
Article 19(1)A cannot be pressed into service for defeating the fundamental right guaranteed by Article 21.	None
The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 Noise was included in the definition of air pollutant in Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act in 1987.	None
Thus, the provisions of the Air Act, became applicable in respect of noise pollution, also.	None
The Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.	None
Although there is no specific provision to deal with noise pollution, the Act confers powers on Government of India to take measures to deal with various types of pollution including noise pollution.	None
Further, it was held in this case that noise was included in the definition of air pollutant in the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 and therefore, the provisions of the said Act became applicable in respect of the noise pollution also.	None
It was also held that although there is no specific provision to deal with noise pollution, the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 confers powers on the Government of India to take measures to deal with various types of pollution including noise pollution.	None
Further, on examining the evidence on record, particularly the photographs depicting the area in and around the building, it is clear that large diesel generator sets have been erected by the respondentowners in the setback area which is an illegal structure in the residential premises and is in contravention of the building byelaws and zonal regulations of the MCD.	None
The running of this large Pathological Lab has lead to emission of hazardous substances and in that process human beings, plants, micro organisms, and other living creatures are being exposed to harmful physicochemical properties.	None
Not only this, they also create pollution which contaminates water on account of the discharge of chemical properties used in the process of running the Pathological Lab, causing nuisance and harm to public health and safety of the residents of the area.	None
This fact is certified by the DPCC in its report dated 4.8.2008.	None
The usage of such generator sets has led to the damage of the building and cracks have been found in the building structure.	None
The explanation sought to be given by the respondentowners is that the aforesaid generator sets were installed in the setback area as the appellant has not permitted to install the same on the terrace of the building.	Arguments of Petitioner
The objection of the appellant installing the same in the terrace is that he has purchased the said area and the appellant is living on the second floor and therefore, if the generator sets are installed on the terrace, it would be completely impossible for him to live on the second floor of the premises due to the sound and air pollution caused by the generator sets.	None
It would not only affect the appellant and his family but also the other neighbouring residents of the locality.	None
It is an undisputed fact that the consent was not obtained by the respondentowners from DPCC under Section 25 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act which states that no person shall without the previous consent of DPCC establish or take any steps to establish any industry, operation or process or any treatment and disposal system or any extension or addition thereto which is likely to discharge sewage or trade effluent into a stream or well or sewer or land.	Reasoning
It is mandatory under the said provision to first obtain consent from DPCC and admittedly such consent has neither been obtained by the respondentowners nor granted by the respondent No.5, DPCC, nor has the same been placed before the learned single Judge or the Division Bench or this Court.	Reasoning
The running of the Pathological Lab for which the generator sets and other heavy equipments have been installed not only create sound pollution and air pollution but also the same is in contravention of the Water, Air and the Environment Protection Acts referred to supra.	Reasoning
Therefore, in view of the relevant provisions of law referred to supra, the facts of the case and the evidence on record, we have to hold that the running of the Pathological Lab by the respondentowners in the concerned building is in violation of law.	Reasoning
In this aspect of the matter, we refer to the legal principles laid down by this Court in the case of M.C. Mehta v. Union of India (2006) 3 SCC 399 ), the relevant paragraph from the said case is extracted hereunder On 1851995,	None
Justice R.C. Lahoti (as the former Chief Justice of India then was) in the case of ANZ Grindlays Bank v. Commr., MCD echoed similar words and referred to decision of this Court, observing that the word environment is of broad spectrum which brings within its ambit hygienic atmosphere and ecological balance.	None
It is, therefore, not only the duty of the State but also the duty of every citizen to maintain hygienic environment.	None
There is constitutional imperative on the State Government and the municipalities, not only to ensure and safeguard proper environment but also an imperative duty to take adequate measures to promote, protect and improve both the manmade and the natural environment.	None
Dealing with the municipal laws providing for power of demolition, it was observed that while interpreting municipal legislation framed in public interest, a strict constitutional approach must be adopted.	None
A perusal of the master plan shows that the public purpose behind it is based on historic facts guided by expert opinion.	None
Even though the High Court issued notice in the writ petition to examine the case in so far as the Clauses 3 and 7 of the Regularisation Certificate, the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondentowners contended that the High Court has examined this aspect and did not find any contravention of the aforesaid conditions or any illegality committed by the respondentowners, therefore, this Court is required to examine only with regard to the aforesaid Clauses.	Reasoning
This contention cannot be accepted by this Court particularly in view of the fact that there is blatant violation of the provisions of building byelaws of MCD in using the building for the purpose other than the purpose for which it is constructed and further running the Pathological Lab or the Nursing Home is impermissible in the concerned building under the Master Plan 2001 or MPD 2021 and also under the provisions of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1986.	Reasoning
The running the Pathological Lab by the respondentowners air, sound pollution is created rampantly on account of which the public resident health and peaceful has been adversely affected.	None
Therefore, public interest is affected and there is violation of rule of law.	None
Hence, we have examined this appeal on all aspects of the matter and on merits.	None
This position of law is well settled in the catena of decisions of this Court.	None
Further, the respondentowners to justify that the Pathological Lab does comply with the safety measures and environmental regulation as enforced by the Government from time to time, have submitted the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL)	None
Certificate that has been granted to the Diagnostic Centre.	None
On our examination of the said certificate, it is true that the Pathological Lab had been granted such NABL certification, however, the same was granted on 15.7.2001 and was valid only for three years from the date of issue of the certificate i.e. upto 14.07.2004.	None
No record or document has been produced before us to prove that the Pathological Lab is still certified under the NABL certification.	None
Hence, the above said justification and submission cannot be accepted by us.	None
Further, despite its notice by the MCD and DPCC, the illegal and unlawful activities of the respondentowners have continued.	None
Instead of taking prompt action as provided under the provisions of DDA Act, 1957 and the Environment Law referred to supra, the MCD proceeded to regularise the illegal and unlawful activities of the respondentowners which has been carrying on since 1995 though it is a party to the writ petition proceedings initiated against them for running the Pathological Lab on the basement, ground floor, first floor and mezzanine floor of the building.	None
Further, the DPCC not only regularised the commercial activities of the Pathological Lab run by the respondentowners under the guise of a Nursing Home with retrospective effect but no prompt action was taken under the provisions of the Act to either stop it or to demolish the illegal structure.	None
Therefore, both the MCD and the DPCC abdicated their statutory duties in permitting the owners to carry on with the unlawful activities which inaction despite persistent request made by the appellant and the residents of the area did not yield any results.	Reasoning
The counsel for the MCD made the statement before the courts below and even before this Court that there are no illegal activities on the part of the respondentowners as they are supported by issuance of a Regularisation Certificate.	Reasoning
In this regard as discussed previously in this judgement, the issuance of Regularisation Certificate to run the Pathological Lab in the building is totally impermissible in law even though the respondentowners have placed reliance upon Mixed Use of the land in the area as per MPD 2021 referred to supra.	Reasoning
Further, it is necessary for us to make an observation here that the conduct of the MCD and the DPCC for their inaction is highly deplorable as they have miserably failed to discharge their statutory duties on account of which there has been a blatant violation of the rule of law and thereby a large number of residents of the locality are suffering on account of the unlawful activities of the respondentowners, whose activities are patronised by both the authorities.	Reasoning
In view of the reasons recorded by us on the relevant aspects which have emerged from the pleadings, the questions which were raised and the rival legal contentions urged, we have to reject the both factual and legal pleas on behalf of the respondentowners.	Reasoning
We also do not accept the reliance placed by the learned senior counsel Mr. L. Nageshwar Rao upon the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second Act, 2011 No.20 of 2011, which was valid up to 31st December, 2014 in justification of the inaction and the same is wholly untenable in law.	Reasoning
The contentions urged by the learned senior counsel placing reliance upon the MPD 2021 which came into force w.e.f. 07.02.2007 that the respondentowners are permitted to run the Nursing Home and carry on with the Diagnostic Centre in the building placing further reliance upon the various judgments of this Court referred to supra are all unfounded and the same cannot be accepted as they are misplaced.	Reasoning
For the reasons stated supra, the appeal is allowed and the impugned judgments and orders of both the learned single Judge and Division of the High Court are hereby set aside and Regularisation Certificate is quashed and rule is issued.	Decision
Further, directions are issued to the respondents MCD and DPCC to see that the unlawful activities of the respondentowners are stopped as per our directions.	Decision
The respondentowners are directed to close down their establishment of running Dr. Dangs Diagnostic Centre within four weeks from the date of receipt of the copy of this Judgment by shifting the same to alternative premises and submitting the compliance report for the perusal of this Court.	Decision
If the respondentowners do not comply with the above directions of this Court within four weeks, the MCD is directed to take necessary prompt steps for sealing or closing down of all the activities undertaken by them in the premises of concerned building and submit the compliance report for the perusal of this Court.	Decision
All the I.A.s are disposed of accordingly.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
