 Hidayatullah, C.J.1.	None
The petitioners are persons employed in the Ministerial Services of the Andhra Pradesh Government.	Facts
All of them were working in various offices located in the cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad.	Facts
On January 19, 1969, leaders of all political parties in the Legislature of the Andhra Pradesh State appeared to have met and reached a decision that to implement what are called Telangana Safeguards, the following measures should be takenAll nondomicile persons, who have been appointed either directly, by promotion or by transfer to posts reserved under the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) Rules 1959 for domiciles of Telengana region will be immediately relieved from service.	Facts
The posts so rendered vacant will be filled by qualified candidates possessing domicile qualifications and in cases where such candidates are not available the posts shall be left unfilled till qualified domicile candidates become available.	Facts
Action on the above lines will be taken immediately.	Facts
All nondomicile employees so relieved shall be employment in the Andhra region without break in service and by creating supernumerary posts, if necessary.2.	Facts
The Government of Andhra Pradesh then passed an order G. O. Ms. 36 G. A. (SR) Dept.	Facts
on January 21, 1969 relieving before February 28, 1969 all nondomicile persons appointed on or after November 1, 1956 to certain categories of posts reserved for domiciles of Telengana under the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) Rules, 1959.	Facts
Names of such incumbents were to be shown in a proforma and they were to be employed in the Andhra region without breaking service by creating supernumerary posts, if necessary.	Facts
These supernumerary posts were to be treated as temporary addition to the strength of the office concerned and were to be adjusted against future vacancies in corresponding posts as they arose.	Facts
The action was based upon Section 3 of the Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) Act, 1957 (44 of 1957) which was an Act of Parliament made in pursuance of Clause (3) of Article 16 of the Constitution making special provision for requirement as to residence and brought into force on March 21, 1959.	Facts
Section 3 of the Act gave the power to make Rules in respect of certain classes of employment in certain areas.	Facts
It provided3.	None
Power to make rules in respect of certain classes of public employment in certain areas(1)	Facts
The Central Government may by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules prescribing, in regard to appointments to(a) any subordinate service or post under the State Government of Andhra Pradesh or any requirement as to residence within the Telangana area or the said Union Territory as the case may be, prior to such appointment.(2)	Facts
In this section,(a) (b) Telangana area comprises all the territories specified in subsection (1) of Section 8 of the States Reorganisation Act 1956.Under Section 4, the Rules had to be laid before each House of Parliament for a period of not less than 30 days and Parliament could make such alterations as it liked.	Facts
Under Section 5 of the Rules had a life of 5 years but by subsequent legislation the period was extended to 10 years.	Facts
It is said that the period is to be extended by another 5 years.	Facts
The Rules were made on March 21, 1959.	Facts
They are called the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) Rules, 1959.	Facts
Rule 3 provides3.	None
Requirement as a residence Prior to AppointmentA person shall not be eligible for appointment to a post within the Telengana area under the State Government of Andhra Pradesh or to a post under a local authority (other than a cantonment board) in the said area unless(i) he has been continuously residing within the said area for a period of not less than fifteen years immediately preceding the prescribed date and(ii) he produces before the appointing authority concerned, if so required by it, a certificate of eligibility granted under these rulesProvided that in relation to posts in the secretariat Departments and the Offices of the Heads of Departments of the State Government of Andhra Pradesh situated in the cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad, the requirement as to residence laid down in this rule shall apply to the filling of only the second vacancy in every unit of three vacancies which are to be filed by direct recruitmentProvided further that any period of temporary absence from the Telengana area of the purpose of prosecuting his studies or for undergoing medical treatment or any period of such temporary absence not exceeding three months for any other person shall not be deemed to constitute a break in the continuity of such residence, but for purpose of calculating the said period of fifteen years any such period of temporary absence shall be excluded.3.	Facts
The petitioners were appointed between December 27, 1956 and July 4, 1968.	Facts
They challenge the Act, the Rules and the proposed action as ultra vires the Constitution.	Facts
Their case is that Article 16 (3) under which the Act and the rules purpose to be made has been misunderstood as conferring a power to make a law prescribing requirement as to residence in a part of a State.	Facts
For this reason Section 3 of the Act is challenged as ultra vires the Constitution.4.	Facts
Article 16 on which the Act, the Rules and the presence action are all based reads16.	None
Equality of opportunity in matters of public employment.(1) There shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointment to any office under the State.(2)	None
No citizen shall, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex descent, place of birth, residence or any of them, be ineligible for, or discriminated against in respect of, any employment or office under the State.(3)	None
Nothing in this article shall prevent Parliament from making any law prescribing, in regard to a class or classes of employment or appointment to an office under the Government of, or any local or other authority within, a State or Union territory, any requirement as to residence within that State or Union territory prior to such employment or appointment.(4) (5) 5.	None
The question is one of construction of this article, particularly of the first three clauses, to find out the ambit of the lawmaking power of Parliament.	None
The first clause emphasis that there shall be in India equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters of employment or appointment to any office under the State.	None
The word State here is to be understood in the extended sense given to it by the definition of that word in Article 12.	None
The second clause then specifies prohibition against discrimination only on the grounds of religion, race, sex, descent, place of birth, residence or any of them.	None
The intention here is to make every office or employment open and available to every citizen, and inter alia to make offices or employment in one part of India open to citizens in all other parts of India.	None
The third clause then makes an exception.	None
This clause was amended by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956.	None
For the original words of the clause under any State specified in the first Schedule or any local or other authority within its territory any requirement as to residence within that State, the present words from under the Government to Union territory have been substituted.	None
Nothing turns upon the amendment which seeks to apply the exception in the clause to Union Territory and to remove ambiguity in language.6.	None
The clause thus enables Parliament to make a law in a special case prescribing any requirement as to residence within a State or Union Territory prior to appointment, as a condition of employment in the State or Union territory.	None
Under Article 35 (a) this power is conferred upon Parliament but is denied to the Legislatures of the States, notwithstanding anything in the Constitution, and under (b) any law in force immediately before the commencement of the Constitution in respect of the matter shall subject to the terms thereof and subject to such adaptations that may be made under Article 372 is to continue in force until altered or repealed or amended by Parliament.7.	None
The legislative power to create residential qualification for employment is thus exclusively conferred on Parliament.	None
Parliament can make any law which prescribes any requirement as to residence within the State or Union territory prior to employment or appointment to an office in that State or Union Territory.	None
Two questions arise here.	None
Firstly, whether Parliament, while prescribing the requirement, may prescribe the requirement of residence in a particular part of the State and, secondly, whether Parliament can delegate this function by making a declaration and leaving the details to be filled in by the rulemaking power of the Central or State Governments.8.	Issue
Mr. S. V. Gupte, for the petitioners, points out that the Constitution is speaking of State and Union Territory.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has already made a declaration that no person shall be disqualified for any office in the territory of India because of his residence in any particular part of India.	Reasoning
The exception, therefore, must be viewed narrowly and not carried to excess by interpretation.	Reasoning
The article speaks of residence in a State and means only that.	Reasoning
If it chose to speak of residence in parts of State such as Districts, Taluqas, cities towns etc., more appropriate and specific language could have been used such as any requirement as to residence within that State or Union territory or part of that State or Union territory.	Reasoning
Having used the word State, the unit State is only mean and not any part thereof.	Reasoning
Reference is made to the history of the drafting of the Article and the debates in the Constituent Assembly which bear out this contention.9.	Reasoning
On the other hand, Mr. Setalvad bases his argument on two things.	Arguments of Respondent
He contends that the power is given to Parliament to make any law and, therefore, Parliament is supreme and can make any law on the subject as the article says.	Arguments of Respondent
He very ingeniously shifts the emphasis to the words an requirement and contends that the requirement may be as to residence in the State or any particular part of State.10.	Arguments of Respondent
The claim for supremacy of Parliament is misconceived.	Reasoning
Parliament, in this, as in other matters, is supreme only in so far as the Constitution makes it.	Reasoning
Where the Constitution does not concede supremacy, Parliament must act within its appointed functions and not transgress them.	Reasoning
What the Constitution says is a matter for construction of the language of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Which is the proper construction of the two suggested?	Reasoning
By the first clause equality of opportunity in employment or appointment to an office is guaranteed.	Reasoning
By the second clause, there can be no discrimination, among other things, on the ground of residence.	Reasoning
Realising, however, that sometimes local sentiments may have to be respected or sometimes an inroad from more advanced States into less developed States may have to be prevented, and a residential qualification may, therefore, have to be prescribed, the exception in Clause (3) was made.	Reasoning
Even so, that clause spoke of residence within the State.	Reasoning
The claim of Mr. Setalvad that Parliament can make a provision regarding residence in any particular part of a State would render the general prohibition lose all its meaning.	Reasoning
The words any requirement cannot be read to warrant something which could have been said more specifically.	Reasoning
These words bear upon the kind of residence or its duration rather than its location within the State.	Reasoning
We accept the argument of Mr. Gupte that the Constitution as it stands, speaks of a whole State as the venue for residential qualification and it is impossible to think that the Constituent Assembly was thinking of residence in Districts, Taluqas, cities towns or villages.	Reasoning
The fact that this clause is an exception and came as an amendment must dictate that a narrow construction upon the exception should be placed as indeed the debates in the Constituent Assembly also seem to indicate.	Reasoning
We accordingly reject the contention of Mr. Setalvad seeking to put a very wide and liberal construction upon the words any law and any requirement.	Reasoning
These words are obviously controlled by the words residence within the State or Union Territory which words mean what they say, neither more nor less.	Reasoning
It follows, therefore, that Section 3 of the Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) Act, 1957, in so far as it relates to Telengana (and we say nothing about the other parts) and Rule 3 of the Rules under it are ultra vires the Constitution.11.	Reasoning
In view of our conclusion on this point it is not necessary to express any opinion whether delegation to the Central and or State Governments to provide by rules for the further implementing of the law made by Parliament is valid or not.12.	None
It was argued that the Mulki rules existing in the former Hyderabad State must continue to operate by virtue of Article 35 (b) in this area.	None
This point is not raised by the petitions under consideration and no expression of opinion by us is desirable.13.	None
For the reasons given above we quash the orders passed and declare Section 3 of the Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) Act, 1957 as also Rule 3 of the Rules ultra vires the Constitution.	Decision
The petitions shall be allowed but there shall be no order about costs.14.	None
Petitions allowed.	None
