 Shelat, J.1.	None
By his order, dated October 26, 1971, the District Magistrate, Burdwan directed the detention of the Petitioner under subsec.	None
(1) read with subsec.	None
(2) of Section 3 of the Maintenance of Internal Security Act, 26 of 1971 on the ground that it was necessary to detain him with a view to preventing him from acting in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order.	None
In pursuance of the said order the petitioner was arrested on November, 1, 1971 and detained in Burdwan Jail.2.	Facts
The grounds of detention served on the petitioner at the time of his arrest ran as follows(1)	Facts
That on 1271971 at about 10.45 hours you along with your associates viz.	None
(1) Madan Bouri alias Balmiki, son of late Chalu Bouri alias Balmiki of Santa, P. S. Nirapur, District Burdwan, (2) Nanik Bouri, son of Tara Pada Bouri of Nabaghanty, P. S. Birapur, District Burdwan, (3) Rabindra Nath Sarkar alias Rabi son of Narendra Nath Sarkar of New Town Road No. 7	Facts
Quarter No. 13/3, P. S. Hirapur, District Burdwan, being armed with lethal weapons surrounded one Chottanlal, son of Ram Brich of Burnpur at Narsinghbandh, P. S. Hirapur, District Burdwan while he was returning to Burnpur, Chottan Lall somehow managed to escape from your clutches.	Facts
You and your associates attempted to do away with the life of Chottan Lall by exploding bombs and firing from pipe guns, suspecing him as a police informer.	Facts
Your act threw out of gear the normal life stream of the community of the locality in and around Narsinghbandh, P. S. Hirapur, District Burdwan.(2)	Facts
That on 30771 at about 07.45 hours you along with your associates viz.	None
(1) Ganga Malla, (2) Mesua Show, both Homeless, temporarily residing at Santadangal, P. S. Hirapur and others, being armed with lethal weapons entered into the hotel of Shri Vivekananda Sha, son of late Khusru Sha of Burnpur Road, P. S. Hirapur and attacked Shri Sha with bombs, dagger etc.	Facts
with a view to do away with his life when Shri Sha with the help of public was able to arrest you with two bombs in your possession while your other associates fled away.	Facts
You wanted to do away with the life of Vivekananda Sha when he demanded back money from you.	Facts
As a result of your act a general sense of insecurity was generated in the locality and the people were so much panicstricken that they could not follow their normal avocations of life for a number of days after the incident.	Facts
Mr. Markendeya questioned the validity of the said order on three grounds.	Reasoning
The first ground urged by him was that there was undue delay in the consideration of the petitioners representation by the State Government which rendered the continuation of the petitioners detention contrary to Art.	Reasoning
22 (5) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The facts in this connection are that the Government received the representation on November 29, 1971 but did not consider and dispose it of until December 30, 1971.	Reasoning
There was, therefore, delay of about 30 days in dealing with the petitioners representation.	Reasoning
The return filed on behalf of the Government states that the reasons for delay were (1) influx of refugees in West Bengal, (2) the IndoPakistan war, and (3) sudden spurt of antisocial activities by political extremists taking advantage of the extraordinary situation arising as a result of the influx of refugees and then the war.	Arguments of Respondent
These reason have been considered by us in some of the petitions earlier heard by us and were held valid.	Reasoning
There being thus a satisfactory explanation, it is not possible to hold that there was by the Government such undue delay as would invalidate the petitioners detention.3.	Reasoning
The second ground urged by counsel was that the petitioner is a Hindispeaking person, that although a translation of the grounds was served upon him, it is not known in what language the grounds were translated.	Arguments of Petitioner
If such language was other than Hindi, it was futile to serve such a translation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioner, therefore, would be unable to understand the grounds and would not be able to make an effective representation against his detention.	Reasoning
We have ascertained from the files produced by counsel for the State that the translation served on the petitioner was in Hindi and therefore the petitioner can have no grievance on that score.4.	Reasoning
The third and the last contention was that the grounds of detention were not germane to the objects in respect of which detention under the Act would be directed.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the incidents narrated in the grounds would at best constitute infraction of law and order and not public order as defined by this Court in some of its decisions.	Arguments of Petitioner
The grounds of detention speak of two incidents in which the petitioner along with some of his associates is alleged to have participated.	Reasoning
The first incident took place on July 12, 1971 when the petitioner and his associates named in ground No. 1 surrounded and attempted to kill one Chhotelal.	Reasoning
Chhotelal, however, was fortunate enough to escape.	Reasoning
But in attempting his murder it is alleged that the petitioner used bombs and a pipe gun which threw out of gear the normal life stream of the community of the locality.	Reasoning
The second incident is said to have occurred on July 30, 1971 when the petitioner and his associates trespassed into the hotel of one Vivekanand and attacked him with bombs and a dagger.	Reasoning
Once again the victim with the help of some of the members of the public could not only save himself but arrest the petitioner.	Reasoning
When the petitioner was caught two live bombs were found in his possession.	Reasoning
This incident also was said to have caused a sense of panic and insecurity in the locality.5.	Reasoning
It is quite clear from the nature of the attack, the weapons possessed and actually used by the aggressors viz.	Reasoning
, live bombs, that both the incidents must have had an impact not only on the victims but also others living in that locality.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, not possible to say that they affected only the individuals involved in it or that only those individuals could be said to be concerned with them.	Reasoning
We are satisfied that the incidents could not be rightly characterised as mere infractions of law and order or were such that only the parties involved in them were affected.	Reasoning
Their impact was deeper and wider than that and did jeopardise the maintenance of public order in the localities where they were committed.	Reasoning
This contention, therefore, cannot commend itself to us and we reject it.6.	Reasoning
The petition fails and is dismissed.7.	None
Petition dismissed.	None
