 INDU MALHOTRA, J The present Special Leave Petitions have been filed against the common judgment and order 1 dated 27.09.2013 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Madras in Criminal Revision Case Nos. 1657 and 1658 of 2008.	Issue
That after issuance of notice, Special Leave Petitions were heard finally.	None
Leave granted.	None
1.1	None
These Appeals arise out of two complaints filed under S.138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act (the N.I. Act) filed by the appellants against the respondent for dishonour of two cheques of Rs.37,00,000/ and Rs.14,00,000/ respectively.	None
The facts of the case briefly stated are as under  2.1 The appellants submit that they were inducted in	Facts
Maanihada Tea Produce Company Pvt. Ltd.	Facts
being run by the respondent to infuse capital by way of deposits and shares.	None
2.2	None
On 24.11.1998, the appellants resigned as Directors of the Company after which the respondent and his son, DW3, remained incharge of the Company.	None
The appellants submitted that the respondent failed to return their share 2 in the company.	None
The appellants made demands for repayment of their dues.	None
On 07.08.2002, the respondent issued a Promissory Note for Rs.51,00,000/ in favour of K.Posa Nandhi  the appellant in the Second Appeal.	Facts
The Promissory Note records that it was being issued against a loan.	Facts
The respondent also issued two cheques on the same date, one for Rs.37,00,000/ in favour of K.Posa Nandhi, and the other for Rs.	None
14,00,000/ in favour of T.P.Murugan, towards discharge of their liability for the investments made in M s. Maanihada Tea Produce Company.	None
2.3 The cheques were presented for encashment on 03.02.2003 by the appellants, which were dishonoured due to Stop Payment instructions issued by the respondent.	None
2.4	None
The appellants issued the statutory notices under S.138 of the N.I. Act calling upon the respondent to discharge their debt liability and clear their dues.	None
2.5	None
The respondent vide his reply dated 17.02.2003 refuted the claim of the appellants.	None
2.6	None
The appellants filed two complaints under S. 138 of the N.I. Act before the Court of Judicial Magistrate II, Coimbatore.	None
2.7	None
The respondent contended that the signed blank Promissory Note was issued by him in favour of N.R.R. Finances Investments Pvt	None
. Ltd. under a hirepurchase agreement for purchasing a lorry on loan basis.	Facts
The said Promissory Note was not issued in favour of the appellantcomplainants.	Facts
The Promissory Note was filled up by DW.2 Mahesh, an employee of N.R.R. Investments, after the signatures of the respondent were obtained on the same.	None
With respect to the two cheques which were dishonoured, the respondent contended that these were amongst 10 blank cheques signed and handed over to the appellantK.Posa Nandhi as security, when he borrowed Rs.5,00,000/ in 1995.	Facts
That even though this loan was repaid in 1996 with interest, the cheques were not returned.	Facts
The respondent further contended that he had issued a letter on 09.11.2002 asking the appellants to return the 10 blank cheques.	None
The Trial Court found that the respondent had admitted his signatures both on the Pronote and also on the two cheques for Rs. 37,00,000/ and Rs.14,00,000/ respectively.	None
The respondent also admitted that the appellant had invested capital in their concern viz.	Facts
M s. Maanihada Tea Factory.	None
The Court disbelieved the version of the respondent with respect to the 10 blank cheques issued to the appellant in 1995.	Facts
The respondent failed to place any material on record to show that he had ever asked for return of the 10 blank cheques, allegedly given by him to the respondent, for seven years.	None
That after going through the detailed evidence adduced by the parties, the Trial Court held that the Cheques and Pronote were issued for repayment discharge of a lawful debt.	None
The respondent was found guilty under S. 138 of the N.I. Act, and sentenced him to undergo R.I. for six months and Fine of Rs.5000/, failing which, he shall undergo one months R.I. Aggrieved by the said judgment, the respondentaccused filed Criminal Appeal Nos. 437438 of 2006 before the District and Sessions Judge, Fast Track Court No. III, Coimbatore.	Facts
The District and Sessions Judge held that the presumption under Sections 118 and 139 of the N.I. Act was not rebutted by the respondent.	Facts
It was proved by the complainants that there were insufficient funds in the bank account of the respondent at the time of issuance of the cheques.	Facts
The respondent had with mala fide intention issued Stop Payment instructions.	None
The respondent failed to give any explanation as to how the Pronote came into possession of the appellant.	None
Furthermore, the Sessions Court discarded the evidence adduced by the accused, of DW.2 Mahesh, as being an interested witness, who had falsely stated that he was an employee of N.R.R. Finances.	Facts
This was rebutted by two witnesses viz.	Facts
PW.2 and PW.4, who were Directors of N.R.R. Finances who deposed that DW.2 was never employed by this Company.	Facts
The District and Sessions Court affirmed the conviction and sentence awarded by the Trial Court.	None
Aggrieved by the judgment and order dated 26.11.2008 passed by the District and Sessions Judge, Fast Track Court No. III, Coimbatore, the respondentaccused filed two Criminal Revision Nos. 16571658 of 2008 before the Madras High Court.	None
That even though the appellants herein complainants had initially participated in the proceedings, the present appellant was unrepresented during the final hearing.	Facts
The hearing of the Criminal Revision Petitions proceeded ex parte.	Facts
The High Court recorded that the respondentaccused had not denied either the issuance of the cheques, or his signatures on the Pronote and cheques.	Facts
The denial was only with regard to the circumstances, the manner and the period during which the cheques were issued.	Facts
The High Court took the view that the burden cast on the respondentaccused was only to raise a doubt in the mind of the Court about the nature of the transaction.	Facts
The Ld.	Facts
Single Judge accepted the contention of the respondent that since the cheques and the Pronote were issued on the same date, it could only be treated as a security, and was not towards any debt or liability.	Facts
By raising a doubt with respect to the circumstances in which the Pronote and cheques were issued, the respondent had discharged the presumption under S. 139 of the N.I. Act.	Facts
The High Court held that the Trial Court and the Sessions Court erred in applying the legal principles of standard of proof for the complainant to prove their case.	Facts
The High Court, while exercising its revisional jurisdiction, reversed the concurrent findings of the Courts below, and set aside the judgment of conviction and sentence passed against the accused.	Facts
Aggrieved by the judgment and order dated 27.09.2013 passed in Criminal Revision Nos. 16571658 of 2008, the appellantcomplainants filed the present Special Leave Petitions.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mrs. V. Mohana, Sr. Adv. represented the appellants, and submitted that the respondentaccused has admitted his signatures on the two dishonoured cheques and on the Pronote.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellantscomplainants had adduced sufficient evidence to prove their case.	None
Reliance was placed by the Senior Counsel on the decisions of this Court in Rangappa vs. Shrimohan (2010) 11 SCC 441 , K.N. Beena vs. Muniyappan and Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2001)8 SCC 458 and T. Vasanthakumar vs. Vijayakumari (2015)8 SCC 378 in support of her case.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. R. Basanth, Sr. Counsel appeared on behalf of the respondentaccused, and contended inter alia that the cheques were not issued towards discharge of a legally enforceable debt, but as a security, and that the judgment under challenge required no interference.	Arguments of Respondent
We have heard Senior Counsel for both parties, and perused the record.	Reasoning
Under Section 139 of the N.I. Act, once a cheque has been signed and issued in favour of the holder, there is statutory presumption that it is issued in discharge of a legally enforceable debt or liability1.	Reasoning
This presumption is a rebuttable one, if the issuer of the cheque is able to discharge the burden that it was issued for some other purpose like security for a loan.	Reasoning
In the present case, the respondent has failed to produce any credible evidence to rebut the statutory presumption.	Decision
This would be evident from the following circumstances The respondentaccused issued a Pronote for the amount covered by the cheques, which clearly states that it was being issued for a loan The defence of the respondent that he had allegedly issued 10 blank cheques in 1995 for repayment of a loan, has been disbelieved both by the Trial Court and Sessions Court, on the ground that the respondent did not ask for return of the cheques for a period of seven years from 1995.	Reasoning
This defence was obviously a coverup, and lacked credibility, and hence was rightly discarded.	None
The letter dated 09.11.2002 was addressed by the respondent after he had issued two 1 Refer to K.N. Beena Vs. Muniyappan and Another(2001)	None
8 SCC 458 para 6 and Rangappa vs. Shrimohan (2010) 11 SCC 441 para 26 9 cheques on 07.08.2002 for Rs.37,00,000/ and Rs.14,00,000/ knowing fully well that he did not have sufficient funds in his account.	None
The letter dated 09.11.2002 was an afterthought, and was written to evade liability.	None
This defence also lacked credibility, as the appellants had never asked for return of the alleged cheques for seven years.	None
The defence of the respondent that the Pronote dated 07.08.2002 signed by him, was allegedly filled by one MaheshDW.2, an employee of N.R.R. Finances, was rejected as being false.	None
DW.2 himself admitted in his crossexamination, that he did not file any document to prove that he was employed in N.R.R. Finances.	Reasoning
On the contrary, the appellants  complainants produced PW.2 and PW.4, Directors of N.R.R. Finances Investment Pvt. Ltd., and PW.3, a Member of N.R.R. Chit funds, who deposed that DW.2 was never employed in N.R.R. Finances.	Reasoning
The appellants have proved their case by overwhelming evidence to establish that the two cheques were issued towards the discharge of an existing liability and legally enforceable debt.	Decision
The respondent having admitted that the cheques and Pronote were signed by him, the presumption under S.139 would operate.	Decision
The respondent failed to rebut the presumption by adducing any cogent or credible evidence.	Decision
Hence, his defence is rejected.	Decision
In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances, the impugned order dated 27.09.2013 passed in Criminal Revision Petition Nos. 1657 and 1658 of 2008 is hereby set aside, and the order of Conviction and Fine passed by the Trial Court is restored.	Decision
The Appeals are allowed accordingly.	Decision
