 Leave granted.	None
The appellants are aggrieved by the order Santokh Nursing Home v. Jaswinder Singh, First Appeal No. 506 of 2005 order dated 772009 (NC) of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (for short the National Commission) whereby the appeals filed by Respondents 1, 2, 3 and the insurance company were partly allowed the compensation awarded by the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Union Territory, Chandigarh (for short the State Commission) was reduced from Rs.12,34,414.50 to Rs.8,00,000.	Issue
The appellants filed a complaint under Section 17 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 alleging medical negligence and deficiency in service on the part of the respondents resulting in the death of Smt.	Facts
Ravinder Kaur (wife of Appellant 1).	Facts
They pleaded that Smt.	Facts
Ravinder Kaur was admitted in Santokh Nursing Home (Respondent 1) on 862004 for removal of fibroid from her uterus as well as for total hysterectomy that she was operated upon by Dr. Rashmi Jain (respondent 3) and was discharged from the nursing home on 13.6.2004 that on a subsequent visit to the nursing home, ultrasound was done on her abdomen and it was discovered that two mops gauges measuring 13 X 9 were left in her abdominal cavity.	Facts
Thereupon, Dr. Kuldip Singh (Respondent 2) performed a colostomy in the intestine.	Facts
On 692004 Smt.	Facts
Ravinder Kaur was admitted in PGI, Chandigarh of removal of mops gauges.	Facts
On 13102004 she was admitted in Fortis Heart Care and MultiSpeciality Hospital, Mohali and after one month she died due to septicaemia inside her abdomen.	Facts
The appellants claimed total compensation of Rs.50,00,000/. The respondents contested the complaint and denied the allegation of medical negligence.4.	Facts
After considering the pleading of the parties and evidence produced by them, State commission concluded that Respondent 3 was guilty of gross negligence and she was liable to compensate the appellants.	Facts
Respondents 1 and 2 were also held vicariously liable.	Facts
Accordingly, the complaint filed by the appellants was allowed and Respondent 1, 2, 3 and the insurance company were directed to pay compensation of Rs.12,34,414.50 with interest 6 per annum from the date of filing the complaint till actual payment and cost of Rs.10,000/.5.	Facts
Respondents 1 and 2 as also Respondent 3 and the insurance company appealed against the order of the State Commission.	Facts
The National Commission concurred with the State Commission that Respondent 3 was guilty of medical negligence.	Facts
This is evident from para 10 of the impugned order Santokh Nursing Home v. Jaswinder Singh, First Appeal No. 506 of 2005 order dated 772009 (NC), which is extracted below On consideration of the respective pleas and the wavering stand taken by Dr. Rashmi Jain at different stages of the complaint, we must conclude that Dr. Rashmi Jain has not denied the factum of pieces of swab mop having been left inside the abdomen of the deceased at the time of surgical procedure conducted on the patient for removal of the uterine fibroid.	Facts
Even otherwise there is ample material, in the form of ultrasound report and the subsequent treatment surgical procedure the patient underwent to show that a foreign body, like a mop was left inside the abdomen of the deceased at the time of surgery conducted by Dr. Rashmi Jain.	Facts
It is true that in such a surgical procedure, the surgeon is assisted by other doctor and paramedical staff like nurses, etc. who also owe a duty to count the mops used during the surgical procedure to ensure that all the mops swabs so used had been retrieved before the operated organ is sutured.	Facts
However, the surgeon cannot be abjure of his her overall responsibility even in that behalf and cannot be allowed to take the plea that it was not his her concern to ensure that no mop swab was left in the abdomen.	Facts
The pieces of mop swab left inside the abdomen of the patient had led to infection and septicaemia which ultimately led to her death despite the best possible treatment the patient could be given in other upgraded hospital.	Facts
The State Commissioner was therefore, fully justified in holding the nursing home as well as Dr. Rashmi Jain guilty of negligence and deficiency in service in giving the medical treatment to the deceased.	Facts
The said finding is based on correct appreciation of evidence and material placed on record and calls for no interference from this commission.	Facts
This finding also finds some support from the recent judgment of the Honble Supreme Court in Martin F. DSouza v. Mohd.	None
Ishfaq (2009) 3 SCC 1 (2009) 1 SCC (Civ) 735 (2009) 1 SCC (Cri) 958 (2009) 1 CPJ 32.	None
The national Commission then considered the question whether the compensation awarded by the State Commission was excessive, took cognizance of the assertion made before it that the deceased was not generating any income by practising any occupation for gain and she was merely a homemaker and reduced the amount of compensation to Rs.8,00,000/. Shri Himanshu Gupta, learned counsel for the appellants argued that the impugned order Santokh Nursing Home v. Jaswinder Singh, First Appeal No. 506 of 2005 order dated 772009 (NC), is liable to be set aside because the National Commission has not assigned cogent reasons for reducing the amount of compensation by Rs.4,34,414.50.	Facts
The learned counsel submitted that the particular perception entertained by the members of the National Commission about the value of the services rendered by a housewife could not be made basis for reducing the amount of compensation awarded by the State Commission.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Rajiv Kataria, learned counsel appearing for respondent 3 argued that the National Commission did not commit any error by reducing the amount of compensation because the appellants did not produce any evidence to show that the deceased was gainfully employed.	Arguments of Respondent
He further argued that the State Commission committed grave error by applying the multiplier of 13 ignoring that the deceased was fifty years old at the time of surgery and death.9.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel for Respondent 1 and 2 submitted that the hospital was insured with Respondent 4 and the insurance company has already paid a sum of Rs.5,00,000/.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the submissions of the learned counsel and carefully perused the record.	None
In our view, the National Commission committed serious error by reducing the amount of compensation by assuming that the award made by the State Commission was on higher side.	None
The mere fact that the deceased was a homemaker was not sufficient to deny adequate compensation to the appellants in lieu of the services rendered by her see Arun Kumar Agrawal v. National Insurance Co. Ltd. (2010) 9 SCC 218 (2010) 3 SCC (Civ) 664 (2010) 3 SCC (Cri) 1313.	None
In that case, this court considered the questions whether compensation could be awarded keeping in view the gratuitous services rendered by a housewife, referred to several precedents including some judgments of the English courts and held (SCC pp.23738, paras 2627)	None
In India the courts have recognized that the contribution made by the wife to the house is invaluable and cannot be computed in terms of money.	Reasoning
The gratuitous services rendered by the wife with true love and affection to the children and her husband and managing the household affairs cannot be equated with services rendered by others.	Reasoning
A wife mother does not work by the clock.	Reasoning
She is in the constant attendance of the family throughout the day and night unless she is hours.	Reasoning
She takes care of all the requirements of the husband and children including cooking of food, washing of clothes, etc.	Reasoning
She teaches small children and provides invaluable guidance to them for their future life.	Reasoning
A housekeeper or maidservant can do the household work, such as cooking food, washing clothes and utensils, keeping the house clean, etc., but she can never be a substitute for a wife mother who renders selfless service to her husband and children.27.	Reasoning
It is not possible to quantify any amount in lieu of the services rendered by the wife mother to the family i.e. the husband and children.	Reasoning
However, for the purpose of award of compensation to the dependants, some pecuniary estimate has to be made of the services of the housewife mother.	Reasoning
In that context, the term services is required to be given a broad meaning and must be construed by taking into account the loss of personal care and attention given by the deceased to her children as a mother and to her husband as a wife.	None
They are entitled to adequate compensation in lieu of the loss of gratuitous services rendered by the deceased.	Reasoning
The amount payable to the dependants cannot be diminished on the ground that some close relation like grandmother may volunteer to render some of the services to the family which the deceased was giving earlier.	Reasoning
By applying the ratio of the aforesaid judgment in Arun Kumar Case (2010) 9 SCC 218 (2010) 3 SCC (Civ) 664 (2010) 3 SCC (Cri) 1313 to the facts of this case, we hold that the National Commission committed grave error by reducing the amount of compensation determined by the State Commission.	None
In the result, the appeals are allowed, the impugned order Santokh Nursing Home v. Jaswinder Singh, First Appeal No. 506 of 2005 order dated 772009 (NC) is set aside and the one passed by the State Commission is restored.	Decision
Respondents 1 and 2 are directed to pay to the appellants the balance amount of compensation with interest 6 per annum from the date of filing of complaint.	Decision
The needful must be done within a period of three months from today.	Decision
