 Amitava Roy, J. The oft encountered debate on the extent of tax liability based on the classification of the determinants of a levy in law seeks judicial scrutiny in the attendant factual conspectus.	None
The appellant being aggrieved by the determination made by the High Court of Gujarat on the issue common to a reference under Section 69 of the Sales Tax Act, 1969 (for short hereinafter referred as to as the ?Act?)	Issue
being Sales Tax Reference No.1/2004 and its appeal, i.e. Special Civil Application No. 12508/2002, against it, seeks redress against the judgment and order dated 4.09.2006 to that effect.	Issue
We have heard the learned counsel for the parties.	None
The indispensable skeletal facts introduce the appellant, M s. Voltas Ltd. as a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 engaged amongst others in the business of execution of jobs design, supply and installation of airconditioning plants construed to be indivisible works contracts.	Facts
It is a registered dealer under the Act.	Facts
By a communication dated 22.10.1993 of M s. Anupam Colours and Chemicals Industries, Bombay, an order was placed with it for water chilling plant at its factory at Vapi.	Facts
The basic design parameters were enumerated in the work order as hereunder ?	None
1.Tonnage of Refrigeration 11 TR 2.	None
Final temperature or chilled 5 to 6C water to be made available for our process.	Facts
3.	None
Quantity of chilled water 12,000 liters( 5 to 6 C) required for our liters?	None
process in about 10 hours.	None
Other specifications pertaining to the water chilling plant were advised to be in conformity with the assessee?s offer, as referred to therein.	None
The work order insisted on the requirement of chilled water to be used directly for its process of manufacturing pigments with the assertion that sufficient precautions be taken to ensure that chilled water at 5 to 6 degree centigrade is available for such process.	Facts
The letter emphasized as well that the assessee would provide the customer with the layout details, foundation drawing and other necessary information required for the erection of the plant.	Facts
The essential segments of the works contracts involved, as would be eventually relevant for the adjudicative exercise underway, were thus specified with distinct details in the work order.	Facts
The Act which is a legislation to consolidate and amend the law relating to the levy of tax on the sale or purchase of goods in the State of Gujarat has set out in PartA of Schedule IIA thereof, the rates of the impost on the sale of goods involved in the execution of the works contracts, the relevant excerpt whereof is quoted as under Sr.No.Description of works contractEntry No.	Facts
In ScheduleIIA of theActRegular rate of tax Installation of airconditioners and A.C.coolers and for repairs thereof.6718 2.Furniture and fixtures partitions including contracts for interior decoration and repairs thereof1048 3.Fabrication andinstallation of lifts orelevators or escalatorsand for repairs thereof1208 4.Fabrication and installation of plant and machinery and repairs thereof398 5.Construction of bodies on chassis of Motor Vehicles including three wheelers and for repairs thereof128(5)4 6.Ship building including construction of barges, Ferries Tugs Trawlers or Dredgers and for repairs thereof1864 Section 55A of the Act dwells on the scheme of composition of tax whereunder a dealer as referred to therein and in the circumstances and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, is left with the option to pay in lieu of the amount of tax leviable from him under Section 7 or 8 in respect of any period, a lump sum by way of composition at the rate rates, as may be fixed by the State Government by notification in the Official Gazette, having regard to the incidence of tax on the nature of the goods involved in the execution of total value of the works contract.	None
Apt it would be to quote Section 55A as well for ready reference ?SECTION 55A. COMPOSITION OF TAX.	Facts
(1) The Commissioner may, in such circumstances and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, permit every dealer referred to in subclause (f) of clause (10) of section 2 to pay at his option in lieu of the amount of tax (including additional tax) leviable from him under section 7,(or 8) in respect of any period, a lump sum by way of composition at the rate or rates as may be fixed by the State Government by Notification in the Official Gazette having regard to the incidence of tax on the nature of the goods involved in the execution of total value of the works contract.	Facts
(2) The provisions of sections 13,51 and 55 shall not apply to a dealer who opts for composition of tax under subsection (1).?	Facts
Pursuant to this provision, and as empowered thereby, the Government of Gujarat vide the notification dated 18.10.1993 (for short hereinafter referred to as the Notification) did fix the rate of composition payable by such dealer (s) in lieu of the amount of tax otherwise leviable under the Act and as contemplated in the said statutory provision.	Facts
As the standoff centers around the rate of composition so fixed, essential it would be to set out the table of relevant entries to be immediately adverted to Sr.No.Description of works contractRate of Composition 1.Works contract for civil works like construction of buildings, bridges or roads, and for repairs thereof2 2.Installation of airconditioners and A.C.Coolers15 3.Furniture and fixtures, Partitions including contracts for interior decoration5 4.Fabrication and installation of lifts or elevators or escalators10 5.Fabrication and installation of plant and machinery5 6.Construction of bodies on chassis of motor vehicles including three wheelers3 7.Ship building, including construction of barges, ferries tugs, trawlers or dredgers2 8.Works contracts other than those mentioned above12 The recorded facts demonstrate that the appellant being under the impression qua the works contract ordered vide letter dated 22.10.1983 of M s. Anupam Colour and Chemicals that it would attract the rate of composition prescribed against Entry No.5 hereinabove i.e. fabrication and installation of plant and machinery and not 15 against Entry No.2 i.e. installation of airconditioners and AC coolers or 12 against Entry No.8 i.e. works contracts other than those mentioned, filed an application before the Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax (Legal), Gujarat under Section 62 of the Act and insisted that the works contract involved came within the purview of Entry No.5 attracting the composition rate of tax at 5 only.	Facts
The said revenue authority by its order dated 16.10.1996 however rejected the plea of the appellant and instead held that the works contract was covered by Entry No.2 as the assessee had to aircondition the plant to be erected by it.	Facts
The margin of difference in the composition rates compared to the rates of tax for the identical works contract as catalogued in the Schedule to the Act did also weigh with the revenue authority in arriving at this conclusion.	Facts
The appellantassessee being dissatisfied did appeal against this finding before the Gujarat Sales Tax Tribunal, Ahmedabad (for short hereinafter referred to as the ?Tribunal?) which was registered as Appeal No.16/1996.	Facts
In course of the regular assessment for the Assessment Year 199394, the concerned Sales Tax Officer, pursuant to the decision rendered by the Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax on 16.10.1996, assessed the appellant by applying the composite rate of 15 for the works contract involved.	Facts
The appellant thus preferred an appeal against this assessment order before the Assistant Commissioner of Sales Tax, Ahmedabad and having failed before this forum did take the issue before the Tribunal in Second Appeal No.97/2001.	Facts
These two appeals were also dismissed by the Tribunal vide its judgment and order dated 2.12.2002 whereafter the appellant invoked the writ jurisdiction of Gujarat High Court registered as Special Civil Application No. 12508/2002 which to reiterate, have been, by the impugned decision, disposed of along with Sales Tax Reference No.1/2004 laid by the Tribunal before it under Section 69 of the Act referring the following question of law ?	Facts
Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in law in holding that the appellant?s works contract for fabrication and installation of airconditioning plants falls under Entry 2 and, therefore, taxable at the rate of 15 and not under Entry 5 under which it is taxable at the rate of 5 of the Schedule to the notification dated 18.10.93 issued under Section 55A of the Gujarat Sales Act, 1969??	Facts
The High Court has answered the question referred in the affirmative thus sustaining the determination made by the revenue authorities fora and the learned Tribunal declaring that the appellant?s works contract for fabrication and for installation of airconditioning plant did fall under Entry 2 of the Notification and was taxable at the composition rate of 15.	Facts
As the decision of the High Court assailed herein would disclose, in its view, the airconditioning systems are classified according to their construction and operating characteristics and that it would be incorrect to differentiate between a central airconditioning system and a room airconditioner on the basis that the installation of airconditioning plant requires preparation of plant whereas no such exercise is to be undertaken in case of installation of window airconditioner etc.	Facts
This is more so as the basic components applied in the manufacture of a airconditioning plant, room airconditioner or split airconditioner are almost similar with difference in size and are not drastically different.	Facts
The appellant?s plea that in central airconditioning system, fabrication has to be undertaken requiring preparation of plant etc.	Facts
and that thus the central airconditioning system has to be treated differently from a room airconditioner or window airconditioner etc. was not accepted because, according to the High Court, even in a room airconditioner or window airconditioner or split airconditioner or AC cooler, elevation and lay out of the area requiring conditioning, has to be taken into consideration.	Facts
The appellant?s contention that Entry 5 dealt with all kinds of fabrication and installation of all kinds of plant and machinery and that there was no reason to exclude the installation of airconditioning plant therefrom was negatived.	Facts
The High Court was of the view that the composition scheme ought to be regarded as an exemption reprieve and thus needed to be construed strictly.	Facts
Reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in	Facts
Sanden Vikas (India) Ltd.	Facts
V. Collector of Central Excise, New Delhi (2003) 4 SCC 699 which held with reference to a particular entry in an exemption notification under the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 that the airconditioner kit of a car did fall within the meaning of airconditioners.	Facts
It rejected the proposition that in common parlance airconditioner, room airconditioner, window airconditioner, A.C. cooler, airconditioning plant etc. were differently known and thus installation of airconditioning plant would fall within Entry No.5.	Facts
Mr. Datar, the learned senior counsel for the appellant has assertively urged that having regard to the inalienable and essential constituents of the works contract as per the work order, fabrication as well as the installation of the water chilling plant were distinctly different items of works and thus the appellant was taxable at the composition rate of 5 against Entry No.5 of the Notification.	Arguments of Petitioner
Referring to the work order dated 22.10.1993 in particular, the learned senior counsel has maintained that the water chilling plant of the customer was to be configured in conformity with the design parameters referred to therein and not on readymade specifications on the election or discretion of the appellantassessee.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Datar the design parameters prescribed by the customer, to cater to its requirement amongst others of the temperature of the chilled water and the volume thereof to be used for its process of manufacturing pigment did assuredly involve design and fabrication of the essential composition of the system which by no means could be equated with the installation thereof simplicitor as the end device.	Arguments of Petitioner
That the customer was persistently particular on the adherence to its prescribed design parameters as is apparent from the work order, demonstrates that the works contract, in any view of the matter, cannot be drawn within the contours of Entry 2 of the Notification, he urged.	Arguments of Petitioner
As against this, Ms. Madhvi Diwan, the learned counsel for the Revenue has argued that as the supply of the water chilling plant as per the works contract involved for all practicable purposes does not envisage any process of fabrication, the appellant is liable to be taxed at the composition rate of 15.	Arguments of Respondent
According to her, the basic and functional components of the water chilling plant being identical to that of an airconditioning plant, the appellant?s plea of application of 5 composite rate prescribed against Entry No.5 of the Notification is wholly misplaced and thus no interference with the impugned judgment and order is called for.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in Sanden Vikas (India) supra.	Arguments of Respondent
The rival assertions have received our due consideration.	None
The competing entries requiring scrutiny to ascertain the correct composition rate of tax payable visvis the works contract involved are engrafted admittedly in the Notification issued by the Government of Gujarat in exercise of powers conferred by Section 55A of the Act.	None
Logically thus, the interpretation necessitated by the rival orientations ought to be in furtherance of the underlying objective of the said provision.	None
A plain perusal thereof would attest that thereby, in the circumstances to be prescribed, a dealer can be left at his option to pay in lieu of the amount of tax payable, a lump sum by way of composition, at the rate or rates as may be fixed by the State Government having regard to the incidence of tax on the nature of the goods involved in the execution of total value of the works contract.	Facts
Unmistakably, therefore, the State Government while fixing the composition rate of tax has to be mindful of the nature of the works contract executed and by no means can be oblivious thereof.	None
Further, a composition rate of tax is in lieu of the amount of levy otherwise payable by the dealer under the Act.	None
The scheme of composition as envisaged by Section 55A therefore in our comprehension does not admit of any synonymity with that of exemption as contemplated in law.	None
This presupposition of the High Court as one of the contributing factors in concluding that the works contract in question did fall within the framework of Entry No.2 of the Notification is apparently erroneous.	None
As adverted to hereinabove, the work order in clear terms did enjoin that the design parameters pertaining to tonnage of refrigeration, final temperature of the water to be made available for the process of manufacturing pigments and the quantity of the chilled water essential therefore were indispensable and were in addition to the other specifications as offered by the appellant.	None
The rigour of the insistence for the adherence to the design parameters is patent also from the request of the customer requiring the appellant to provide it with the lay out detail, foundation drawing and other necessary information essential for the erection of the water chilling plant.	None
The exercise as a whole as contemplated by the work order thus was neither intended nor can be reduced to mere installation of the finally emerging apparatus.	None
The work order noticeably did not refer to any readymade or instantly available devices, meeting the requirements of the customer so much so to be only installed at its factory.	None
Instead, the work order had been apparently tailormade to the requirements from which no departure was intended or comprehended.	None
It is in this perspective that the word ?fabrication?	None
appearing in Entry No.5 of the Notification assumes a decisive significance.	None
The legislative intendment entrenched in Section 55A of the Act to maintain a direct correlation between the composition rates of tax as the Notification would reveal and the description of the corresponding works contract is patent.	None
Understandably, the word ?fabrication? had not been applied in the works contract for installation of airconditioners and A.C. coolers contained in Entry No.2 of the Notification.	None
The author of the said Notification, however, did consciously include the expression ?	None
fabrication?	Reasoning
while describing the works contract enumerated in Entry 5 thereof.	None
Having regard to the inseparable interdependence between the description of a works contract and the corresponding composition rate of tax, none of the inherent components of the works to be executed can either be ignored or disregarded for identifying the correct composition rate of the levy under the Act.	None
Any other approach could tantamount to doing violence not only to the legislative purpose conveyed by Section 55A but also the language of its yield i.e. the Notification seeking to promote the statutory end.	None
Viewed in that context, mere omission of the expressions ?airconditioners?	None
and ?A.C. coolers?	None
in Entry No.5 would not be of any definitive consequence.	None
The words plant and machinery applied in Entry 5 are otherwise compendious enough to include airconditioners and A.C. coolers, if the works contract involved require fabrication as well as installation thereof.	None
The word ?fabrication?	None
as defined in the Aiyan?s Advanced Law Lexicon (Vol.II), 3rd Edition 2005 is ?to manufacture?.	None
The Oxford Dictionary defines the word ?	None
fabrication?	Reasoning
to mean to construct or manufacture an industrial product.	None
The word ?manufacture?	None
as per the Aiyan?s Advanced Law Lexicon (Vol.II) in its plainest form and shorn of other details is the process of transforming or fashioning of raw materials into a change of form for use.	None
The process of fabrication therefore conceptually would involve a lay out for the ultimate device to be installed, preceded by a design of the parameters prescribed, configuration of the resultant components, and integration thereof to structure the ultimate mechanism or product.	None
Installation thereof would be a subsequent step to finally position the plant to complete the works contract.	None
As fabrication in terms of the work order in the instant case is a distinctly independent yet integral segment of the works contract contributing to the final physical form of the water chilling plant with the characteristics intended, it cannot be construed to be, synonymous to the installation thereof.	None
The High Court, as the impugned judgment would exhibit, had confined itself wholly to the components of various airconditioning devices available and the range of the use thereof and in our estimate had missed the significant aspect of ?	Reasoning
fabrication?	Reasoning
integrally involved in the works contract to supply the water chilling plant with the design parameters stipulated by the customer.	Reasoning
The High Court did adopt a general approach visavis the airconditioning devices commercially available in different forms dehors the singular factual aspects of the work order constituting the works contract.	Reasoning
The High Court, thus, in our view, by overlooking the component of fabrication in the works contract opined that the same was within the purview of Entry No.2 and not Entry No.5.	Reasoning
The description of the works contract, to reiterate, being of determinative bearing for ascertaining the composition rate of tax, we are of the unhesitant opinion, in the face of the design parameters insisted upon in the work order and consequential process of fabrication involved to cater thereto, that the works contract involved squarely falls within the ambit of Entry No.5 of the Notification.	Reasoning
The margin of difference in rates of tax as prescribed by the Act compared to those mentioned in the Notification ipso facto does not detract from this conclusion.	Reasoning
This consideration per se cannot override the decisive characteristics of the works contract otherwise unequivocally spelt out by the work order.	Reasoning
The primary canon of interpretation of a taxing statute hallowed by time is underlined by the classic statement of ROWLATT,J. in Cape Brandy Syndicate v. Inland Revenue Commnrs.	None
(1921) 1 KB 64 at p.71 as extracted hereunder ?	None
In a Taxing Act one has to look merely at what is clearly said.	None
There is no room for any intendment.	None
There is no equity about a tax.	None
There is no presumption as to a tax.	None
Nothing is to be read in, nothing is to be implied.	None
One can only look fairly at the language used.?	None
It is trite as well that in a case of reasonable doubt, the construction most beneficial to the subject is to be adopted.	None
The underlying principle is that the meaning and intention of a statute must be collected from the plain and unambiguous expression used therein rather than from any notion that may be entertained by a Court which may appear to be it just and expedient.	None
Even prior in point of time, TINDAL, CJ in Sussex Peerage case (1844) 11 C1 Fin 85 8 ER 1034(HL) had propounded thus ?	None
If the words of the statute are in themselves precise and unambiguous, then no more can be necessary than to expound those words in their natural and ordinary sense.	None
The words themselves do alone in such cases best declare the intent of the lawgiver.?	None
These views have with time resonated in various judicial pronouncements with unambiguous approval of this Court as well amongst others in Income Tax Officer, Tuticorin vs. T.S.Devinatha Nadar Ors.	None
(1968)68 ITR 252 and very recently in Commissioner of Income TaxIII vs. Calcutta Knitwears, Ludhiana (2014) 6 SCC 444 and Commissioner of Income Tax (Central)I, New Delhi vs. Vatika Township Pvt.	None
Ltd. 2015 (1) SCC 1.	None
A plethora of decisions in this regard, available though, we do not wish to burden the instant narration therewith.	None
Qua the issue of classification of goods to determine the chargeability thereof and the rates of levy applicable, it is no longer resintegra that the burden of proof is on the taxing authority to demonstrate that a particular class of goods or item in question is taxable in the manner claimed by them and that mere assertion in that regard is of no avail as has been enunciated by this Court in U.O.I. Ors.	None
vs. Garware Nylones Ltd.etc.	None
(1996) 10 SCC 413 and relied upon with approval in HPL Chemicals Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Central Excise, Chandigarh (2006) 5 SCC 208.	None
Equally, fundamental is the principle of statutory interpretation that no construction to a legislation ought to be provided so as to render a part of it otiose or redundant as held inter alia by this Court in Maharashtra University of Health Sciences Ors.	None
vs. Satchikitsa Prasarak Mandal Ors.	None
(2010)3 SCC 786 .	None
That it is the cardinal principle of interpretation not to brush aside a word used in a statute or in a Notification issued under a statute and that full effect must be given to the every word of an instrument had been underscored by this Court in The South Central Railway Employees Cooperative Credit Society Employees Union, Secundrabad vs. The Registrar of Cooperative Societies Ors. reported in (1998) 2 SCC 580.	None
The Notification in the instant case being apparently statutory in nature is akin to subordinate legislation to actualize and advance the legislative intent engrafted in	None
Section 55A.	None
It not only owes its existence to the Act but would also be amenable to the cardinal principles of interpretation adverted to herein above.	None
In the overall legal and factual perspectives as obtained herein, any endeavour to drag the works contract involved within the framework of Entry No.2 would be repugnant to the basic principles of interpretation of statutes and subordinate legislations like the statutory Notification under Section 55A of the Act.	Reasoning
To exclude the work of fabrication from the works contract as per the work order would render it (works contract) truncated to a form not intended by the customer.	Reasoning
This would strike as well at the root of the mandate of correlation of a works contract and the corresponding composition rate of tax as envisaged by Section 55A of the Act and the Notification issued thereunder.	Reasoning
The decision of this Court in Sanden Vikas (India) Ltd.(supra) is of no avail to the revenue visvis the issue falling for scrutiny herein.	None
In the face of the determinations made herein above, the inescapable conclusion is that the appellant?s works contract for fabrication and installation of water chilling plant at the factory of Anupam Colours and Chemicals at Vapi would fall under Entry 5 of the Schedule to the Notification dated 18.10.1993 issued under Section 55A of the Act and would be taxable at the rate of 5 as prescribed thereby.	Decision
The impugned decision dated 4.9.2006 of the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad in Sales Tax Reference No.1/2004 and Special Civil Appeal No.12508/2002 and other determinations as are contrary to the views expressed herein are hereby set aside.	Decision
The Civil Appeal is allowed.	Decision
