Arijit Pasayat, J. Appellant was convicted for offence punishable under Section 364	None
A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (in short the IPC), and sentenced to life imprisonment by the learned First Additional Sessions Judge, Chitradurga (hereinafter referred to as the trial court).	Issue
In appeal Karnataka High Court by the impugned judgment confirmed the conviction and sentence.	Issue
It is to be noticed that four persons faced trial.	Issue
Appellantaccused for the take of convenience is described as A1 and the coaccused as A2 to A4.	Issue
They were acquitted by the trial court.	Issue
Accusations which led to the trial of the accused persons are as follows Vijayabhasker, (PW 2) was a student of S.J.M. College, situated on Holalkere Road in Chitradurga, he was studying I year B.Sc., and was staying at Challakere in his Uncles house.	None
He used to come to Chitradurga to attend the college daily by bus.	Facts
Jagadish (PW 3) was a classmate of PW 2 and resident of Challakere, both of them usually come together to Chitradurga from Challakere.	Facts
On 25.11.1997 Vijayabhaskar, (PW 2), Jagadish (PW 3) and their friend Raghavendra, (PW 4) finished their practical classes and came out of the college at about 245 p.m. At that time, a person called PW 2 by taking his name, he turned and saw that person was wearing white shirt and pant.	Facts
PW 2 went to him and was told by that person that he know his father Hanumantha Rao, as he used to come to their village Chintarlapalli in Anantapur District, for Tamarind business.	Facts
He enquired with PW 2 about the fees and other expense stating that he wanted to admit his son.	Facts
PW. 2 told him that about R.2,000/ will be the expenses in the college.	Facts
A Trax Jeep was parked nearby.	Facts
The said person took PW 2 towards the Trax jeep informing him that his son is there.	Facts
PW 2 went there, he was asked to sit in the jeep.	Facts
Three other persons also came and sat in the jeep.	Facts
The person who took him to the jeep also sat by his side, there were two drivers in the jeep, they closed the doors of the jeep and it was driven towards Challakere on N.H. 4.	Facts
They treated PW 2 well till they crossed Challakere gate.	Facts
Thereafter he was threatened not to raise any voice, otherwise he will be murdered.	Facts
After they crossed Challakere, they enquired from him about the phone number stating that they will ask his father to pay Rs.4,00,000/ to them for his release.	Facts
PW 2 told them that such huge amount cannot be arranged and hardly they may get about Rs.50,000/ by raising loan from others.	Facts
They told him that their Boss wanted at least Rs.2,00,000/. On the way, they allowed him to meet the call of nature however some of them accompanied him.	Facts
He was given water to drink.	Facts
They stopped the vehicle near a village and the accused persons got down for buying cigarettes.	Facts
The drivers in the jeep asked him to run away, and accordingly PW.2 ran away, he came to know that the place was Byrapur village.	Facts
He went and informed the villagers and got them near the jeep, they surrounded the said jeep, caught hold the accused persons, informed to the police, Molakalmurnu.	Facts
They were all taken to the police station along with the said jeep.	Facts
Later on PW 2 gave complaint as per Ex.P.2, which was registered.	Facts
Subsequently, the case was transferred to Chitradurga Rural Police and then the charge sheet came to be filed.	Facts
According to prosecution accused No.1 Malleshi was the person who was in white shirt and pant, who abducted PW.	Facts
2 from the college	Facts
and	Facts
accused No.2 to 4 were the other three persons who were in the jeep during the course of the incident.3.	Facts
Trial court analysed the evidence of PW 2 who was the main witness and whose abduction was alleged.	Facts
PWs 3 and 4 were also stated to have witnessed a part of the occurrence i.e. A 1 calling the victim PW2 and their going together towards the vehicle.	Facts
Though PW 4 resiles from the statement made during investigation, his evidence corroborated that of PWs.	Facts
2 and 3 to the extent that he had seen PW 2 going in the company of somebody towards the trax jeep.	Facts
PWs.	Facts
6 and 11 were the drivers of the vehicle.	Facts
The resiled from their statements recorded during investigation.	Facts
Trial court took into account the evidence of PWs 2 and 3 and the fact that the vehicle and the accused persons were confined by the villagers and they were arrested from the spot found the accused appellant guilty while acquitting A2 to A4 as the evidence was not found sufficient to convict them.4.	Facts
In appeal the High Court found that the analysis of factual position as done by the trial court did not suffer from any infirmity.	Facts
It also analysed the evidence in detail and affirmed the view of the trial court.	Facts
The appeal was accordingly dismissed.	Facts
In support of the appeal learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the evidence of PW 2, the alleged victim was not sufficient to hold the appellant guilty, PW 2 had no earlier acquaintance with the accused  appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since there was no test identification parade, it was not proper on the part of the trial court to hold the accused guilty.	Arguments of Petitioner
The alleged demand of ransom has not been established.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any event, no demand has been conveyed to any person for a ransom and therefore Section 364 A has no application.	Arguments of Petitioner
In response learned counsel for the State of Karnataka supported the judgments of the trial court and the High Court and submitted that the evidence has been analyzed carefully by both the trial court and the High Court and no infirmity has surfaced.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted that keeping in view the clear language of Section 364	Arguments of Respondent
A it is evident that the accused has been rightly convicted under Section 364 A of the IPC.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 364	None
A deals with Kidnapping for ransom etc.	None
This Section reads as follows Whoever kidnaps or abducts any person or keeps a person in detention after such kidnapping or abduction and threatens to cause death or hurt to such person, or by his conduct gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that such person may be put to death or hurt, or causes hurt or death to such person in order to compel the Government or(any foreign State or international intergovernmental organization or any other person) to do or abstain from doing any act or to pay a ransom, shall be punishable with death, or imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.	None
The Section refers to both Kidnapping and Abduction.	None
Section 359 defines Kidnapping.	None
As per the said provision there are two types of kidnapping i.e. (1) kidnapping from India and (2) kidnapping from lawful guardianship.	None
Abduction is defined in Section 362.	None
The provision envisages two types of abduction i.e. (1) by force or by compulsion and or (2) inducement by deceitful means.	None
The object of such compulsion or inducement must be the going of the victim from any place.	None
The case at hand falls in the second category.	None
To Induce means to lead into.	None
Deceit according to its plain dictionary meaning signifies anything intended to mislead another.	None
It is a matter of intention and even if promise held out by the accused was fulfilled by him, the question is whether he was acting in a bonafide manner?	None
The offence of abduction is a continuing offence.	None
This Section was amended in 1992 by Act XLII of 1993 with effect from 22.5.1993 and it was subsequently amended in 1995 by Act XXIV of 1995 with effect from 26.5.1995.	None
The Section provides punishment for kidnapping, abduction or detaining for ransom.	None
To attract the provisions of Section 364	None
A what is required to be proved is (1) that the accused kidnapped or abducted the person and (2) kept him under detention after such kidnapping and abduction and (3) that the kidnapping or abduction was for ransom.	None
Strong reliance was placed on a decision of the Delhi High Court in Netra Pal vs. The State (NCT of Delhi) (2001 Crl.	None
L.J. 1669) to contend that since the ransom demand was not conveyed to the father of PW 2, the intention to demand was not fulfilled.	None
To pay a ransom as per Blacks Law Dictionary means to pay price or demand for ransom.	None
The word demand means to claim as ones due to require to ask relief to summon to call in Court An imperative request preferred by one person to another requiring the latter to do or yield something or to abstain from some act An asking with authority, claiming.	None
The definition as pointed out above would show that the demand has to be communicated.	None
It is an imperative request or a claim made.	None
Netra Pals case (supra) was one where a child was kidnapped.	None
The court found as a fact that since the victim was a child, demand for ransom could not have been made to him and only the demand to pay the ransom could have been made to his guardians.	None
In that factual background it was held that the offence was not under Section 364 A but was under Section 362 of the IPC.	None
Accordingly conviction of the accused was altered to offences relatable to Sections 363 and 365 of the IPC.	None
In the instant case as the factual position found by the trial court and the High Court goes to show, the object of abduction was for ransom.	Reasoning
This was clearly conveyed to the victim PW2.	Reasoning
He was even conveyed the amount to be paid.	Reasoning
It cannot be laid down as a straitjacket formula that the demand for payment has to be made to a person who ultimately pays.	Reasoning
By way of illustration it can be said that a rich business man is abducted.	Reasoning
He is told that for his release his family members have to pay a certain amount of money but money actually belongs to the person abducted.	Reasoning
The payment for release is made by the persons to whom the demand is made.	Reasoning
The demand originally is made to the person abducted or kidnapped.	Reasoning
After making the demand to the kidnapped or abducted person merely because the demand could not be conveyed to some other person, as the accused is arrested in the meantime, does not take away the offence out of the purview of Section 364 A.	Reasoning
It has to be seen in such a cases as to what was the object of kidnapping or abduction.	Reasoning
The essence of abduction as noted above is causing to stay in isolation and demand for ransom.	Reasoning
The demand in the present case has already been made by conveying it to the victim.	Reasoning
In Netra Pals case (supra) the High Court noted that there was no demand to pay.	Reasoning
The factual position in that case as noted above is that the victim was a child to whom no demand could have been made.	Reasoning
In that background the High Court took the view that Section 364	Reasoning
A has no application as no demand has been communicated.	Reasoning
The position factually is different here.	Reasoning
Ultimately the question to be decided is what was the intention?	Reasoning
Was it demand of ransom?	Reasoning
There can be no definite manner in which demand is to be made.	Reasoning
Who pays the ransom is not the determinative fact, as discussed supra.16.	Reasoning
Above being the position, there is no infirmity in the judgment of the courts below to warrant any interference.	Reasoning
Appeal is dismissed.	Decision
