 Vaidialingam, J.1.	None
The short question that arises for consideration in this appeal, by special leave, is whether the State Government has power under Section 60 of the U. P. Industrial Disputes Act.	Issue
1947 (hereinafter to be referred to as the Act) to withdraw an order already passed referring a dispute for adjudication.	Issue
The facts reading up to the filing of the writ petition by the appellant are as follows2.	None
The appellant, a public limited company, carrying on business of manufacture and sale of sugar from sugarcane, employs about a thousand workmen in its factory at Baitalpur.	Facts
The appellant retired three workmen, namely.	Facts
Chhatradhari Lal, Chendrika Prasad Srivastava and Bal Karan.	Facts
This led to an industrial dispute.	Facts
The State Government by Notification No. 765/	Facts
LC XVIII LA97 GP,/1959 dated October 25, 1960, referred the said dispute to the Labour Court Gorakhpur, for adjudication.	Facts
This reference (hereinafter to be referred to as Reference No. I) was registered by the Labour Court as adjudication Case No. 93 of 1960.	Facts
The parties filed their written statements and proceedings went on resulting in the Labour Court passing an award dated February 26, 1961, holding that the retirement of the three workmen was neither legal nor justified.	Facts
This award was published in the U. P. Gazette dated May, 6, l961, by the State Governments Notification dated April, 4, 1961 No. 1176(819) 36//46(ST)58.	Facts
There were similar disputes regarding the retirement of several such workmen and accordingly that dispute was referred by the State Government to the same Labour Court for adjudication by Notification No. 822(BC)XVIIILA115(CR) 1959 dated October 31, 1960.	Facts
This reference (hereinafter to be referred to as Reference No. II) was registered by the Labour Court as Adjudication Case No. 98 of 1960.	Facts
At this stage it must be mentioned that Reference No. II related to several workmen numbering about thirty or forty which included also the three workmen covered by Reference No. I.	Facts
The three.	Facts
workmen covered by Reference No. made an application to the Labour Court for deleting their names from Reference No. II on the ground that, their grievance is the subject of adjudication in Case No. 93 of 1960.	Facts
Though the appellant opposed this application, the Labour Court in its order dated February 21, 1961, accepted the prayer of the three workmen and.	Facts
as such they ceased to have anything to do further in Reference No. II.	Facts
Adjudication Case No. 98 of 1960, arising out of Preference No. II, also resulted in an award being passed by the Labour Court on February 27, 1961.	Facts
In this award, the Labour Court has decided the dispute on merits.	Facts
But it has specifically stated that it is not recording any finding with regard to the three workmen covered by Reference No.	Facts
I as their names have been excluded from adjudication Case No. 98 of 1960, arising out of Reference No. II.	Facts
This award dated February 27, 1961, was published in the State Gazette on April 4, l961.3.	Facts
We have earlier mentioned that the award dated February 26, 1961, in Adjudication Case No. 93 of 1960, arising out of Reference No.	Facts
I, was published in the State Gazette on May 6, 1961.	Facts
After the award was made on February 26, 1961, the State Government issued a Notification on February 28, 1961, withdrawing the Notification dated October 25, 1960, making Reference No.	Facts
I.	Reasoning
The order of withdrawal runs as followsGOVERNMENT OF UTTAR PRADESH LAB OUR (A) DEPARMENTNo.	Facts
167(LG) XVIIILA97	Facts
(GR/1959Dated Kanpur, February 28, 1961.ORDERWhereas an industrial dispute between the employers and the workmen of the concern known as Shree Sitaram Sugar Co. Ltd.	Facts
Baitalpur, Distt.	Facts
Deoria relating to retirement of the workmen, was referred for adjudication to the Labour at Gorakhpur in G. O. No. 785 (LG) XVIII LA 97 (GR)/1959, dated October 25,	Facts
1960.And whereas the same dispute is also covered by GS.	Facts
No. 822 (LG) XVIIILA115 (GR)1959, date October 31, 1960, as amended by G. O. No. 912 (LG) XVIIILA115 (GR)/1959,dated November 21, 1960, referring the same question of retirement of workmen to Labour Court at GorakhpurNow, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (1) of Section 6G of the U. P. Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (U. P. Act No. XXVIII of 1947), the Governor is pleased to order that G. O. No. 785 (LG) XVIIILA97	Facts
(GR)/1959, dated October 25, 1960 referring the said dispute for adjudication, shall be and is hereby withdrawn.	Facts
Sd  J. Prasad.	Facts
Under Secretary.4.	Facts
It will be noted from the above Notification that the State Government had withdrawn its previous order referring the dispute by virtue of powers stated to be conferred under subsection 6G of the Act.	Facts
We have also referred to the fact that the award in Reference No.	Facts
I was published in the state Gazette on May 6, 1961.	Facts
It will be noted that the material dates to be considered with regard to Reference No. 1 are as follows(a)	None
The dispute was referred for adjudication by Notification dated October 25, 1960.(b)	Facts
The award was made on February 26, 1961.(c)	Facts
The Notification dated October 25, 1960, referring the dispute was withdrawn by Notification dated February 28, 1961.(d)	Facts
The award was published in the State Gazette dated May 6, l961.	Facts
It will be noted from these dates that the order withdrawing the original reference was made two days after the Tribunal had passed the award.	Facts
The publication of the award was after the State Government had withdrawn its original order making the reference.5.	Facts
The appellant filed the writ petition in the High Court under Article 226 for the issue of writ of certiorari quashing the award dated February 26, 1961 and also for a mandamus directing the State Government to withdraw its Notification dated 651961, publishing the award.	Facts
The proceedings before the High Court related to the matters arising out of Reference No. I.	Facts
According to the appellant, the award dated February 26, 1961, had become ineffectual and useless in view of the State Government having withdrawn the Notification dated October 25, 1960, referring the dispute for adjudication.	Facts
Its further contention was that having withdrawn on February 28, 1961, its previous order referring the dispute, the State Government had no power to publish the award, as it had done on May 6, 1961 and that the said order publishing the award had to be revoked.	Facts
The union contested the Writ Petition on the ground that the State Government has no power under S. 6G to withdraw an order already passed referring a dispute for adjudication and that, in any event, it has no surh power after an award has been made by a Labour Court or Tribunal.	Facts
According to the union, the order of withdrawal dated February 28, 1961, is of no effect and that the publication of the award on May 6, 1961, was valid and that the State Government cannot be called upon to revoke the same.6.	Facts
The learned single Judge posed two questions for consideration(1)	Facts
Whether the power to withdraw under Section 6G of the Act is confined to withdrawal for purposes of transferring the proceedings to another Court or Tribunal and(2) Whether the power under S. 6G can be exercised at any stage until the award of the Labour Court or Tribunal has become enforceable under S. 6A of the Act.	Facts
The learned single Judge did not consider the first question and proceeded on the assumption that under S. 6G the State Government has power to withdraw a reference already made.	Facts
But, after considering the second question, he came to the conclusion that the power of withdrawal cannot be exercised after an award had been made by the Tribunal concerned.	Facts
In this view, the learned single judge held that the order of withdrawal dated February 28, 1961, was of no effect and that the publication of the award on May 6, 1961, was according to law.	Facts
In this view, the Court declined to grant any relief to the appellant.7.	Facts
The appellant challenged the decision of the learned single Judge in Special Appeal No 960 of 1964.	Facts
The Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court has held that the State Government has power under Section 6G to withdraw any proceedings pending before a Labour Court or Tribunal.	Facts
But it held that as the award had been made on February 26, l961, there were no proceedings pending before the Labour Court on February 28, 1961, when the order of withdrawal was passed by the State Government.	Facts
In this view the Division Bench held that it was not open to the State Government to withdraw the proceedings after the award had been made by the Tribunal and, therefore the Notification dated February 28, 1961, is of no effect.	Facts
By judgment and order dated August 2, 1966, the learned Judges confirmed the order of the Single Judge and dismissed the Special Appeal.	Facts
The management has come to this Court in this appeal.8.	Facts
Mr. G. B. Pai learned counsel for the appellant, placed considerable stress on the language of Section 6G of the Act and pointed out that in addition to the power of transferring a proceeding from one labour Court or Tribunal to another the said section has conferred an absolute right on the State Government to withdraw an order already passed referring a dispute for adjudication.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is only an obligation on the State Government to make the order in writing and also give reasons for the action taken by it.	Arguments of Petitioner
The counsel very heavily relied on Section 6D of the Act and urged that this power of withdrawing a reference can be exercised till the date when the award becomes enforceable.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the mere fact that an award has been made does not take away the power of the State Government to withdraw a reference.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the case before us, the counsel pointed out that the award had been made only on February 26, 1961 and the reference had been withdrawn by the State Government on February 28, 1961, long before the award had become enforceable.	Arguments of Petitioner
The counsel urged that, in view of the circumstances pointed out above, the view of the High Court that the State Government has no power to withdraw the reference, as the award has been made, is erroneous.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Daniel Latifi, learned counsel for the workmen concerned, on the other hand, urged that the view of the High Court that there is a power under Section 6G in the State Government to withdraw a reference erroneous.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel pointed out that Section 6G confers on the State Government only a power to transfer a proceeding from one Labour Court or tribunal to another.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel also pointed out that Section 6D has no bearing in the construction of Section 6G of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
When there is no power in the State Government to withdraw a reference, the counsel pointed out the question at what stage the proceedings can be withdrawn is purely academic.	Arguments of Respondent
Even assuming that there is a power under Section 6G in the State Government to withdraw an order of reference already made, that section, the counsel pointed out, does not give power to order such withdrawal after an award has been passed.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, once an award has been made by a Labour Court or Tribunal, proceedings before it come to a close and there is nothing for being withdrawn by the State Government.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel supported the reasoning of the High Court that Section 6G does not confer any power on the State Government to withdraw an order of reference after an award had been made by the Labour Court or Tribunal concerned.10.	Arguments of Respondent
In our opinion, the first and foremost question that should have been considered by the High Court is whether Section 6G confers a power on the State Government to withdraw an order earlier passed referring a dispute for adjudication.	None
It is only when this point is answered in the affirmative the further question is upto what stage can the power of Withdrawal be exercised by the State.	None
The State of Uttar Pradesh was a party before the learned single Judge as well as the High Court and is 2nd respondent in the appeal before us.	None
We have already referred to the fact that the relief that was asked for by the appellant was by way of writ of mandamus directing the State Government to withdraw the publication made in the Gazette of May 6, 1961, of the award by its order dated April 4, 1961.	None
This relief was asked for by the appellant on the ground that the order dated February 28, 1961, of the State Government withdrawing the reference was well within its power.	None
In the writ petition the powers and functions of the State Government under the Act came squarely for consideration, Under those circumstances one would have expected the State Government to appear before this Court and place its point of view regarding the points under consideration.	None
Unfortunately, the State Government has chosen to remain ex parte in this appeal.	None
Hence we have to decide the points in controversy only on the basis of the contentions advanced on beheld of the employer and the workmen.11.	None
It is now necessary to refer to certain relevant provisions of the Act.	None
According to the preamble, the Act has been enacted to provide for powers to prevent strikes and lockouts and for the settlement of industrial disputes and other incidental matters.	None
Section 2 (c) states Award means an interim or final determination of any Industrial dispute or of any question relating thereto by any Labour Court or Tribunal and includes an arbitration award made under Section 5B.The above definition takes in both interim and final awards.	None
Section 4K gives power to the State Government to refer for adjudication an industrial dispute to the Labour Court or an Industrial Tribunal under the circumstances mentioned therein.	None
Section 5 gives power to the State Government to include other undertakings in any adjudication.	None
Section 6 dealing with the proceedings before a Tribunal, submission of the award and its publication runs as follows6.	None
Awards and action to be taken thereon(1) Where an industrial dispute has been referred to a Labour Court or Tribunal for adjudication, it shall hold its proceedings expeditiously and shall as soon as it is practicable on the conclusion thereof, submit its award to the State Government.(2)	None
The award of a Labour Court or Tribunal shall be in writing and shall be signed by its Presiding Officer.(3)	None
Subject to the provisions of subsection (4) every arbitration award and the award of a Labour Court or Tribunal, shall within a period of thirty days from the date of its receipt by the State Government, be published in such manner as the State Government thinks fit.(4)	None
The State Government may before publication of an award of a Labour Court or Tribunal under subsection (3), remit the award for reconsideration of the adjudicating authority, and that authority shall.	None
after reconsideration submit its award to the State Government, and the State Government shall publish the award in the mannerprovided in subsection (3).(5) Subject to the provisions of Section 6A, an award published under subsection (3) shall be final and shall not be called in question in any court in any manner whatsoever.(6)	None
A Labour Court, Tribunal or Arbitrator may either of its own motion or on the application of any party to the dispute, correct any clerical or arithmetical mistake in the award, or errors arising therein from any accidental slip or omission whenever any correction is made as aforesaid, a copy of the order shall be sent to the State Government and the provision of this Act. relating to the publication of an award shall mutatis mutandis apply thereto.	None
The above section clearly indicates that when once an industrial dispute has been referred for adjudication, the Labour Court or Tribunal has to conduct its proceedings expeditiously and it has to submit its award to the State Government	Reasoning
The award has to be published within thirty days of its receipt by the State Government.	Reasoning
Power has no doubt been given to the State Government, before publication of an award, to remit the same for reconsideration.	Reasoning
When the same is received after reconsideration, the State Government is bound to publish the same, as provided under subsection (3).	Reasoning
An award published under subsection (3) is final subject to the provision of Section 6A.	Reasoning
The Labour Court or Tribunal has power to correct any clerical or arithmetical mistake in the award.	Reasoning
But if any such correction is made, a copy of the order making the correction will have to be sent to the State Government.	Reasoning
The provisions relating to publication of an award apply to the order making a correction in the award.12.	Reasoning
Section 6A deals with the commencement of the award.	None
The general rule, as provided under subsection (1) is that an award becomes enforceable on the expiry of thirty days from the date of its publication under Section 6.	None
Subsection (3) provides for a slightly different period depending upon the circumstances mentioned therein.	None
Sections 6D and 6G are as follows 6D. Commencement and conclusion of proceedingsProceedings before a Labour Court, or Tribunal shall be deemed to have commenced on the date of reference of a dispute to adjudication, and such proceedings shall be deemed to have concluded on the date on which the award becomes enforceable under Section 6A.6G. Power to transfer certain proceedings(1)	None
The State Government may, by order in writing and for reasons to be stated therein, withdraw any proceeding under this Act, pending before a Labour Court or Tribunal or transfer a proceeding from the Labour Court or tribunal to another Labour Court or Tribunal, as the case may be, for the disposal of the proceeding and the Labour Court or Tribunal to which the proceeding is so transferred may, subject to any special directions in the order of transfer, proceed either de nova or from the stage at which it was so transferredProvided that where a proceeding under Section 6E or Section 6F is pending before a tribunal the proceeding may also be transferred to a Labour Court.(2)	Reasoning
Without prejudice to the provisions of subsection (1) any tribunal if so authorized by the State Government, may transfer any proceeding under Section 6E, or S. 6F pending before it to any one of the Labour Courts specified for the disposal of such proceedings by the State Government by notification in the Official Gazette and the Labour Court to which the proceeding is so transferred shall dispose of the case.	None
Sections 6D and 6G substantially correspond to subsection (3) of S. 20 and Section 33B respectively of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, (Central Act XIV of 1947).13.	None
It must be stated that a superficial reading of subsection (1) of Sect on 6G in isolation will give the impression that the State Government has got two distinct and separate powers, namely(a) to withdraw any proceedings under the Act pending before a Labour Court or Tribunal, or(b) to transfer the proceedings from one Labour Court or Tribunal to another Labour Court or Tribunal for disposal of the same.	Reasoning
It is on the basis of such a reading of the section that Mr. Pai, the learned counsel, urged that there is an absolute power in the State Government to withdraw an order already passed referring a dispute for adjudication.	None
This power, according to the learned counsel, is distinct and separate from the power given under the same section to the State Government to transfer a proceeding from one Labour Court or Tribunal to another.	Arguments of Petitioner
If we do not accept the contention of Mr. Pai that Section 6G confers two such distinct and separate powers, S. 6D will not assist the appellant.	None
It is only if we hold that the Government has a power to withdraw simpliciter, the further question regarding the stage upto which the power could be exercised will arise for consideration.14.	None
We have already pointed out that Section 6 casts a duty on the Tribunal, when a dispute has been referred to it, to deal with it expeditiously and to submit its award to the State Government.	Reasoning
The State Government has also an obligation to publish the award within thirty days of its receipt.	Reasoning
No doubt subsection (4) of Section 6 gives power to the State Government, before publishing the award, to remit the same for reconsideration.	Reasoning
But still a duty is cast upon the State Government to publish the award as reconsidered by the Tribunal within thirty days of its receipt.	Reasoning
Section 6A also gives certain powers to the State Government regarding the award, which normally becomes enforceable under subsection (1) on the expiry of thirty days from the date of its publication.15.	Reasoning
Section 6G, in our opinion, deals only with the power of the State Government to transfer a proceeding from one Labour Court or Tribunal to another and for purposes of such transfer to withdraw the proceedings from the Labour Court or Tribunal from whom it is being transferred.	Reasoning
We are free to admit that the wording of subsection (1) is capable of being construed as conferring in the State Government a power to withdraw any proceedings or to transfer a proceeding from one Labour Court or Tribunal to another.	Reasoning
But having regard to the scheme of Section 6G, read in the light of the other provisions referred to earlier, the section will have to be interpreted as giving to the State Government only a power to transfer a proceeding from one Labour Court to another.	Reasoning
When Section 6 makes it obligatory that an award has to be made by the Tribunal concerned and that it has to be published by the State Government within thirty days of its receipt and declare that the award on publication becomes final, it is idle to expect that the legislature intended to nullify the entire proceedings by conferring an absolute power of withdrawal on the State Government under Section 6G.	Reasoning
The proper way of reading Section 6G is to limit the power of withdrawal, referred to therein, only for the purpose of transferring the proceedings from one Labour Court or Tribunal to another.	Reasoning
That the expression or in Section 6G (1) interposed between withdraw any proceedings  or transfer a proceeding will have to be understood as and.	Reasoning
So read, the power conferred under Section 6G on the State Government is that of withdrawing any proceedings from one Labour Court or Tribunal and transferring the same to another.16.	Reasoning
Mr. Pai drew our attention to Section 33B of the Central Act and emphasised that the said section is worded differently from Section 6G of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, the wording of Section 33B clearly shows that the withdrawal of any proceedings is only for transferring the same to another Labour Court or Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, the counsel pointed out that a different phraseology has been used in Section 6G indicating the conferment of two distinct powers.	None
We have already referred to this aspect and expressed the view that a superficial reading of Section 6G will support the contention of Mr. Pai.	None
If the expression or as mentioned earlier, is read as and the section does not present any difficulty.	Reasoning
That having due regard to the scheme of the statute and the purpose sought to be served the expression or can be read under certain circumstances as and as has been laid down by this Court in Mazgaon Dock Ltd. v. Commr. of Income  tax and Excess Profits Tax, 1959 SCR 843 ( AIR 1958 SC 861 ).	Reasoning
Adopting the same principle and having due regard to the object of Section 6G, which essentially is only to confer in the State Government a power to transfer a proceeding from one Labour Court or Tribunal to another, the expression or has to be read in Section 6G as and.	Reasoning
If so read subsection (1) of Section 6G confers on the State Government only a power to withdraw a proceeding from one Labour Court or Tribunal and transfer the same to another.	Reasoning
It is needless to state that transfer of a proceeding can only be when it is pending before a Labour Court or Tribunal.17.	Reasoning
Section 6D, in our opinion, has no relevancy in construing S. 6G. Section 6D is enacted for a totally different purpose.	Reasoning
For instance S. 6B provides for conditions of service etc. to remain unchanged in certain circumstances during the pendency of proceedings.	Reasoning
Similarly under S. 6F a question may arise whether an employer has contravened the provisions of Section 6E during the pendency of proceedings before a Labour Court or Tribunal.	Reasoning
It may be quite essential to consider whether any proceedings were pending, before a Labour Court or Tribunal.	Reasoning
For the purpose of considering the question whether any proceedings were pending, the Act has created a fiction under Section 6D by indicating the starting point of a proceeding before a Labour Court as well as its conclusion.	Reasoning
The starting point of the proceedings has been fixed from the date of the reference and its termination has been fixed as the date on which the award becomes enforceable under Section 6A. During this period broadly it has to be considered that proceedings are pending before a Labour.	Reasoning
Court or Tribunal.	Reasoning
We need not refer to the other provisions of the Act where the duration of the pendency of proceedings may assume importance.	Reasoning
Section 6D can be invoked only in those cases.	Reasoning
But it does not come into the picture, as mentioned earlier in construing Section 6G.18.	None
Mr. Pai referred us to the decision of this Court in the Sirsilk Ltd. v. Govt.	Arguments of Petitioner
of Andhra Pradesh, (1964) 2	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 448 (AIR 1964 SC 160 ) where the provisions of Sections 17 and 18 of the Central Act were read in harmony and the State Government was directed not to publish the award though its publication was mandatory.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are not faced with such a situation in the case before us.	None
We have already referred to the fact that in Adjudication Case No. 98 of 1960, arising out of Reference No. II, respondents 4 to 6 herein had requested the Labour Court to exclude them from the said adjudication on the ground that they are already covered by Adjudication Case No. 93 of 1960 arising out of Reference No. I.	Reasoning
The Labour Court passed an order on February 21, 1961, excluding the said three workmen from Adjudication Case No. 98 of 1960.	Reasoning
That means the said three workmen had no further interest in the said Adjudication Case.	Reasoning
If that is so, the award passed on February 26, 1961, in the case arising out of Reference No.	Reasoning
I was perfectly correct and the publication of the said award on May 6, 1961, was also in pursuance of the mandatory provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
There is no question of any conflict between the two awards.	Reasoning
Hence the appellant cannot seek any assistance from the decision of this Court in (1964) 2	Reasoning
SCR 448 (AIR 1964 SC 160 ) and it cannot ask for a writ of mandamus directing the State Government to cancel the publication of the award.19.	Reasoning
We are in agreement with the view of the High Court that the appellant is not entitled to any relief, though for different reasons.	Decision
The appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.20.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
