 	Reasoning
P. Jeevan Reddy, J.	None
In this appeal preferred against the judgment of the West Bengal Taxation Tribunal, the question is whether sales of turmeric powder and pepper powder obtained from whole turmeric and whole pepper are exigible to sales tax under West Bengal Sales Tax Act, 1954 (1954 Act).	Issue
The principal Act levying sales tax in the State of West Bengal, of course, is the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941.	Issue
By a Notification No. 885F.T. dated May 1, 1955, issued under Section 25 of the 1954 Act, the Governor of West Bengal specified and notified certain commodities including turmeric and pepper, with the result that the said commodities ceased to be governed by the 1941 Act and came within the purview of the 1954 Act.	Facts
The Notification, in so far as it is relevant, reads thus No. 385F.T.  1st May, 1955.  	None
Whereas the Governor is of opinion that it would be in the public interest that the commodities mentioned below, being commodities liable hitherto to taxation under the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), should be taxed under the West Bengal Sales Tax Act, 1954 (West Bengal Act IV of 1954)	Facts
Now, therefore, in exercise of the power conferred by Section 25 of the West Bengal Sales Tax Act, 1954 (West Bengal Act IV of 1954), the Governor is pleased hereby to specify such commodities under that section.	Facts
The commodities referred to above (1) (Omitted as unnecessary).	None
(2) black and white pepper, known as gol mirch, that is to say, the berry of the plant piper Nigrum, whole, broken, ground or powdered, or of any other form or description whatsoever Turmeric, known locally as haridra or halud, that is to say, the product obtained from the plant Curcuma Longa, whole, broken, ground or powdered, or any other from or description whatsoever (4) (Omitted as unnecessary) (5) (Omitted as unnecessary).	Facts
By another Notification No. 1915F.T. dated May 10, 1963 issued under Section 4 of the 1954 Act, the Governor of West Bengal notified the rates of tax on several commodities including black and white pepper and turmeric.	Facts
In so far as it is relevant, it reads thus No. 1915F.T.10th	None
May, 1963.In exercise of the power conferred by Section 4 of the West Bengal Sales Tax Act, 1954 (West Bengal Act IV of 1954), the Governor is pleased hereby to fix in respect of the notified commodities specified in column 2 of the table below, the rates specified in the corresponding entries in column 3 of the said table as the rates at which tax under the said Act shall be paid by a dealer on his turnover.	Facts
No. (5) to (16)  (Omitted as unnecessary).	None
This will take effect from the 10th day of May, 1963.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
It is the common case of the patties before us that under the 1954 Act, the tax is a single point tax leviable at the first point of sale.	Facts
The appellant says that he purchases whole black pepper and whole turmeric within the State of West Bengal and converts them into pepper powder and turmeric powder for sale.	Facts
His contention is that black pepper and pepper powder and similarly turmeric and turmeric powder are one and the same goods and inasmuch as whole black pepper and whole turmeric suffered tax when it was sold by the selling dealer to the appellant, the powders derived from them are not exigible to tax when sold by him.	Facts
For the same reason, he says, he need not register himself as a dealer under the Act.	Facts
The department, however, took the view that pepper and pepper powder and similarly, turmeric and turmeric powder are different goods and, therefore, the pepper powder and turmeric powder when sold by the appellant are exigible to tax.	Facts
The Tribunal has upheld the contention of the Revenue.	Facts
Dr. Shanker Ghosh, learned Counsel for the appellant relied upon the decisions of this Court in Alladi Venkateshwarlu v. State of Andhra Pradesh 41 S.T.C. 394 and Commissioner of Sales Tax, Lucknow v. D.S. Bist and Ors. 19801SCR593 in support of his submission that pepper and pepper powder and turmeric and turmeric powder are one and the same goods.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that pepper is sometimes used in its original form and sometimes in its powdered form.	Arguments of Petitioner
Similarly, turmeric is also used sometimes in its original form and sometimes after converting it into powder.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to learned Counsel, pepper powder is but a form of pepper and similarly turmeric powder is but only a form of turmeric.	Arguments of Petitioner
They are not different goods.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel submitted that just as parched rice and puffed rice are different forms of rice (Alladi Venkateshwarlu), so is the pepper powder a form of pepper and turmeric powder a form of turmeric.	Arguments of Petitioner
6.	None
The learned Counsel for the State of West Bengal, on the other hand, submitted that pepper and pepper powder and similarly turmeric and turmeric powder are two different goods just as wheat and wheatflour are different goods.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel relied upon the recent decision of this Court in Rajasthan Flour Mills Association v. State of Rajasthan (1993) 3 SCALE 600 in support of his submission.	Arguments of Respondent
He also relied upon the decisions of this Court in Ganesh Trading Company, Kamal v. State of Haryana 32 S.T.C. 623 and State of Karnataka v. Ragluiram Shetty 47 S.T.C. 369.	Arguments of Respondent
In the latter case, learned Counsel pointed out, it has been held that when wheat is ground into flour, wheat is consumed in the manufacture of wheatflour and a different product emerges and similarly, when wheatflour is baked as a bread, there emerges yet another different goods, learned Counsel, therefore, submitted that on the same analogy when pepper and turmeric are ground into powder, they change their shape and emerge as different goods.	Arguments of Respondent
We are of the opinion that so far as whole black and white pepper and pepper powder is concerned, they are the same goods, whether applying the functional test or the test of common parlance commercial parlance.	Reasoning
The analogy of paddy and rice or of wheat and wheat powder is not apt.	Reasoning
Nobody consumes paddy as it is.	Reasoning
Similarly, no one eats whole wheat.	Reasoning
They are consumed after milling them into rice or flour, as the case may be.	Reasoning
But so far as the pepper is concerned, it is used equally in whole as well as well powdered form.	Reasoning
It is for this reason perhaps that the entry in Notification No. 885F.T. dated May 1, 1955 speaks of Black and while pepperwhole, broken, ground or powdered or of any other form or description whatsoever.	Reasoning
It is equally significant that the Notification No. l915F.T. dated May 10, 1963 refers to these commodities as specified in Notification No. 885F.T. dated 1st May, 1955.	Reasoning
Black and white pepper as specified in Notification No. 885 means black and white pepper, whether whole, powdered, broken or in any other form.	Reasoning
So far as turmeric and turmeric powder is concerned, the position is not identical, applying the functional test.	Reasoning
But inasmuch as turmeric is also described in Notification No. 885 in the same manner as black and white pepper and also because Notification No. 1915 refers to it with reference to the said earlier Notification, we are inclined to say that turmeric and turmeric powder must also be treated as same goods.	Reasoning
Sri Santosh Hegde, learned Counsel for the State of West Bengal submitted that the use of the words that is to say in items (2) and (3) in Notification No. 885F.T. serve to indicate that broken, ground or powdered pepper is different from pepper.	Arguments of Respondent
Support is sought to be derived from the decision of this Court in Rajasthan Flour Mills Association where the meaning of the said words was dealt with reference to Section 14(i) of the Central Sales Tax Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It was held in the said decision that the said words had the effect of limiting the operation of Section 14 to the goods specifically mentioned thereunder and not to their products.	Reasoning
In other words, it was held that when Section 14(i)(iii) mentioned wheat, it means wheat alone and not the products of wheat like flour, maida and suji.	Reasoning
We do not see how the said decision assists the argument of the learned Counsel.	Reasoning
In items (2) and (3) of Notification No. 885F.T., the words that is to say seem to refer to the botanical expression following the said words.	Reasoning
He that as it may, the said words cannot, by any stretch of imagination, be taken to indicate that broken, powdered or any other form of pepper are different goods from pepper.	Reasoning
The appeals are allowed accordingly.	Decision
The judgment of the West Bengal Taxation Tribunal is set side.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
