ARIJIT PASAYAT, J. These four appeals relate to a Division Bench judgment of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court dated 3172000.	None
While Criminal Appeal Nos. 921/2000, 791/2001, 792/2001 have been filed by the accused, Criminal Appeal No. 837/2001 has been filed by the State.	None
Ravinder Kumar (accused No. 1), Ashok Kumar (accused No. 2) and Rajesh Kumar (accused No. 6) were convicted by the trial Court while Bodhraj (accused No. 3), Bhupinder (accused No. 4), Subash Kumar (accused No. 5) and Rakesh Kumar (accused No. 7) were acquitted by the trial Court, but the High Court set aside their acquittal and convicted them.	Facts
Rohit Kumar (accused No. 8) and Kewal Krishan (accused No. 9) were acquitted by the trial Court and their acquittal has been upheld by the High Court.	Issue
Another accused i.e. Kishore Kumar was acquitted by the trial Court.	Issue
He having died during the pendency of the appeal before the High Court, the appeal against him was held to have abated.	Facts
AccusedRajesh Kumar has not preferred any appeal against the conviction as upheld by the High Court.(3) Accused No. 1 and accused No. 2 having been convicted under S. 302 read with S. 120B of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (in short the IPC) were sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life and pay a fine of Rs.	Facts
20,000.00 each.	Issue
It was stipulated that for default in paying the fine, each had to suffer another year of imprisonment.	Facts
Similar was the case with accused No. 6.	Issue
So far as the accused Nos. 3, 4, 5 and 7 are concerned, the High Court convicted and sentenced them at par with the other three accused.(4) Factual scenario as highlighted by the prosecution is as follows Swaran Singh alias Pappi (hereinafter referred to as the deceased) was running a finance company.	Facts
Accused No. 2 (Ashok Kumar) and accused No. 1 (Ravinder Kumar) had taken huge amounts as loan from the deceased.	Facts
They suggested to the deceased to enter into a financial arrangement.	Facts
On the fateful day i.e. 3/08/1994, deceased went to his business premises.	Facts
After about 10 minutes of his arrival accusedRavinder Kumar also reached his office.	Facts
As the deceased had brought some money from his house which was to be deposited in a bank, Darshan Singh (P.W. 15) an employee was asked to make the deposit.	Facts
Since no vehicle was available, Ravinder Kumar gave the key of his car to Darshan Singh.	Facts
The registration number of the car is CHO1 5408.	Facts
Darshan Singh left the office around 11.30 a.m. and returned around 1.30 p.m. On his return, Darshan found the deceased in the company of accusedRavinder Kumar and Ashok Kumar.	Facts
He returned the key of the car to Ravinder Kumar.	Facts
After about 10/15 minutes, deceased and accusedAshok Kumar left the office.	Facts
At the time of his departure, deceased told Darshan to take the food which was to come from his house, as they were going out to have food.	Facts
AccusedAshok Kumar and the deceased went to Hotel Asia for taking their food.	Facts
Later on accusedRavinder Kumar joined them.	None
All the three after taking food went to the business premises of Gian Singh (P.W. 1) who was a property dealer and broker.	Facts
He was informed that they were interested in purchasing some land for setting up a flour mill.	Facts
Ravinder and Ashok Kumar persuaded the deceased to accompany them for the selection of the site.	Facts
Along with Gian Singh (P.W. 1), another property dealer was also picked up.	Facts
This was done as P.W. 1 wanted to go to the site in question along with Pratap Singh (P.W. 2) who was his business partner.	Facts
All of them went to village Dhiansar where the land was situated.	Facts
They went by car No. JK02B 566.	None
As accusedRavinder Kumar appeared to be in extreme haste, he told that site has been approved and P.Ws. 1 and 2 were told that they would settle the matter at their business premises.	None
When they were returning, the deceased was attacked by some persons (later on identified as accused 3 to 10).	Facts
The accused 1 and 2 remained silent spectators and even did not pay any heed to the pitiful plea of the deceased to bring the car so that he can escape the attacks.	Facts
On the contrary, they left the scene of occurrence leaving behind the deceased and P.Ws. 1 and 2.	Facts
They did not report the matter to the police and even though they claimed to be friends of the deceased, did not even inform family members of the deceased.	Facts
They owed huge amounts and issued cheques for which they had made no provision.	Facts
Ashok Kumar made use of the cheque book of his wife and issued a cheque in respect of her bank account, though, the same was not operated for quite some time.	Facts
AccusedRajesh Kumars presence was established as later on, a licensed revolver belonging to accusedRavinder Kumar was recovered at the instance of Ravinder Kumar	Facts
The licence of the revolver was seized from the house of Ravinder Kumar and father of the said accused produced the same before the police in the presence of witnesses.	Facts
Pistol of the deceased was also recovered at his instance.	Facts
The license in respect of the pistol was seized on personal search of the deceased at the spot of occurrence.	Facts
One Hari Kumar (P.W. 18) stated that accusedRavinder Kumar and Ashok Kumar made a statement before him that they had got the deceased killed because he was demanding money from them.	Facts
From the fact that the land was to be selected was only known to accusedRavinder Kumar and Ashok Kumar, an inference was drawn that it was these two accused who had hired the assailants and planted them well in advance for the ultimate elimination of the deceased.	Facts
The fact that accusedRavinder Kumar left the office of the deceased earlier and joined them at the Hotel was considered significant, as the intervening period was utilized by him to inform the assailants as to where they would be taking the deceased for the assaults being carried out.	Facts
AccusedRajesh Kumar and Subash Kumar had also suffered bullet injury which was on account of the firing done by the deceased while he was trying to save his life.(5) Recoveries of various weapons used by assailants were made pursuant to the disclosures made by the accusedBodhraj, Bhupinder, Subash Kumar, Rajesh Kumar and Rakesh Kumar.	Facts
Recoveries were witnessed by several witnesses.	Facts
Bodhraj was identified by Jhuggar Singh (P.W. 6) and Santokh Singh (P.W. 7).	Facts
Bhupinder Singh was identified by Hari Kumar (P.W. 18) and Gurmit Singh.	Facts
Similar was the case with accusedSubash Kumar.	None
Rajesh Kumar was identified by Ranjit Sharma (P.W. 23) and Hari Kumar (P.W. 18).	Facts
AccusedRakesh Kumar was identified by Ranjit Sharma (P.W. 23) and Gurmit Singh, who was not examined in Court.	None
AccusedBhodraj, Bhupinder, Rakesh Kumar, Rohit and Kewal Krishan were identified by Nainu Singh (P.W. 9) while Subhash Kumar and Rajesh Kumar were identified by Santokh Singh (P.W. 7) and Surjit Singh (P.W. 8).	None
The identification was done on two dates i.e. 1181994 and 1681994.	None
Different eyewitnesses claimed to have seen the occurrence either in full or partially.	None
P.Ws.	Facts
1, 2, 7, 8 and 9 were really the crucial witnesses.	Facts
Santokh Singh (P.W. 7) was disbelieved by trial Court as well as by the High Court.(6)	Facts
In order to establish the plea that conspiracy was hatched, reliance was placed on the plea of Kapur Chand who was not examined in Court.	Facts
Several other circumstances were highlighted by the prosecution, to establish the plea of conspiracy.	Facts
It was submitted that nobody knew except P.W. 2 where the land was.	Facts
If he was the person who had hired the assailants, they (meaning P.W. 1 and deceased) would not have gone empty handed.	Facts
But, knowing particularly well that the deceased was always armed, accused Ravinder purchased a car which was used as a get away car but never transferred it to his name.	Facts
It was, however, conceded by the learned Advocate General appearing before the trial Court that there was no direct evidence of conspiracy.	Facts
Police seems to have proceeded to reach the spot on getting some reliable information.	Facts
In order to attach vulnerability to the judgment of the High Court, several points were urged by the learned counsel for the accused persons.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was pointed out that there was no evidence of any conspiracy.	Arguments of Petitioner
The only witness Kapur Chand who is alleged to have stated before the police about the conspiracy was not examined.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even the Investigating Officer has admitted that there was no direct evidence of conspiracy.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was no evidence collected against the accused persons to link them with the crime till 1181994 when suddenly materials supposed to have come like a flood gate.	None
Initiation of action by the police is also shrouded in mystery.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has not been disclosed in either trial Court or High Court as to how the police received information about the killing and arrived at the spot.	Arguments of Petitioner
Though it was claimed at some point of time that a telephone call was supposedly made, but the FIR was registered on the basis of reliable sources.	Arguments of Petitioner
There are no independent witnesses.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is surprising as alleged killing took place in the evening time at a highly populated place.	Arguments of Petitioner
The socalled identification of the witnesses is highly improbable.	Arguments of Petitioner
Additionally, having discarded the evidence of P.W. 7 the Courts erred in believing the evidence of P.Ws. 8 and 9 who stand on the same footing.	Arguments of Petitioner
The presence of these witnesses is highly doubtful.	Arguments of Petitioner
Their behaviour was unnatural and there is no corroborative evidence.	None
They are persons with criminal records.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since their presence is doubtful, identification, if any, done by them becomes ipso facto doubtful.	Reasoning
The recoveries purported to have done pursuant to the disclosure made by the accused persons is highly improbable and requisite safeguards have not been adopted while making alleged recoveries.	Reasoning
The case against four of the accused persons who were acquitted by the trial Court rests on circumstantial evidence.	Reasoning
The approach to be adopted by the Court while dealing with circumstantial evidence was kept in view by the trial Court.	Reasoning
Unfortunately, the High Court did not do so.	Reasoning
It was further submitted that there was no complete chain of circumstances established which ruled out even any remote possibility of anybody else than the accused persons being the authors of the crime.	Reasoning
The examination of socalled eyewitnesses P.Ws. 1 and 2 was belated and, therefore, should not have been accepted.	None
The evidence of P.Ws. visavis accused persons is so improbable that no credence should be put on it.	Reasoning
The High Court should not have disturbed the findings of innocence of four accused persons without any plausible reasoning.	None
On the contrary, learned counsel for the prosecution submitted that the background facts and the evidence on record has to be tested with a pragmatic approach.	Arguments of Respondent
The situation which prevailed in the area at the relevant time cannot be lost sight of.	Arguments of Respondent
Accused 1 and 2 are very influential persons.	Arguments of Respondent
The witnesses were naturally terrified.	Arguments of Respondent
It has come on record that witnesses P.Ws. 1 and 2 were too terrified even to depose and had asked for police protection.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no reason as to why the witnesses would depose falsely against accused 1 and 2 who are known to them.	Arguments of Respondent
There is nothing irregular or illegal in the procedure adopted while effecting recovery pursuant to the disclosure made by the accused persons.	Arguments of Respondent
Before analysing factual aspects it may be stated that for a crime to be proved it is not necessary that the crime must be seen to have been committed and must, in all circumstances be proved by direct ocular evidence by examining before the Court those persons who had seen its commission.	None
The offence can be proved by circumstantial evidence also.	None
The principal fact or factum probandum may be proved indirectly by means of certain inferences drawn from factum probans, that is, the evidentiary facts.	None
To put it differently circumstantial evidence is not direct to the point in issue but consists of evidence of various other facts which are so closely associated with the fact in issue that taken together they form a chain of circumstances from which the existence of the principal fact can be legally inferred or presumed.	None
It has been consistently laid down by this Court that where a case rests squarely on circumstantial evidence, the inference of guilt can be justified only when all the incriminating facts and circumstances are found to be incompatible with the innocence of the accused or the guilt of any other person.	None
The circumstances from which an inference as to the guilt of the accused is drawn have to be proved beyond reasonable doubt and have to be shown to be closely connected with the principal fact sought to be inferred from those circumstances.	None
In Bhagat Ram v. State of Punjab, it was laid down that where the case depends upon the conclusion drawn from circumstances the cumulative effect of the circumstances must be such as to negative the innocence of the accused and bring the offences home beyond any reasonable doubt.	None
We may also make a reference to a decision of this Court in C. Chenga Reddy and others v. State of A.P. (1996) 10 SCC 193 , wherein it has been observed thus In a case based on circumstantial evidence, the settled law is that the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is drawn should be fully proved and such circumstances must be conclusive in nature.	None
Moreover, all the circumstances should be complete and there should be no gap left in the chain of evidence.	None
Further the proved circumstances must be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused and totally inconsistent with his innocence. . . . . . . . .	None
In Padala Veera Reddy v. State of A.P. and others, it was laid down that when a case rests upon circumstantial evidence, such evidence must satisfy the following tests (1) the circumstances from which an inference of guilt is sought to be drawn, must be cogently and firmly established(2) those circumstances should be of a definite tendency unerringly pointing towards guilt of the accused(3) the circumstances, taken cumulatively should form a chain so complete that there is no escape from the conclusion that within all human probability the crime was committed by the accused and none else and(4) the circumstantial evidence in order to sustain conviction must be complete and incapable of explanation of any other hypothesis than that of the guilt of the accused and such evidence should not only be consistent with the guilt of the accused but should be inconsistent with his innocence.	None
In State of U.P. v. Ashok Kumar Srivastava (1992 Cri LJ 1104), it was pointed out that great care must be taken in evaluating circumstantial evidence and if the evidence relied on is reasonably capable of two inferences, the one in favour of the accused must be accepted.	None
It was also pointed out that the circumstances relied upon must be found to have been fully established and the cumulative effect of all the facts so established must be consistent only with the hypothesis of guilt.	None
Sir Alfred Wills in his admirable book Wills Circumstantial Evidence (Chapter VI) lays down the following rules specially to be observed in the case of circumstantial evidence (1) the facts alleged as the basis of any legal inference must be clearly proved and beyond reasonable doubt connected with the factum probandum (2) the burden of proof is always on the party who asserts the existence of any fact, which infers legal accountability (3) in all cases, whether of direct or circumstantial evidence the best evidence must be adduced which the nature of the case admits (4) in order to justify the inference of guilt, the inculpatory facts must be incompatible with the innocence of the accused and incapable of explanation, upon any other reasonable hypothesis than that of his guilt, (5) if there be any reasonable doubt of the guilt of the accused, he is entitled as of right to be acquitted.	None
There is no doubt that conviction can be based solely on circumstantial evidence but it should be tested by the touchstone of law relating to circumstantial evidence laid down by this Court as far back as in 1952.	None
In Hanumant Govind Nargundkar and another v. State of Madhya Pradesh, wherein it was observed thus It is well to remember that in cases where the evidence is of a circumstantial nature, the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be in the first instance be fully established and all the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused.	None
Again, the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency and they should be such as to exclude every hypothesis but the one proposed to be proved.	None
In other words, there must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show that within all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.	None
A reference may be made to a later decision in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra.	None
Therein, while dealing with circumstantial evidence, it has been held that onus was on the prosecution to prove that the chain is complete and the infirmity of lacuna in prosecution cannot be cured by false defence or plea.	None
The conditions precedent in the words of this Court, before conviction could be based on circumstantial evidence, must be fully established.	None
They are 1984 Cri LJ 1738 (1) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established.	None
The circumstances concerned must or should and not may be established(2)	None
the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty(3)	None
the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency(4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved and(5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.	None
Emphasis was laid as a circumstance on recovery of weapon of assault, on the basis of information given by the accused while in custody.	None
The question is whether the evidence relating to recovery is sufficient to fasten guilt on the accused.	None
Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (in short the Evidence Act) is by way of proviso to Ss. 25 to 26 and a statement even by way of confession made in police custody which distinctly relates to the fact discovered is admissible in evidence against the accused.	None
This position was succinctly dealt with by the this Court in Delhi Admn.	None
v. Balakrishan and Md.	None
Inayatullah v. State of Maharashtra.	None
The words so much of such information as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered, are very important and the whole force of the section concentrates on them.	None
Clearly the extent of the information admissible must depend on the exact nature of the fact discovered to which such information is required to relate.	None
The ban as imposed by the preceding sections was presumably inspired by the fear of the Legislature that a person under police influence might be induced to confess by the exercise of undue pressure.	None
If all that is required to lift the ban be the inclusion in the confession of information relating to an object subsequently produced, it seems reasonable to suppose that the persuasive powers of the police will prove equal to the occasion, and that in practice the ban will lose its effect.	None
The object of the provision i.e. S. 27 was to provide for the admission of evidence which but for the existence of the section could not in consequences of the preceding sections, be admitted in evidence.	None
It would appear that under S. 27 as it stands in order to render the evidence leading to discovery of any fact admissible, the information must come from any accused in custody of the police.	None
The requirement of police custody is productive of extremely anomalous results and may lead to the exclusion of much valuable evidence in cases where a person, who is subsequently taken into custody and becomes an accused, after committing a crime meets a police officer or voluntarily goes to him or to the police station and states the circumstances of the crime which lead to the discovery of the dead body, weapon or any other material fact, in consequence of the information thus received from him.	None
This information which is otherwise admissible becomes inadmissible under S. 27 if the information did not come from a person in the custody of a police officer or did come from a person not in the custody of a police officer.	None
The statement which is admissible under S. 27 is the one which is the information leading to discovery.	None
Thus, what is admissible being the information, the same has to be proved and not the opinion formed on it by the police officer.	Reasoning
In other words, the exact information given by the accused while in custody which led to recovery of the articles has to be proved.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, necessary for the benefit of both the accused and prosecution that information given should be recorded and proved and if not so recorded, the exact information must be adduced through evidence.	Reasoning
The basic idea embedded in S. 27 of the Evidence Act is the Doctrine of confirmation by subsequent events.	Reasoning
The doctrine is founded on the principle that if any fact is discovered as a search made on the strength of any information obtained from a prisoner, such a discovery is a guarantee that the information supplied by the prisoner is true.	Reasoning
The information might be confessional or noninculpatory in nature but if it results in discovery of a fact, it becomes a reliable information.	Reasoning
It is now well settled that recovery of an object is not discovery of fact envisaged in the section.	Reasoning
Decision of Privy Council in Palukuri Kotayya v. Emperor, is the most quoted authority for supporting the interpretation that the fact discovered envisaged in the section embraces the place from which the object was produced, the knowledge of the accused as to it, but the information given must relate distinctly to that effect.	Reasoning
No doubt, the information permitted to be admitted in evidence is confined to that portion of the information which distinctly relates to the fact thereby discovered.	Reasoning
But the information to get admissibility need not be so truncated as to make it insensible or incomprehensible.	Reasoning
The extent of information admitted should be consistent with understandability.	Reasoning
Mere statement that the accused led the police and the witnesses to the place where he had concealed the articles is not indicative of the information given.(19)	Reasoning
Coming to evidence brought on record to substantiate the accusations, it is at least clear that accused Nos. 1 and 2 left in the company of the deceased.	Reasoning
Some evidence has also been brought to establish the motive i.e. the indebtedness of the accused to the deceased.	Reasoning
In addition to this is the evidence of PWs1 and 2.	None
So far as accused No. 2 is concerned, he almost stands on the same footing as accused No. 1.	Reasoning
Additionally, Hari Kumar (PW18) has stated that accused No. 2 came to his shop and took sweets and left in car No. 566 JK02B belonging to accused No. 1.	Reasoning
He has also stated about the return of accused No. 2 to the shop and a demand for a scooter.	None
This witness has also stated to have seen car No.	None
5408CH01 passing in front of the shop carrying seven to eight persons out of which he identified accused Kishore Kumar (since dead).	None
PW9 also has stated to have seen the deceased running being chased and he claimed to have seen the deceased firing.	None
He stated about the accused Nos. 1 and 2 giving Lalkara that the deceased shall be killed and should not escape.	None
Accused No. 1 had fired some shots in the air.	None
Another white car No. 5408	None
CHOI was also standing there.	None
He had identified accused Bodhraj, Bhupinder, Rakesh Kumar and the two acquitted accused Rohit and Kewal Krishan.	None
It has to be noted that Car No. 5408 CHOI was found discarded after it had met with an accident.	None
This car is stated to be the get away car.	None
As the evidence of PWs1 and 2 are very material it is desirable to note as to what their evidence was.	None
On 3/08/1994 PW1 was in his shop.	None
At about 4.30 p.m., A1 accompanied by the deceased and A2 came to meet him in a car.	None
A1 informed him that he and his colleagues in the car were interested in setting up a flour mill.	None
A2 was in a hurry to proceed towards the site.	None
On their way, PW1 asked A1 to stop the car to pick up PW2.	None
A2 was reluctant to stop the car and only on PW1s insistence PW2 was picked up.	None
When the deceased was attacked by the assailants and was pursued by the assailants he had started running towards the national highway.	None
A2 also ran after the deceased whereas A1 kept standing near PW1.	None
The deceased asked A1 to bring the car immediately but A1 only shouted to one Shori that the deceased should not escape PW1 identified A1 and A2 who were present in the Court.	None
PW2 stated that on 3/08/1994, he was sitting at his house when at about 4 to 4.30 to 5.00 p.m. PW1 accompanied by A1 and A2 came to his residence and asked him to show some land to the persons accompanying them for the installation of ricecumflour mill.	None
They all went to Dhiansar by car.	None
When they were still seeing the land A2 told them that he approved of the land and led them to the shop.	None
While returning the deceased was attacked by 45 persons who were armed with tokas, daggers etc.	None
The deceased started running away towards the canal and the assailants followed him and assaulted him.	None
Then PW1 immediately told him to inform the police, by which time the deceased had started bleeding, and that he ran to ring up the police.	None
PW2 however noticed that while the deceased was running, he asked accused A1 to bring the car but the latter did not move.	None
Meanwhile, PW2 went to the house of a contractor which was at a distance of 200 ft. from the place of occurrence to make the telephone call.	None
When he came back, he found the dead body of the deceased lying on the road and heard accused A2 telling accused A1.	None
Kam ho gaya let us go to Jammu.	None
The presence of PWs1 and 2 at the place of occurrence is fortified from the fact that they were witnesses to the seizure memos Ex.	None
PWGS, PWGS/1, PWGS/2 recorded by the police immediately after incident.	None
Evidence of PWs8, 9 and 18 are also relevant and their evidence is to the following effect.	None
PW8 (Surjit Singh) inter alia, stated as follows On 3/08/1994 he had gone for repair of his vehicle to Dhiansar.	None
He was at a tea stall near the garage when he saw vehicle Nos. 566 and 5408 parked on the other side of the road.	None
He saw Kishore was armed with a revolver.	None
Shots fired by the deceased caused injuries to two assailants.	None
Rajesh shot the deceased.	None
The deceased was then surrounded by the assailants and attacked by tokas, swords, etc.	None
Accused Kishore fired in the air and the assailants ran towards vehicle No. 5408.	None
He had noticed accused A1 and A2 standing near their vehicle.	None
The assailants reversed the other car and drove towards the deceased and accused Rajesh came out of the vehicle, picked up the weapon lying near the deceased and they mounted on the vehicle and drove off.	None
A1 and A2 also drove off.	None
PW9 (Nainu Singh) inter alia stated as follows On 3/08/1994, he was getting a vehicle repaired in a workshop at Dhiansar.	None
He along with Surjit Singh went towards a tea shop.	None
They heard sound of fire arms being used.	None
They saw the deceased bleeding profusely and running towards Jammu and Pathankot road.	None
Sixseven assailants were chasing him.	None
They were armed with tokas, churas and revolver.	None
The deceased while running had fired at the assailants.	None
Kishore Kumar who was armed with a pistol was running after the deceased.	None
The shots fired by the deceased were fired in his presence.	None
Two of the accused were identified by him as Subash Kumar and Rajesh Kumar.	None
When the deceased reached near the road, Rajesh Kumar fired at him and hit on his arm.	None
Thereafter, six to seven persons surrounded the deceased.	None
They were said to be armed with Chakus (knives) and Churas (bigger knives) and were stabbing the deceased.	None
Near the work shop gate car No. 566 was standing.	None
This was of grey (slaty) colour.	None
A1 and A2 had given a lalkara that the deceased should be killed and should not escape.	None
A1 had fired some shots in the air.	None
Another white car bearing No. CHOI 5408 was also parked there.	None
He noticed the accused sitting in the car.	None
He had identified Krishan Kumar, A2 and A1.	None
The driver reversed the car.	None
It was stopped near the dead body of the deceased.	None
The revolver lying near the deceased was picked up.	None
After the car had left, A1 and A2 also left in another car.	None
He knew the names of the accused Bhupinder, Rohit and Rakesh because he had identified them in the police station in the presence of Tehsildar.	None
He deposed that accused Bhupinder, Rakesh, Subash and Rajesh were holding Toka, Kirch, Sword and Revolver respectively.	None
The witness identified the revolver, sword, kirch and toka and stated that these were the weapons with which the accused were armed.	None
Evidence of PW18 (Hari Kumar) inter alia stated is as follows He was the owner of a Halwai shop in Parade Ground, Jammu.	None
On 3/08/1994, at about 11.00 a.m. accused Ravi Kumar came to the shop of Hari Kumar in his car No. 5408CHOI and left for Moti Bazar.	None
At 1 or 1.30 p.m., accused Ashok and the deceased came to his shop and told them that they were going to Hotel Asia for taking meals.	None
They took some sweets from his shop and left in car No. 566 JK02B which belonged to A1.	None
After 10 or 15 minutes, A2 also came to the shop and demanded a scooter for him for going to Hotel Asia, telling him that he needs the scooter since he had given his car to some friend.	None
He did not give a scooter to A2.	None
Half an hour thereafter, he found car No.	None
CHOI 5408 passing in front of his office shop carrying 78 boys out of which he identified Kishore Kumar (who is now dead).	None
Car was being driven by a dark complexioned boy.	None
Some factors which weighed with the High Court in upholding conviction of the three accused as was done by the trial Court are the evidence of eyewitnesses, PWs1 and 2.	None
Evidence of these witnesses have been analysed in detail by both the trial Court and the High Court.	None
Before both the said Courts, it was urged that they cannot be termed to be truthful witnesses.	None
By elaborate reasoning the stand was negatived.	None
Additionally, it was noticed that both accused Nos. 1 and 2 were seen in the company of the deceased by employees of the deceased i.e. Darshan Singh (PW15) and Rajinder Kumar (PW14).	None
Additionally, Hari Kumar (PW18) has also spoken about having seen deceased in the company of accused Nos. 1 and 2.	None
For some time accused No. 1 was not in the company of the deceased and accused No. 2.	None
At that period of time he wanted PW18 to take him to Hotel Asia.	None
He has also stated that accused No. 2 and the deceased had taken some sweets from his shop and were travelling in a car No. JK02B 566.	Reasoning
He has also stated about the statement of accused 1 and 2 that there was some scuffle between some boys and the deceased at the land which they had gone to see and in that scuffle the killing took place.	None
The reason for this was stated to be a pressure on accused 1 and 2 to return the money.	None
One of the important circumstances noticed by the trial Court as well as the High Court is that the land which was to be seen by the deceased was only known to accused 1 and 2.	None
Another circumstance noted was the use of a car 5408 CHOI.	None
There was some amount of controversy raised about the owner of the car, as it was evident from the lengthy crossexamination made so far as the original owner, that is, L. B. Gupta, Advocate (PW31).	None
The evidence of PWs1 and 2 has rightly been accepted by the trial Court and the High Court and we find no reason to discard their evidence.	None
So far as accused Rajesh Kumar is concerned as has been found by the trial Court and the High Court, live pistol belonging to accused No. 1 was recovered from his house.	None
He has sustained bullet injuries on account of firing done by the deceased while trying to protect his life.	None
In view of the circumstances noticed and highlighted by the trial Court and the High Court and in our considered opinion rightly the appeals filed by accused Ravinder Kumar and Ashok Kumar are devoid of merit and deserve dismissal, which we direct.(29)	Reasoning
Coming to the appeals filed by four appellants who were acquitted by the trial Court but convicted by the High Court, it has been argued with emphasis that even if it is accepted the two views are possible on the evidence, the one in favour of the accused was to be accepted and their acquittals should not have been rightly interfered with.	Reasoning
It is to be noticed that the trial Court placed reliance on the evidence of Hari Kumar (PW18) for the purpose of convicting accused Rajesh Kumar, but so far as the other four accused are concerned, it was not held to be reliable.	Reasoning
There was no cogent reason indicated as to why the same was termed to be unreliable.	Reasoning
Additionally, recoveries were made pursuant to the disclosure made by them.	Reasoning
Though, arguments were advanced that due procedure was not followed, in view of the evidence of the witnesses examined by the prosecution in that regard, we find nothing illegal ruling out its acceptance.	Reasoning
There are certain additional features also.	Reasoning
A pant was recovered from the house of Subash Kumar which had holes indicating passage of bullet.	Reasoning
However, a chemist (PW22) was examined to show when he had gone to purchase the medicine to be applied to the injury.	Reasoning
It was submitted that so far as Santokh Singh (PW7) is concerned, his evidence was held to be not reliable.	Reasoning
Therefore, the identification of accused No. 5, Subash Kumar by Santokh Singh was not of any consequence.	Reasoning
Even if it is accepted, the evidence relating to recovery established by the evidence of PW18 cannot be lost sight of.(30)	Reasoning
The evidence of Nainu (PW9) was also described to be unreliable and it was said that he stood at par with Santokh Singh.	Reasoning
Similar was the criticism in respect of Surjit Singh.	Reasoning
Their evidence has been analysed in great detail by the High Court and has been held to be reliable.	Reasoning
It is of significance that practically there was no crossexamination on the recovery aspect.	None
We do not find any reason to differ with the High Court in that regard.	Reasoning
There can be no dispute with the proposition as urged by learned counsel for the appellants that two views are possible, the one in favour of the accused has to be preferred.	Reasoning
But where the relevant materials have not been considered to arrive at a view by the trial Court, certainly High Court has a duty to arrive at a correct conclusion taking a view different from the one adopted by the trial Court.	Reasoning
In the case at hand, the course adopted by the High Court is proper.(31)	Reasoning
Judged in the aforesaid background, conviction by the High Court of those four who were acquitted by the High Court does not warrant any interference.(32)	Reasoning
The last seen theory comes into play where the time gap between the point of time when the accused and deceased were seen last alive and when the deceased is found dead is so small that possibility of any person other than the accused being the author of crime becomes impossible.	Reasoning
It would be difficult in some cases to positively establish that the deceased was last seen with the accused when there is a long gap and possibility of other persons coming in between exists.	Reasoning
In the absence of any other positive evidence to conclude that accused and deceased were last seen together, it would be hazardous to come to a conclusion of guilt in those cases.	Reasoning
In this case there is positive evidence that deceased, A1 and A2 were seen together by witnesses, i.e. PWs14, 15 and 18, in addition to the evidence of PWs1 and 2.(33)	Reasoning
It was submitted that there was unexplained delay in sending the FIR.	Reasoning
This point was urged before the trial Court and also the High Court.	Reasoning
It was noticed by the High Court that Showkat Khan (PW38) was an investigating officer on 3/08/1994 for a day only.	Reasoning
He had taken steps from 5.30 evening onwards to 9.00 p.m. on the spot.	Reasoning
Thereafter, Gian Chand Sharma (PW42) was asked to investigate into the matter.	Reasoning
It was also noticed that the road between Bari Brahmana and Samba where the Court was located was closed due to traffic on account of heavy rains.	Reasoning
Though, the road was open from Jammu to Bari Brahmana but it was closed from Bari Brahmana to Samba.	Reasoning
The days delay for the aforesaid purpose (the FIR has reached the Magistrate on 581994) cannot be said to be unusual when proper explanation has been offered for the delay.	Reasoning
The plea of delayed dispatch has been rightly held to be without any substance.(34)	Reasoning
Another point which was urged was the alleged delayed examination of the witnesses.	Reasoning
Here again, it was explained as to why there was delay.	Reasoning
Important witnesses were examined immediately.	Reasoning
Further statements were recorded subsequently.	Reasoning
Reasons necessitating such examination were indicated.	Reasoning
It was urged that the same was to rope in accused persons.	Reasoning
This aspect has also been considered by the trial Court and the High Court.	Reasoning
It has been recorded that there was valid reason for the subsequent and or delayed examination.	Reasoning
Such conclusion has been arrived at after analyzing the explanation offered.	Reasoning
It cannot be laid down as a rule of universal application that if there is any delay in examination of a particular witness the prosecution version becomes suspect.	Reasoning
It would depend upon several factors.	Reasoning
If the explanation offered for the delayed examination is plausible and acceptable and the Court accepts the same as plausible, there is no reason to interfere with the conclusion.(35) As was observed by this Court in Ranbir and others v. State of Punjab, AIR 1973 SC 1409 the investigating officer has to be specifically asked as to the reasons for the delayed examination where the accused raised a plea that there was unusual delay in the examination of the witnesses.	Reasoning
In the instant case however the situation does not arise.(36)	Reasoning
Therefore, in the aforesaid background, the appeals filed by the four appellants who were acquitted by the trial Court but convicted by the High Court also deserve dismissal which we direct.(37) Coming to the appeal filed by the State in respect of whom both the trial Court and the High Court recorded acquittal, it is seen that there was no acceptable material.	Decision
This aspect has been analysed in great detail by the trial Court and the High Court and we do not find any reason to interfere with the conclusions.	Decision
The appeal filed by the State is accordingly dismissed.	Decision
In the ultimate result, all the four appeals are dismissed.	Decision
Order accordingly.	Decision
