Ruma Pal, J. There are five main protagonists in these appeals, the appellant, Technip, a company incorporated in France, Coflexip, also incorporated in France, the Institut Francais du Petrol (referred to as IFP) which through its subsidiary ISIS, a company incorporated in France, was a shareholder in Technip and Coflexip, South East Asia Marine Engineering and Construction Ltd. (referred to as SEAMEC), a company incorporated and registered in India and finally the respondents who are the shareholders of SEAMEC.	Facts
SEAMEC is a subsidiary of Coflexip in the sense that Coflexip through a chain of wholly owned subsidiaries controls the majority shareholding in SEAMEC.2.	Facts
The question which arises for consideration in these appeals is whether Technip acquired control of SEAMEC through Coflexip in April, 2000, or in July, 2001?	Facts
There is no dispute that if Technip controls Coflexip then it also controls SEAMEC and if there has been a change of control of SEAMEC then Technip would be bound to offer to purchase the shares of the majority shareholders in SEAMEC in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeover) Regulations, 1997 (hereinafter referred to as the Regulations).	Facts
The importance of the date of control acquisition is because of the price of the shares payable on such public offer.	Facts
In this case the price of SEAMEC shares in April 2000 was Rs. 238 per share which was much higher than the price of Rs. 43.12 per share in July, 2001.	Facts
Technip had not made any public announcement at all, either in April 2000 or in July, 2001.3.	Facts
On the complaint of certain shareholders of SEAMEC before the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), proceedings were initiated against Technip under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (referred as the Act).	Facts
SEBI held that French law applied to the takeover of Coflexip and consequently SEAMEC by Technip for the purpose of determining when such takeover was effected.	Facts
It found that the Technip had obtained control of Coflexip in July 2001 and had violated Regulations 10 and 12 of the Regulations thereby acquiring 58.24 of the shares voting rights and control in SEAMEC in July 2001 without making any public offer.	Facts
Technip was accordingly directed by SEBI to make a public announcement as required under the Regulations within 45 days of its order taking 3rd July, 2001 as the specified date for calculation of the offered price.	Facts
Technip was also directed to pay interest at the rate of 15 per annum to the willing minority shareholders of SEAMEC, for the delayed public announcement.4.	Facts
The minority shareholders of SEAMEC preferred an appeal from SEBIs order before the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) constituted under the Act.	Facts
Their grievance was that the date of control of Coflexip by Technip was 12.4.2000 and not 3rd July, 2001 as held by SEBI.	Facts
While the appeal was pending, pursuant to an interim order passed by the Tribunal, Technip implemented the order of SEBI by making a public announcement to acquire the shares of SEAMEC by taking 3rd July, 2001 as the specified date.	Facts
Technip has also made payment of the share consideration together with the interest thereof to the shareholders of SEAMEC who accepted the public offer.5.	Facts
The Tribunal held that the applicable law to the question as to when control of SEAMEC had been taken over by Technip, was Indian Law.	Facts
The Tribunal affirmed SEBIs conclusion that the Regulations had been violated by Technip by its failure to make a public announcement but decided that the relevant date on which the control of SEAMEC was taken over by Technip was April, 2000.	Facts
The Tribunal accordingly directed Technip to treat the relevant date for calculating the offer price as 12th April, 2000 and to pay SEAMEC shareholders the difference between the price of the shares between 3.7.2001 and 12th April, 2000 together with the interest on such difference at the rate of 15.	Facts
One of the grounds on which the Tribunal came to the conclusion that Technip had taken over Coflexip in April, 2000 was based on the fact that both the companies had been promoted by IFP and that IFP through ISIS acting in concert with Technip had brought about the takeover of Coflexip by Technip.	Facts
According to Technip, since Technip and Coflexip are both registered in France and the takeover of Coflexip by Technip also took place in France, the applicable law is French.	Arguments of Petitioner
In terms of French Law, according to Technip, there was no control of Coflexip by Technip in April, 2000 and as such there was no change in control of SEAMEC on that date but in July 2001.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that in any event Regulation 12 did not apply to the takeover because SEAMEC was not the target company and that while taking over COFLEXIP, Technip neither had the common objective nor was there any agreement between Technip and Coflexip with regard to SEAMEC.	Arguments of Petitioner
The rate of interest has also been challenged.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is said that although there was no challenge to the rate which was fixed by SEBI, if the Tribunals order is upheld, then the impact of interest would be much greater.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that in any event, the dividend paid must be adjusted against the interest claimed.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the final submission of Technip that if April 2000 is to be taken as the date of control, then only those shareholders who were shareholders of SEAMEC on the specified date and continued as such till the offer was made are entitled to the benefit of the Tribunals order.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
A separate appeal has been preferred by IFP from the decision of the Tribunal being CA No. 10092/98.	Arguments of Petitioner
The grievance of IFP is that it is a professional body created by decree of the French Government and has been set up as a centre for research and industrial development, education, professional training and information for the oil and gas and automotive industries in France.	Arguments of Petitioner
IFP does not carry on any industry or commercial activities nor does it manage or control any listed company.	Arguments of Petitioner
It promotes companies to apply the results of its own research.	Arguments of Petitioner
IFP says that an unnecessary stigma has been cast by the Tribunals decision on a Government organization even though the show cause notice issued by SEBI did not make any allegation against IFP.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents have on the other hand argued that the law applicable to SEAMEC was Indian Law and to determine if there was a change in the management and control of SEAMEC the provisions of the Regulations would apply.	Arguments of Respondent
In terms of Regulations 10, 11 and 12 read with Regulation 2, any person, who acquires shares or voting rights in a registered company (described as a target company under the Regulations) above 15 or acquires control over the target company is required to make a public announcement offering to purchase the shares of the other shareholders in the target company.	Arguments of Respondent
It is the submission of the respondents that according to Indian and French Law de facto control of Coflexip and therefore SEAMEC was taken over by Technip in April, 2000.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondents also claim that Technip had in fact applied to SEBI to exempt them from the operation of the Regulations.	Arguments of Respondent
The application had been rejected.	Arguments of Respondent
This issue according to the respondent could not, therefore be reopened.	Arguments of Respondent
It is said that SEAMEC was very much in the contemplation of Technip when it decided to take over Coflexip.	Arguments of Respondent
It is asserted that therefore Regulations 10, 11 and 12 applied in full measure.	Arguments of Respondent
Technip had not only acted in concert with ISIS, another shareholder of Coflexip, but even by itself was in position to exercise and in fact exercised control over Coflexip and therefore SEAMEC in April 2000.	Arguments of Respondent
The shareholders of SEAMEC may be classified into three groupsa)	Arguments of Respondent
Those, who were shareholders of SEAMEC in April, 2000 and continued as suchb) Those, who were not shareholders in April, 2000 but were shareholders during the public offer having purchased the shares of SEAMEC before July, 2001.c)	Arguments of Respondent
Those shareholders, who were shareholders on the date of public offer holding shares purchased in April 2000 and more shares after April, 2000 but before July, 2001.	None
The respondents who belong to group (b) have said that the public offer made by Technip after SEBIs order was unconditional.	None
It was made to the shareholders who were shareholders as on the date of the public offer.	Arguments of Respondent
On the question of interest it is said that it was not open to Technip to question either its liability to pay interest or the rate of interest and that Technip had already paid interest to the present shareholders without protest.	Arguments of Respondent
Finally it is said that the finding of fact by the Tribunal should not be interfered with unless this Court came to the conclusion under Section 15Z of the Act that it was perverse.	Arguments of Respondent
We will start with this final submission.	None
Section 15Z of the SEBI Act, 1992 allows any person aggrieved by the decision or the order of the Securities Appellate Tribunal to file an appeal to the Supreme Court on any question of law arising out of such order.	None
Now the primary dispute in this appeal is whether the impugned transaction is to be judged according to French Law or Indian Law.	None
That is a question of law.	Issue
Furthermore, the determination as to what French Law is, is doubtless a question of fact but it is a question of fact of a peculiar kind.	Issue
As has been commented in Cheshire and Norths Private International Law (12th Edn.)	None
To describe it (foreign law) as one of fact is no doubt apposite, in the sense that the applicable law must be ascertained according to the evidence of witnesses, yet there can be no doubt that what is involved is at bottom a question of law.	None
This has been recognized by the courts.	None
Admittedly both Coflexip and Technip were incorporated according to and under the laws of France.	Reasoning
They are therefore domiciled in France.	Reasoning
Normally, we would resolve any issue relating to their internal affairs by applying the law of their domicil, in this case French Law (See Hazard Brothers Co. vs. Midland Bank Ltd. (1933 AC 289, 297 Metliss vs. National Bank of Greece Athens, SA (1961) AC 255).	None
But by that token it is equally true that SEAMEC which was incorporated in India would be governed by Indian law and that is what SAT held SEBI has viewed (sic) that since Technip and Coflexip are French companies, matters relating to them should be decided in accordance with French law.	None
To the said extent SEBI is correct.	None
SEBI has no jurisdiction to regulate takeovers and acquisitions taking place outside India.	None
But certainly SEBI has jurisdiction to regulate substantial acquisition and takeovers of companies in India.	None
But then it came to the conclusion that even the question whether Technip acquired control over Coflexip on 12.4.2000 and consequently over SEAMEC need be tested in the light of 2(c) definition.	None
In other words Indian law would apply to determine whether the control of Coflexip was taken over by Technip.	Reasoning
According to SAT any view to the contrary would lead to absurd consequences even defeating the very objective of the Takeover Regulations.14.	Reasoning
SATs conclusion as to the applicable law is questioned by the appellant and that cannot be considered as a question of fact.	None
As held in Dalmia Dairy Industries Ltd. vs. National Bank of Pakistan, Prakaso vs. Singh 1968 Probate Division LR 250, the role of the appellate Court is such cases is to examine the evidence of foreign law which was before the justices and to decide for ourselves whether that evidence justifies the conclusion to which they came Dalmia Dairy Industries Ltd. vs. National Bank of Pakistan (1978) 2 Lloyds Rep 223 at 286 and see Webb (1967) 16 ICLQ 1152, 11551156 The jurisdiction of SEBI and SAT or indeed this Court to apply foreign law has not been questioned at any stage.	None
What is referred to as private international law by some authorities See Cheshire Norths Private International Law is referred to as conflict of laws by others Dicey Morris The Conflict of Laws.	Reasoning
Whatever the nomenclature, it is based on the just disposal of proceedings having a foreign element.	Reasoning
To quote from	None
Kuwait Airways Corp.	None
Vs. Iraqi Airways Co. (2002) UKHL 19.	Reasoning
The jurisprudence is founded on the recognition that in proceedings having connections with more than one country an issue brought before a court in one country may be more appropriately decided by reference to the laws of another country even though those laws are different from the law of the forum court.	None
We have already said and it must be taken to be a generally accepted rule of private international law, that questions of status of a persons domicile ought in general to be recognized in other countries unless it is contrary to public policy.	Reasoning
Questions of status of an individual would include matters such as legal competence, marriage and custody.	Reasoning
(See in re Langleys Settlement Trusts (1962) Ch. 541) Russ vs. Russ (1962) 3 All E.R. Smt.	None
Surinder Kaur Sandhu vs. Harbax Singh Sandhu AIR 1984 SC 1224 Oppenheimer vs. Cattermole (1975) 1	Reasoning
All ER 538).	None
Questions as to the status of a corporation are to be decided according to the laws of its domicile or incorporation subject to certain exceptions including the exception of domestic public policy.	Reasoning
This is because a corporation is a purely artificial body created by law.	Reasoning
It can act only in accordance with the law of its creation.	Reasoning
Therefore, if it is a corporation, it can be so only by virtue of the law by which it was incorporated and it is to this law alone that all questions concerning the creation and dissolution of the corporate status are referred unless it is contrary to public policy.	Reasoning
(See In the matter of American Fibre Chair Seat Corporation.	Reasoning
William Daum et al. vs. Arthur J Kinsman 265 N.Y. 416 193 N.E. 253, McDermott Inc. vs. Harry Lewis, 531 A.2d 206 Richard Reid Rogers vs. Gauranty Trust Company of New York (288 US 123  151 (S.C. (U.S.)	None
Carl Zeiss Stiftung vs. Rayner and Keller Ltd. (1966) 2	None
All ER 536 Gaudiya Mission others vs. Brahmachari Others, 1998 Ch. 341 Kuwait Airways Corp. vs. Iraqi Airways Co. (No. 3) 2002 UKHL 19 Lazard Brothers Co. vs. Midland Bank Ltd. (1933)	Reasoning
AC 289 at 297 Cheshire and Norths Private International Law (12th Edn.)	None
p.174).17.	None
This general rule regarding determination of status by the lex incorporations will not apply when the issue relates to the discharge of obligations or assertion of rights by a corporation in another country whether such obligation is imposed by or right arises under statute or contract which is governed by the law of such other country.	Reasoning
The distinction is brought out in the case of National Bank of Greece and Athens S.A. and Metliss 58 A.C. 509.	None
A Greek Bank had issued mortgage bonds to persons in U.K. in pounds sterling.	None
The bonds were guaranteed by another bank.	None
Both the issuing bank and the guaranteeing bank were incorporated under Greek Law.	None
The guaranteeing bank was subsequently amalgamated with a third Greek company and a new company was formed.	None
A bond holder sued the new company seeking to enforce the guarantee.	None
Under the Greek law there was a moratorium imposed on payments by the new bank.	None
It was held by the House of Lords that the status of the new bank would be decided according to the law of the domicile of the original guarantor company and the new company which was Greek law.	None
It was found that according to Greek law the new company succeeded to the assets and liabilities of the guarantor company.	None
The question then was whether the English Courts would recognize the moratorium as debarring the bond holder from enforcing his rights under the bond.	None
It was not in dispute that the bond was governed by English law.	None
It was held that the evidence of the effect of the Greek moratorium in Greece was therefore irrelevant.	None
This was an English debt and the obligation to pay it, its quantum and the date of payment, are all governed by English law which will not give effect to the Greek Moratorium.	None
(pg. 529)	None
The claim of the bond holder was accordingly allowed.	None
Consequent upon the decision of the House of Lords a new Greek law was passed retrospectively modifying the terms of the amalgamation, so that the new bank was no longer required to discharge the original guarantors dues to the bond holders.	None
The House of Lords in Adams vs. National Bank of Greece S.A. 1961 A.C. 255, 282 again rejected the new banks submission that it was not liable on the bonds.	None
It was held that what was sought to be enforced was not a Greek right, but a right arising under a contract under English law.	None
It was held It is well settled that English law cannot give effect to a foreign law which discharges an English liability to pay money in England and the appellants contracts were English contracts under which they were to be paid in England.	None
Although the law of the Banks domicile determined its status as a debtor, it could not determine the liability of the defendant on a contract subject expressly to English law.	None
The relationship of Technip to Coflexip whether one of control or not is really a question of their status.	Reasoning
The applicable law would therefore be the law of their domicil, namely, French law.	Reasoning
Having determined their status according to French Law, the next question as to their obligation under the Indian Law vis a vis SEAMEC would have to be governed exclusively by Indian law (in this case the Act and the Regulations).	Reasoning
SATs error lay in not differentiating between the two issues of status and the obligation by reason of the status and in seeking to cover both under a single system of law.23.	Reasoning
But, contend that respondents, the French law even if applicable, was contrary to the Act Regulations and is thereby contrary to the public policy underlying the Indian enactment.	Reasoning
In our view, domestic public policy which can justify a disregard of the applicable foreign law must relate to basic principles of morality and justice and the foreign law amount to a flagrant gross breach of such principles.	Reasoning
As far back as in 1918, Cardozo, J, speaking for the Bench in Fannie F. Loucks et al., as Administrators of the Estate of Everett A. Loucks, Deceased, Appellants, V. Standard Oil Company of New York, Respondent, 224 N.Y. 99 said The courts are not free to refuse to enforce a foreign right at the pleasure of the judges, to suit the individual notion of expediency or fairness.	None
They do not close their doors unless help would violate some fundamental principle of justice, some prevalent conception of good morals, some deeprooted tradition of the common weal.	None
Similarly the House of Lords in Kuwait Airways Corp. vs. Iraqi Airways Co. (No. 3) (2002) UKHL 19 said Exceptionally and rarely, a provision of foreign law will be disregarded when it would lead to a result wholly alien to fundamental requirements of justice as administered by the English court.	None
In other words the power to disregard a provision in the foreign law must be exercised exceptionally and with the greatest circumspection when to do otherwise would affront basic principles of justice and fairness which the courts seek to apply in the administration of justice in this country.	None
Gross infringements of human rights are one instance, and an importance instance, of such provision.	None
(ibid).	None
The issue in the latter case arose out of an Iraqi law which confiscated Kuwaiti aeroplanes and vested them in the Iraqi Airlines Corporation.	None
The Court refused to recognize the Iraqi law because A legislative act by a foreign state which is an flagrant breach of clearly established rules of international law ought not to be recognized by the courts of this country as forming part of the lex situs of that state.	None
This Court in Renusagar Power Co. Ltd. vs. General Electric Co. 1994 Supp.	None
(1) SCC 644, while construing Section 7(1)(b) of the Foreign Awards Act which allows Indian Courts the power to refuse to enforce foreign awards which are contrary to public policy, has held that  defence of public policy which is permissible under Section 7(1)(b)(ii) should be construed narrowly It must be held that the enforcement of a foreign award would be refused on the ground that it is contrary to public policy if such enforcement would be contrary to (i) fundamental policy of Indian law or (ii) the interests of India or (iii) justice or morality.	None
(pg. 682).	None
In that case it had been argued by the appellant that the expression public policy in Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Act has to be construed in a liberal sense and not narrowly and it would include within its ambit disregard of the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Regulations Act, 1973.	None
This Court accepted the argument on the ground that the provisions contained in FERA have been enacted to safeguard the economic interests of India and any violation of the said provisions would be contrary to the public policy of India as envisaged in Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Act.	None
However, on the facts it was held that the enforcement of the award would not involve violation of any of the provisions of FERA and for that reason it not would be contrary to public policy of India so as to render the award unenforceable in view of Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of that Act.	None
In a sense all statutes enacted by Parliament or the States can be said to be part of Indian public policy.	Reasoning
But to discard a foreign law only because it is contrary to an Indian statute would defeat the basis of private international law to which India undisputedly subscribes (See Surinder Kaur Sandhu vs. Harbax Singh Sandhu (supra).	Reasoning
To quote again from the Kuwait Airways case (supra).	None
The laws of the other country may have adopted solutions, or even basic principles, rejected by the law of the forum country.	None
These differences do not in themselves furnish reasons why the forum court should decline to apply the foreign law.	Reasoning
On the contrary, the existence of differences is the very reason why it may be appropriate for the forum court to have recourse to the foreign law.	Reasoning
If the laws of all countries were uniform there would be no conflict of laws.	Reasoning
The Bhagwati Committee Report in Takeovers (1997) which was prepared after examining the principles and practices and the regulatory framework governing takeovers in as many as fourteen countries noted that while the practice and procedures very from country to country, the principles and the concerns  cardinal among which are equality of opportunity to all shareholders, protection of minority interest, transparency and fairnesshave remained more or less common.	None
The aim of French Law like Indian Law is to ensure that all parties to a public tender offered respect the principles of shareholder equality, market transparency and integrity, fair trading and fair completion.	None
All this is culled from the opinions of the experts relied upon by all the parties.	None
Under Section 45 of the Evidence Act, 1972, the Court can take the admitted position into consideration in order to form an opinion as to the text of the relevant French law.	None
(see De Beeche and others vs. The South American Stores (Gath and Chaves Limited and the Chilian Stores Gath and Chaves Limited) 1934 LR A.C. 148)	None
Undisputedly, in April 2000, the relevant law in force in France was Article 3551 of the French Companies Act 1966 (LOI No. 66537, du 24 Juillet 1966, Sur les Societas Commerciales).	None
It read as follows A company shall be regarded as controlling another(1)	None
When it directly or indirectly holds a percentage of the capital conferring on it the majority of the voting rights in the general meetings of this company(2)	None
When it alone holds the majority of the voting rights in this company pursuant to an agreement concluded with other members or shareholders and which is not contrary to the interests of the company(3)	None
When it actually makes, due to the voting rights which it holds, the decisions in the general meetings of this company.	None
II.	None
It shall be presumed to excise this control when it directly or indirectly holds a percentage of the voting rights higher than 40 and when no other member or shareholder directly or indirectly holds a percentage higher than its own.	None
Subclauses (1) and (2) of Clause (1) of Article 355A, deal with de jure acquisition of control by one company of another.	None
The third subclause deals with de facto control.	None
All three subsections deal with the position of a company acting on its own.	None
Clause II of Article 355.	None
1 provided for statutory presumption of control when the acquiring company directly or indirectly held more than 40 of the voting rights and was the largest shareholder.	None
In May, 2001, Article 3551 of the 1996 Act was amended to include the following Subsection III.	None
In order to apply the same sections of this chapter, two or more persons acting in concert shall be regarded as jointly controlling another when they actually make, under an agreement to implement a common policy, the decisions taken in the general meetings of the latter.	None
Clause III provides for control being acquired by persons acting in concert under an agreement to implement a common policy if they actually take decisions in furtherance of such agreement at general meetings of the controlled company.	None
The entire Article was incorporated in the French Commercial Code as Article L2333 in 2002.	None
The second relevant Article is Article 3561.	None
Roughly translated it provided Any individual or legal entity, acting alone or in concert, that becomes the owner of a number of shares representing more than one twentieth, one tenth, one fifth, one third, one half of two thirds of the capital or the voting rights of a company having its registered office in France and whose shares are admitted for trading on a regulated market or are traded on the overthecounter market as stated in article 34 of law no. 96596 dated July 2nd, 1996 relating to the modernization of financial activities, shall inform such company in a period of 15 days as of the crossing upwards of the threshold of the total number of shares that such person holds.	None
The owner also informs the Conceil de Marches Financiers (CMF) within a period of 5 trading days as of the day of crossing upwards of the threshold when the shares are listed on a regulated market.	None
The CMF makes public such information.	None
The notifications referred to in the two proceeding paragraphs are also to be provided in the same period when the equity interest falls below the thresholds provided in the first paragraph.	None
The owner who is required to disclose the information in accordance with the first paragraph above specifies the number of securities that it possesses giving access to the capital of the company as well as the voting rights attached thereto.	None
The bylaws of the company can provide for additional disclosure obligations relating to holdings of fractions of the capital or voting rights that are less than the onetwentieth mentioned in the preceding paragraph.	None
The obligation relates to holding each such fraction, which cannot be less than 0.5 of the capital or voting rights.	None
In the event of a failure to satisfy the disclosure obligations mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the bylaws of the company may stipulate that the provisions of the first two paragraphs of article 3564 shall apply only if requested and duly recorded in the minutes of the general meeting, by one or more shareholders holding a fraction of the capital or the voting rights of the issuing company at least equal to the smallest fraction of the capital held which must be declared.	None
This percentage shall nevertheless not be greater than 5.	None
The owner who is required to disclose according to the first paragraph must declare upon exceeding the thresholds of one tenth or one fifth of the capital or the voting rights of the objectives that he intends to pursue over the coming twelve months.	None
This declaration shall state whether the acquirer is acting alone or in concert, whether he intends to make further purchases, whether he intends to acquire control of the company, and whether he intends to seek his appointment or that of one or more other persons to the board of directors, management committee or surveillance committee.	None
It is sent to the company whose shares have been acquired and to the CMF who publishes it, and to the Commission des Operations de Bourse (COB), within fifteen trading days of surpassing the threshold.	None
Should those intentions change, and this is admissible only in the event of substantial changes in the environment, the financial situation or the shareholder base of the persons concerned, a new declaration must be made and published in the same way.	None
The last paragraph of Section 356I provides that, upon crossing the thresholds of 10 of share capital or voting rights in the target company, and again of 20 of share capital or voting rights in the target company, the purchaser is required to file with the Stock Exchange Authorities, with copy to the target company, a Statement of Intent, specifying (i) whether the purchaser acts alone or in concert with third parties, (ii) whether the purchaser intends to continue acquiring shares in the target company, (iii) whether the purchaser intends to acquire control of the target company and (iv), whether the purchaser intends to seek representation on the Board of Directors of the target.	None
The Section has been reenacted as L 2337 of the 2002, French Commercial Code.	None
Therefore, French Law at the relevant time provided that a company holds control over another (the Target Company) in the following cases.(i) the Company holds, directly, or indirectly, title to a number of shares granting to such holder a majority of voting rights in the general meeting of shareholders of the Target.(ii) the Company holds the majority of voting rights in the Target pursuant to an agreement with a third party or as a result of acting in concert with such third party.(iii) the Company in effect determines, through the votes it holds, the decisions taken in the general meetings of shareholders of the Target (what is known as de facto control).40.	Reasoning
The Stock Exchange authorities in France are the Conceil des Marches Financiers or the French Financial Markets Authority (referred to as the CMF) and the Commission des Operations de Bourse viz.	Reasoning
the French Stock Exchange Authority (referred to as the COB).	Reasoning
They are regulatory bodies with powers of inspection, supervision and disciplinary action.	Reasoning
The supervisory role of CMF is itself subject to the Commission Bancaire or the French Banking Commission and the COB.	Reasoning
Article 1 and Article 2 of Decree No. 96869 dated October 3, 1996 also provide for appeals from the decisions taken by the CMF before the Paris Courts of Appeals.	Reasoning
Article 33 of ChapterI TitleII provides that the CMF shall set forth the Rules governing public offers including the conditions under which a natural or legal person, acting alone or in concert within the meaning of Article 35613 of Law 6637 dated July 24, 1966 aforesaid and who directly or indirectly comes to hold a certain percentage of the capital stock or voting rights in a company whose shares are traded on a regulated market to forthwith inform the CMF and file a proposed tender offer with a view to acquiring a specified quantity of the companys securities.	Reasoning
If this finding is not made, the securities that the person holds in excess of the aforementioned percentage of the capital stock or voting rights shall be deprived of voting rights.41.	Reasoning
The provisions in French law relating to takeovers as we see them are, therefore, rigorous.	Reasoning
The Indian law is no less rigorous and differs only marginally with the French law on the subject.	Reasoning
The three relevant Regulations which were alleged to have been violated by Technip are Regulations 10, 11 and 12.	None
Regulations 10, 11 and 12 are contained in Chapter III of the Regulations which deals with substantial acquisition of shares or voting rights in and acquisition of control over a listed company No acquirer shall acquire shares or voting rights which (taken together with shares or voting rights if any, held by him or by persons acting in concert with him), entitle such acquirer or exercise fifteen percent or more of the voting right in a company, unless such acquirer makes a public announcement to acquire shares of such company in accordance with the Regulations.11(1)	None
No acquirer who, together with persons acting in concert with him, has acquired, in accordance with the provisions of law, not less than 15 not more than 75 of the shares or voting rights in a company, shall acquire either by himself or through or with persons acting in concert with him, additional shares or voting rights entitling him to exercise more than 2 of the voting rights, in any period of 12 months, unless such acquirer makes a public announcement to acquire shares in accordance with the Regulations.(2)	None
No acquirer shall acquire shares or voting rights which (taken together with shares or voting rights, if any, held by him or by persons acting in concert with him), entitle such acquirer to exercise more than 51 of the voting rights in a company, unless such acquirer makes a public announcement to acquire share of such company in accordance with the Regulations.	None
Explanation For the purposes of Regulation 10 and Regulation 11, acquisition shall mean and include(b) direct acquisition in a listed company to which the Regulations apply(c) indirect acquisition by virtue of acquisition of holding companies, whether listed or unlisted, whether in India or abroad.12.	None
Irrespective of whether or not there shall been any acquisition of shares or voting rights in a company, no acquirer shall acquire control over the target company, unless such person makes a public announcement to acquire shares and acquires such shares in accordance with the Regulations.	None
ExplanationWhere any person or persons has given joint control, such control shall not be deemed to be a change in control so long as the control given is equal as the control given is equal to or less than the control exercises by person(s) presently having control over the company.	None
The difference between the French law and their regulations relates to the prescribed limits of share holding for control by one company over another.	Reasoning
This cannot conceivably make the French law violative of any public policy underlying the Acts and Regulations so as to persuade us to disregard the French Law.	Reasoning
Thus it is the French law which we must apply to decide whether Technip took over the control of Coflexip in April 2000 or July 2001.	Reasoning
Incidentally the opinions of various persons claiming to be experts in French Commercial Law have expressed diametrically opposing views as to whether Technip could be said to have taken control of Coflexip applying the relevant French law, in April 2000.	Reasoning
We do not propose to rely upon either of the views expressed as none of them was subjected to cross examination.	None
According to Technip their expert affirmed an affidavit and was offered for cross examination by SEBI and that SEBI declined to do so.	None
But the affidavit unlike the opinion expressed by the same firm earlier to Technip on 15th November 2001 did not express any opinion as to whether Technip did or did not acquire control of Coflexip either in April or July 2001 but only gave evidence of the applicable French law and highlighted the consequences of failure to comply with the statement of intent which was required to be filed with CMF.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, ultimately it is for this Court to resolve the conflict by looking at the admitted text of the French law and the material on record to decide the proper application of the provisions.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the show cause notice issued by SEBI to Technip, Technip had acquired control of Coflexip by acting in concert with ISIS.	Arguments of Petitioner
Technip has said that in April, 2000 there was no concept of acting in concert under French Law since the extended meaning of controlled company was introduced by amendment to Article 3551 only in May, 2001.	None
The submission ignores Article 3561.The concept of a takeover by acting in concert was there in 2000.	Reasoning
In fact Article 3551 of the French Companies Act merely sets but factors determining when a company could be said to hold control over another.	Reasoning
It does not, as Article 356.1 does, speak of the method for acquiring such control.45.	Reasoning
At this stage and before we apply the law to the facts we may note one aspect that has been lost sight of by SAT and that is that irrespective of the status of Coflexip and Technip to each other, in order to trigger Regulations 10 to 12, it would have to be established that the purchase of the 29.68 shares by Technip in Coflexip was with the object of taking control of SEAMEC.	Reasoning
That is what the relevant Regulations provide and also what is alleged in the Show Cause Notice issued to Technip by SEBI.	Reasoning
The allegation in the show cause notice was that Technip, the acquirer and ISIS as a shareholder of Coflexip acted in concert to acquire control over Coflexip and therefore SEAMEC treating SEAMEC as the target company.	Reasoning
The emphasis is on the target company whether the case is of direct or indirect acquisition under the Regulations.	Reasoning
Thus Regulation 2(b) of the Regulations defines acquirer as meaning any person who, directly or indirectly, acquires or agrees to acquire shares or voting rights in the target company and acquirer also means a person who acquire or agrees to acquire control over the target company either by himself or with any person acting in concert with the acquirer.	Reasoning
The word control has been defined in Regulation 2(c) in the following manner control shall include the right to appoint majority of the directors or to control the management or policy decisions exercisable by a person or persons acting individually or in concert, directly or indirectly, including by virtue of their shareholding or management rights or shareholders agreements or voting agreements or in any other manner.	None
The other definition which is relevant is Regulation 2(e) defining the phrase person acting in concert.	None
We are concerned with subsection (i) which says that it comprises persons who, for a common objective or purpose of substantial acquisition of shares or voting rights or gaining control over the target company, pursuant to an agreement or understanding (formal or informal), directly or indirectly cooperate by acquiring or agreeing to acquire shares or voting rights in the target company or control over the target company.	None
Finally is the definition of the word target company in Regulation 2(o) as meaning a listed company whose shares or voting rights or control is directly or indirectly acquired or is being acquired.	None
If The Indian Law were to be invoked in April 2000 it would have to be shown that Technip acquired or agreed to acquire the right to control SEAMEC (in this case the alleged target company) either by itself or acting in concert with any other shareholder or Coflexip.	None
According to the Bhagwati Committee Report to be acting in concert with an acquirer, persons must fulfill certain bright line tests.	None
They must have commonality of objectives and a community of interest and their act or acquiring the shares or voting rights in company must serve this common objective.	None
The commonality of objective which should be established between the acquirer and a shareholder in order to trigger off Regulations 10,11 and 12 with respect to a subsidiary company is referred to as the chain principle in the Report which enunciates that an offer should be made to the shareholders of such a target company if (a) the shareholding in the second company constitutes a substantial part of the assets of the first company or (b) one of the main purposes of acquiring control of the first company was to secure control of the second company.	None
This is evident also reading the definitions of acquirer control acting in concert and target company in Regulations 2(b) (c) (e) and (o) together.	None
A similar position obtains in England where Note 7 to Rule 9.1 of the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers likewise provides Occasionally, a person or group of persons requiring statutory control of a company (which need not be a company to which the Code applies) will thereby acquire or consolidate control, as defined in the Code, of a second company because the first company itself holds a controlling block of shares in the second company, or holds shares which, when aggregated with those already held by the person or group, secure or consolidate control of the second company.	None
The Panel will not normally require an offer to be made under this Rule in these circumstances unless eithera) the shareholding in the second company constitutes a substantial part of the assets of the first company orb) one of the main purposes of acquiring control of the first company was to secure control of the second company.	None
actual concerted acting is normally difficult to obtain, and is not insisted upon (Commissioner of Income Tax, West Bengal vs. East Coast Commercial Co. Ltd. AIR 1967 SC 768 ).	None
While deciding whether a company was one in which the public were substantially interested within the meaning of Section 23A of the Income Tax Act, 1922 this Court said Chave actually acted in concert but whether the circumstances are such that human experience tells us that it can safely be taken that they must be acting together.	None
It is not necessary to state the kind of evidence that will prove such concerted actings.	None
Each case must necessarily be decided on its own facts (Commissioner of Income Tax vs. Jubilee Mills Ltd. 1963 IIL ITR SC 9.)	None
In Guinness PLC and Distillers Company PLC the question before the Takeover Panel was whether Guinness had acted in concert with Pipetec when Pipetec purchased shares in Distillers Company PLC.	None
Various factors were taken into consideration to conclude that Guinness had acted in concert with Pipetec to get control over Distillers Company.	None
The Panel said The nature of acting in concert requires that the definition be drawn in deliberately The second company both under the chain principle referred to in the Bhagwati Committee Report as well as in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers is the target company and the first company is the medium or vessel or vehicle for attaining control on the target company.	None
In the present case Coflexip would be the first company and SEAMEC the actual target and the liability to make an exit offer to the shareholders of SEAMEC would arise only if either one of the two conditions prescribed is fulfilled.	None
It would therefore have to be proved by the shareholders of SEAMEC that Coflexip was taken over (if at all) in April 2000 by Technip with the assistance of ISIS so that control of SEAMEC could be obtained or that Coflexips shareholding of SEAMEC constituted a substantial part of Coflexips assets.53.	None
The standard of proof required to establish such concert is one of probability and may be established if having regard to their relation etc., their conduct, and their common interest, that it may be inferred that they must be acting together evidence of wide terms.	Reasoning
It covers an understanding as well as an agreement, and an informal as well as a formal arrangement, which leads to cooperation to purchase shares to acquire control of a company.	Reasoning
This is necessary, as such arrangements are often informal, and the understanding may arise from a hint.	Reasoning
The understanding may be tacit, and the definition covers situations where the parties act on the basis of a nod or a wink Unless persons declare this agreement or understanding, there is rarely direct evidence of action in concert, and the Panel must draw on its experience and commonsense to determine whether those involved in any dealings have some form of understanding and are acting in cooperation with each other.	Reasoning
Guinness PLC, The Distillers Company PLC (Panel hearing on 25th August 1987 and 2nd September, 1987 at page 10052  Reasons for Decisions of the Panel.54.	Reasoning
According to the Dictionaire Permanent du Droit des Affairs French law does not make proof of the concerted action dependant upon the existence of a written document.	Reasoning
However, given the serious consequence linked to the existence of a concerted action, only serious presumptions drawn from actual date on lead to a qualification of a concerted action.	Reasoning
The mere observation of similarity of behaviours cannot constitute such a proof.	Reasoning
Even the common position of certain shareholders is not necessarily indicative of the existence of a concerted action.	Reasoning
Such shareholders may have adopted legitimately a similar position, independently, because of their own strategic interest.	Reasoning
(Extract from the 1989 French Securities and Exchange Commission Report).	None
In this background of the law we may consider briefly the relevant facts.56.	Facts
IFP had promoted Technip and Coflexip in 1958 and 1971 respectively.	Facts
In 1975 IFP promoted ISIS as a wholly owned subsidiary to hold its investments.	Facts
It is the admitted position that IFP retained majority control of ISIS until October, 2001.57.	Facts
The main shareholders of Technip at all material times were ISIS, Gaz de France and Sogerap (which later came to be known as Fina Total Elf and is hereafter referred to as Elf).	Facts
They held 11.8, 10.9 and 6.4 of the shareholding whereas 65.9 of the shareholding was held by the public.	Facts
In 1994 ISIS, Gaz de France, Elf and Technip entered into an agreement inter alia granting a right of preemption to each other in respect of their respective shareholdings.58.	Facts
The shareholders of Coflexip till April 2000 were ISIS, Elf and Stena (incorporated in the Netherlands), apart from American investors who held 50 of the shareholding.	Facts
The first three shareholders had entered into a similar shareholders agreement with a right of preemption.59.	Facts
Coflexip through a chain of subsidiaries purchased 49.85 of the shareholding in SEAMEC on 25th October, 1999.60.	Facts
In December, 1999, the Chairman CEO of Coflexip made a proposal to the Chairman CEO of Technip to examine the merits of a merger between Coflexip and Technip.	Facts
In January, 2000 Stena intimated that it would not support a merger of Coflexip and Technip as it was not part of Stenas strategy to hold an equity stake in an engineering and construction company.61.	Facts
On 31st March, 2000, Stena offered to sell its shares in Coflexip held by its and its associates J.P. Morgan, being 29.7 of the shareholding of Coflexip, to Technip.62.	Facts
ISIS had three representatives on Coflexips Board of 11 Directors, who also had two Directors in Technip.63.	Facts
On 7th April, 2000, the Board of Technip approved the deal with Stena to purchase its 29.68 shares in Coflexip.	Facts
ISIS and Elf abstained from voting as they were shareholders in both Coflexip and Technip.64.	Facts
On 11th April, 2000, several events took place.	Facts
ISIS wrote a letter to Stena renouncing its preemptive rights under the shareholders agreement in favour of Technip.	Facts
There is no binding that it would have been financially possible for ISIS to have exercised its preemptive rights given the financial implications particularly the necessity to make a further public offer to purchase the balance shares of Coflexip as it would have crossed the threshold as prescribed under French Law.	Facts
On the same date Elf also renounced its preemptive rights under the shareholders agreement in favour of Technip.	Facts
An agreement was then entered into between Technip and Stena for the acquisition of Stenas 29.68 shares in Coflexip at the rate of Euros 119 per share.	Facts
Statements of intent were filed by Technip with Stock Exchange Authorities and with Coflexip.	Facts
Coflexip in turn wrote a letter to Technip on the same date agreeing not to acquire equity shares in a competing company without prior written consent of Technip.65.	Facts
The declaration required by French law was made to the CMF by Technip on 28th April, 2000 that Technip.	None
a) did not directly or indirectly hold any other shares in Coflexipb) it was not acting in concert with any other and had no plans for any such actionc) it had no intention to increase its equity stake within 12 months after acquisitiond) undertaking not to acquire new equity shares in other companies involved in Coflexips scope of activities except with the prior written approval of Coflexipe) agreeing that violation of any of the aforesaid stipulation would entitle Coflexip to claim damages.	Facts
This was published by CMF on 4th May, 2000.	Facts
A similar declaration or statement of intent was given to COB.	Facts
Both the authorities accepted the declaration and there was no protest to the publication by any member of Coflexip or anyone else for that matter.	Facts
There is thus no dispute that Technip agreed to acquire 29.68 shares in Coflexip on 11.4.2000.	Facts
Nor is it disputed that it complied with the requirements of Art 3561.	None
Clearly a purchase of 29.68 shares in a company would not by itself give the purchase de jure control of the company under French Law.	Reasoning
The acceptance of the statement of intent filed by Technip before the Stock Exchange Authorities would not however be conclusive of the matter.	Reasoning
It may be that the Market Authorities agree to the publication of a statement or a notice or a financial publication.	Reasoning
It may also be that those professional independent bodies have professionally verified the contents of such communications and have been satisfied with their accuracy.	Reasoning
However, there is no adjudicatory process and there was no judicial decision of any authority which we could recognize as a foreign judgment on any principle of judicial comity or conflict of laws.	Reasoning
To return to the narration of facts68.	None
On the same date i.e. 11th April 2000 three appointees of Technip were coopted on the Board of Coflexip.	Facts
According to Technip there was in fact no change in the daily management of Coflexip.	Facts
Coflexips Board of Directors consisted of eleven Directors, of which Technips Directors were only three.	Facts
The Presiding of the Board and the Managing Director continued to be the same.	Facts
The respondents have argued that there was in fact an effective change in the management.	None
Of the 11 Directors of Coflexip, three belonged to ISIS.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, ISIS and Technip together had a total of six out of the eleven Directors on Coflexips Board.	Arguments of Respondent
Additionally, Technips Directors were appointed to the Strategic Committee as well as the Audit Committee of the Board.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondents point out that all these appointments were made even before payment of the purchase price of the shares by Technip to Stena.	Arguments of Respondent
The purchase of shares between Stena and Technip was completed on 19th April, 2000, on which date and Stenas 29.68 shares in Coflexip was registered in favour of Technip.	Arguments of Respondent
Technip has argued that the effect of the purchase of the Stenas shares was merely a strategic alliance between Coflexip and Technip and Technip did not control Coflexip.	None
On the other hand there was evidence of a possible acquisition of Technip by Coflexip.	Arguments of Petitioner
This position continued till January, 2001 when IFP agreed to sell its entire interest in ISIS to Technip.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Technip and IFP this was the first time IFP had come into the picture.70.	Arguments of Petitioner
In February, 2001 the Chairman of Coflexip expressed his reservation about the proposed sale of ISIs shares in Coflexip to Technip.	Arguments of Petitioner
Coflexip continued to act independently of Technip with regard to various policy decisions.	Arguments of Petitioner
Technip offered to purchase the balance shares of Coflexip at a premium of 25 on 3rd July, 2001.	Arguments of Petitioner
The price offered by Technip was not immediately acceptance to the Board of Coflexip.	Arguments of Petitioner
A Special Committee was set up to consider whether the price was adequate.	Arguments of Petitioner
ISIS voted in favour of setting up of the committee.	Arguments of Petitioner
As it happened, the Special Committee recommended a higher price, so that the Technip had to improve its offer to purchase Coflexips share.	Arguments of Petitioner
These facts according to Technip showed that ISIS was not acting in concert with Technip.	Arguments of Petitioner
Technip has said that the purchase of 100 shareholding was duly approved by Regulatory Authorities of USA, Finland and Netherlands and on 11th October, 2001 Technip acquired control of 99.04 of the share capital of ISIS and 98.36 of the share capital of Coflexip.	Arguments of Petitioner
Coflexips shares were registered in the name of Technip on 19th October, 2001.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are of the opinion that having regard to the balance of probabilities there was no evidence that Technip obtained de facto control of Coflexip in April 2000.	Reasoning
The evidence would rather suggest that it was nothing more than a strategic alliance.	Reasoning
The mere fact that in two Annual General Meetings of Coflexip Technip was in the majority cannot by itself establish its control over Coflexip.	Reasoning
It may be that in a company with a large and dispersed membership, a comparatively small proportion of the total shares, if held in one hand, may enable actual control to be exercised Hindustan Motors Ltd. vs. Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Commission AIR 1973 Calcutta 450.	Reasoning
But the obtaining of a majority in a shareholders meeting may have been the outcome of absenteeism or some other factor.	Reasoning
It is not as if Technip exerted its influence over any policy matters of Coflexip.	Reasoning
Besides this was not the case in the Show Cause Notice.	Reasoning
The allegation was that ISIS and Technip acted in concert in the matter of purchase of Stenas shares in Coflexip by Technip.	Reasoning
That has not been established.73.	Reasoning
Technips explanation for ISIS not exercising its preemptive right under the shareholders agreement is plausible.	Reasoning
The explanation was that ISIS was a subsidiary of IFP and it is not the policy of IFP to manage companies in which it invests.	Reasoning
ISIS therefore was not interested in acquiring further shares in Coflexip nor did it have the financial means to do so.	Reasoning
ISIS was a Government controlled company and was holdings shares on behalf of IFP, a Government body, and its failure to exercise its rights of preemption could be a Government decision should IFP have caused ISIS to proceed with such a huge investment, it could have been in breach of the relevant EU regulations as intervention of the State in Private Industry.74.	Reasoning
In any event there is no evidence that Technip acquired Coflexip if it at all did so in April 2000, so as to gain control of SEAMEC.	Reasoning
Yet that is the aspect with which we are concerned.	Reasoning
SEBI said that on the material before it, it was difficult to hold that IFP along with ISIS was acting in concert with Technip for the purpose of acquiring shares voting rights control of Coflexip so as to indirectly acquire control over SEAMEC in April, 2000.	Reasoning
But in view of the admitted takeover of Coflexip by Technip in July 2001 directed the publication of an offer to SEAMECs taking that as the effective date.75.	Reasoning
In reversing this judgment, SAT held that ISIS and Technip had acted in concert to gain control over Coflexip in April, 2000.	Reasoning
We are of the opinion that the approach of the SAT was entirely wrong.	Reasoning
For the purposes of determining Technips obligations under the Regulation it should have addressed itself as SEBI had done to the question whether ISIS and Technip were acting in concert to obtain control over the target company, namely, SEAMEC.	Reasoning
In other words, did the shareholding of Coflexip in SEAMEC constitute a substantial part of the assets of Coflexip, or was the main purpose of acquiring control of Coflexip the acquisition of control over SEAMEC?	None
According to the SAT, the reasons which established that ISIS and Technip were acting in concert in April 2000 were as follows there was shareholders agreement dated 2.11.1994 between Stena group on one side and ISIS and others on the other to control Coflexip	None
It is also noted that ISIS group had not exercised its preemptive right to block Technips entry.(ii) (it was clear) from the shareholding pattern of Technip, Coflexip and ISIS that IFP was having common interest.(iii)	None
Whether these companies belonged to one group or that they were companies under the same management may be in dispute.	None
But no one can dispute that they belonged to one family in the real sense ISIS and IFP had one lineage  the common parenthood in IFP Gaz de France and Total Fina Elfboth associated with IFP family.(iv)	None
Coflexip and Technip are having interest in the Petroleum sector, IPF could be interested in these 2 entities joining together and forming a combine and that having regard to their common interest, it may be inferred that they must be acting together.(v)	None
Technip Chairmans letter that they were ultimately planning to take over Coflexip and they were on this merger, passing through a number of necessary stages which included the acquisition of 30 of Coflexip in April 2000(vi) ISIS has its nominees on the Board of Technip.	None
ISIS has its nominees of Coflexip.	None
Thus in a 11 member Board of Coflexip Technip ISIS combine had a majority.(Vii) From the material available on record there is every justification to infer that the plan was to combine Technip and Coflexip and form a strong combined entity to be a business leader in the petroleum sector and that it was with this end in view Technip in which ISIS had interest acquired Coflexip in which also ISIS had interest.(viii) total holding of these two companies were around 47 sufficient enough to control Coflexip in view of its 48 shares widely held by public.	None
It is also noted that in fact in the annual general meeting of Coflexip held in May 2000 and May 2001 (before the merger effected on 3.7.2001) Technip had exercised 54 and 57 of the voting rights, that this itself is indicative of the fact that Technip had more than 50 voting rights at its command, even though on record it was holding only 29.(ix) ISIS objecting to the setting up of a committee to revise that offer price, is but natural as an increase in offer price was to its advantage and by doing so it was not in any way acting against its objective of helping Technip to acquire control over Coflexip.	Arguments of Respondent
Adding a little more financial burden on Technip by asking for higher offer price can not be viewed as a hostile action from ISIS or as evidence of noncooperation.(x)	None
Technip possibly wanted to strengthen its position dejure as well with 99 and they acquired shares to that level through the public offer in July, 2001.	None
In my view the acquisition raising the shareholding to 99 in Coflexip was the final act whereas the process started on 12.4.2000.(xi) in my view Technip had decided to take over control of Coflexip and to achieve the said objective, acquired 29.68 shares of Coflexip on 12.4.2000.	None
The evidence before me leads to the conclusion that ISIS had acted in concert for the said purpose.	None
We need not go into the reasons separately although we must say that we disapprove of the introduction of the concept of a joint family into corporate law when the statutory provisions, particularly Regulation 2(e) exhaustively defines what would amount to acting in concert.	None
More particularly when Regulation 3(1)(e)(i) provides that Nothing contained in Regulations 10, 11 and 12 of Regulations 10, 11 and 12 these Regulations shall apply to(e)	Reasoning
Interse transfer of shares amongst (i) group companies, coming within the definition of group as defined in the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (25 of 1969).	None
The IFP family if any would be nothing more than such a group.	None
Furthermore, it is abundantly clear that even the name of SEAMEC does not feature in any of the several reasons put forward by SAT whereas that, as we must emphasise, should have been the primary point of focus.	Reasoning
The respondents have sought to adduce further evidence before us to the effect that SEAMEC was in the contemplation of Technip when it purchased Stenas shares in Coflexip.	Reasoning
There is no question of allowing any fresh evidence to be adduced at this stage.	Reasoning
Besides we do not think that any evidence of mere contemplation of SEAMECs assets would do.	Reasoning
That should have been the principal objective in order to trigger the Regulations as it was not the respondents case before SAT that the shareholding of Coflexip in SEAMEC constituted a substantial part of the assets of Coflexip nor has SAT so found.	Reasoning
SEBI had noted that the takeover of SEAMEC was only an incidental fall out of the control of Coflexip and that SEAMEC formed a small and insignificant portion of the total business of Coflexip contributing merely 2 of the total asset base of Coflexip as on December, 2000.	Reasoning
The finding was not reversed by SAT.79.	Reasoning
We are thus of the opinion that SEBIs order must prevail and the order of SAT must be set aside.	Decision
The other issues as to the rate of interest, the adjustment of dividend and the identification of the shareholders of SEAMEC would arise only if SATs order had been upheld.	Decision
As we are allowing the appeals of both Technip and IFP it is unnecessary to determine them.80.	Decision
Consequent upon our decision to allow the appeals the bank guarantees furnished by Technip to secure the difference in amounts between the share prices which would be payable by Technip had SATs view prevailed must be and are hereby discharged.81.	Decision
The appeals are for these reasons allowed without costs.	Decision
