 Nagappan, J. The appellanthusband in this civil appeal has assailed the judgment dated 24.11.2008 passed by the High Court of Calcutta Circuit Bench at Port Blair in F.A. No.003 of 2008, wherein the Division Bench of the High Court set aside the decree of divorce dated 14.7.2008 granted by the District Judge, A N Islands, to the appellant herein, in Matrimonial Suit No.27 of 2005.	Issue
Shorn of unnecessary details the facts in brief which give rise to the appeal herein are as follows The appellanthusband is an engineer and the respondentwife is a draftsman, both working in the office of Andaman Public Works Department and their marriage took place on 2nd March 1994 and a son was born in the wedlock on 24.1.1996.	Facts
It is an admitted fact that the respondentwife had filed a complaint under Section 498A IPC against the husband and it was subsequently withdrawn by her.	Facts
It is also admitted fact that during their cohabitation the couple had changed their residence thrice.	Facts
In 1997, the respondentwife left the matrimonial home and started to live with her parents and upon legal notice sent by her husband she returned back to the matrimonial home.	Facts
Then again in March 2003, the wife left the matrimonial home to live with her parents and has not come back since.3.	Facts
The appellanthusband filed a suit for divorce on the ground of cruelty and desertion under Section 13(1)(ia) and 13(1)(ib) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955.	Facts
He has alleged that immediately after marriage the relationship between the spouses was not cordial and the wife did not want to live with husbands family and wanted to live separately.	Facts
She insulted and abused the husband calling him dhobi and the minor child as dhobis son and because of her rude behavior with landlord and neighbours they had to change the residence thrice.	Facts
The wife refused to perform any household work and did not take proper care of their minor child and the husband had to bring food from outside and ultimately in the month of March 2003, she left the matrimonial home and did not return, leading to the filing of the divorce petition by the husband.4.	Facts
The respondentwife contested the suit by filing her written statement alleging that since her father was working as chowkidar, her husbands family was illdisposed towards her and they used to taunt her for not bringing enough dowry.	Facts
She has specifically denied the allegations in the plaint and asserted that she had never behaved improperly and she took good care of her child.	Facts
She also leveled an allegation of extra marital affair against her husband with a woman who was working under him.	Facts
According to her whenever she confronted him in this respect the husband would shout and abuse her.5.	Facts
The appellanthusband besides examining himself as PW1, examined the minor child as PW2 and the servant as PW3 on his side.	Facts
The respondentwife examined herself and her mother as DW1 and DW5 respectively and further examined three persons working in municipal council as DWs 2 to 4 on her side.6.	Facts
The trial court on a consideration of oral and documentary evidence held that the plaintiffhusband proved the ground of cruelty and desertion and granted the decree of divorce as prayed for.	Facts
Challenging the same the defendantwife preferred the appeal and the High Court on an elaborate consideration held that the trial court was not justified in decreeing the suit by dissolving the marriage between the spouses and allowed the appeal.	Facts
Aggrieved by the same the husband has preferred the present appeal.	Facts
The learned counsel for the appellanthusband submitted that the High Court failed to consider and appreciate the cumulative instances of mental cruelty as pleaded and proved but considered every instance separately and held that each by itself would not entitle the husband to a decree for divorce and said approach is erroneous and contrary to law.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is his further submission that the High Court erred in not placing reliance on the childs testimony and fell into a grave error in reversing the well considered judgment of the trial court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also submitted that mental cruelty was clearly established and in any event the marriage has broken down irretrievably and on that score alone the decree for divorce should have been passed.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of the submissions the learned counsel relied on the following decisions (1) Parveen Mehta Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Inderjit Mehta (2002) 5 SCC 706 (2) A. Jayachandra Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Aneel Kaur (2005) 2 SCC 22 ) (3) Samar Ghosh Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Jaya Ghosh (2007) 4 SCC 511 and (4) K.Srinivas	Arguments of Petitioner
Rao Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
D.A. Deepa (2013) 5 SCC 226 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel for the respondentwife contended that the High Court examined the instances of mental cruelty pleaded in this case on the parameters laid down by this Court in the decision in Samar Ghosh case (Supra), and concluded that the ground of mental cruelty has not been established by the plaintiffhusband.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted that the wife was compelled to live separately on account of the conduct of the husband.	Arguments of Respondent
The further submission was that the impugned judgment does not suffer from any legal infirmity warranting interference.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellanthusband and the respondentwife are educated and working in the office of the Andaman Public Works Department.	None
They got married on 2.3.1994 and son was born to them on 24.1.1996.	None
The appellanthusband filed the suit on 18.7.2005 seeking for divorce on the grounds of cruelty and desertion.	None
The expression cruelty has not been defined in the Hindu Marriage Act.	None
Cruelty for the purpose of Section 13(1)(ia) is to be taken as a behavior by one spouse towards the other, which causes a reasonable apprehension in the mind of the latter that it is not safe for him or her to continue the matrimonial relationship with the other.	None
Cruelty can be physical or mental.	None
In the present case there is no allegation of physical cruelty alleged by the plaintiff.	None
What is alleged is mental cruelty and it is necessarily a matter of inference to be drawn from the facts and circumstances of the case.	None
It is settled law that the instances of cruelty are not to be taken in isolation but to take the cumulative effect of the facts and circumstances emerging from the evidence on record and then draw a fair inference whether the plaintiff has been subjected to mental cruelty due to conduct of the other spouse.	Reasoning
In the decision in Samar Ghosh case (supra), this Court set out illustrative cases where inference of mental cruelty can be drawn and they are only illustrative and not exhaustive.11.	Reasoning
The plaintiffhusband alleged that after their marriage the defendantwife did not like to live in the joint family and that led to shifting to separate residence and even there due to quarrels, the wife had with the respective landlords and neighbours, there was frequent shifting of residence.	Reasoning
According to the defendantwife the shifting was necessitated once because the husband desired so and on two other occasions due to increase in rent demanded by the landlord and absence of sufficient quantity of water to the rented premises.	Reasoning
Neither the family members of the plaintiff nor the landlords and neighbours of the tenanted premises were examined, and as rightly held by the courts below, there is no evidence adduced by the plaintiff to substantiate this allegation.	Reasoning
The next instance alleged by the plaintiffhusband is that the defendantwife used to abuse him as Dhobi and the son as Dhobis son and such utterances had adverse effect on them.	None
PW1, plaintiff and PW2, the son have stated so in their testimonies.	None
Of course the defendantwife has specifically denied the said allegation.	None
PW2, the child, when examined in September, 2007 in the court was 11 years old and was studying in 6th class.	None
On the date of alleged desertion in 2003 he was only about 7 years old.	None
Prior to 2003 he was an infant and it is unlikely he would remember in detail his early life.	None
Even if the version of the child that the mother used to call him Dhobis son is accepted, such scolding is the common reaction to discipline him and it denotes lack of culture on the part of the mother.	None
It is further alleged that the defendantwife was reluctant to do any household work and was not cooking food for the plaintiff and the child which necessitated the bringing of food from outside, amounting to mental cruelty.	None
Being working mother, she could not spare enough time to be with the child resulting in the feeling of not being cared for.	None
In this context it is relevant to point out that the child was residing with his father since alleged separation in 2003.	None
The expression of the child is due to attitudinal problem and it can be addressed to.	None
The trial court placed much reliance on the testimony of the child and the High Court termed it as misplaced.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant found fault with the High Court in not placing reliance on the child testimony.	None
We are not able to appreciate this contention.	None
In the facts of the case we are of the considered view that the High Court has rightly done so.	None
The next instance is the allegation made by the wife in the case filed by her under Section 498A of IPC against the husband.	Reasoning
Admittedly the case was withdrawn by the wife and she continued to live with the husband.	Reasoning
In fact the High Court has observed in the impugned judgment that though the date of filing of the criminal complaint is not mentioned in the plaint, from the sequence of narration of events therein it appears to have been filed prior to the birth of the child.	Reasoning
The aberration on the part of the wife has been condoned by the husband by resuming cohabitation and they continued to live together till the date of alleged separation in 2003.15.	Reasoning
The last instance of cruelty alleged by the husband is the allegation made by the wife that he has been involved in an extra marital affair with the daily rated mazdoor lady working under him.	Reasoning
It is true that the defendantwife has named the said lady with whom her husband allegedly was having an affair.	Reasoning
The plaintiffhusband though admitted that the said lady was working under him, has specifically denied the said allegation.	Reasoning
The courts below have concurrently found that the wife has not substantiated the said allegation.	Reasoning
Mere failure to prove such allegation would not entitle the husband to a decree of divorce as rightly held by the High Court.	Reasoning
The conduct of the wife that had been complained of appears to be not so grave and weighty that it can be treated to be more serious than ordinary wear and tear of married life.16.	Reasoning
What remains to be considered is the ground of desertion alleged by the plaintiffhusband, it is averred that the defendantwife left the company of the plaintiff in March, 2003 and date is not mentioned.	Reasoning
The child was only 7 years old in 2003 and his testimony in this regard will not advance the case of the plaintiff.	Reasoning
DWs 2 to 4 have testified that they had seen the plaintiff and the defendant together as spouses even during 2005.	Reasoning
It is pointed out that there is no denial against such contention in cross examination.	Reasoning
It is relevant to point out that DW2 is working in Marine Department and DW3 and DW4 are working in the Municipal Council and there is no reason for them to falsely depose against the plaintiff.	Reasoning
The trial court has not indicated with any clarity in its judgment as to how the testimonies of the above witnesses were not found reliable by it.	Reasoning
The High Court on going through their testimonies has concluded that it does not find their evidence unworthy of credence.	Reasoning
We are in agreement with the said view expressed by the High Court.	Reasoning
Resultantly the ground of desertion alleged is also not established.17.	Reasoning
We also find no merit in the contention of the learned counsel for the appellant that the marriage between the plaintiff and defendant has irretrievably broken down.	Reasoning
In the result there is no merit in the appeal and the same is dismissed.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
