Arijit Pasayat, J. Leave granted.	None
Parties to a marriage tying nuptial knot are supposed to bring about the union of souls.	Facts
It creates a new relationship of love, affection care and concern between the husband and wife.	Facts
According to Hindu Vedic philosophy it is sanskar  a sacrament one of the sixteen important sacrament essential to be taken during ones lifetime.	Facts
There may be physical union as a result of marriage for procreation to perpetuate the lineal progeny for ensuring spiritual salvation and performance of religious rites, but what is essential contemplated is union of two souls.	Issue
Marriage is considered to be a junction of three important duties i.e. social religious and spiritual.3.	Issue
This case presents a very unpleasant tale of two highly educated professionals (doctors by profession) fighting a bitter matrimonial battle.4.	Facts
Background facts sans unnecessary details are as followsThe appellant (hereinafter referred to as the husband) and the respondent (hereinafter referred to as the wife) tied nuptial knot on 10.10.1978.	Facts
They were blessed with two children.	Facts
Both are majors by now.	Facts
The marriage was what is commonly known as love marriage.	Facts
Appellant and the respondent were costudents in the medical collage.	Facts
They belong to different parts of the country the appellanthusband is a Telugu Brahmin while the respondent  wife belongs to Sikh religion.	Facts
They were both working in the hospital which was established by the appellants father Dr. A. Ram Murthy.	Facts
Alleged finding the behaviour of the respondentwife obnoxious, humiliating and amounting to mental cruelty, a notice was given by the appellanthusband on 5.3.1997 seeking divorce by mutual consent to avoid unnecessary complications.	Facts
It was stated therein that they had not shared the bed and there was no physical contact between them for over two years.	Facts
It was indicted in the notice that the respondent had treated appellant with cruelty and her conduct amounted to desertion for two years and was, therefore, neither safe, desirable nor advisable to continue marital relationship.	Facts
A response was given by respondent on 21.3.1997 denying the allegations.	Facts
It was suggested that there should be a free and heart to heart discussion to sort out the problems for a harmonious married life.	Facts
The aforesaid task which admittedly took place did not bring any result and ultimately a petition under Section 13 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 (in short the Act) was filed before Family Courts, Hyderabad.	Facts
It was categorically stated therein that the behaviour and conduct of the respondent was causing immense emotional stress, mental agony, and there being no sharing of the bed and cohabitation for more than two years, prayer was made to grant decree of divorce for dissolving the marriage between the parties.	Facts
It was specifically stated that the respondent has illtreated her husband, abused him in vulgar language in the home and at the hospital and at other places thereby causing mental agony, damage and loss personally and professionally and also in the social circle allegations were made about his character.	Facts
Caveats were filed at different places with a view to forestall legal action, and create an impression of innocence.	Facts
Caveats were admittedly lodged at the wrong address of the appellant.	Facts
Counter affidavit was filed by the respondent denying the allegations.	Facts
It was stated that her bona fide acts in advising her husband to act properly and to be decent in his behaviour was misconstrued and was being projected as nagging and insulting behaviour.	Facts
The petition for divorce was filed on unfounded allegations.5.	Facts
At this juncture it would be relevant to note that after the petition was filed by the appellanthusband, a suit for injunction bearing OA No. 89/97 in respect of right to practise in the hospital was filed by the respondent.	Facts
The said suit was not objected to by the appellant and the suit was decreed on 20.11.1997.	Facts
Subsequently, an execution petition was filed praying for attachment of hospital equipments belonging to the appellant, and also for civil detention of the appellant for alleged disobedience of the order of injunction.	Facts
It was categorically stated by the respondent during trial that she was not willing to withdraw the application until divorce case was finalized.	Facts
An application for maintenance was also filed before the Family Court, Hyderabad, where the matter was pending claiming a sum of Rs. 13,000/ p.m., though admittedly the respondent is a professional doctor.	Facts
Subsequently, another suit was filed for perpetual and mandatory injunction bearing O.S. No. 43/1999 against the appellant for allowing respondent and the staff appointed by her use of certain portion of the hospital and use of the medical instruments.6.	Facts
Evidence was led by the parties.	Facts
The respondent stated in her evidence that she had complete faith and trust in her husband and no doubt about his integrity and character.	Facts
But at the same time, she stated that she had advised him on five counts to be discreet and decent in his behaviour.	Facts
By judgment dated 18.6.2001 Family Court, Hyderabad, passed decree for judicial separation with effect from the date of the decree.	Facts
Though the Family Court found that unfounded allegations which caused mental agony were made by the respondent, and her alleged acts clearly caused mental agony and mental cruelty, yet keeping in view the welfare of the children instead of decree for divorce a decree for judicial separation was felt to be more appropriate.	Facts
Both the appellant and respondent challenged the judgment before the High Court.	Facts
While the appellanthusband took the stand that a decree for divorce should have been passed, the respondentwife questioned legality of the decree for judicial separation.	Facts
By the impugned judgment a Division Bench of the High Court dismissed the husbands appeal while allowing the wifes appeal.	Facts
It was held that the materials on records were not sufficient to prove any mental cruelty.	Facts
The entire evidence led by the appellant did not even emit smell of cruelty.	Facts
It was noted that even if it was a fact that the respondent was using abusive language and making allegations of adultery with nursing staff, the husband ought to have examined some witnesses from the hospital and since it was not done, cruelty was not established.	Facts
Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the approach of the High Court is clearly erroneous.	Arguments of Petitioner
It did not examine the evidence led in detail and upset the findings recorded by the trial Court after analyzing the evidence in great detail.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was not even pointed out as to how the evidence led by the appellant was in any way deficient to prove cruelty.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mere nonexamination of staff of the hospital cannot be a ground to discard the cogent and credible evidence led by the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that mental cruelty was clearly established and in any event the marriage has broken down irretrievably and on that score alone the decree of divorce should have been passed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondentwife submitted that no particulars of alleged cruelty were indicated.	Arguments of Respondent
Making vague allegations about the misbehaviour was not sufficient for accepting the prayer for divorce.	Arguments of Respondent
The evidence was scanty and in no way established mental cruelty.	Arguments of Respondent
What amounts to cruelty has been dealt with by his Court in S. Hanumantha Rao vs. S. Ramani (1999(3) SCC 620).	Arguments of Respondent
The accepted factual position shows that till 1993 the relationship was smooth except some stray incidents of discord which are normal in any marriage and such normal wear and tear in relationship cannot be a ground for seeking divorce.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that even if it is accepted, for the sake of argument, that marriage has broken down that cannot be a ground to grant a decree for divorce.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference was made to the decisions of this Court in Chetan Dass vs. Kamla Devi (AIR 2001 SC 1709 ), G.V.N. Kameswara Rao vs. G. Jabilli (2002 (2) SCC 296 ) and Shyam Sunder Kohli vs. Sushma Kohli Satya Devi (JT 2004 (8) SC 166 ).9.	Arguments of Respondent
Further submission was that in the case at hand it cannot be said that the requisite ingredients for constituting cruelty have been satisfied.	None
The expression cruelty has not been defined in the Act.	None
Cruelty can be physical or mental.	None
Cruelty which is a ground for dissolution of marriage may be defined as willful and unjustifiable conduct of such character as to cause danger to life, limb or health, bodily or mental, or as to give rise to a reasonable apprehension of such a danger.	None
The question of mental cruelty has to be considered in the light of the norms of marital ties of the particular society to which the parties belong, their social values, status, environment in which they live.	None
Cruelty, as noted above, includes mental cruelty, which falls within the purview of a matrimonial wrong.	None
Cruelty need not be physical.	None
If from the conduct of his spouse same is established and or an inference can be legitimately drawn that the treatment of the spouse is such that it causes an apprehension in the mind of the other spouse, about his or her mental welfare then this conduct amounts to cruelty.	None
In delicate human relationship like matrimony, one has to see the probabilities of the case.	None
The concept, a proof beyond the shadow of doubt, is to be applied to criminal trials and not to civil matters and certainly not to matters of such delicate personal relationship as those of husband and wife.	None
Therefore, one has to see what are the probabilities in a case and legal cruelty has to be found out, not merely as a matter of fact, but as the effect on the mind of the complainant spouse because of the acts or omissions of the other.	None
Cruelty may be physical or corporeal or may be mental.	None
In physical cruelty, there can be tangible and direct evidence, but in the case of mental cruelty there may not at the same time be direct evidence.	None
In cases where there is no direct evidence, Courts are required to probe into the mental process and mental effect of incidents that are brought out in evidence.	None
It is in this view that one has to consider the evidence in matrimonial disputes.	None
The expression cruelty has been used in relation to human conduct or human behaviour.	None
It is the conduct in relation to or in respect of matrimonial duties and obligations.	None
Cruelty is a course or conduct of one, which is adversely affecting the other.	None
The cruelty may be mental or physical, intentional or unintentional.	None
If it is physical, the Court will have no problem in determining it.	None
It is a question of fact and degree.	None
If it is mental, the problem presents difficulties.	None
First, the enquiry must begin as to the nature of cruel treatment, second the impact of such treatment in the mind of the spouse, whether it caused reasonable apprehension that it would be harmful or injurious to live with the other.	None
Ultimately, it is a matter of inference to be drawn by taking into account the nature of the conduct and its effect on the complaining spouse.	None
However, there may be a case where the conduct complained of itself is bad enough and per se unlawful or illegal.	None
Then the impact or injurious effect on the other spouse need not be enquired into or considered.	None
In such cases, the cruelty will be established if the conduct itself is proved or admitted (See Sobh Rani vs. Madhukar Reddi, AIR 1989 SC 121).	None
To constitute cruelty, the conduct complained of should be grave and weighty so as to come to the conclusion that the petitioner spouse cannot be reasonably expected to live with the other spouse.	None
It must be something more serious than ordinary wear and tear of married life.	None
The conduct, taking into consideration the circumstances and background has to be examined to reach the conclusion whether the conduct complained of amounts to cruelty in the matrimonial law.	None
Conduct has to be considered, as noted above, in the background of several factors such as social status of parties, their education, physical and mental conditions, customs and traditions.	None
It is difficult to lay down a precise definition or to give exhaustive description of the circumstances, which would constitute cruelty.	None
It must be of the type as to satisfy the conscience of the Court that the relationship between the parties had deteriorated to such an extent due to the conduct of the other spouse that it would be impossible for them to live together without mental agony, torture or distress, to entitle the complaining spouse to secure divorce.	None
Physical violence is not absolutely essential to constitute cruelty and a consistent course of conduct inflicting immeasurable mental agony and torture may well constitute cruelty within the meaning of Section 10 of the Act.	None
Mental cruelty may consist of verbal abuses and insults by using filthy and abusive language leading to constant disturbance of mental peace of the other party.	None
The Court dealing with the petition for divorce on the ground of cruelty has to bear in mind that the problems before it are those of human beings and the phychological changes in a spouses conduct have to be borne in mind before disposing of the petition for divorce.	None
However, insignificant or trifling, such conduct may cause pain in the mind of another.	None
But before the conduct can be called cruelty, it must touch a certain pitch of severity.	None
It is for the Court to weigh the gravity.	None
It has to be seen whether the conduct was such that no reasonable person would tolerate.	None
It has to be considered whether the complainant should be called upon to endure as a part of normal human life.	None
Every matrimonial conduct, which may cause annoyance to the other, may not amount to cruelty.	None
Mere trivial irritations, quarrels between spouses, which happen in daytoday married life, may also not amount to cruelty.	None
Cruelty in matrimonial life may be of unfounded variety, which can be subtle or brutal.	None
It may be words, gestures or by mere silence, violent or nonviolent.	None
The foundation of a sound marriage is tolerance, adjustment and respecting one another.	None
Tolerance to each others fault to a certain bearable extent has to be inherent in every marriage.	None
Petty quibbles, trifling differences should not be exaggerated and magnified to destroy what is said to have been made in heaven.	None
All quarrels must be weighed from that point of view in determining what constitutes cruelty in each particular case and as noted above, always keeping in view the physical and mental conditions of the parties, their character and social status.	None
A too technical and hypersensitive approach would be counterproductive to the institution of marriage.	None
The Courts do not have to deal with ideal husbands and ideal wives.	None
It has to deal with particular man and woman before it.	None
The ideal couple or a mere ideal one will probably have no occasion to go to Matrimonial Court.	None
(See Dastane vs. Dastane, AIR 1975 SC 1534 ).	None
On reading of judgments of the trial Court and the High Court one thing is clear.	Reasoning
While the trial Court analysed the evidence in great detail and found that the accepted stand of the respondentwife regarding her behavior and conduct caused mental agony and amounted to mental cruelty, the High Court did not discuss the evidence at all.	Reasoning
On the specious ground that witnesses from the hospital were not examined and, therefore, adverse inference was to be drawn.	Reasoning
There was not even any discussion as to how the evidence led was insufficient to establish mental cruelty.	Reasoning
The High Courts view that if at all it was a fact that respondent was using abusive language and making allegations of adultery with nursing staff, some witnesses from the hospital were necessary to be examined is clearly indefensible.	Reasoning
That alone should not have been made the determinative factor to discard evidence on record.	Reasoning
On that ground alone the judgment of the High Court is vulnerable.	Reasoning
The evidence as led and which is practically undisputed is that the respondent had asked the husband to do certain things which cannot be termed to be a simple advice for proper behaviour.	Reasoning
For example in her evidence respondent clearly accepted that she had said five things to be followed by him.	Reasoning
Surprisingly, most of them related to ladies working in the hospital.	Reasoning
Though respondent tried to show that they were simple and harmless advice, yet on a bare reading thereof it is clear that there were clear manifestations of her suspecting the husbands fidelity, character and reputation.	Reasoning
By way of illustration, it may be indicated that the first so called advice was not to ask certain female staff members to come and work on offduty hours when nobody else was available in the hospital.	Reasoning
Second was not to work behind the closed doors with certain members of the staff.	Reasoning
Contrary to what she had stated about having full faith in her husband the so called advices were nothing but casting doubt on the reputation, character and fidelity of her husband.	Reasoning
Constant nagging on those aspects, certainly amounted to causing indelible mental agony and amounts to cruelty.	Reasoning
The respondent was not an ordinary woman.	Reasoning
She was a doctor in the hospital and knew the importance of the nature of duty and the necessity of members of the staff working even during off hours and the working conditions.	Reasoning
There was another instance which was specifically dealt with by the trial Court.	Reasoning
Same related to the alleged extra marital relationships of the appellant with another married lady who was wife of his friend.	Reasoning
Though the respondent tried to explain that she was not responsible for making any such aspersions, the inevitable conclusion is to the contrary.16.	Reasoning
The matter can be looked at from another angle.	Reasoning
If acts subsequent to the filing of the divorce petition can be looked into to infer condonation of the aberrations, acts subsequent to the filing of the petition can be taken note of to show a pattern in the behaviour and conduct.	Reasoning
In the instant case, after filing of the divorce petition a suit for injunction was filed, and the respondent went to the extent of seeking detention of the respondent.	Reasoning
She filed a petition for maintenance which was also dismissed.	Reasoning
Several caveat petitions were lodged and as noted above, with wrong address.	Reasoning
The respondent in her evidence clearly accepted that she intended to proceed with the execution proceedings, and prayer for arrest till the divorce case was finalized.	Reasoning
When the respondent gives priority to her profession over her husbands freedom it points unerringly at disharmony, diffusion and disintegration of marital unity, from which the Court can deduce about irretrievable breaking of marriage.	Reasoning
Several decisions, as noted above, cited by learned counsel for the respondent to contend even if marriage has broken down irretrievably decree of divorce cannot be passed.	Reasoning
In all these cases it has been categorically held that in extreme cases the Court can direct dissolution of marriage on the ground that the marriage broken down irretrievably as is clear from paragraph 9 of Shiv Sunders case (supra).	Reasoning
The factual position in each of the other cases is also distinguishable.	Reasoning
It was held that long absence of physical company cannot be a ground for divorce if the same was on account of husbands conduct.	Reasoning
In Shiv Sunders case (supra) it was noted that the husband was leading adulterous life and he cannot take advantage of his wife shunning his company.	Reasoning
Though the High Court held by the impugned judgment that the said case was similar, it unfortunately failed to notice the relevant factual difference in the two cases.	Reasoning
It is true that irretrievable breaking of marriage is not one of the statutory grounds on which Court can direct dissolution of marriage, this Court has with a view to do complete justice and shorten the agony of the parties engaged in long drawn legal battle, directed in those cases dissolution of marriage.	Reasoning
But as noted in the said cases themselves those were exceptional cases.	Reasoning
In the aforesaid legal and factual background the inevitable conclusion is that the appellant is entitled to a decree of divorce and we direct accordingly.19.	Decision
The appeals are allowed with no order as to costs.	Decision
