 M. Ahmadi, CJ.	None
These civil appeals and special leave petitions have been filed against the judgment and order of the Delhi High Court dated March 14, 1975 in Civil Writ Petition No. 342 of 1969 and other orders which follow this judgment.	Issue
The appellant in all these matters is the New Delhi Municipal Committee (hereinafter called the NDMC).	Issue
The respondents are the Union of India and the States of Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Jammu Kashmir, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tripura and West Bengal.	Issue
The Municipal Corporation of Delhi (hereinafter called the MCD) appears as an intervener.	Issue
The Case History.	None
The developments that occasioned the setting up of the Constitution Bench may now be briefly set out.	None
The Punjab Municipal Act, 1911 (hereinafter called the Act) is applicable to the Union Territory of Delhi and under the provisions of this Act, the NDMC had been levying property tax on the immovable properties of the respondent States situated within Delhi.	Facts
The respondents challenged the imposition of such a tax on their properties before the Delhi High Court by contending that it would fall within the exemption provided for in Article 289(1) of the Constitution.	Facts
In the impugned judgment, the Delhi High Court, while accepting this contention, relied upon the relevant observations of the 9Judge Constitution Bench of this Court in In Re The Bill to amend Section 20 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 and Section 3 of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944, (1964) 3	Facts
SCR 787 (AIR 1963 SC 1760 ), (hereinafter called The Sea Customs Case), to quash the assessment and demands of housetax in respect of the properties of the States and restrained the NDMC from levying such a tax in future.	Facts
The NDMC filed an application under Article 133(1)(c) of the Constitution seeking the grant of a certificate for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court while granting the Certificate, the High Court observed that the principal question before it had grave constitutional implications which required an authoritative decision by this Court.	Facts
On January 1, 1976, a Division Bench of this Court directed that the NDMC could continue to make assessments but it was not to issue demand notices or make any attempts towards realisation of the taxes.	Facts
On October 29, 1987, another Division Bench of this Court directed that the matter be listed before a Constitution Bench.	Facts
On January 14, 1993, a 5Judge Constitution Bench of this Court began hearing arguments and after considering the rival submissions, on October 4, 1994, passed an order referring the matter to a 9Judge Bench.	Facts
In the said order, the Bench observed that it had considered the decision in the Sea Customs Case, (AIR 1963 SC 1760 ) and was of the opinion that the point at issue in these matters was covered therein.	Facts
The decision in the Sea Customs case having been reaffirmed by the decision of this Court in Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation v. Incometax Officer, 1964(7)	Facts
SCR 17, (hereinafter called the APSRTC case), the Bench considered itself bound by the decision however, it was of the view that the arguments advanced before it, which were not considered by the earlier decisions, were plausible and required consideration which necessitated the setting up of a 9Judge Bench to hear the matter.	Facts
The Impugned Judgment.	Facts
An analysis of the impugned judgment may now be resorted to in order to gain an insight into the various Constitutional questions that will require our consideration.	Facts
Before the High Court, the various States contended the following by virtue of Article 289(1) of the Constitution, the property of the States is exempt from Union Taxation the undefined phrase Union Taxation in Article 289(1) would mean all taxes which the Union is empowered to impose under the Constitutional scheme and, specifically under Part VIII of the Constitution, Union Territories are to be administered by the President of India through the laws of Parliament Parliament is the lawmaking body for all Union Territories and by virtue of Article 246(4), while legislating for Union Territories, the power of Parliament to make laws extends to all the three lists in Schedule VII of the Constitution pertaining to legislative competence insofar as the Act and its application to the Union Territory of Delhi is concerned, though it relates to a matter in the State List, it would still amount to Union Taxation because, by virtue of its application to the Union Territory of Delhi, it would be deemed to have been incorporated in law made by Parliament and would therefore be a Union Law imposing tax since the tax imposed by the Act amounts to Union Taxation, the exemption in Article 289(1) of the Constitution which makes the property of the States immune from Union Taxation would be attracted, and the properties of the States situated in Delhi would be exempt from all taxes on property.	Facts
For the NDMC, it was contended the phrase Union Taxation would not extend to legislations in Union Territories and its interpretation should be restricted to laws made by Parliament in respect of the entries in List I the Union had no power to impose taxes on entries relating to property as they fall under List II the Act being a State Legislation could not be treated as a Central Legislation for the purpose of attracting Article 289(1) the test to determine whether a tax forms part of Union Taxation is to check if the proceeds thereof form part of the Consolidated Fund of India since the proceeds of taxes on property under the Act did not form part of the Consolidated Fund of India but were retained by the Municipality for its own purposes, such a tax would not form part of Union Taxation and the States were therefore not entitled to be exempted from paying it under Article 289(1) the scheme of the Constitution indicates that Part C States, which later came to be called Union Territories, were carved out as separate entities and were not to be regarded as part and parcel of the Union Government when the Union Government legislates for Union Territories, it does so in a special and different capacity, and not as the Union Legislature it would therefore be erroneous to treat such laws made by the Union Government for the Union Territories as part of Union Laws that would account for Union Taxation under Article 289(1).	Facts
To reach its conclusion, the High Court conducted an examination of the legislative history of the Act and its extension to the Union Territory of Delhi studied the scheme of the Constitution with regard to the distribution of legislative powers between the States and the Union considered the historical Constitutional position of Union Territories scrutinised the series of decisions of this Court on the issue whether a Union Territory is to be regarded as a State, and analysed the decision in the Sea Customs case, (AIR 1963 SC 1760 ), to appreciate the true import of Article 289(1).	Facts
In arriving at its conclusion, the High Court rejected the test of the proceeds of taxes being part of the Consolidated Fund of India as being determinative of the nature of Union Taxation.	Facts
It accepted the contention that all laws applicable in a Union Territory would be deemed to be laws made by Parliament and would therefore be part of Union Taxation and relied upon the following observation in the Sea Customs case, (1964 (3) SCR 787 ), (at p. 812) (AIR 1963 SC 1760 at p. 1773) for support If a State has any property in any Union Territory, that property would be exempt from Union Taxation on property under Article 289(1).	Facts
The High Court rejected the contention that the Act was a State enactment and stated that under the scheme of the Constitution, the term Union Territory was distinct from State and therefore, the Union Territories could not claim to be States for the purpose of attracting the exemption in Article 289(1).	None
Faced with such a vast gamut of issues of Constitutional import, we are of the view that before we analyse the submissions put forth before us by the learned counsel for the various parties, it would be convenient if the historical background of certain aspects of the matter could be set out so as to provide a setting where the rival contentions can be better understood.	None
Constitutional history of the areas that are now called Union Territories In the preConstitutional era, these territories were called Chief Commissioners Provinces.	None
The Government of India Act of 1919 contained specific provisions for the governance of these areas.	None
Under the scheme of the Government of India Act, 1935 (hereinafter referred to as the 1935 Act), the Federation of India comprised (a) the Provinces called Governors Provinces (b) the Indian States which had acceded to or were expected to accede to the Federation and (c) the Chief Commissioners Provinces.	None
Part IV of the 1935 Act dealt with the Chief Commissioners Provinces and Section 94 listed them as (i) British Baluchistan, (ii) Delhi, (iii)	None
AjmerMarwara, (iv) Coorg, (v) Andaman Nicobar Islands, and (vi) the area known as Panth Piploda and provided that these areas were to be administered by the Governor General, acting through a Chief Commissioner.	None
On July 31, 1947, during the incipient stages of the framing of the Constitution, a Committee under the Chairmanship of Dr. B. Pattabhi Sitaramayya was established to study and report on the Constitutional changes required in the administrative structure existing in the Chief Commissioners provinces to give to the people of these provinces a due place in the democratic governance of free India.	None
After the recommendations of this Committee were sanctioned by the Drafting Committee, they were placed before the Constituent Assembly for its consideration.	None
The Constituent Assembly considered all aspects of the issue with a view to providing an appropriate administration for what were called Part C States, which included three former Chief Commissioners Provinces  Delhi, Ajmer and Coorg  and some erstwhile Indian States which were retained as centrally administered areas after their merger with India the latter group consisted of the following areas Himachal Pradesh, Bhopal, Bilaspur, CoochBihar, Kutch, Tripura, Manipur and Vindhya Pradesh.	None
It was decided that the decision whether these territories should have legislatures and Councils of Ministers ought to be left to Parliament and, for this purpose, an enabling provision should be incorporated within the Constitution.	None
It was also provided that these Part C States would be administered by the President, acting to such extent as he thought fit, through a Chief Commissioner or a Lieutenant Governor to be appointed by him, or through the Governor of a neighbouring State, subject to certain procedural requirements.	None
Accordingly, Articles 239 and 240 were inserted in the final draft of the Constitution.	None
Under the Constitution of India, as initially enacted, the States were divided into Part A States, Part B States, Part C States and the territories in Part D.	None
The First Schedule to the Constitution provided details of the States falling within each of these categories.	None
The Part C States comprised (i) Ajmer (ii) Bhopal (iii) Bilaspur (iv) CoochBihar (v) Coorg (vi) Delhi (vii) Himachal Pradesh (viii) Manipur and (ix) Tripura.	None
The only territory under Part D was Andaman Nicobar.	None
Part VIII of the Constitution, comprising Articles 239249, dealt with Part C States.	None
Article 239 provided that Part C States were to be administered by the President acting through a Chief Commissioner or a Lieutenant Governor.	None
Article 240 provided that Parliament could, by law, create a local legislature or a Council of Ministers or both for a Part C State and such a law would not be construed as a law amending the Constitution.	None
Article 241 allowed Parliament to constitute High Courts for the States in Part C States.	None
Article 242 was a special provision for Coorg.	None
Article 243, which also constituted Part IX of the Constitution, stated that territories in Part D would be administered by the President through a Chief Commissioner or other authority to be appointed by him.	None
In exercise of its powers under Article 240 (as it then stood), Parliament enacted the Government of Part C States Act, 1951 whereunder provisions were made in certain Part C States for a Council of Ministers to aid and advise the Chief Commissioner and also for a legislature comprising elected representatives.	None
Section 22 of this legislation made it clear that the legislative powers of such Part C States would be without prejudice to the plenary powers of Parliament to legislate upon any subject.	None
The States Reorganisation Commission which was set up in December, 1953, while studying the working of the units of the Union, took up the functioning of the Part C States for examination as an independent topic.	None
In its Report, submitted in 1955, the Commission expressed the view that Part C States were neither financially viable nor functionally efficient, and recommended that each of them should either be amalgamated with the neighbouring States or made a centrally administered territory.	None
Substantial changes were made by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956 (hereinafter called the Seventh Amendment Act), which incorporated the recommendations of the States Reorganisation Commission and was to have effect in concert with the States Reorganisation Act, 1956.	None
The four categories of States that existed prior to these Acts were reduced to two categories.	None
The first of these categories comprised one class, called States, and there were 14 such States.	None
The second category comprised the areas which had earlier been included in Part C and Part D States these areas were called Union Territories and were six in number.	None
Some additions and deletions were made to the existing lists.	None
While Ajmer, Bhopal, Coorg, Bilaspur and KutchBihar became parts of other States.	None
The Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands became a Union Territory.	None
The six Union Territories, therefore, were (1) Delhi (2) Himachal Pradesh (3) Manipur (4) Tripura (5) Andaman Nicobar Islands (6) The Laccadive, Minnoy Anindivi Islands.	None
The Seventh Amendment Act also replaced Articles 239 240 by new provisions the new Article 240 allowed the President to make regulations for certain Union Territories and this provision continues to this day.	None
It also repealed Articles 243 243 of the Constitution.	None
Subsequently, Dadra Nagar Haveli became a Union Territory by the Constitution (Tenth Amendment) Act, 1961 Goa, Daman Diu and Pondicherry became Union Territories by the Constitution (Twelfth Amendment) Act, 1962 Chandigarh became a Union Territory by the Punjab (Reorganisation) Act, 1966.	None
The Constitution (Fourteenth Amendment) Act, 1962 replaced the old Article 240 as Article 239A, enabling Parliament to create a Legislature and or a Council of Ministers for Himachal Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, Goa, Daman and Diu and Pondicherry.	None
Thereafter, by the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963, Parliament did create Legislative Assemblies, comprising three nominated persons, for these territories.	None
Himachal Pradesh ceased to be a Union Territory by virtue of the State of Himachal Pradesh Act, 1970.	None
Manipur and Tripura became States by virtue of the NorthEastern Areas (Reorganisation) Act, 1971.	None
Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram and Goa, Daman Diu ceased to be Union Territories by virtue of the State of Arunachal Act, 1986, the State of Mizoram Act, 1986 and the Goa, Daman Diu (Reorganisation) Act, 1987 respectively.	None
The Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands (Alteration of Names) Act, 1973 changed the name of these Islands to Lakshadweep but it continued to remain a Union Territory.	None
The present list of Union Territories is as follows (i) Delhi (ii) Andaman Nicobar (iii) Lakshadweep (iv) Dadar Nagar Haveli (v) Daman Diu (vi) Pondicherry and (vii) Chandigarh.	None
However, it is to be noted that all the Union Territories do not have the same status.	None
By the Constitution (SixtyNinth Amendment) Act, 1991, Articles 239AA and 239AB, which are special provisions in relation to Delhi, were added.	None
They provide that Delhi, which is to be called the National Capital Territory of Delhi, is to have a Legislative Assembly which will be competent to enact laws for matters falling in Lists II III barring a few specific entries.	None
As the position stands at the present moment, the Union Territories can be divided into three categories Union Territories without legislatures  comprising Andaman Nicobar, Lakshadweep, Dadar Nagar Haveli, Daman Diu and Chandigarh.	None
Union Territories for which legislatures have been established by Acts of Parliament under Article 239A  Pondicherry is the sole occupant of this category.	None
Union Territories which have legislatures created by the Constitution (Articles 239AA and 239AB)  	None
The National Capital Territory of Delhi is the sole occupant of this category.	None
The Constitutional History of the National Capital Territory of Delhi and the application of the Act to it.	None
The area that is now known as the National Capital Territory of Delhi was, until 1911, classified as a District of the State of Punjab.	None
Following the announcement of the decision to transfer the capital of British India from Calcutta to Delhi, Government Notification No. 911 dated September 17, 1912 was issued authorising the Governor General to take under his authority the territory comprising the Tehsil of Delhi and adjoining areas.	None
The Notification provided for the administration of these areas as a separate province under the Chief Commissioner.	None
The Delhi Laws Act, 1912 and the Delhi Laws Act, 1915 made provisions for the continuance of laws in force in the territories comprising the Chief Commissioners Province in Delhi and for the extension of other enactments in force in any part of British India to Delhi by the Governor GeneralinCouncil.	None
Under the Government of India Act, 1919, the Indian Legislature had the power to enact laws for the province of Delhi.	None
However, legislation for Delhi was made by extension of laws in force in Punjab and other States by Notifications issued under the Delhi Laws Act, 1912 and 1915.	None
This enabled the Governor GeneralinCouncil to ensure, as far as possible, uniformity of laws with Punjab, since a substantial part of Delhi had originally formed an administrative district of that province.	None
After Independence, Delhi continued to be administered directly by the Government of India and the different Departments of that Government began to deal directly with corresponding Departments in the Chief Commissioners Office.	None
This arrangement continued till shortly after the commencement of the Constitution.	None
In the period immediately after the commencement of the Constitution, the Part C States Act, 1951 contained a specific provision, Section 21, in respect of Delhi which enabled it to have a Legislative Assembly and a Council of Ministers with restrictive powers to make laws.	None
As a result of this provision, Delhi continued to have a Legislative Assembly and a Council of Ministers till 1956.	None
The States Reorganisation Commission devoted special attention to the needs of the National Capital.	None
It noted that the dual control arising from the division of responsibility between the Union Government and the State Government of Delhi had not only hampered the development of the capital, but had also resulted in a marked deterioration of administrative standards in Delhi.	None
The Commission came to the conclusion that the National Capital must remain under the effective control of the Union Government.	None
With reference to the plea for a popular Government, it observed We are definitely of the view that municipal autonomy in the form of the Corporation which will provide greater local autonomy than is the case in some of the important federal capitals, is the right, in fact, the only solution of the problem of Delhi State.	None
After the Seventh Amendment Act came into force, following the recommendations of the States Reorganisation Commission, the Legislative Assembly and the Council of Ministers for Delhi ceased to exist with effect from November 1, 1956.	None
Furthermore, the Delhi Municipal Act, 1957 was enacted constituting a Municipal Corporation for the whole of Delhi with members elected on the basis of adult franchise.	None
The jurisdiction of the MCD covered almost the entire Union Territory of Delhi, including both urban and rural areas.	None
The areas within the limits of NDMC and Delhi Cantonment Board were kept outside the jurisdiction of the MCD, but the territorial jurisdiction of the NDMC was reduced.	None
As already mentioned, the Constitution (SixtyNinth Amendment) Act, 1991 introduced Articles 239AA and 239AB into the Constitution which provided for a Legislative Assembly and a Council of Ministers for Delhi.	None
Subsequently, the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991 was enacted to supplement these constitutional provisions.	None
The Act, which was enacted in 1911, was directly applicable to Delhi since at that point of time, it was a district of the State of Punjab.	None
In 1912, when Delhi became a Chief Commissioners Province, the provisions of the Act and various other Punjab enactments were made to continue in force in the territory of Delhi by virtue of the Delhi Laws Act of 1912 and the Delhi Laws Act of 1915.	None
After the Constitution came into being, the Act was made to continue by virtue of the provisions of the Part C States Laws Act of 1950 and the Union Territories Laws Act of 1950.	None
Therefore, at the time when the present dispute arose, the Act was still in force.	None
However, in 1994, the Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi enacted the New Delhi Municipal Committee Act, 1994 which is the law in force today.	None
The MOD levied property tax on properties situated within the local limits of its jurisdiction by virtue of the provisions of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957.	None
However, for the purposes of deciding the case, we are concerned only with the provisions of the Act.	None
Before this Court, a number of parties have advanced arguments on the various issues involved in the case.	None
Mr. B. Sen, counsel for the appellants, NDMC, as also the intervener, MCD, began by challenging the essential premises of the impugned judgment and advanced elaborate arguments on the manner in which the various Constitutional provisions that are germane to the case, ought to be interpreted.	None
The learned Attorney General for India, appearing for the Union of India, supported the stance adopted by the NDMC.	None
These submissions were strenuously opposed by Mr. P.P. Rao, learned counsel for the State of Punjab and in this endeavour, he was assisted by Mr. A.K. Ganguli, learned counsel for the State of Tripura who buttressed the position of the States with his own submissions.	None
The learned counsel appearing for the State of Rajasthan lent support to the same.	None
The Central Issues As before the High Court, so before us, the controversy between the parties has, in the main, centered around the question whether the properties owned and occupied by the various States within the National Capital Territory of Delhi are entitled to be exempted from the levy of taxes under the Act by virtue of the provisions of Article 289(1).	Issue
The larger question involved, which will consequently require our consideration, is whether by virtue of Article 289(1), the States are entitled to exemption from the levy of taxes imposed by laws made by Parliament under Article 246(4) upon their properties situated within Union Territories.	Issue
At this stage, we may set out the provisions that are central to the adjudication of the present matter.	None
In the following table, for the purposes of clarity and convenience, Articles 285 and 289 of the present Constitution have been contrasted against their immediate predecessors, viz., Sections 154 155 of the 1935 Act.	None
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA ACT, 1935 Section 154 Exemption of certain public property from taxation  Property vested in His Majesty for purposes of the government of the Federation shall, save in so far as any Federal law may otherwise provide, be exempt from all taxes imposed by, or by any authority within, a Province or Federated State Art.	None
285Exemption of property of the Union from State Taxation (1) The property of the Union shall, save in so far as Parliament may be law otherwise provide, be exempted from all taxes imposed by a State or by any authority within a State.	None
Provided until any Federal law otherwise provides, any property so vested which was immediately before the commencement of Part III of this Act liable, or treated as liable, to any such tax, shall, so long as that tax continues, continue to be liable, or to be treated as liable, thereto.(2) Nothing in Clause (1) shall, until Parliament by law otherwise provides, prevent any authority within a State from levying any tax on any property of the Union to which such property was immediately before the commencement of this Constitution liable or treated as liable, so long as that tax continue to be levied in that State.	None
Section 155 Exemption of Provincial Governments and Rulers of Federated States in respect of Federal taxation  (1) Subject as hereinafter provided, the Government of a Province and the Ruler of a Federated State shall not be liable to Federal taxation in respect of lands or buildings situate in British India or income accruing, arising or received in British India CONSTITUTION OF INDIA Article 285  Exemption of property of the Union from State taxation  (1) The property of the Union shall, save in so far as Parliament may by law otherwise provide, by exempted from all taxes imposed by a State or by any authority within a State.	None
Notwithstanding in clause (1) shall, until Parliament by law otherwise provides, prevent any authority within a State from levying any tax on any property of the Union to which such property was immediately before the commencement of this Constitution liable or treated as liable, so long as that tax continues to be levied in that State.	None
Article 289  Exemption of property and income of a State from Union taxation  (1) The property and income of a State shall be exempt from Union taxation.	Reasoning
Nothing in Clause (1) shall prevent the Union from imposing, or authorising the imposition of, any tax to such extent, if any, as Parliament may by law provide in respect of a trade or business of any kind carried on by, or on behalf of, the Government of a State, or any operations connected therewith, or any property used or occupied for the purposes of such trade or business, or any income accruing or arising in connection therewith.	None
Provided that (a) where a trade or business of any kind is carried on by or on behalf of the Government of a province in any part of British India outside that Province or by a Ruler in any part of British India, nothing in this subsection shall exempt that Government or Ruler from any federal taxation in respect of that trade or business, or any operations connected therewith, or any income arising in connection therewith, or any property occupied for the purposes thereof(3) Nothing in Clause (2) shall apply to any trade or business, or to any class of trade or business, which Parliament may by law declare to be incidental to the ordinary functions of government.	None
(b) nothing in this subsection shall exempt a Ruler from any federal taxation in respect of any lands, buildings or income being his personal property or personal income.	None
Nothing in this Act affects any exemption from taxation enjoyed as of right at the passing of this Act by the Ruler of an Indian State in respect of any Indian Government securities issued before that date.	None
or on behalf of, the Government a State, or any operations connected therewith, or any property used or occupied for the purposes of such trade or business or any income accruing in connection therewith.	None
Nothing in clause (2) shall apply to any trade or business, or to any class of trade or business, which Parliament may by law declare to be incidental to the ordinary functions of Government.	None
Submissions of Counsel Mr. Sen prefaced his submissions for the NDMC and the MCD by pointing out that the phrase Union Taxation used in Article 289(1) of the Constitution has not been defined either in the text of the Constitution or in any of the decisions rendered by this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Pointing out the differences between Articles 285 289, Mr. Sen stated that (i) the former exempts all taxes whereas the latter limits its exemption to taxes relating to property and income and (ii) the former uses the words imposed by a State or by any authority within a State whereas the latter uses the phrase Union Taxation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereafter, Mr. Sen contrasted Article 289(1) and Section 155 of the 1935 Act by pointing out that while Section 155(1) uses the words lands buildings.	Arguments of Petitioner
Article 289(1) uses the word property.	Arguments of Petitioner
This, he explained, was on account of the strong position adopted by representatives of the States in the Constituent Assembly who had insisted that the ambit of the exemptions be cast wider.	Arguments of Petitioner
29.	Arguments of Petitioner
At this juncture, we may refer to Article 246 which reads as follows Subjectmatter of laws made by Parliament and by the Legislatures of States  (1) Notwithstanding anything in Clauses (2) and (3), Parliament has exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List I in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the Union List).	None
Notwithstanding anything in Clause (3), Parliament, and, subject to Clause (1) the Legislature of any State also, have power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in list III in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the Concurrent List).	None
Subject to Clauses (1) and (2), the Legislature of any State has exclusive power to make laws for such State or any part thereof with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List II in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the State List).	None
Parliament has power to make laws with respect to any matter for any part of the territory of India not included in a State notwithstanding that such matter is a matter enumerated in the State List.	None
Mr. Sen then submitted that two possible meanings could be ascribed to the phrase Union Taxation (i) Taxes that are levied by Parliament in exercise of its powers under Article 246(1) and pertain only to entries in List I of the Seventh Schedule (ii) Any tax that is levied as a result of a law passed by Parliament including those that are relatable to entries in List II and List III of the Seventh Schedule.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen vehemently urged that the former interpretation be adopted by this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, acceptance of the latter would lead to anomalous results.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that when Parliament makes laws in exercise of its powers under Article 246(4) and in doing so, legislates on entries in ListII, it is doing so in a different capacity and the character of these laws is different from ordinary Union legislations.	Arguments of Petitioner
To drive home the argument, Mr. Sen led us through certain other provisions of the Constitution, such as, Articles 249, 250, 252 and the Emergency Provisions in Part XVIII of the Constitution which empower Parliament to make laws on entries in List II, but the nature and effect of these legislations requires that they be not treated as ordinary Union legislations.	Arguments of Petitioner
31.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereafter, he took us through various provisions in Part XII of the Constitution with a view to analysing the distribution of revenues between the Union and the States.	Arguments of Petitioner
Having done so, he invited our attention to the provisions of Part VIII of the Constitution to support his stand that a Union Territory is an independent Constitutional entity akin to a State and that it has an identity separate from that of the Union Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
To this end, he drew our attention towards several decisions of this Court on the question whether a Union Territory is a State and sought to convince us that, in the present context, the answer to this query must be in the affirmative.	Arguments of Petitioner
32.	Arguments of Petitioner
Referring to the two decisions of this Court on the interpretation of Article 289(1) rendered in the Sea Customs case, (AIR 1963 SC 1760 ) and the APSRTC case, (AIR 1964 SC 1486 ), Mr. Sen contended that the issue arising before this Court in the present matter had not arisen for adjudication in either of these two cases.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the observation made by Sinha, C.J. in the former case would, therefore, have to be regarded as obiter dicta since the issue of laws relating to Union Territories was not before the Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
He explained that such an observation was made in the context of situations where Parliament can directly impose a tax on property to counter the argument that only States could levy taxes directly on property under the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen stated that the observation was founded on misconceived premises and that there were other, more appropriate situations where Parliament could impose taxes directly on property, such as, in the case of Entry 3, List I which deals with Cantonments and the Cantonments Act, 1924 which allows Parliament to levy taxes for Cantonments.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen then contended that such a power would be available to Parliament even when it enacts a legislation by using Entry 49, List I which relates to patents, inventions and designs, and also in the case of a few other entries in List I. 33.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereafter, Mr. Sen contended that, in any event, the taxes levied by NDMC would not amount to Union Taxation because they are in the nature of a Municipal Tax.	Arguments of Petitioner
Our attention was drawn towards the Constitution (SeventyFourth) Amendment Act, 1992 which incorporated Part IXA, dealing with Municipalities in our Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
He argued that Municipalities now have an elevated Constitutional status and that since they have their own machinery for collecting taxes besides having control over the fixing and charging of the taxes, these taxes cannot be regarded as part of Union Taxation.	Arguments of Petitioner
He then took us through the relevant provisions of the Act, the New Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 and the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 to indicate that each of these bodies has been vested with wide powers of fixing the rates of taxes, collecting them and then using the proceeds, which go to specially created municipal funds, towards securing their objectives.	Arguments of Petitioner
Drawing sustenance from the language of Article 285, which specifically exempts taxes imposed by local authorities, Mr. Sen submitted that since such an express exemption is not referred to in Article 289(1), Municipal Taxes were not meant to be covered within its exemption and, therefore, the States are bound to pay these taxes to the NDMC and the MCD.	Arguments of Petitioner
34.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Attorney General for India began by stating that it is not the identification of the legislature that imposes the law which is determinative of the issue of Union Taxation.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, to determine the true character of Union Taxation, the subject of the levy must be analysed.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that when Parliament makes use of its power under Article 246(4), it does so in an unusual circumstance where the theme of the legislation undergoes a change.	Arguments of Petitioner
He, therefore, stressed that in determining the scope of Union Taxation, attention must be paid to the theme, (i.e., the context and the specific circumstances in which the tax is levied) rather than to the author (i.e. the body which is levying the tax).	Arguments of Petitioner
He, therefore, submitted that the interpretation of Union Taxation should be restricted to situations where Parliament makes last imposing taxes under Article 246(1).	Arguments of Petitioner
35.	Arguments of Petitioner
His next submission was that Articles 285 and 289 do not exhaust the entire area of taxation under the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Referring to certain other provisions where Parliament is required to make laws for subjects in List II, the learned Attorney General drew our attention towards Articles 249, 250, 252, 253 and 357.	Arguments of Petitioner
He then submitted that these provisions envisage unusual situations where, although Parliament is the law making body, the resulting laws are not union laws in the ordinary sense and the taxes imposed by these laws cannot be said to form part of Union Taxation.	Arguments of Petitioner
He then contended that similarly, laws made by Parliament under Article 246(4) are not the norm and cannot be said to form part of Union Taxation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereafter, the learned Attorney General took us through the constitutional history of Union Territories and more specifically, that of the National Capital Territory of Delhi.	Arguments of Petitioner
Having done so, he stated that such an analysis would reveal that though Union Territories are not States, they are akin to States, being nascent States.	Arguments of Petitioner
He explained that the practice in this regard shows that, in most cases, when a territory is acquired by the Union and before it is admitted to the Indian Union as a fullfledged State, it is groomed for statehood by being nurtured as a Union Territory.	Arguments of Petitioner
He then referred us to the decision of this Court in, Ramesh Birch v. Union of India, 1989 Supp (1) SCC 430, to buttress his stance that Parliament cannot be expected to draft legislations for Union Territories on a regular basis and to explain how it meets with its obligations in this regard.	Arguments of Petitioner
36.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. P.P. Rao, learned counsel for the States of Punjab Haryana, began his submissions by explaining the doctrine of immunity of instrumentalities, which is said to be the legal basis for the incorporation of Articles 285 and 289 into our Constitution, and also mentioned the comparative positions in the American, Canadian and Australian jurisdictions.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the doctrine postulates that in a federal set up, there should be intergovernmental tax immunities between the federal and State wings.	Arguments of Respondent
Such an immunity is a Constitutional limitation on the lawmaking power of the respective legislatures in the field of taxation as a whole.	Arguments of Respondent
After its genesis in the U.S., the doctrine has come to be accepted in Canada and Australia.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Rao conceded that though both the 1935 Act as well as the Constitution had incorporated such reciprocal tax immunities, they were not adopted to the same extent as in Canada and Australia.	Arguments of Respondent
However, unlike in these countries, the Union of India has a sizeable territory of its own comprising all the Union Territories specified in the First Schedule.	Arguments of Respondent
The power to make laws including laws authorising levy or collection of taxes of all kinds is conferred exclusively on the Union Parliament and these territories would form an important part of the reciprocal tax immunities.	Arguments of Respondent
He then drew our attention to Article 265 which incorporates an important constitutional limitation on the power of taxation when it states that no tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law.	Arguments of Respondent
In India, there are only two legislatures that are competent to tax Parliament for the Union and the Legislature of a State.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, all taxation must fall within either of the categories Union Taxation or State Taxation.	Arguments of Respondent
Municipalities and other local authorities cannot have an independent power to tax and that is why there can be no exemption for Municipal taxes independent of the exemption for State or Union Taxation.	Arguments of Respondent
To that extent, he submits, the contention of Mr. Sen, that Article 289 exempts only Union Taxation without mentioning municipal taxes which would imply that the States would not be exempt from paying the latter, cannot be accepted.	Arguments of Respondent
Moving on to the definition of the term Union Taxation, Mr. Rao pointed out that in Article 285 the term State Taxation has been defined as all taxes imposed by a State or by any authority within a State.	Arguments of Respondent
He urged us to adopt a similar interpretation for Union Taxation even though Article 289 does not contain any such definition by pointing out that being corollaries of each other, these terms would have been used to convey a similar meaning.	Arguments of Respondent
If this definition were to be accepted, Union Taxation would mean all taxes imposed by the Union and, therefore, the State would be entitled for exemption from the taxes imposed by NDMC.	Arguments of Respondent
To explain the language and ambit of Articles 285 and 289, Mr. Rao took us through a detailed examination of the provisions of the 1935 Act with a view to appreciating the true import of the predecessors of these two provisions, namely, Sections 154 and 155 of the said Act.	Arguments of Respondent
To this end, we were taken through Sections 5, 6, 94, 99, 100, 104, 154 and 155 and Lists I II of the Seventh Schedule to the 1935 Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Rao, thereafter, contended that under the scheme of the 1935 Act, it was quite clear that by virtue of Section 155, the Provinces (predecessors of States) were entitled to exemption from taxes on lands and buildings in the Chief Commissioners Provinces (predecessors of Union Territories).	Arguments of Respondent
He contends that position continues in the present Article 289 and, in fact, the immunity is much wider in scope since property is wider than lands and buildings.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Rao also led us through the relevant passages of the Sea Customs case, (AIR 1963 SC 1760 ) and stressed that both the minority and the majority opinions in that case had taken the view that the properties of States situated in Union Territories were exempt from taxation.	Arguments of Respondent
To sum up, Mr. Rao put forth his submissions to counter those put forth by Mr. Sen and the learned Attorney General towards establishing that, even while exercising its powers under Article 246(1), Parliament can levy taxes directly on property.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. A.K. Ganguli, learned counsel for the State of Tripura, lent support to the submissions of Mr. Rao on the issue of Parliamentary laws being applicable to Union Territories he emphasised that even after the introduction of Articles 239AA and 239AB in the Constitution, the Delhi Legislature could not be said to be a legislative body with plenary powers.	Arguments of Respondent
The legislative powers conferred on such a body are restricted and limited to certain spheres and are subject to the powers of the Parliament to make laws with respect to any matter for the union Territories, which obviously refers to Article 246(4) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
By way of an analogy, he referred us to Article 244 and the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution which contain provisions for the administration of Tribal areas in the States of Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram and provide for bodies with legislative powers.	Arguments of Respondent
He led us through decisions of this Court on the point that the law making powers of these bodies, though conferred by the Constitution itself, are not plenary powers as those of Parliament or of the State Legislatures.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel submitted that the provisions contained in Part XII of the Constitution relating to distribution of revenue between the Union and the States are not determinative of the scope of the expression Union Taxation in Article 289	Arguments of Respondent
(1) as they only indicate that though a large number of taxes are levied by the Parliament and collected by the Union Government, eventually, a substantial portion thereof is distributed amongst the States.	Arguments of Respondent
After submitting that the main controversy in this case is squarely covered by the decision in the Sea Customs case, (AIR 1963 SC 1760 ), Mr. Ganguli pointed out that the Government of India, while preparing its Receipt Budget, has always treated taxes imposed by Parliament and collected from the Union Territories as part of the total tax revenue of the Union Government in which other taxes such as corporation tax, taxes on income, customs duties and union excise duties are also included.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that even in respect of nontax revenue, the receipts from the Union Territories are treated as receipts of the Union Government.	Arguments of Respondent
He, therefore, contended that even the Union Government was of the view that Union Taxation included taxes levied by Parliament in Union Territories.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the State of Rajasthan, Mr. Gupta, sought to bring to our notice a wider comparative position of the manner in which countries around the world have adopted the American doctrine of reciprocal immunity.	Arguments of Respondent
Having noticed the submissions of the counsel for the various parties before us, we may now proceed to express our opinion on the diverse points raised in the present case.	None
Analysis of the decisions rendered in the Sea Customs case and the APSRTC case The decision in the Sea Customs case, (1964 (3) SCR 787 AIR 1963 SC 1760 ), was occasioned by the emanation of a proposal to introduce in Parliament a Bill to amend Section 20 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878, and Section 3 of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944.	Reasoning
These amendments would have led to the imposition of indirect taxes, namely, excise and customs duties upon the properties of various States which were being used for purposes other than those specified in Article 289(2), i.e., for purposes not relating to trade or business.	Reasoning
A number of State Governments objected that such a law would fall foul of the interdiction in Article 289(1) and, in view of the resulting controversy, the President referred, under Article 143, the issue of the constitutionality of the proposed amendments to this Court.	Reasoning
The issue was decided by a majority of 5 4.	Reasoning
It was held that the immunity granted to States in respect of Union Taxation under Article 289 extends only to those taxes that are directly leviable upon the property and income of the States since excise and customs duties are indirect taxes, they would not fall within the ambit of the exemption in Article 289 and Parliament could impose such duties upon the property and income of the States.	Reasoning
There were two opinions outlining the majority view and an equal number for the minority.	Reasoning
Sinha, C.J. delivered the first of the majority judgments on behalf of himself, Gajendragadkar, Wanchoo and Shah, JJ.	Reasoning
while Rajagopala Ayyangar, J. delivered a separate, concurring opinion.	Reasoning
S.K. Das, J. delivered the first of the minority opinions on behalf of himself, Sarkar and Das Gupta, JJ.	Reasoning
while Hidayatullah, J. rendered a separate minority opinion.	Reasoning
A number of submissions were advanced before the Court with a view to facilitating a true construction of Article 289(1).	None
In this regard, comparisons were drawn with its corollary, Article 285 and with the provisions which inspired the adoption of these two provisions, namely, Sections 154 and 155 of the 1935 Act.	None
The Court was also required to analyse the scheme of the Constitution relevant to the issue.	None
For the moment, it is not necessary for us to analyse those aspects of the decision since, in any event, we will be required to give our independent consideration to these matters.	None
We can, therefore, confine ourselves to those observations that have a direct bearing upon the point at issue with which we are presently concerned this aspect was, however, not specifically adverted to in all the four opinions.	None
In his opinion for the majority, Sinha, C.J. has referred to the essential contentions urged before the Court.	Reasoning
The Union urged that the exemption in Clause (1) of Article 289 be interpreted restrictively, limiting its applicability to direct taxes on the property and the income of States the States, on the other hand, canvassed for an expansive interpretation which would exempt them from taxes having any relation whatsoever to their property and income.	Reasoning
The learned Chief Justice noted that it was not disputed that the exemption in Article 289(1) was, as far as taxes on income are concerned, restricted to Taxes other than on agricultural income, which is the only entry (Entry 82) in List I of the Seventh Schedule which enables Parliament to legislate on taxes relating to income.	Reasoning
The learned Chief Justice considered this to be a significant fact as it meant that if the income of State was exempt only from taxes on income, the juxtaposition of the words property and income in Article 289(1) would lead to the inference that property is also exempt only from direct taxes on property.	Reasoning
However, it was pointed out by the States that List I does not contain any specific tax on property which would enable Parliament to pass a law relating to taxes on property and, that being so, the intention of the framers of the Constitution must have been to exempt the property of States from all taxes, be they direct or indirect.	Reasoning
To meet this argument, the learned Solicitor General, appearing for the Union, put forth several arguments, one of which came to be accepted by the learned Chief Justice as the main plank upon which he based his rejection of the contention of the States.	Reasoning
Since these observations are directly relevant to the present case, they may be extracted here at p. 812 (of SCR) (at Pp. 177273 of AIR).	None
It is true that ListI contains no tax directly on property like ListII, but it does not follow from that that the Union has no power to impose a tax directly on property under any circumstances.	Reasoning
Article 246(4) gives power to Parliament to make laws with respect to any matter for any part of the territory of India not included in a State notwithstanding that such matter is a matter enumerated in the State.	Reasoning
List.	Reasoning
This means that so far as Union territories are concerned Parliament has power to legislate not only with respect to items in List I but also with respect to items in List II.	Reasoning
Therefore so far as Union territories are concerned, Parliament has power to impose a tax directly on property as such.	Reasoning
It cannot therefore be said that the exemption of States property under Article 289(1) would be meaningless as Parliament has no power to impose any tax directly on property.	Reasoning
If a State has any property in any Union territory that property would be exempt from Union taxation on property under Article 289(1).	Reasoning
The argument therefore that Article 289(1) cannot be confined to tax directly on property because there is no such tax provided in List I cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
(Emphasis added)	None
Thereafter, having referred to the language of Article 285 and the intention of the framers as perceived by him, the learned Chief Justice came to the conclusion that the immunity granted by Articles 285 and 289 was of similar ambit and extended only to direct taxes without exempting indirect taxes such as excise and customs duties.	Reasoning
Das, J., in his dissenting opinion, noted the objection of the States that List I had no entry which would enable Parliament to levy a tax directly on property.	Reasoning
He took note of the counterarguments advanced by the learned Solicitor General in relation to this aspect but could not bring himself to agree with the correctness of those propositions.	Reasoning
While referring to the argument on Article 246(4), he noted (at p. 843) . . .	Reasoning
.It would be a case of much ado about nothing if the Constitution solemnly provided for an exemption against property tax on State property only for such rare cases as are contemplated in Art.	Reasoning
246(4), the situation of State property in territory not included in a State.	Reasoning
Such situation would be very rare, and could have hardly necessitated a solemn safeguard at the inception of the Constitution when the States were classed under Part A or Part B of the First Schedule.	Reasoning
If the wider interpretation of Clause (1) of Article 289 is accepted, such property would also be exempted from Union taxation except in cases covered by Clause (2) of the Article.	Reasoning
We find it difficult to accept the contention that clause (1) of Article 289 was meant only for cases covered by Article 246(4) . . .	Reasoning
(Emphasis added)	None
At this juncture, we may note that both Mr. Rao and Mr. Ganguli were at pains to point out that though Das, J. rejected the overall contention of the learned Solicitor General, he had, by stating that the exemption could not have been provided only for such rare cases as are contemplated in Article 246(4), implicitly accepted that these cases would fall within the exemption in Article 289(1).	Reasoning
Rajagopala Ayyangar, J., in his separate majority judgment, makes a specific reference to this contention of the learned Solicitor General (at pp. 91819)	Reasoning
but, aside from stating that the submissions of the learned Solicitor General are not without force (at p. 919), he did not make any further reference to the matter.	Reasoning
Hidayatuallah, J., in his separate minority opinion, did not advert to this issue.	Reasoning
The preceding analysis reveals that the issue at hand was specifically answered by this Court in the Sea Customs case, (AIR 1963 SC 1760 ).	Reasoning
We find it difficult to accept Mr. Sens contention that the observations of Sinha, C.J. were made by way of obiter dicta.	Reasoning
Though the issue of legislations applicable in Union Territories was not specifically before the Court, it did arise for consideration during its analysis of the power of Parliament to levy taxes directly upon property.	Reasoning
The latter question was squarely before the Court and the issue relating to Union Territories, though incidental to the main question, necessarily required consideration.	Reasoning
The observations of Sinha, C.J. are unequivocally in favour of the position adopted by the States before us, who find themselves in the enviably advantageous position of being able to draw sustenance from even the observations in the dissenting judgment of Das, J. The decision in the Sea Customss case, (AIR 1963 SC 1760 ), was reaffirmed by a Constitution Bench of this Court in the APSRTC case, (1964 (7) SCR 17 AIR 1964 SC 1486 ), which was a matter relating to assessment of incometax.	None
The facts of that case are not directly relevant for our purpose but, what is of considerable interest to us is the manner in which the scheme of Article 289 and its three clauses were construed.	Reasoning
Speaking for the Court, Gajendragadkar, C.J. outlined the scheme of Article 289 (at p. 25) (of SCR) (at p. 1491 of AIR) which can be stated as follows The general proposition that flows from Clause (1) is that ordinarily, the income derived by a State both from governmental and nongovernmental or commercial activities shall be immune from Incometax levied by the Union.	Reasoning
Clause (2) then provides an exception and empowers Parliament to make a law imposing a tax on the income derived by the Government of a State from trade or business carried on by it, or on its behalf.	Reasoning
If Clause (1) had stood by itself, it would not have been possible to include within its purview income derived by a State from commercial activities but since Clause (2) empowers Parliament to enact a law levying taxes on such activities of a State, the inescapable conclusion is that these activities must be deemed to have been included in Clause (1) and that alone can be the justification for the words in which Clause (2) has been couched in the Constitution.	Reasoning
Thereafter, Clause (3) empowers Parliament to declare by law that any trade or business would be taken out of the purview of Clause (2) and restore it to the area covered by Clause (1) by declaring that the said trade or business is incidental to the ordinary functions of Government.	Reasoning
In other words, Clause (3) is an exception to the exception prescribed by Clause (2).	Reasoning
Whatever trade or business is declared to be incidental to the ordinary functions of Government, would cease to be governed by Clause (2) and would then be exempt from Union taxation.	Reasoning
These observations of Gajendragadkar, C.J. having been made in the context of Incometax levied in the facts of that case, mention only taxes relating to income.	Reasoning
They are equally applicable to the taxes relating to property referred to in Article 289.	Reasoning
The essence of this analysis is that Clause (3) of Article 289 is an exception to Clause (2), which in turn is an exception to the first clause of the Article.	Reasoning
Analysis of this Courts previous rulings on the Constitutional status of Union Territories.	Reasoning
We may now refer to a catena of decisions of this Court on the seemingly innocuous issue whether or not a Union Territory has, under the scheme of our Constitution, a status distinct from that of the Union and the States.	Issue
The fact that so many decisions of this Court exist on the issue would indicate that the matter is not one that can be disposed of by simply pointing to the separate parts of the Constitution which deal with Union Territories as distinct units.	None
Before dealing with the specific circumstances of and the decision in, each of these cases, it is necessary that a few provisions which figure prominently be dealt with.	None
Article 246(4) of the Constitution, as it stood on January 26, 1950, allowed Parliament to make laws with respect to any matter for any part of the territory of India not included in Part A or Part B of the First Schedule.	Reasoning
The Seventh Amendment Act brought about a number of changes affecting Union Territories, some of which have already been noticed by us.	None
The other changes brought about by it are also relevant it caused Article 246 to be changed to its present form where Parliament is empowered to make laws with respect to any part of the territory of India not included in a State.	None
The word State has not been defined in the Constitution.	None
Article 1(3) defines the territory of India as comprising (a) the territories of the States (b) the Union Territories specified in the First Schedule and (c) such other territories as may be acquired.	None
The word Union Territory has been defined in Article 366 (30) to mean any Union Territory specified in the First Schedule and includes any other territory comprised within the territory of India but not specified in that Schedule.	None
Though not defined in the Constitution, the word State has been defined in the General Clauses Act, 1897 (hereinafter called the General Clauses Act).	None
Article 367 of the Constitution states that the General Clauses Act, 1897 shall unless the context otherwise requires and subject to any adaptations and modifications made under Article 372, apply for the interpretation of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Therefore, on a plain reading of the provisions involved, it would appear that the definition of State in the General Clauses Act would be applicable for the purposes of interpreting the Constitution.	None
Article 372 is the saving clause of the Constitution which enables all laws in force before the commencement of the Constitution to continue in the territory of India.	None
Article 372A, which once again, owes its origin to the Seventh Amendment Act, empowers the President to make further adaptations in particular situations.	None
Section 3(58) of the General Clauses Act, having been amended by the Seventh Amendment Act, reads as follows Definitions.  	None
In this Act, and in all General Acts and Regulations made after the commencement of this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, State, (a) as respects any period before the commencement of the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, shall mean a Part A State, a Part B State or a Part C State and (b) as respects any period after such commencement, shall mean a State specified in the First Schedule to the Constitution and shall include a Union territory (Emphasis added)	None
The latter part of the definition, which states that a Union Territory is included within the definition of a State, has introduced an element of controversy in the interpretation of the Constitution.	None
While appreciating the reasoning of this Court in dealing with cases where it had to confront the issue of the status of Union Territories, the timeframe and the history of the Union Territories which we have adverted to in the earlier part of this judgment, must be borne in mind.	None
The first of these cases was that of Satya Dev Bushahri v. Padam Deo, 1955(1) SCR 549.	None
This was a case relating to election law and one of the contentions of the appellant, who was seeking to disqualify the respondents under the provisions of the Representation of People Act, 1951, was that contracts entered into by the respondents with the Part C States were, in effect, contracts entered into with the Central Government.	None
This contention was based on the reasoning that the executive action of the Central Government is vested in the President the President is also the Executive Head of the Part C States therefore, contracts with the Part C States are contracts with the Central Government.	None
The Court, speaking through Venkatarama Ayyar, J., rejected this contention and stated that when the President exercised functions as the Head of the Part C States, he occupied a position analogous to the Governor in Part A States.	None
Furthermore, Section 38(22) of the Government of Part C States Act, 1951 clearly provided that all executive action of the State would be taken in the name of the Chief Commissioner.	None
It was, therefore, held that contracts with the Part C States could not be said to be contracts with the Central Government.	None
Analysing Articles 239, 240 and 241 of the Constitution, the Court held that it could not be said that these had the effect of converting Part C States into the Central Government and that they have a distinct status.	None
However, when the case came up for review, in Satya Dev Bushahri v. Padam Deo, 1955(1) SCR 561, the Court, after having been directed towards, and having taken note of the provisions of, Section 3(8) and Section 3(60) of the General Clauses Act which define Central Government and State Government respectively, and stipulate that for Part C States, references to State Government would mean the Central Government, held that a contract with the Chief Commissioner in a Part C State is a contract with the Central Government.	None
It, however, added that this would not affect the status of Part C States as independent units, distinct from the Union Government under the Constitution.	None
The State of Madhya Pradesh v. Shri Maula Bux, 1962(2)	None
SCR 794, a decision rendered by a Constitution Bench, concerned the State of Vindhya Pradesh which, at the relevant time, was a Part C State and raised the issue whether, in a civil suit, the State of Vindhya Pradesh was the proper party to be sued under Section 79(a) of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908.	None
The argument of the respondents, based on Sections 3(8) and 3(60) of the General Clauses Act, was that if, in case of the Part C States, State Government means the Central Government, the proper party to be sued would be the Union of India instead of the State of Vindhya Pradesh.	None
Hidayatullah, J., speaking for the Constitution Bench, at Pp. 798802 (of SCR) (at Pp. 14647 of AIR), relied on the observations in the first of the Satya Dev cases to the effect that Part C States had a separate existence and were not merged with the Central Government and went on to hold that the State of Vindhya Pradesh, having a distinct identity, was the proper party to be sued.	None
Although the reviewed decision in Satya Devs case was not referred to, since the proposition relied upon by Hidayatullah, J. was in fact reaffirmed in the review, the relevant proposition of law laid down in the case does not suffer from any infirmity.	None
These cases are useful for our purpose to the limited extent that they declare that Union Territories are not part of the Central Government and are, to that extent, distinct Constitutional entities.	Reasoning
However, the issue whether Union Territories are distinct from States was not considered in these cases it did however arise for consideration in the following cases.	None
In Ram Kishore Sen v. Union of India, 1966(1)	Reasoning
SCR 430, the Court had to consider whether the word State used in Article 3(c) of the Constitution would include Union Territories the Constitution Bench followed the stipulation in Articles 367 and 372 to notice the definition of State in Section 3(58) of the General Clauses Act and the context of Article 3 to hold that the word State in Article 3(c) would have to be interpreted in the light of Section 3(58) of the General Clauses Act and would include Union Territories.	None
The correctness of this proposition was doubted by Hidayatullah, J. in a subsequent case which we will refer to in due course.	None
The fact however remains that the definition in Section 3(58) of the General Clauses Act has been utilised for interpreting a Constitutional provision.	None
The question that therefore arises is whether this will affect the status of Union Territories in matters relating to Article 246, to which an answer was provided in a subsequent case to which we shall immediately advert.	None
T.M. Kanniyan v. Incometax Officer, Pondicherry, 1968(2)	Reasoning
SCR 103, was a case in which the petitioners had challenged the vires of a regulation by which the President had, in exercise of powers under Article 240, repealed the laws in force in relation to Incometax within the Union Territory of Pondicherry and had made the Incometax Act, 1961 applicable to it.	Reasoning
Explaining that Parliament, and through it the President, had plenary powers to make laws for Union Territories on all matters, Bachawat, J., speaking for the Constitution Bench, stated as follows (at Pp. 108109) (of SCR) (at p. 641 of AIR)	Reasoning
Parliament has plenary power to legislate for the Union Territories with regard to any subject.	Reasoning
With regard to Union Territories distrubution of legislative powers . . .	Reasoning
(The) inclusive definition (in Section 3(58) of the General Clauses Act) is repugnant to the subject and context of Article 246.	Reasoning
There, the expression State means the States specified in the First Schedule.	Reasoning
There is a distribution of legislative power between Parliament and the legislatures of the States.	Reasoning
Exclusive power to legislate with respect to the matters enumerated in the State List is assigned to the legislatures of the States established by Part VI.	Reasoning
There is no distribution of legislative power with respect to Union Territories.	Reasoning
That is why Parliament is given power by Article 246(4) to legislate even with respect to matters enumerated in the State List.	Reasoning
If the inclusive definition of State in Section 3(58) of the General Clauses Act were to apply to Article 246(4), Parliament would have no power to legislate for the Union Territories with respect to matters enumerated in the State List and until a legislature empowered to legislate on those matters is created under Article 239A for the Union Territories, there would be no legislature competent to legislate on those matters moreover, for certain territories such as the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, no legislature can be created under Article 239A, and for such territories there can be no authority competent to legislate with respect to matters enumerated in the State List.	Reasoning
Such a construction is repugnant to the subject and context of Article 246.	Reasoning
It follows that in view of Article 246(4), Parliament has plenary powers to make laws for Union Territories on all matters.	Reasoning
The Court, therefore, held that Parliament was empowered to make laws for Union Territories on all matters and the regulation made by the President in exercise of his powers under Article 240 was valid.	Reasoning
The ratio of this decision, therefore, is that the definition of State provided by Section 3(58) of the General Clauses Act would not apply for the purposes of Article 246.	Reasoning
This ratio is equally applicable at the present moment for, despite several changes having been made in respect of Union Territories since the decision in Kanniyans case, of the seven existing Union Territories, as many as five do not have Legislatures of their own.	Reasoning
The controversy was not, however, put to rest by the decision in Kanniyans case.	Reasoning
In Management of Advance Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Shri Gurudasmal, 1970(3) SCR 881, the main issue before another Constitution Bench was whether the word State used in Entry 80 of List I of the Seventh Schedule could be said to exclude the application of the definition in Section 3(58) of the General Clauses Act.	Reasoning
Relying on the decision in, Kanniyans case, (AIR 1968 SC 637 ).	Reasoning
Hidayatullah, J. held that, ordinarily, the definition would apply in the interpretation of the Constitution unless it is repugnant to the subject or context.	Reasoning
However, he noted, that after the Seventh Amendment Act where Union Territories have been mentioned as separate entities, the distinction between Union Territories and States cannot be lost sight of.	Reasoning
He expressly approved the reasoning of Bachawat, J. in holding that in the context of Article 246, the definition provided in Section 3(58) would not apply however, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case before him, he felt that the subject and context of Entry 80 of the Union List required the application of the definition given in Section 3(58).	Reasoning
While referring to the decision in Ram Kishores case, (AIR 1966 SC 644 ).	Reasoning
Hidayatullah, J. noted that this decision was per incuriam for the reason that it referred to Article 372 whereas the proper reference ought to have been to article 372A.	Reasoning
The same issue was thereafter considered by a Constitution Bench in S.K. Singh v. V.V. Giri, 1971(2)	Reasoning
SCR 197, wherein Bhargava, J., while delivering an opinion concurring with the majority, reached the conclusion that the definition in S. 3(58) of the General Clauses Act would not apply to matters involving interpretation of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The case, which involved a challenge to the election of Shri V. V. Giri as the President of India, required the Court to consider the issue in the context of Art. 54 which provides that the electoral college for the President consists of the elected members of both Houses of Parliament, and the elected members of the Legislative Assemblies of the States.	Reasoning
Relying on the definition of State in S. 3(58) of the General Clauses Act.	Reasoning
it was argued that Union Territories are also States and, consequently, the elected members of the Legislative Assemblies of the Union Territories must also be included in the electoral college their omission was said to be a material irregularity which would vitiate the election.	Reasoning
Responding to this contention, the learned Judge held as follows (at pp. 313314)	Reasoning
(of SCR) (at p. 2138 of AIR) Article 54, no doubt, lays down that all elected members of the legislative assemblies of the States are to be included in the electoral college but the word States used in this Article cannot include Union Territories.	Reasoning
It is true that, under Art. 367, the General Clauses Act applies for interpretation of the Constitution as it applies for the interpretation of an Act of the legislature of the Dominion of India but that Act has been applied as it stood on 26th January, 1950, when the Constitution came into force, subject only to any adaptations and modifications that may be made therein under Art.	Reasoning
372.	Reasoning
The General Clauses Act, as it was in 1950 and as adapted or modified under Art. 372, did not define State so as to include a Union Territory.	Reasoning
The Constitution was amended by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, which introduced Art.	Reasoning
372A in the Constitution permitting adaptations and modifications of all laws which may be necessary or expedient for the purpose of bringing the provisions of the law into accord with the Constitution as amended by the Seventh Amendment Act, 1956.	Reasoning
It was in exercise of this power under Art.	Reasoning
372A that S. 3(58) of the General Clauses Act was amended, so that, thereafter, State as defined included Union Territories also.	Reasoning
The new definition of State in S. 3(58) of the General Clauses Act as a result of modifications and adaptations under Art.	Reasoning
372A would, no doubt, apply to the interpretation of all laws of Parliament, but it cannot apply to the interpretation of the Constitution, because Art. 367 was not amended and it was not laid down that the General Clauses Act, as adapted or modified under any Article other than Art. 372, will also apply to the interpretation of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Since, until its amendment in 1956, S. 3(58) of the General Clauses Act did not define State as including Union Territories for purposes of interpretation of Art. 54, the Union Territories cannot be treated as included in the word State.	Reasoning
This view of the learned Judge does seem to have considerable force and it is also to be remembered that Hidayatullah, J. had doubted the correctness of the proposition laid down in Ram Kishores case (AIR 1966 SC 644 ) on the ground that the proper reference in it should have been to Art.	Reasoning
372A, rather than to Art.	Reasoning
372.	Reasoning
However, we must refrain from making any comment because the issue whether or not the General Clauses Act applies to the interpretation of the Constitution is not properly put before us in the facts and circumstances of the present case what is more, no arguments have been canvassed before us on this issue.	Reasoning
For the present, we can draw support from the observations in Kanniyans case (AIR 1968 SC 637 ) as affirmed in the Advance Insurance case (AIR 1970 SC 1126 ) to the effect that the definition in S. 3(58) of the General Clauses Act is repugnant to the subject and context of Art.	Reasoning
246.	Reasoning
We can, therefore, proceed on the assumption that for our purposes, a Union Territory is not a State we must, however, hasten to add that this assumption willl be open to reconsideration subsequent to our analysis of the Constitutional scheme regarding the issues before us.	Reasoning
Interpretation of Union Taxation in Art.	Issue
289(1) and scope of its ambit.	Issue
We may now address the central issue in the case which involves the determination of the ambit of Art.	Issue
289(1).	Reasoning
In order to appreciate the true import of the words used in this provision, it will be to our benefit to examine the Constitutional history of Art. 289 as well as that of its corollary, Art. 285.	None
Articles 285 and 289 are modified versions of Ss. 154 and 155 of the 1935 Act, as is obvious from a comparative study made in the earlier part of this judgment.	None
While Arts. 285 and 289 seek to provide reciprocal immunities within the Republic of India to the Union and the States from each others taxing powers, Ss. 154 and 155 strove to achieve the same result within British India in respect of the Federal Government on the one hand, and the Governments of the provinces and the Federated States on the other.	None
However, in the process of adopting the provisions of the 1935 Act for our Constitution, a number of changes occurred and we must analyse some of these in greater detail for they are extremely relevant for our purposes.	None
To appreciate the true import of Ss. 154 and 155, it will be necessary to refer to a few provisions of the 1935 Act so as to obtain an understanding of its general scheme.	None
Section 5 of the 1935 Act stated that the Federation of India would comprise the Provinces, the Indian States and the Chief Commissioners Provinces.	None
Section 6 defined a Federated State as an Indian State which had acceded to or might accede to the Federation.	None
Section 94 provided a list of the Chief Commissioners Provinces and stated that they would be administered by the Governor General acting through a Chief Commissioner.	None
Section 99, which provided the manner in which legislative powers were to be distributed between the Federal and Provincial legislatures, stated that the Federal Legislature was empowered to make laws for the whole or any part of British India or for any Federated State, while the Provincial Legislatures were empowered to make laws for the provinces.	None
Section 311(1) defined British India as All territories for the time being comprised within the Governors Provinces and the Chief Commissioners Provinces.	None
Section 100, which dealt with the subject matter of Federal and Provincial laws, provided that the Federal Legislature would have power to make laws with respect to matters enumerated in List I of the Seventh Schedule to the 1935 Act, which was to be called the Federal Legislative List the Provincial Legislature would have powers to make laws in respect of matters in List II of the Seventh Schedule, called the Provincial Legislative List, and, in respect of matters provided in List III of the Seventh Schedule, called the Concurrent Legislative List, both the Provincial and the Federal Legislatures would have jurisdiction.	None
Clause (4) of S. 100, which is of considerable importance for our purpose, provided in express terms that the Federal Legislature would have power to make laws with respect to matters enumerated in the Provincial Legislative List except for a Province or any part thereof.	None
It was, therefore, clearly contemplated that the Federal Legislature would have the power to make laws for matters in the Provincial Legislative List in respect of the Chief Commissioners Provinces and the Federated States.	None
Under the scheme of the 1935 Act, situations where the Federal Legislature could enact laws with respect to matters in the Provincial Legislative List were, therefore, not considered to be rare or unusual.	None
While both the Federal Legislative List and the Provincial Legislative List contained entries allowing the levy of taxes, the Federal Legislative List did not contain any entry which allowed the Federal Legislature to levy taxes directly on property.	None
Entry 42 of the Provincial Legislative List empowered the Provincial Legislatures to levy taxes specifically on lands and buildings.	None
The Concurrent Legislative List contained only one entry relating to taxes, namely Entry 13 which referred to stamp duties.	None
Section 154, in material terms, provided that the property of the Federal Government would be exempt from all taxes imposed by Provinces and Federated States and the local authorities within them.	Reasoning
The proviso added that, in the absence of any Federal law stipulating otherwise, those properties of the Federal Government which were subject to the levy of taxes before the commencement of Part III of that Act would continue to be liable to pay them.	Reasoning
The exemption in S.154, therefore,did not extend to such taxes, including taxes levied under Municipal laws.	Reasoning
It is to be noted that S. 154 did not provide for an exemption in respect of the income of the Federal Government primarily because the Provinces lacked the legislative competence to enact laws levying taxes on income.	Reasoning
Section 155(1) stated that the Government of a Province and the ruler of a Federated State would not be liable to Federal Taxation in respect of lands or buildings situated in British India.	None
Proviso (a) stipulated that all the trading and business activities carried on by Provinces and the Federated States outside their territorial jurisdiction would be subjected to Federal Taxation in British India.	None
Proviso (b) stipulated that the personal property and income of a Ruler of a Federated State would also be subject to Federal Taxation.	None
Clause (2) of the Section being selfexplanatory, does not require elucidation.	None
In response to a query from us, Mr. Sen sought to find the reason for the existence of the exemption in S. 155(1) it appears that the purpose was to avoid the liabilities imposed by Ss. 3 and 9 of the Incometax Act, 1912 (1922) upon the Provinces.	Reasoning
Comparing the text of Ss. 154 and 155, it becomes clear that even under the scheme of the 1935 Act, the ambit of the reciprocal immunities was not equal in length and breadth while S. 154 exempted the property of the Federal Government from all taxes, the Provincial Governments and Rulers of Federated States were entitled to an exemption only in respect of lands or buildings situated in British India and income accruing thereof.	Reasoning
This feature will gain some importance when we deal with the comparative Constitutional position at a later stage.	Reasoning
The term Federal Taxation was not defined in the 1935 Act but some clue to its meaning can be discerned by referring to Ss. 99 and 100 which described the legislative powers of the Federal Legislature.	None
As we have already seen, the Federal Legislative List did not allow the Federal Legislature to levy taxes on lands and buildings in fact this subject was expressly included in the Provincial Legislative List.	None
On the face of it, this would make the exemption in S. 155 otiose.	None
However, the confusion clears when one notices clauses (4) of S. 100 which expressly enables the Federal Legislature to legislate in respect of matters in the Provincial Legislative List for territories apart from the Provinces.	None
Viewed in this context, and taking into account the definition of British India in S. 311(1), S. 155 would have to be read as exempting the Governments of Provinces and the rulers of Federated States from Federal Taxation in respect of lands or buildings situated in the Chief Commissioners Provinces.	None
This is the only possible interpretation which will give meaning to the words of S. 155.	None
Since, at the time of the enactment of the legislation, there were only six territories classified as Chief Commissioners Provinces, the exemption could not be said to be at par with the exemption provided in S. 154 but, all the same, in terms of the revenue amount involved, it could not be considered insignificant either.	None
It therefore becomes clear that, under the scheme of the 1935 Act, Federal Taxation included taxes leviable by the Federal Government in the Chief Commissioners Provinces and that the properties of the Provinces and the Rulers of the Federated States situated within these Chief Commissioners Provinces would be exempt from such Federal Taxation.	Reasoning
It remains to be seen whether the position came to be changed during the process of transformation of these sections into the existing provisions of the Constitution.	Issue
In the earlier stages of the framing of the Constitution, the issue of financial relations between the Centre and the units was addressed by two Committees the Union Powers Committee and the Union Constitution Committee.	None
These Committees recommended that the schemes envisaged by the 1935 Act should be generally followed.	None
In the Draft Constitution prepared by the Constitutional Adviser, Sir B. N. Rau, in October 1947, Clauses 205 and 207 were modified versions of Ss. 154 and 155.	None
On October 2, 1947, an Expert Committee on Financial Provisions was appointed to make recommendations as to the provisions on the subject to be embodied in the new Constitution after taking into account the views of the States and also the Draft prepared by the Constitutional Adviser.	None
The Drafting Committee of the Constitution took up the issue in January 1948 and took into consideration the Drafts prepared by the Constitutional Adviser as also the Expert Committee on Financial Provision.	None
Thereafter these provisions came to be numbered as Articles 264 and 266 of the Draft Constitution.	None
After the Constituent Assembly had considered the matter at length and formally approved these provisions, they came to be renumbered as Arts. 285 and 289.	None
The present Art. 285 is much the same as its predecessor S. 154 and, though there were some changes in its text as the provision charted its course through the stages enumerated above, not being relevant for our purposes, we shall ignore its discussion.	None
The present Art. 289 was clause 207 in the Draft Constitution prepared by the Constitutional Adviser.	Reasoning
It provided that the Government of a unit would not be liable to Federal Taxation in respect of lands or buildings situated within the territories of the Federation or income accruing, arising or received within such territories the two exceptions provided were in favour of (a) any income accruing to a units Government through trade or business and (b) the personal property or the personal income of the Ruler of Indian State.	Reasoning
As we have observed, under S. 155, the Provinces and Federated States were liable to taxation only in respect of trade and business operations carried on by them outside their own territories.	Reasoning
To that extent Clause 207 had made a substantial departure.	Reasoning
The Constitutional Adviser relied on the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States of America in Mc Culloch v. Maryland, (181619) 4 L. Ed.	None
579 and South Carolina v. United States, 1905 199 US 437, to buttress his stance that the Federation should have the power to tax the units, but not vice versa for the reason that when the Federation taxes the instrumentalities of the units, it taxed its constituents, whereas when a unit taxed the operations of the Federal Government, it acted upon instrumentalities created, not by its own Constituents, but by people over whom it could claim no control.	None
The Expert Committee on Financial Provisions approved the Constitutional Advisers recommendation that the trading operations of the units, as also of local bodies, whether carried on within or without their jurisdiction should be liable to central taxation they, however, suggested that quasitrading operations incidental to the normal functions of Government should be exempt from such taxation.	None
When the Drafting Committee took up the matter, it duly noted the recommendations of the Constitutional Adviser and the Expert Committee and, in July 1949, convened a Premiers Conference to discuss these provisions.	None
Draft Art.	None
266 came in for a lot of criticism and a number of States suggested that insofar as Art. 266 did not exempt the trading and business operations of State Governments from Union Taxation, it be dispensed with altogether.	None
Other suggestions were also forwarded to the Drafting Committee a number of States were of the view that the provision was inequitable and onesided insofar as it sought to subject trade and business operations of the State Governments to Union Taxation, while under Art.	None
264, States were debarred from taxing the property of the Union.	None
Such a provision, it was felt, was bound to retard the industrial development of the Provinces, taking away the incentive for State enterprise.	None
Reconsidering the provision in the light of the comments of the Provincial Governments, the Drafting Committee decided, in consultation with the Central Ministry of Finance, to introduce some important Changes in Art.	None
266.	None
The ambit of the exemption in Clause (1) was expanded by including property instead of lands or buildings thereby bringing within its purview, movable property as well.	None
On the issue of trade and business, a provision similar to the present Art.	None
289(2) was included.	Reasoning
This provision would enable Parliament to pass a law to declare which of the trading and business activities of the States were to be classified as ordinary functions of the Government allowing them to be exempted, and making the rest of the activities liable to tax.	None
Draft Art.	None
266 was considered by the Constituent Assembly on September 9, 1949.	None
Some members representing the States of TravancoreCochin and Mysore expressed apprehensions that Union Taxation of industrial and commercial activities would check the expansion of industrialisation and would reduce the capacity of States to discharge their ordinary governmental functions.	None
Mr. P. T. Chacko from TravancoreCochin referred to the principle of immunity from intergovernmental taxation as it stood in the United States of America and the fact of its incorporation in Draft Art.	None
264 he sought the extension of the doctrine to States as well.	None
While allaying their apprehensions, Mr. Alladi Krishnaswami Ayyar noted the fact that the Australian, Canadian and American Constitutions had incorporated the principle of intergovernmental immunities.	None
He stated that the Australian and Canadian experiences were irrelevant for the purpose of the Indian Constitution for, when they were drafted, it was not envisaged that large schemes of socialisation would be implemented.	None
Referring to the American position, he pointed out that even within that jurisdiction, the doctrine had begun to lose favour and was in the process of being discarded.	None
Thereafter, he observed that under the provision as it was placed before the Constituent Assembly, Parliament was left with the option of making the law which would declare those trading and business operations of the States which would be liable to Union Taxation after taking into account the general interests of trade and industry of the whole country and other democratic factors.	None
He therefore felt that the provision was very salutary.	None
Subsequently, following the reassurances given by the Central Finance Minister, the amendments were withdrawn and Draft Art.	None
266 was accepted in toto.	None
(Note For a study of the evolution of Articles 285 and 289 within the Constituent Assembly, See B. Shiva Rao, The Framing of the Indian Constitution A Study, N. M. Tripathi Pvt. Ltd., Bombay (1968) pp. 64999 for reference to original documents, See B. Shiva Rao, ibid, Vols.	None
III IV).	None
Mr. P. P. Rao and the other learned counsel appearing for the States have argued before us that the present Arts.	Arguments of Respondent
285 and 289 are based on the U.S. doctrine of reciprocal immunity of instrumentalities which has also been incorporated in the Canadian and Australian Constitutions, apart from certain other Constitutions.	Arguments of Respondent
Before we begin to examine the text of Arts.	Issue
285 and 289 with a view to finding a solution to the Constitutional conundrum posed by the case before us, we must analyse this proposition closely.	Issue
The doctrine of intergovernmental immunity has been the subject of some controversy in the country of its origin, the United States of America.	None
The origin of this doctrine is ascribed to the judgment of Chief Justice John Marshall in the case of Mc Culloch v. Maryland, (191619 (4) Law Ed 579) (supra).	None
However, as pointed out by commentators, on the facts of the case, where a State Tax sought to be levied on a Federal Bank was held to be void, the decision was more in favour of declaring the supremacy of the Federal Government than of upholding the rights of States.	None
It was, therefore, the basis for establishing federal immunity from State Taxation.	None
However, later decisions interpreted the judgment to hold that its corollary, that the property of States would be exempt from Federal Taxation was equally applicable more than 50 years after the decision in McCullochs case, the Supreme Court, in Collector v. Day, 1871(11)	None
Wall 113 made the theory of intergovernmental immunity reciprocal.	None
The doctrine, as propounded in Collector v. Day, was never applied widely and, in subsequent years, underwent significant modifications.	None
In The South Carolina case (1905 (199) US 437), which was the second case relied upon by the Constitutional Adviser in preparing Clause 207 of his Draft Constitution, the Supreme Court dealt a further blow to the concept of immunity of States from Federal Taxation, when it held that South Carolina was bound to pay a National Excise Tax on liquordealers which was being levied by the Federal Govenment.	None
The Supreme Court drew a distinction between State functions which were strictly governmental and those which were commercial in nature it was held that the governmental functions of State would be immune from taxation but when the States entered into ordinary business, no immunity would exist.	None
This created fresh problems and over time, several Judges of the Supreme Court protested against the illogical distinction between Govenmental and business activities, calling for a complete reexamination of the entire doctrine.	None
In later years, the doctrine was considerably modified.	None
In recent years, the Supreme Court has come to recognise a narrower tax immunity for the States than for the National Government on the basis of a theory that combines the principle of national supremacy with the argument that the interests of States received more representation in Congress than national interest received in State Legislature.	None
It is to be noted the we have had this position from the time that the Constitution was originally enacted.	None
As we have already noticed, the Constitutional Adviser relied upon the decisions in McCullochs case (181619 (4) Law Ed 579) and The South Carolina case (1905 (199) US 437), for justifying the reduction in the ambit of the immunity of States from Union Taxation rather than for establishing reciprocal immunity between the States and the Union.	Reasoning
Furthermore, in the Constituent Assembly, Mr. Alladi Krishnaswami Ayyar had doubted the applicability of the doctrine to the Indian Constitution and had instead commended the present scheme whereby the troublesome issue of determining which of the trading and business operations of State should be subject to Union Taxation has been left to Parliament while enacting such a law Parliament would be forced to cater to the interests of the States on account of the presence of their representatives in it.	Reasoning
The usefulness of any further discussion on the applicability of this doctrine to the Indian Constitution is rendered questionable by virtue of the fact that this Court had, on earlier occasions, rejected it.	Reasoning
In State of West Bengal v. Union of India, 1964(1)	Reasoning
SCR 371, Sinha, C.J., speaking for the majority in a sixJudge Constitution Bench expressly held (at p. 407) that the doctrine of immunity of instrumentalities had been rejected by the Privy Council as inapplicable to the Canadian and Australian Constitutions and having practically been given a go by in the United States, it was equally inapplicable to the Indian Constitution.	Reasoning
In the APSRTC case (1964 (7) SCR 17 ) (supra), (at p. 24) (AIR 1964 SC 1486 at p. 1491), the Court rejected the contention of the AdvocateGeneral of Andhra Pradesh urging it to adopt the American doctrine, by relying upon these observations of Sinha, C.J.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, clear that in seeking a solution to the problem faced by us, we must rely primarily on the bare text of Arts. 285 and 289.	Reasoning
Comparing these provisions, it becomes evident that the Constitution does envisage some form of intergovernmental immunity.	Reasoning
Article 286 (1), while exempting the property of the Union from all taxes, does not attempt to provide an exemption in respect of income as the States do not possess legislative competence to levy taxes on income as such however, taxes relating to income that have a bearing on property such as the taxes on agricultural income levied by using Entry 46 of the State List will also be exempt in view of the wideranging, allembracing nature of the exemption.	Reasoning
Article 285(2) saves, until Parliament by law decides otherwise, all preConstitutional taxes applicable to Union property.	Reasoning
With respect to Article 289, we have already examined the manner in which this provision was analysed by this Court in the APSRTC case (AIR 1964 SC 1486 ).	Reasoning
We are in agreement with the proposition that the three clauses of Article 289 are interlinked, in that, Clause (3) is an exception to Clause (2) which in turn is an exception to Clause (1).	Reasoning
As we have noticed for ourselves, the framers of the constitution had consciously conferred Parliament with the option of deciding which of the trading and business activities of the States would be subject to the levy of Union taxes.	Reasoning
So, while Article 289(1) generally exempts the property and income of the States from Union taxation, Clauses (2) and (3) grant to Parliament the aforementioned prerogatives.	Reasoning
Having understood the scheme of Arts. 285 and 289, we must sharply focus on the specific wording of Art.	Reasoning
289(1) and, in particular, on the meaning of the phrase union Taxation.	Reasoning
It may be noted that the phrase union Taxation appears in only two places in the entire Constitution in the marginal heading of Art.	Reasoning
289	Reasoning
and in the main text of Art.	Reasoning
289(1).	Reasoning
It is suggested that some guidance may be obtained by analysing the term State Taxation which appears in the marginal heading of Art. 285 and has been described in the text of Art.	Reasoning
285(1) as all taxes imposed by a State.	Reasoning
On that reasoning, Union Taxation would mean all taxes imposed by the Union.	Reasoning
The word taxation has been defined in Art.	Reasoning
366(28) which states that unless the context otherwise requires, the word taxation includes the imposition of any tax or impost, whether general or local or special and, tax shall be construed accordingly.	Reasoning
This definition was accepted by Das, J. and Hidayatullah, J. in their minority opinions (at pp. 83435 and 89394 (of SCR) (at pp. 1780 and 1799) of AIR) respectively) in the Sea Customs case (1964 (3) SCR 787 AIR 1963 SC 1760 ) for interpreting Art.	Reasoning
289(1).	Reasoning
However, Sinha, C.J., in his majority opinion (at pp. 92334 (sic)), rejected the application of this definition to Art.	Reasoning
289(1) as, in his opinion, the context of Art.	Reasoning
289(1) precluded the application of the definition.	Reasoning
Rajagopala Ayyangar, J., in his separate majority opinion (at pp.	Reasoning
92193	Reasoning
(sic)), also felt that the definition would not apply.	Reasoning
We concur with the majority view in the Sea Customs case that the definition of taxation provided in Art. 366(28) will not apply for the purpose of interpreting Art.	Reasoning
289(1).	Reasoning
Our attention has been drawn towards the provisions contained in Part XII of the Constitution which has a bearing on the scheme of the Constitution with respect to financial relations between the Union and the States.	Reasoning
Since this aspect and its relevance to Art.	Reasoning
289(1) was discussed at length in the Sea Customs case (1964 (3) SCR 787 AIR 1963 SC 1760 ), We may advert to those observations.	Reasoning
Das, J. (at p. 852) (of SCR) (at p. 1786 of AIR), was of the opinion that the provisions of Part XII of the Constitution would have no bearing on the import of Arts. 285 and 289 which ought to be construed on their own terms.	Reasoning
Sinha, C.J., however, analysed these provisions at length and the relevant observations in this behalf may be reproduced (at pp. 80910)	Reasoning
(of SCR) (at pp. 177172 of AIR)	Reasoning
It will thus appear that Part XII of the Constitution has made elaborate provisions as to the revenues of the Union and of the States, and as to how the Union will share the proceeds of duties and taxes imposed by it and collected either by the Union or by the States.	Reasoning
Sources of revenue which have been allocated to the Union are not meant entirely for the purposes of the Union but have to be distributed according to the principles laid down by Parliamentary legislation as contemplated by the Articles aforesaid.	Reasoning
Thus all the taxes and duties levied by the Union and collected either by the Union or by the States do not form part of the Consolidated Fund of India but many of those taxes and duties are distributed amongst the States and form part of the Consolidated Fund of the States.	Reasoning
Even those taxes and duties which constitute the Consolidated Fund of India may be used for the purposes of supplementing the revenues of the States in accordance with their needs The financial arrangement and adjustment suggested in Part XII of the Constitution has been designed by the Constitutionmakers in such a way as to ensure an equitable distribution of the revenues between the Union and the States, even though those revenues may be derived from taxes and duties imposed by the Union and collected by it or through the agency of the States It will thus be seen that the powers of taxation assigned to the Union are based mostly on considerations of convenience of imposition and collection and not with a view to allocate them solely to the Union that is to say, it was not intended that all taxes and duties imposed by the Union Parliament should be expended on the activities of the Centre and not on the activities of the States The resources of the Union Government are not meant exclusively for the benefit of the Union activities they are also meant for subsidising the activities of the States in accordance with their respective needs, irrespective of the amounts collected by or through them.	Reasoning
In other words, the Union and the States together form one organic whole for the purposes of utilisation of the resources of the territories of India as a whole.	Reasoning
We are of the view that an analysis of some of the provisions in Part XI, Chapter I of the Constitution, which deals with the legislative relations between the Union and the States will be crucial to the determination of the central issue in this case.	Reasoning
We may first notice certain provisions in the Constitution which enable Parliament to make laws for subjects contained in the State List, to which our attention was drawn by counsel for the appellants as also the learned Attorney General.	Reasoning
We must note that these provisions conceive of extraordinary situations.	Reasoning
Article 249 provides for a situation where, if the Council of States declare by a resolution that it is necessary in the national interest to do so, Parliament may make laws in respect of matters enumerated in the State List.	Reasoning
Article 250 empowers Parliament to make laws for the whole or any part of India in respect of matters enumerated in the State List while a Proclamation of Emergency is in operation.	Reasoning
Article 252 empowers Parliament to make laws with respect to matters enumerated in the State List if two or more States resolve that such a course of action is desirable.	Reasoning
Article 253 reserves to Parliament the exclusive power to make laws for the whole or any part of the territory of India for implementing any treaty.	Reasoning
Agreement or convention with any other country or any decision made at any international conference, association or any other body.	Reasoning
The Emergency Provisions outlined in Part XVIII of the Constitution and comprising Articles 352 to 360 conceive of special situations in which Parliament is empowered to enact laws on matters in List II.	None
It has been urged that when Parliament legislates for Union Territories in exercise of powers under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
246(4), it is a situation similar to those enumerated above and is to be treated as an exceptional situation, not forming part of the ordinary constitutional scheme and hence falling outside the ambit of Union Taxation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Having analysed the scheme of Part VIII of the Constitution including the changes wrought into it, we are of the view that despite the fact that, of late, Union territories have been granted greater powers, they continue to be very much under the control and supervision of the Union Government for their governance.	None
Some clue as to the reasons for the recent amendments in Part VIII may be found in the observations of this Court in Ramesh Birchs case (AIR 1990 SC 560 ), which we have extracted earlier.	Reasoning
It is possible that since Parliament may not have enough time at its disposal to enact entire volumes of legislations for certain Union Territories, it may decide, at least in respect of those Union Territories whose importance is enhanced on account of the size of their territories and their geographical location, that they should be given more autonomy in legislative matters.	Reasoning
However, these changes will not have the effect of making such Union Territories as independent as the States.	Reasoning
This point is best illustrated by referring to the case of the National Capital Territory of Delhi which is today a Union Territory and enjoys the maximum autonomy on account of the fact that it has a Legislature created by the Constitution.	Reasoning
However, Clauses 3(b) and 3(c) of Art. 239AA make it abundantly clear that the plenary power to legislate upon matters affecting Delhi still vests with Parliament as it retains the power to legislate upon any matter relating to Delhi and, in the event of any repugnancy, it is the Parliamentary law which will prevail.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, clear that Union Territories are in fact under the supervision of the Union Government and it cannot be contended that their position is akin to that of the States.	Reasoning
Having analysed the relevant Constitutional provisions as also the applicable precedents, we are of the view that under the scheme of the Indian Constitution, the position of the Union Territories cannot be equated with that of the States.	Reasoning
Though they do have a separate identity within the Constitutional framework, this will not enable them to avail of the privileges available to the states.	Reasoning
It has been urged before us that the phrase Union Taxation has to be interpreted in the context of Art.	Reasoning
246, which deals with the subject matter of laws made by Parliament and the State Legislatures, and that the context of Union Taxation should be limited to those matters falling within Arts.	Reasoning
246(1), where Parliament has the legislative competence to levy taxes with respect to matters enumerated in the Union List.	Reasoning
We see no reason why such a limiting principle must be read into the definition of the phrase Union Taxation.	Reasoning
In our view, the term can and should be given the widest amplitude, allowing it to encompass all taxes that are levied by the authority of Parliamentary laws.	Reasoning
Though the amplitude of the term Union Taxation was not expressly before the Court in the Sea Customs Case (AIR 1963 SC 1760 ), it is clear from an analysis of the majority judgments that the learned Judges considered the term Union Taxation to mean all taxes leviable by the Union.	Reasoning
As Clause (4) of Art.	Reasoning
246 itself envisages situations where Parliament is to make laws in respect of matters in the State List, it cannot be said that this is a rare or an unusual circumstance.	Reasoning
The Constitution does not contain any provision which would indicate that the definition of Union Taxation should be restrictively interpreted so as to be within the confines of Art.	Reasoning
246(1).	Reasoning
The specific situations envisaged in Arts.	Reasoning
249, 250, 252, 253 and the Emergency Provisions in Part XVIII of the Constitution do not make for the creation of any anomalous situations.	Reasoning
These Articles, which provide for unusual exercises of Parliamentary power involving the matters enumerated in the State List, can be regarded as exceptions to the general rule.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, of the view that, unless the context requires otherwise as in the case of Arts.	Reasoning
249, 250, 252, 253 and the Emergency Provisions in Part XVIII of the Constitution the broad definition of Union Taxation embracing all taxes leviable by Parliament ought to be accepted for the purpose of interpreting Art.	Reasoning
289(1).	Reasoning
As already noticed by us, under the scheme of the 1935 Act, those lands or buildings of the Provinces and Federated States which were situated within the Chief Commissioners Provinces were, by virtue of S. 155(1), exempted from Federal Taxation.	Reasoning
There can be no dispute about such a construction of the provision for, otherwise, the exemption in S. 155(1) would have no meaning.	Reasoning
Section 155(1) formed the basis for the present Art.	Reasoning
289(1) and, having closely examined the various stages by which Art.	Reasoning
289(1) replaced S. 155(1), we find that this position was never sought to be deviated from.	Reasoning
The presumption, therefore, is that it was the intention of the framers of the Constitution to maintain the status quo with respect to the position regarding the Chief Commissioners Provinces which are now called Union Territories.	Reasoning
That presumption is further reinforced by the general scheme of the Constitution which furthers the interpretation that we have sought to give to Art.	Reasoning
289(1) and its applicability in respect of the Union Territories.	Reasoning
Unlike other Federations, the Union of India has a sizeable territory of its own comprising the Union Territories which have been specified in the First Schedule to the Constitution.	Reasoning
Therefore, the limited reciprocal intergovernmental immunity bestowed by the Constitution in Arts.	Reasoning
285 and 289 is given fuller meaning by virtue of the adoption of the wider meaning of Union Taxation this would mean that, just as the properties of the Union are exempt from taxes on property leviable by the States, the properties of the States will also be exempt from taxes on property leviable by the Union in areas falling within its territorial jurisdiction.	Reasoning
While attempting to demonstrate that the reasoning of Sinha, C.J. in the Sea Customs case (AIR 1963 SC 1760 ) was incorrect insofar as his acceptance of the contention that Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
246(4) enables Parliament to levy taxes directly on property was concerned, Mr. B. Sen contended that Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
246(4) was not in the contemplation of the framers of the Constitution when they carved out the exemption in favour of the property of the States from Union Taxation he then proceeded to cite examples of specific circumstances in which Parliament can levy taxes directly on property which, according to him, was what the framers had intended to exempt under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
289(1).	Reasoning
He drew our attention to Entry 3 of the Union List (Delimitation of Cantonment areas, local selfgovernment in such areas, the constitution and powers within such areas of cantonment authorities and the regulation of home accommodation (including the control of rents) in such areas) and stated that by virtue of this entry, Parliament is rendered competent to levy taxes on the use or occupation of properties located within areas declared as Cantonments.	Arguments of Petitioner
He then referred to Entry 54 of the Union List (Regulation of mines and mineral development to the extent to which such regulation and development under the control of the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest) and to the Mines and Minerals (Regulation Development) Act, 1956 which together empower Parliament to levy taxes on mines and minerals which would be in the nature of a tax on property.	Arguments of Petitioner
Referring to Entry 49 of the Union List (Patents, Inventions and Designs copyright trademarks and merchandise marks), Mr. Sen contended that since these subjects are regarded as intangible or incorporeal properties, taxes levied by Parliament upon them would also amount to taxes on property.	Arguments of Petitioner
Additionally, Mr. Sen has referred to the following Entries in the Union Lists Entries 24 25 (relating to Shipping activities), Entry 47 (Insurance), Entry 52 (Industries, the control of which by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be in the public interest) to demonstrate that Parliament does have power to levy taxes directly on property.	Arguments of Petitioner
93.	None
Mr. A. K. Ganguli controverted Mr. Sens contention in this respect he argued that Entry 3 of the Union List does not contemplate the levy of taxes by Parliament.	Arguments of Respondent
With respect to entries 47 54, he argued that these entries would be covered by Art.	Arguments of Respondent
289(2) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
The same contention would, presumably, be applicable in respect of the other entries cited by Mr. Sen. In our opinion, there is no warrant for an authoritative pronouncement upon this aspect for, even if we assume that Mr. Sens contention is correct and that all these Entries do in fact empower Parliament to levy taxes directly on property, it would not in any way detract from the correctness of our interpretation that the levy of taxes under Art.	Reasoning
246(4) is covered by the phrase Union Taxation in Art.	Reasoning
289(1) these Entries would then provide additional areas in respect of which the States can claim exemption from Union Taxation under Art.	Reasoning
289(1), thus lending greater weight to the solemnity and the actual worth, in real terms, of the phraseology of Art.	Reasoning
289(1).	Reasoning
However, we find ourselves unable to agree with Mr. Sen when he contends that the entries cited by him were the only instances kept in contemplation by the framers at the time of the drafting of Art.	Reasoning
289(1).	Reasoning
If that were so, the ambit of the exemption would traverse an extremely narrow field which would then lend credence to the observation of Das, J. in the Sea Customs case (AIR 1963 SC 1760 ), albeit made in the converse context, that the exemption in Art.	Reasoning
289(1) would amount to much also about nothing.	Reasoning
Classification of taxes imposed by Municipalities We may now turn to Mr. Sens alternative submission that the taxes levied by the NDMC under the Act would not be covered by the exemption in Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
289(1) as that provision cannot be construed to encompass Municipal Taxes.	Arguments of Petitioner
97.	Arguments of Petitioner
To appreciate this contention, we will be required to analyse certain provisions of the Act as also those of the Constitution.	None
Section 61 of the Act, which is the charging section, at the relevant time, empowered the Municipality to levy a tax payable by the owner on lands and buildings subject to, and to the extent of, the qualifying conditions provided therein.	Reasoning
It is clear from an analysis of this provision that it provides for the levy of a consolidated tax, combining within it the tax element and the service element.	Reasoning
Section 51 of the Act provides for the constitution of a Municipal Fund and states that all sums received by the Municipal Committee are to be credited to it.	Reasoning
Section 52 of the Act provides the manner in which the sums collected in the Municipal Fund are to be applied by the Municipal Committee.	Reasoning
Our attention has also been drawn towards analogous provisions in the New Delhi Municipal Committee Act and the Delhi Municipal Committee Act to form the foundation of the argument that, under all these legislations, the Municipalities have been vested with a great deal of financial autonomy they have the power to fix their own budgets, levy taxes within prescribed limits, collect the proceeds of such imposition which are to be diverted to Municipal Funds which function entirely under the supervision of the Committees.	Reasoning
It is argued that such a stance is further reinforced by the introduction of Part IXA into the Constitution which allows for Municipalities to be vested with substantial powers, including the power to tax, thereby providing constitutional support.	Reasoning
The argument, therefore, is that now that the Constitution itself recognises Municipal taxes as a separate category of taxes, they should not be construed to fall within the exemption provided by Art.	Reasoning
289(1).	Reasoning
Another limb of this submission is that while under Art. 285, taxes imposed by any authority within a State, which would necessarily include Municipal taxes, have been expressly exempted, Art. 289 does not provide for any such facility and, to that extent, taxes levied by Municipalities within the Union Territories are not covered by the exemption in Art.	Reasoning
289(1).	Reasoning
We have great difficulty in accepting this assertion.	Reasoning
Article 265 of the Constitution emphatically mandates that no tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law.	Reasoning
Under the framework of the Constitution there are two principal bodies which have been vested with plenary powers to make laws, these being the Union Legislature, which is described by Art. 79 as Parliament for the Union and the State Legislatures, which are described by Art. 168 in the singular as Legislature of a State.	Reasoning
While certain other bodies have been vested with legislative power, including the power of levying taxes, by the Constitution for specific purposes, as in the case of District Committees and Regional Councils constituted under the aegis of the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution, the plenary power to legislate, especially in matters relating to revenue, still vests with the Union and the State Legislatures.	Reasoning
Even if the submission that Municipalities now possess, under Part IXA of the Constitution, a higher juridical status is correct, the extension of that logic to the proposition that they have plenary powers to levy taxes is not, as is clear from a perusal of the relevant part of Art.	Reasoning
243X of the Constitution which reads as under 243X. Power to impose taxes by, and Funds of, the Municipalities.  	None
The Legislature of a State may, by law, (a) authorise a Municipality to levy, collect and appropriate such taxes, duties, tolls and fees in accordance with such procedure and subject to such limits (b) to (d) . . . . . . .	None
as may be specified in law.	None
Article 243B provides that this provision will be applicable to Union Territories and the reference to the Legislature of a State would apply, in relation to a Union Territory having a Legislative Assembly, to that Legislative Assembly.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, clear that even under the new scheme, Municipalities do not have an independent power to levy taxes.	Reasoning
Although they can now be granted more substantial powers than even before, they continue to be dependent upon their parent Legislatures for the bestowal of such privileges.	Reasoning
In the case of Municipalities within States, they have to be specifically delegated the power to tax by the concerned State Legislature.	Reasoning
In Union Territories which do not have Legislative Assemblies of their own, such a power would have to be delegated by Parliament.	Reasoning
Of the rest, those which have Legislative Assemblies of their own would have to specifically empower Municipalities within them with the power to levy taxes.	Reasoning
We have already held that despite the fact that certain Union Territories have Legislative Assemblies of their own, they are very much under the supervision of the Union Government and cannot be said to have an independent status.	Reasoning
Under our constitutional scheme, all taxation must fall within either of two categories State Taxation or Union Taxation.	Reasoning
Since it is axiomatic that taxes levied by authorities within a State would amount to State taxation, it would appear that the words or by any authority within a State have been added in Art.	Reasoning
285(1) by way of abundant caution.	Reasoning
It could also be that these words owe their presence in the provision to historical reasons it may be noted that S. 154 of the 1935 Act was similarly worded.	Reasoning
The fact that Art. 289(1), which in its phraseology is different from S. 155 of the 1935 Act having been drafted by the Drafting Committee to meet specific objections, does not contain words similar to those in Art.	Reasoning
285(1), will not in any way further the case of the appellant, because the phrase Union Taxation will encompass Municipal taxes levied by Municipalities in Union Territories.	Reasoning
Before we part, we must refer to Part IV of the judgment of Jeevan Reddy, J. where Cl.	Reasoning
(2) of Art.	Reasoning
289 has been invoked to validate the levy of taxes under the Act and the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act upon those properties of State Governments which are being occupied for commercial or trade purposes.	Reasoning
At the outset, we must express our great reluctance to deal with this proposition, for it is not based on any contention advanced by any of the counsel who appeared before us, either in their written pleadings or in their oral submissions.	Reasoning
That is not because we feel constrained to restrict ourselves to the parameters prescribed by the submissions of counsel, but because we feel that the opposite side did not have a fair opportunity to answer the line of reasoning adopted in that behalf.	Reasoning
The view taken by Reddy, J. has the effect of imposing considerable tax liabilities upon the properties of the State Governments and, in our view, it would only be proper that their views in this behalf be obtained before visiting them with such liabilities.	Reasoning
We have only the rule of caution in mind which warns that ordinarily, Courts should, particularly in constitutional matters, refrain from expressing opinions on points not raised or not fully and effectively argued by counsel on either side.	Reasoning
Be that as it may, we must, for the record, express ourselves on the view taken by Reddy, J. after closely examining it.	Reasoning
Reddy, J. begins his examination of the issue by noting that the Act, the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act and the New Delhi Municipal Committee Act contain specific provisions exempting the properties of the Union from local taxation in accordance with Art. 285.	Reasoning
It is then stated that since none of these Acts contain similar exemptions in favour of the properties of States, it is clear that they purport to levy taxes on them.	Reasoning
This is followed by the observation that though the States seek an exemption from such levies on the basis of Cl.	Reasoning
(1) of Art. 289, as per the ratio of the APSRTC case (AIR 1964 SC 1486 ), Clause (1) has to be read in the context of Cls.	Reasoning
(2) and (3) of that Article.	Reasoning
This would, it is stated, lead to the consequence that if a Parliamentary law within the meaning of Cl.	Reasoning
(2) of Art.	Reasoning
289 is made, the area covered by that law would be removed from the field occupied in Cl.	Reasoning
(1) for support, an analogy is drawn from the decision in R.C. Cooper v. Union of India, 1970(1) SCC 248.	Reasoning
Thereafter, the meaning and scope of Art. 289 as well as its underlying objective are ascertained by contrasting it with S. 155 of the 1935 Act.	Reasoning
The use of the words lands and buildings in S. 155(1) is analysed to arrive at the conclusion that these words were included to empower the federal legislature to levy taxes on lands and buildings situated within the Chief Commissioners provinces.	Reasoning
It is then noted that Art.	Reasoning
289 uses the wider expression property, but that the same reasoning holds good for the present Union Territories, making the property and income of States situated within Union Territories exempt from Union Taxation.	Reasoning
With respect to the proviso to S. 155(1), it is observed that the provision was automatically applicable on its own force.	Reasoning
It did not define the trading and business operations of Provincial Governments, nor did it specify which of these operations would be subject to Federal Taxation.	Reasoning
It is then stated that the same position continues in Art.	Reasoning
289 with the only difference being the requirement of the enactment of a law by Parliament in this behalf.	Reasoning
Thereafter, it is observed that the exemption in Cl.	Reasoning
(1) of Art.	Reasoning
289 is subject to Cl.	Reasoning
(2) of Art. 289.	Reasoning
Clause (2) is analysed and interpreted as clarifying Cl.	Reasoning
(1) to the extent that the exemption upon the income of Provincial Government operates only when such income is carried on for the purpose of governmental functions and not for trade and business activities, carried on with the profit motive.	Reasoning
It is stated that though trade and business ordinarily has a very wide and ambiguous meaning (certain English and Indian authorities are cited to illustrate this point), but, for the purposes of Cl.	Reasoning
(2) of Art. 289, they have to be given a restricted meaning.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, stated that under Art.	Reasoning
289(2), the trading and business activities of State Governments, which are carried on with the profit motive, will be liable to tax and cannot avail of the exemptions in Art.	Reasoning
289(1).	Reasoning
Clause (2) is further analysed and is interpreted as having been included for the purpose of removing the trading and business activities of State Governments from the purview of the exemption in Cl.	Reasoning
(1).	Reasoning
However, it is stated, such a removal is not automatic and is dependent upon the enactment of a Parliamentary Law which imposes taxes on specified trading and business activities of State Governments.	Reasoning
Thereafter, the question whether Parliament has, in exercise of powers under Art.	Reasoning
289(2), imposed taxes on the trading and business activities of State Governments, is sought to be addressed.	Reasoning
In this respect, the Act, the New Delhi Municipal Committee Act and the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, which are deemed to be postconstitutional enactments, are examined.	Reasoning
It is noted that while these enactments contain specific exemptions in favour of properties of the Union and also exempt properties used for charitable purposes and public worship, they do not exempt properties of State Governments.	Reasoning
It is stated that the latter omission must be deemed to be deliberate.	Reasoning
Thereafter, it is stated that two views are possible in this regard.	Reasoning
The first is to adopt the position that since neither of these enactments are purported to have been made under Art.	Reasoning
289(1), they should not be treated as having been enacted for that purpose and, consequently, should be held to be incapable of levying taxes on any property, whether occupied for governmental or trading purposes, of the State Governments.	Reasoning
The second view, which Reddy, J. adopts, is to take the position that the Doctrine of Presumption of Constitutionality of Legislations points in favour of holding that the Act and the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act are laws made by Parliament under Art. 289(2), and taxes imposed by them upon the properties occupied for trading and business activities by State Governments would be valid and effective.	Reasoning
A number of decisions of this Court are cited to show the jurisprudential basis of this tool of constitutional interpretation.	Reasoning
It is pointed out that though neither of these legislations purport to have been made under Art.	Reasoning
289(2),	Reasoning
but, since this is normal practice in that no legislation specifies the provision of the Constitution that it is enacted under, this fact need not be over emphasised.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, held that the levy of property taxes by these enactments is valid to the extent that it relates to lands and buildings owned by State Governments and used by them for trade and business purposes.	Reasoning
(In an earlier part of the opinion, the difficulty in drawing a distinction between governmental and business functions is noted and an example in respect of guesthouses maintained by State Governments is supplied).	Reasoning
Thereafter, it is stated that it is for the appropriate assessing authority to determine which land building falls within which category in accordance with law and take appropriate further action.	Reasoning
It is then stated that since, under these enactments, the assessing authorities are required to decide several difficult questions as to what amounts to charitable purpose etc., the obligation imposed by such directions would not prove to be too onerous to discharge.	Reasoning
Reddy, J. sums up the issue by recommending to the Union that it consider granting a total exemption in favour of all properties of State Governments.	Reasoning
We are of the opinion that of the two possible views expressed by Reddy, J., it is the first which ought to be preferred.	Reasoning
We think that the second view is fraught with several difficulties.	Reasoning
Such a construction, while being violative of the scheme envisaged by the Framers of the Constitution, may well result in a situation that was sought to be avoided by them.	Reasoning
The directions may also lead to grave practical difficulties moreover, since the effect of the directions would be to vest the executive authorities with substantial policy making powers, their issuance might well be offensive to established principles of delegation of powers.	Reasoning
We shall now set out the reasons which cause us to so think in doing so, we may have to revisit some of the ground that has already been traversed by us, but the repetition can be justified by the narrower focus that will now be imparted to those aspects.	None
Articles 285 and 289, and their predecessors in the 1935 Act, owe their origin to the American doctrine of Intergovernmental Tax Immunity.	None
This doctrine was enunciated in the case of Mc Culloch v. Maryland, (181619(4) Law Ed 579)	None
(supra).	None
However, the doctrine was substantially modified by the decision in South Carolina v. United States (1905 (199) US 437) (supra) which drew a distinction between strictly governmental and business functions of Governments.	None
In the latter case, it was held that the governmental functions of State Governments would be exempt from Federal Taxation but their commercial functions would be subject to the levy of Federal Taxes.	None
This case imposed upon Courts the heavy burden of determining in specific cases when a particular function was or was not governmental.	None
A number of conflicting decisions were rendered and caused a great deal of confusion as to which of the activities of Governments were to be classified as business or proprietary and were, therefore, to be liable to Federal Taxation.	None
The controversy was set at rest by a unanimous decision of the U.S. Supreme Court in New York v. United States, 1946(326)	None
US 572 90 Law Ed 326 wherein it was concluded that the artificial distinction between governmental and proprietary business functions of States was unworkable and required to be abandoned.	None
The difficulty in determining the distinction between a governmental function and a trading or business function of the State has also been felt and recognised in Australia.	None
In South Australia v. Commonwealth, 1942(65) CLR 373, the changing character of Government functions of the State was noted and it was held that, In a fully selfGovernment country where a Parliament determines legislative policy and an executive Government carries it out, any activity may become a function of Government if Parliament so determines (supra at p. 423).	None
The Court in this decision came to the conclusion that the best way to avoid the controversy was to allow Parliament to decide, by law, which of the activities of the State would be classified as relating to business and would consequently be liable to taxation Under the predecessor of Art. 289, i.e., under Proviso (a) to S. 155(1) of the 1935 Act, the Federal Government was empowered to levy taxes on lands and buildings of Provincial Governments used by them for trade or business.	None
The provision itself vested the Federal Government with the power to levy such taxes and there was no requirement for the enactment of a specific law in that behalf.	None
This position continued till the Constitution came into force.	None
When Sir B. N. Rau prepared his Draft Constitution, Clause 207 (present Art. 289) was drafted on the basis of S. 155 of the 1935 Act.	None
An attempt was made to incorporate the U.S. position prevailing after the decision in the South Carolina case (1905 (199) US 437) (supra) by stipulating that all trading activities of State Governments would be liable to Union Taxation.	None
However, even under this provision, the power to tax was automatic and did not require a specific law.	None
(See A Note on certain clauses by the Constitutional Adviser, B. Shiva Rao, Vol.	None
III, p. 197 at pp. 204205).	None
The Expert Committee on Financial Provisions, however, recommended that quasitrading activities of State Governments should be exempt from Union Taxation.	None
(See Report of the Expert Committee, B. Shiva Rao, Vol.	None
III, p. 260 at p. 266).	None
Even when the Drafting Committee incorporated the provision as Draft Article 266 and subsequently modified it, there was no stipulation for a law before the power to tax could be exercised.	None
(See the text of Draft Article 266, B. Shiva Rao, Vol. IV, p. 676).	None
At the Premiers Conference held in July, 1949, the provision met with severe criticism.	None
The Premier of the United Province suggested that all trading and business activities of State Governments be exempt from Union Taxation.	None
Several other provinces also made similar representations.	None
Based on these representations, the Drafting Committee made a substantial change in the text of Draft Art.	None
266.	None
A provision similar to the present Art.	None
289(2), whereby Parliament would have the power to determine which of the trading and business activities of State Governments would be liable to Union Taxation was incorporated.	None
(See Revised draft by the Ministry of Finance, B. Shiva Rao, Vol. IV, pp. 731732).	None
When Draft Art. 266 was discussed in the Assembly, a number of members expressed fears that Union Taxation of commercial activities of State Governments would check the expansion of industrialisation and reduce the capacity of States to perform their ordinary functions.	None
They, therefore, demanded that the trading and business activities of State Governments be exempt from Union Taxation.	None
Alladi Krishnaswamy Ayyar sought to allay these apprehensions by making an elaborate statement, the relevant part of which is quoted below (Constituent Assembly Debates, Vol.	None
IX, pp. 116769) .	None
. . .	None
.It is a permissive power that is given to Parliament under the section.	None
There is no duty cast upon Parliament to levy a tax and I am sure in the larger interest of trade and industry, Parliament will certainly not go to the length of taxing. . . . .	None
industries which have been thriving. . . . .	None
.So	None
far as the United States is concerned in the early days though there was no express provision through the medium of the doctrine of instrumentality, they held that the State cannot tax the Federal Government and the Federal Government cannot tax the State instrumentality because both are parts of a single composite mechanism and if you permit one to tax the other, it may destroy the whole mechanism.	None
Later, the doctrine of instrumentality itself was felt to be not in the large interest of the State, and quite recently the swing of the pendulum is the other way.	None
The other day one of the most enlightened of Supreme Court Judges held in what is known as the Spring of the State of New York, in regard to certain springs which were worked by the State of New York  for this part of business they held that there is no immunity of the State from tax.	None
They said You have to draw some line between one kind of activity of a State and another kind of activity.	None
Of course it cannot be a rigid definition.	None
What may be in one sphere may easily pass into another sphere with the progress of the State and with the development of the polity in the particular State.	None
(In all probability, this is a reference to the opinion of Frankfurter, J. in New York v. United States (supra) which upheld the application of a Federal Excise Tax to the sale of mineral waters bottled by the State of New York with a view to providing funds for a State health resort). . . . . .	None
Normally speaking, you cannot regard at the present day under existing conditions the carrying on of trade and business as a normal or ordinary function of the Government.	None
It may develop into ordinary function  certain aspects of it, especially the transport service and certain key industries, may soon become the parts of the State enterprise. . . . .	None
The Parliament will take note of the progressive tendency of the particular times and may at once declare accordingly.	None
It might not have been the ordinary function of Government before.	None
Now it may become an ordinary function.	None
There will be sufficient elasticity in Cl.	None
(3) to enable the Government to exempt from taxation particular trades or industries which are started as public utility services or declare them as regular State industries.	None
Nobody can question a law made by Parliament because the Parliament has stated that a particular industry is an ordinary function of the State whereas according to the notions of an individual economist A or B it is not a ordinary function of a Government.	None
Parliament will lay down the law of the land and it will be the sole arbiter of the question as to whether it is an ordinary function of Government or not.	None
Therefore having regard (a) to the plenary power of Parliament to exempt any particular industries, and particular business from the operation of the tax provision.	None
(b) having regard to the fact that it is not obligatory on Parliament to levy any tax.	None
(c) that the very conception of State industry may change with the further evolution of the State and changing times, and (d) to the interconnection between one State and another.	None
it will be very difficult to differentiate between particular States, between States which have been working certain industries and other States. . . . . .	None
(T)o lay down a general principle of law that even at the present day before the provinces are on their feet every trade or business is exempt from taxation will lead to wildgoose schemes being started by various provinces.	None
They may not take into account the general interests of the trade and industry in the whole country.	None
They may not have regard to the difference between one kind of industry and another.	None
Under those circumstances the particular provision which has been inserted by Dr. Ambedkar is a very salutary one and is consistent with the most advanced principles of democratic and federal policy in all the countries.	None
(Comment and Emphasis supplied)	None
It is, therefore, clear that Cl.	Reasoning
(2) of Art.	Reasoning
289 was a well considered compromise which was arrived at after balancing the demands of those who sought complete exemption of commercial activities of State Governments from Union Taxation and those who were in favour of levying such Union Taxes.	Reasoning
The Framers desired that the issue whether the trading and business activities of State Governments should be subject to Union Taxation, be left to the wisdom of Parliament.	Reasoning
As is evident from the reference to New York v. United States (1946 (326) US 572) (supra) in the extracted portion, the Framers were conscious of the difficulty in drawing a line between the governmental and commercial functions of State Governments and they hoped that Parliament would take into account a host of relevant factors before enacting a law which would specify the trading activities of State Governments making them liable to Union Taxation.	Reasoning
It is important to note that the Framers did not expressly confer upon the Union the power to tax commercial activities of State Governments.	Reasoning
The exercise of such a power is made conditional upon the enactment of a special, duly considered, legislation.	Reasoning
It is also important to note that Cl.	Reasoning
(2) of Art.	Reasoning
289 has made a departure from the proviso to S. 155(1).	Reasoning
Under the present scheme, the power to tax is not automatic and the responsibility of specifying the trading and business activities of State Governments which would be liable to Union Taxation is expressly vested in Parliament.	Reasoning
Neither the Act, which is a 1911 enactment, nor the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, can qualify as laws under Art.	Reasoning
289.	Reasoning
They do not specify which of the trading activities of State Governments are liable to taxation indeed, by their very nature, they cannot purport to do so.	Reasoning
It must be remembered that the Act and the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act are not Parliamentary laws in the sense envisaged by Art.	Reasoning
289(2).	Reasoning
Though the Act is sought to be construed as a postconstitutional, parliamentary enactment, the fact remains that it is a preconstitutional, colonial legislation.	Reasoning
As for the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, it is, in essence, an ordinary Municipal legislation.	Reasoning
What makes it special is the fact, occasioned in its case by geographical and historical factors, that it was enacted by Parliament instead of by a State Legislature.	Reasoning
It this regard, we may recall the submissions of the learned Attorney General in respect of how Parliament discharges its obligation towards enacting laws for Union Territories.	Reasoning
After stating that Parliament cannot afford to undertake threadbare discussions before legislating for Union Territories, the learned Attorney General referred us to the following passage of the decision of this Court in Ramesh Birch v. Union of India, 1989 Supp 1 SCC 430 (Union Territories) are territories situated in the midst of contiguous territories which have a proper legislature.	Arguments of Petitioner
They are small territories falling under the legislative jurisdiction of Parliament which has hardly sufficient time to look after the details of all their legislative needs and requirements.	Arguments of Petitioner
To require or expect Parliament to legislate for them will entail a disproportionate pressure on its legislative schedule.	Arguments of Petitioner
It will also mean the unnecessary utilisation of the time of a large number of members of Parliament for, except the few (less than ten) members returned to Parliament from the Union territory, none else is likely to be interested in such legislation.	Arguments of Petitioner
In such a situation, the most convenient course of legislating for them is the adaptation, by extension, of laws in force in other areas of the country.	Arguments of Petitioner
As Fazal Ali, J. pointed out in the Delhi Laws Act case, it is not a power to make laws that is delegated but only a power to transplant laws already in force after having undergone scrutiny by Parliament or one of the State Legislatures, and that too, without any material change.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is, therefore, clear that it would be quite dangerous to assume that when Parliament enacted the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, it had intended that the enactment should secure the purpose enshrined in Art.	Reasoning
289(2).	Reasoning
If any safe assumption is to be drawn, it is this in all probability, while enacting the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, Parliament must have transplanted a municipal legislation existing in a certain State, made the necessary changes and completed the procedural formalities.	Reasoning
That would explain why the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act (as also the New Delhi Municipal Committee Act) contains an exemption on the lines of the one prescribed by Art.	Reasoning
285  	Reasoning
this is a typical feature of ordinary Municipal legislations, which are enacted by State Legislatures who are conscious of the mandate of Art. 285.	Reasoning
Moreover, such legislations do not contain exemptions in favour of properties of State Governments because, within the territory of a State, the properties of other State Governments are liable to taxation.	Reasoning
So, when such a legislation is transplanted almost verbatim into a Union Territory, it will obviously not contain an exemption in favour of properties of State Governments.	Reasoning
In the face of the actual conditions which govern the enactment of laws for Union Territories by Parliament, (these conditions have been statutorily provided moreover this Court has already taken notice of them)	Reasoning
it is difficult to assume that the omission of an exemption in the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act in favour of State Governments, is deliberate.	Reasoning
The Act and the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act cannot, therefore, be said to meet the special requirements which have been expressed by the Framers to be necessary for complying with the spirit of Art.	Reasoning
289(2).	Reasoning
Reddy, J. has taken the view that the Doctrine of Presumption of Constitutionality of Legislations requires the saving of the taxes which these Acts impose upon the commercial activities of State Governments.	Reasoning
The Act is a preconstitutional enactment.	Reasoning
The basis of this doctrine is the assumed intention of the Legislators not to transgress constitutional boundaries.	Reasoning
It is difficult to appreciate how that intention can be assumed when, at the time that the law was passed, there was no such barrier and the limitation was brought in by a Constitution long after the enactment of the law.	Reasoning
(This Court has in a Constitution Bench decision, Gulabhai v. Union of India, AIR 1967 SC 1110 , raised doubts along similar lines).	Reasoning
The Framers obviously wanted the law under Art.	None
289(2) to be of a very high standard.	Issue
Can these laws, which are silent on the most important aspect required by Art.	Issue
289(2), i.e., the specification of the trading activities of State Governments which would be liable to Union Taxation, be said to meet with that standard ?	Issue
The Doctrine of Presumption of Constitutionality of Legislations is not one of infinite application it has recognised limitations.	Reasoning
It is settled law that if any interpretation is possible which will save an Act from the attack of unconstitutionality, that interpretation should always be accepted in preference to an alternative interpretation that might also be possible, under which the statute would be void.	Reasoning
However, this Court has consistently followed a policy of not putting an unnatural and forced meaning on the words that have been used by the Legislature in the search for an interpretation which would save the statutory provisions.	Reasoning
We are not free to stretch or pervert the language of the enactment in the interests of any legal or constitutional theory In Re the Central Provinces and Berar Act No. XIV of 1938, (1939)	Reasoning
FCR 18 at p. 37 (AIR 1939 FC 1 at p. 4) also see Diamond Sugar Mills Ltd. v. State of U.P., 1961(3)	Reasoning
SCR 242.	None
The Act and the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act are ordinary Municipal Legislations.	Reasoning
They do not, and cannot, purport to be laws made by Parliament under Art.	Reasoning
289(2).	Reasoning
There is no reason why such a strained reasoning should be employed to save some of the taxes that may be capable of being imposed on certain properties of State Governments.	Reasoning
There seems to be no pressing reason for invoking the doctrine.	Reasoning
Reddy, J. has, in the earlier part of his opinion, held that a large number of properties of State Governments would be exempt from taxes leviable under these Acts due to the operation of Art.	Reasoning
289(1).	Reasoning
To employ such reasoning to construe Art.	Reasoning
289(2) in a bid to save what would only be a reduced amount, does not seem justified.	Reasoning
The practical effect of the directions recommended by Reddy, J. is also worth noticing.	Reasoning
It is abundantly clear that the task of determining which of the activities of Governments are governmental and which are commercial, is an extremely difficult one.	Reasoning
Reddy, J. entrusts this assignment to the assessing authorities under the Acts who can only be Municipal authorities.	Reasoning
This is an issue which has confounded Courts in the U.S. and in Australia for several years.	Reasoning
This issue was considered to be so troublesome by the Framers that they entrusted it to Parliament in the hope that it would fully deliberate the matter before enacting a comprehensive legislation.	Reasoning
In the In Re The Delhi Laws Act case, AIR 1951 SC 332 this Court authoritatively held that the legislature cannot delegate its essential policymaking function.	Reasoning
Over the years, this Court has elaborated this proposition to hold that the legislature can delegate some of its legislative functions provided it lays down the policy in clear terms.	Reasoning
The legislature is required to declare the policy of law in unambiguous terms, lay down elaborate legal principles and provide illuminating standards for the guidance of the delegate.	Reasoning
Even though this Court has, on occasions, sanctioned very broad delegations of taxing power to Municipal Bodies, to delegate the task of carving out the distinction between governmental and business functions of State Governments to Municipal authorities would clearly be against the interdiction in the Delhi Laws Act case as the assignment requires not only the making of policy, but indeed, the making of very difficult and challenging policy choices.	Reasoning
Reddy, J. has noted that the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act provides exemptions in favour of activities that are capable of being classified as charitable purpose, public worship etc. and states that to ascertain the ambit of these categories is an equally difficult task which is already being discharged by the assessing authorities.	Reasoning
However, the point that needs to be emphasised, is that S. 115 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act defines these terms and provides guidelines in respect thereof.	Reasoning
However, there is no provision in the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act which states that the trading and business operations of State Governments would be subject to property taxes.	Reasoning
The Act is equally silent on this aspect.	Reasoning
Consequently, no guidelines in this behalf are to be found within the parameters of these legislations.	Reasoning
Under these circumstances, in the complete absence of any statutory policy or any guidelines for the delegation of such a policy, we believe that it would be impermissible and hazardous to directly assign such a function, nay power, to executive Municipal authorities.	Reasoning
The decision whether the properties of State Governments occupied for commercial purposes should be subject to the levy of Union Taxes is one that is required by Art.	Reasoning
289(2) to be made by a legislation which specifies the activities which would be liable to tax.	Reasoning
This decision cannot be entrusted to Municipal functionaries.	Reasoning
For these reasons, we find ourselves unable to agree with Reddy, J. in his finding that the properties of State Governments occupied by them for trade or business purposes are subject to the levy of taxes under the Act and the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act.	Reasoning
We may now summarise our conclusions The central issue in the present matter, namely, whether the properties owned by the States which are situated within Union Territories are exempt from paying property taxes, was specifically answered in the affirmative in the Sea Customs case (AIR 1963 SC 1760 )	Decision
the observations in this regard are part of the ratio decidendi of the case and having been reaffirmed by a Constitution Bench which was hearing a litigation inter partes in the APSRTC case (AIR 1964 SC 1486 ), they constitute good law ii)	Decision
The definition of State provided in S. 3(58) of the General Clauses Act, which declares that the word State would include Union Territory, is inapplicable to Art.	Decision
246(4) iii)	Decision
The term Union Taxation used in Art.	Decision
289(1) will ordinarily mean all taxes leviable by the Union and it includes within its ambit taxes on property levied within Union Territories therefore, the States can avail of the exemption provided in Art.	Decision
289(1) in respect of their properties situated within Union Territories iv) Property taxes levied by Municipalities within Union Territories are properly within the ambit of the exemption provided in Art.	Decision
289(1) and the States can avail of the exemption.	Decision
In the result, the civil appeals and the Special Leave Petitions are dismissed.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
P. JEEVAN REDDY (on behalf of A.S. ANAND, SUHAS C. SEN, K.S. PARIPOORHAN AND B.N. KIRPAL, JJ.)	None
Article 289(1) of the Constitution of India declares that the property and income of a State shall be exempt from Union Taxation.	None
The question in this batch of appeals is whether properties of the States situated in the Union Territory of Delhi are exempt from property taxes levied under the municipal enactments in force in the Union Territory of Delhi.	Issue
The Delhi High Court has taken the view that they are.	Issue
That view is challenged in these appeals preferred by the New Delhi Municipal Corporation and the Delhi Municipal Corporation.	Issue
Leave granted in the Special Leave Petitions.	Decision
Prior to 191112, a large part of the territory now comprised in the Union Territory of Delhi was a district of the Province of Punjab.	None
By a proclamation dated September 17, 1912, the Governor General took the said territory under his immediate authority and management, to be administered as a separate province to be known as the Province of Delhi.	None
(This was in connection with the decision to shift the capital from Calcutta to Delhi.)	None
In the same year, the Delhi Laws Act, 1912 (1912 Act) was enacted.	None
It came into force on and with effect from the 1st day of October, 1912.	None
ScheduleA to the Act defined the territory covered by the new Province.	None
Sections 2 and 3 of the 1912 Act provided inter alia that the creation of the new Province of Delhi shall not effect any change in the territorial application of any enactment.	None
One of the Acts so applying to the territory comprised in the new Province of Delhi was the Punjab Municipal Act, 1911.	None
In the year 1915, another Act called The Delhi Laws Act, 1915 (1915 Act) was enacted.	None
Under this enactment, certain areas formerly comprised in the United Provinces of Agra and Oudh were included in and added to the Province of Delhi with effect from 1st April, 1915.	None
Section 2 of the 1915 Act also contained a saving clause similar to Section 2 of the 1912 Act.	None
In the Constitution of India, 1950, as originally enacted, the First Schedule contained four categories of States, viz., Part A, Part B, Part C and Part D. Part D comprised only of Andaman and Nicobar Islands.	None
The Chief Commissioners Province of Delhi was one of the Part C States.	None
By virtue of the Part C States (Laws) Act, 1950, the laws in force in the erstwhile Chief Commissioners Province of Delhi were continued in the Part C State of Delhi.	None
This Act came into force on the 16th day of April, 1950.	None
In the year 1951, the Parliament enacted the Government of Part C States Act, 1951.	None
This Act contemplated that there shall be a legislature for each of the Part C States specified therein which included Delhi.	None
Section 21 stated that the legislature of a Part C State shall have the power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List II and List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	None
In the case of Delhi legislature, however, it was provided that it shall not have power to make laws with respect to matters specified therein including the Constitution and powers of municipal corporations and other local authorities, of improvement trusts and of water supply, drainage, electricity, transport and other public utility authorities in Delhi or in New Delhi.	None
Section 22 provided that any law made by the legislature of a Part C State shall, to the extent of repugnancy with any law made by Parliament, whether enacted earlier or later, be void.	None
It is necessary to notice the two distinctive features of the legislatures of Part C States not only were they created under an Act made by Parliament, the laws made by them even with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List II were subject to any law made by the Parliament.	None
In case of repugnancy, the law made by legislature was to be of no effect.	None
So far as Delhi is concerned, the Parliament placed certain additional fetters referred to in Section 26.	None
It is stated that in the year 1952, a legislature was created for Delhi which functioned up to November 1, 1956 when the Government of Part C States Act, 1951 was repealed by Section 130 of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956.	None
While repealing the Government of Part C States Act, 1951, the States Reorganisation Act, 1956 did not provide for the creation or continuance of legislatures for the Part C States.	None
The legislature constituted for Delhi thus came to an end.	None
By Constitution Seventh (Amendment) Act, 1956, some of the Part C States ceased to exist, having been merged in one or the other State while some others continued designated as Union territories.	None
The categorisation of the States into Parts A, B, C and D was done away with.	None
In its place, the first Schedule came to provide only two categories, viz., (i) the States and (ii) the Union Territories.	None
The Seventh (Amendment) Act specified six Union territories, viz., Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Laccadiv Minicoy and Amindivi Islands.	None
Delhi thus became a Union territory.	None
With the inclusion of Goa and other former Portugese territories in the Union, the number of Union territories grew to eight by 1962.	None
In that year, the Constitution Fourteenth (Amendment) Act, 1962 was enacted.	None
Pondicherry was added as Union territory at Sl.	None
No. 9.	None
More important, the said Amendment Act introduced Article 239A.	None
The new Article provided that Parliament may by law create for any of the Union territories of Himachal Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, Goa, Daman and Diu and Pondicherry, a body, whether elected or partly nominated, and partly elected to function as a legislature for the Union territory, or a council of ministers, or both with such constitutional powers and functions in each case, as may be specified in the law (Emphasis added).	None
It is significant to note that the said article did not provide for creation of a legislature or a council of ministers, as the case may be, for the Union Territory of Delhi.	None
Pursuant to Article 239A, Parliament enacted the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963 (1963 Act).	None
Obviously, this Act applied only to those Union territories as were referred to in Article 239A.	None
It did not apply to Delhi.	None
This Act provided for creation of Legislature Assemblies for the Union territories mentioned in Article 239A and the extent of their legislative power.	None
Section 3(1) declared that there shall be a Legislative Assembly for each Union territory whereas Section 18(1) provided that subject to the provisions of this Act, the Legislative Assembly of a Union territory may make laws for the whole or any part of the Union territory with respect to any of the matters enumerated in the State List or the Concurrent List in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution insofar as any such matter is applicable in relation to Union territories.	None
Subsection (2) of Section 18 read with Section 21, however, conferred overriding power upon the Parliament to make any law with respect to any matter for a Union territory or any part thereof.	None
In case of inconsistency between a law made by Parliament and a law made by the legislature of any of these Union territories, the latter was to be void to the extent of repugnancy, notwithstanding whether the Parliamentary law was earlier or subsequent in point of time.	None
Section 19 of the Act exempted the property of the Union from all taxes imposed by or under any law made by the Legislative Assembly of a Union territory except insofar as is permitted by a law made by Parliament.	None
By the Constitution Sixty Ninth (Amendment) Act, 1991, Article 239AA was introduced in Part VIII of the Constitution.	None
This Article renamed the Union Territory of Delhi as the National Capital Territory of Delhi and provided that there shall be a Legislative Assembly for such National Capital Territory.	None
The Legislative Assembly so created was empowered by clause (3) of the said Article to make laws for the whole or any part of the National Capital Territory with respect to any of the matters enumerated in the State List or in the Concurrent List, insofar as any such matter is applicable to Union territories, except matters with respect to Entries 1, 2 and 18 of the State List and Entries 64, 65 and 66 of that List insofar as they relate to the said Entries 1, 2 and 18.	None
Clause (3) further provided that the power conferred upon the Legislative Assembly of Delhi by the said Article shall not derogate from the powers of the Parliament to make laws with respect to any matter for a Union territory or any part thereof.	None
It further provided that in the case of repugnancy, the law made by Parliament shall prevail, whether the parliamentary law is earlier or later to the law made by the Delhi Legislative Assembly.	None
the Parliament is also empowered to amend, vary or repeal any law made by the Legislative Assembly.	None
Article 239AA came into force with effect from February 1, 1992.	None
Pursuant to the article, the Parliament enacted the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991.	None
It not only provided for Constitution of a Legislative Assembly but also its powers as contemplated by Article 239AA.	None
This Act too came into force on February 1, 1992.	None
The subordinate status of the Delhi Legislature is too obvious to merit any emphasis.	None
So far as the Municipal Laws Governing the Territory of Delhi is concerned, the following is the position by Delhi Laws Act, 1912, referred to supra, the Punjab Municipal Act continued to govern the territory comprised in the Chief Commissioners Province of Delhi.	None
The Act is stated to have been extended to Part C State of Delhi under a notification issued under Part C State (Laws) Act, 1950.	None
In the impugned judgment, the High Court has stated the following facts The various Punjab enactments which were then in force in the territory of Delhi continued to be in force by virtue of the Delhi Laws Act of 1912 and later by the Part C States Laws Act of 1950 and the Union Territories Laws Act of 1950.	None
The application and the later extension of this law to the Union Territory of Delhi was, therefore, not by the authority of the State Legislature but that of the Central legislature, that is, the Central Legislature under the Government of India Act followed by the Central legislature under the Constitution of India, that is, the Parliament of India The Delhi Laws Act 1912, the Union Territories (Laws) Act, 1950 as indeed the Part C States (Laws) Act, 1950 were all central statutes and when a provincial Act or an Act which may be treated as a provincial Act or State Act was extended to a territory by a particular legislature, it would be deemed to be the enactment of such a legislature and this principle is clearly recognised by the Supreme Court in the case of Mithan Lal v. State of Delhi, 1959	None
SCR 445.	None
It is thus clear that on the extension of the Act to the Union Territory of Delhi by the various Central Legislative enactments referred to above, it became a Central Act or an Act of Parliament as if made by virtue of power of Parliament to legislate for the Union Territory of Delhi by virtue of clause (4) of Article 246 of the Constitution of India.	None
The correctness of the above factual statement has not been disputed by anyone before us.	None
Indeed, the contention of Sri P. P. Rao, who led the argument on behalf of the respondentsState Governments was to the same effect.	None
He contended that inasmuch as the Punjab Municipal Act has been extended to Part C State of Delhi under the Part C State (Laws) Act, 1950 with effect from April 16, 1950, it is a postconstitutional enactment made by Parliament and hence the taxes levied thereunder constitute Union taxation.	Arguments of Respondent
He placed strong reliance upon the decision in Mithan Lal v. State of Delhi, 1959 SCR 445 and also certain observations in T.M. Kanniyan v. Incometax Officer, Pondicherry, 1968(2)	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 103 in that behalf.	Arguments of Respondent
It is obvious that this was also the case of the State Governments before the Delhi High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
We, therefore, proceed on the basis that the Punjab Municipal Act was extended to Part C State of Delhi under and by virtue of the Part C States (Laws) Act, 1950 which came into force on April 16, 1950.	None
By virtue of the Constitution Seventh (Amendment) Act, 1956, the Part C State of Delhi was designated as a Union Territory.	None
The Punjab Municipal Act continued to govern the Union Territory of Delhi.	None
In the year 1957, the Parliament enacted the Delhi Municipality Act, 1957.	None
The First Schedule to the Act specified the boundaries of New Delhi within which area the Punjab Municipal Act continued to be in force.	None
The remaining area was designated as the Delhi Municipal Corporation area and the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 was made applicable to it.	None
In the year 1994, the Parliament enacted the new Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 repealing Punjab Municipal Act, 1911.	None
This Act has been brought into force with effect from May 25, 1994.	None
It is, however, confined in its application to the area comprised in the New Delhi Municipal Corporation, Delhi and New Delhi are thus governed by different municipal enactments.	None
The Delhi Municipal Corporation Act and New Delhi Municipal Corporation Act are, without a doubt, postconstitutional laws enacted by Parliament.	Reasoning
PARTII Article 1(1) of the Constitution of India declares that India, i.e., Bharat, shall be a Union of States.	None
As amended by the Constitution Seventh (Amendment) Act, clauses (2) and (3) of Article 1 read The States and the territories thereof shall be as specified in the First Schedule.	None
The territory of India shall comprise (a) the territories of State (b) the Union territories specified in the First Schedule and (c) such other territories as may be acquired.	None
Clause (30) in Article 366 defines the Union territory in the following words Union Territory means any Union Territory specified in the First Schedule and includes any other territory comprised with the territory of India but not specified in that Schedule.	None
The expression State is not defined in the Constitution.	None
It is defined in the General Clauses Act, 1897 which is made applicable to the interpretation of the Constitution by Article 367.	None
As on the date of the commencement of the Constitution, clause (58) in Section 3 of the General Clauses Act defined State in the following words (58).	None
State shall mean a Part A State, a Part B State or a Part C State.	None
The said definition was amended by the Adaptation of Laws Order No. 1 of 1956 issued by the President in exercise of the power conferred upon him by Article 372A of the Constitution introduced by the Constitution Seventh (Amendment) Act.	None
The amended definition reads thus States (a) as respects any period before the commencement of the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1958, shall mean a Part A State, a Part B State or a Part C State and (b) as respects any period after such commencement, shall mean a State specified in the First Schedule to the Constitution and shall include a Union territory.	None
The definitions in the General Clauses Act, it is necessary to remember, have to be read and applied subject to the opening words in Section 3, viz., unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context Part XI of the Constitution contains provisions governing relations between the Union and the States.	None
This part is divided into two chapters, viz.,	None
Chapter I containing Articles 245 to 255 and Chapter II containing Articles 256 to 263.	None
Chapter I carries the title Legislative relations while Chapter II is called Administrative relations.	None
Article 245, which carries the heading marginal note The extent of laws made by Parliament and the Legislature of States contains two clauses.	None
Clause (1) says that subject to the provisions of this Constitution, Parliament may make laws for the whole or any part of the territory of India and the legislature of a State may make laws for the whole or any part of the State.	None
Article 246 is of crucial relevance herein and must, therefore, be set out in its entirety Subjectmatter of laws made by Parliament and by the Legislatures of States.	None
(1) Notwithstanding anything in clauses (2) and (3), Parliament has exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution referred to as the Union List.	None
Notwithstanding anything in clause (3), Parliament, and, subject to clause (1) the Legislature of any State . . . .	None
.	None
also, have power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List III in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution referred to as the Concurrent List.	None
Subject to clauses (1) and (2), the Legislature of any State has exclusive power to make laws for such State or any part thereof with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List II in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution referred to as the State List.	None
Parliament has power to make laws with respect to any matter for any of the territory of India not included in a State notwithstanding that such matter is a matter enumerated in the State List.	None
(Emphasis added)	None
It is relevant to point out that in clauses (2) and (3), as originally enacted and up to the Seventh (Amendment) Act the expression State was followed by the words specified in Part A or Part B of the First Schedule.	None
Similarly, the words, in a State in clause (3), were followed by the words in Part A or Part B of the First Schedule.	None
In other words, clauses (2) and (3) of Article 246 expressly excluded Part C and Part D States from their purview.	None
The position is no different after the Constitution Seventh (Amendment) Act, which designated the Part C States as Union territories.	None
They ceased to be States.	None
As rightly pointed out by a Constitution Bench of this Court in T. M. Kanniyan, (AIR 1968 SC 637 ) the context of Article 246 excludes Union territories from the ambit of the expression State occurring therein.	None
As a matter of fact, this is true of Chapter I of Part XI of the Constitution as a whole.	None
It may be remembered that during the period intervening between the Constitution Seventh (Amendment) Act, 1956 and the Constitution Fourteenth (Amendment) Act, 1962, there was no provision for a legislature for any of the Union territories.	None
Article 239A in Part VII	None
The Union Territories (which before the Seventh Amendment Act was entitled the States in Part C of the First Schedule) introduced by Constitution Fourteenth (Amendment) Act did not itself create a legislature for Union territories it merely empowered the Parliament to create them for certain specified Union territories (excluding Delhi) and to confer upon them such powers as the Parliament may think appropriate.	None
Thus, the legislatures created for certain Union territories under the 1963 Act were not legislatures in the sense used in Chapter III of Part IV of the Constitution, but were mere creates of the Parliament some sort of subordinate legislative bodies.	None
They were unlike the legislatures contemplated by Chapter III of Part VI of the Constitution which are supreme in the field allotted to them, i.e., in the field designated by List II of the Seventh Schedule.	None
The legislatures created by the 1963 Act for certain Union territories owe their existence and derive their powers from the Act of the Parliament and are subject to its overriding authority.	None
In short, the State legislatures contemplated by Chapter I of Part XI are the legislatures of States referred to in Chapter III of Part VI and not the legislatures of Union territories created by the 1963 Act.	None
Union territories are not States for the purposes of Part XI (Chapter I) of the Constitution.	None
Article 248 confers the residuary legislative power upon the Parliament.	None
The said power includes the power to make any law imposing a tax not mentioned in either List II or List III.	None
Articles 249, 250, 252 and 357 confer upon the Parliament power to make laws with respect to matters enumerated in List II in certain exceptional situations, which may, for the sake of convenience, be called a case of substitute legislation.	None
It would be enough to refer to the marginal headings of these four Articles.	None
They read Power of Parliament to legislate with respect to a matter in the State in the national interest.	None
Power of Parliament to legislate with respect to any matter in the State List if a Proclamation of Emergency is in operation.	None
Power of Parliament to legislate for two or more States by consent and adoption of such legislation by any other State.	None
Exercise of legislative powers under Proclamation issued under Article 356.	None
We may now set out Articles 285 and 289 Exemption of property of the Union from State taxation.  	None
(1) The property of the Union shall, save in so far as Parliament may by law otherwise provide, be exempt from all taxes imposed by a State or by any authority within a State.	None
Nothing in clause (1) shall, until Parliament by law otherwise provides, prevent any authority within a State from levying any tax or any property of the Union to which such property was immediately before the commencement of this Constitution liable or treated as liable, so long as that tax continues to be levied in that State.	None
Exemption of property and income of a State from Union taxation.  	None
(1) The property and income of a State shall be exempt from Union taxation.	None
Nothing in clause (1) shall prevent the Union from imposing or authorising the imposition of, any tax to such extent, if any, as Parliament may by law provide in respect of a trade or business of any kind carried on by, Nothing in clause (2) shall apply to any trade or business, or to any class of trade or business, which Parliament may by law declare to be incidential to the ordinary functions of Government.	None
A Federation presupposes two coalescing units the Federal Government Centre and the States Provinces.	None
Each is supposed to be supreme in the sphere allotted to it them.	None
Power to tax is an incident of sovereignty.	None
Basic premise is that one sovereign cannot tax the other sovereign.	None
Articles 285 and 289 manifest this mutual regard and immunity but in a manner peculiar to our constitutional scheme.	None
While the immunity created in favour of the Union is absolute, the immunity created in favour of the States is a qualified one.	None
We may elaborate Article 285 says that the property of the Union shallbe exempt from all taxes imposed by a State or by any authority within a State unless, of course, Parliament itself permits the same and to the extent permitted by it.	None
(Clause (2) of Article 285 saves the existing taxes until the Parliament otherwise provides, but this is only a transitional provision.)	None
The ban, if it can be called one, is absolute and emphatic in terms.	None
There is no way a State legislature can levy a tax upon the property of the Union.	None
So far as Article 289 is concerned, the position is different.	None
Clause (1), had it stood by itself, would have been similar to clause (1) of Article 285.	None
It says that the property and income of a State shall be exempt from Union taxation.	None
But it does not stand alone.	None
It is qualified by clause (2) and clause (3) is an exception to clause (2).	None
But before we refer to clause (2), a word with respect to the meaning and ambit of the expression property occurring in this article.	None
Expression property is wide enough to take in all kinds of property.	None
In Re the Bill to amend Section 20 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 and Section 3 of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944, (1964) 3	Reasoning
SCR 787 (AIR 1963 SC1760), all the learned Judges (both majority and dissenting) were agreed that the expression must be understood in its widest sense.	None
There is no reason to put a restricted construction thereon.	None
Indeed, there is no controversy about this proposition before us.	None
Coming to clause (2), it says that the ban imposed by clause (1) shall not prevent the Union from imposing or authorising the imposition of any tax to such extent, if any, as the Parliament may by law provide, in respect of (a) trade or business of any kind carried on by or on behalf of the Government of a State or (b) any operations connected with such trade or business or (c) any property used or occupied for the purposes of such trade or business or (d) any income accruing or arising in connection with such trade or business.	None
(The inspiration for this provision may perhaps be found in certain United States decisions on the question of the power of the units of a federal polity to tax each others properties.)	None
Clause (3) empowers the Parliament to declare, by law, which trade or business or any class of trades or businesses is incidental to the ordinary functions of the Government, whereupon the trades businesses so specified go out of the purview of clause (2).	Reasoning
It would be appropriate at this stage to notice the ratio of two judgments of this Court dealing with Article 289.	None
In Re Sea Customs Act, (AIR 1963 SC 1760 ) a Special Bench of nine learned Judges, by a majority, laid down the following propositions (a) clause (1) of Article 289 provides for exemption of property and income of the States only from taxes imposed directly upon them it has no application to indirect taxes like duties of excise and customs (b) duties of excise and customs are not taxes on property or income they are taxes on manufacture production of goods and on import export of goods, as the case may be, and hence, outside the purview of clause (1) of Article 289.	None
The other decision in Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation v. Incometax Officer, 1964(7) SCR 17 is the decision of a Constitution Bench.	None
The main holding in this case is that income of the A.P.S.R.T.C. is not the income of the State of Andhra Pradesh since the former is an independent legal entity and hence, Article 289(1) does not avail it.	None
At the same time, certain observations are made in the decision regarding the scheme of Article 289.	None
It is held that clause (2) is an exception or a proviso to clause (1) and as such whatever is included in clause (2) must be deemed to be included in clause (1).	Reasoning
In other words, the trading and business activities referred to in clause (2) are included in clause (1) and precisely for this reason the exception in clause (2) was provided.	None
Clause (3), it was held, is an exception to clause (2).	None
In the words of the Constitution Bench (at p. 1491 of AIR)	None
The scheme of Art.	None
289 appears to be that ordinarily, the income derived by a State both from Government and nongovernmental or commercial activities shall be immune from incometax levied by the Union, provided, of course, the income in question can be said to be income of the State.	None
This general proposition flows from clause (1).	None
Clause (2) then provides an exception and authorises the Union to impose a tax in respect of the income derived by the Government of a State from trade or business carried on by it, or on its behalf that is to say, the income from trade or business carried on by the Government of a State or on its behalf which would not have been taxable under clause (1), can be taxed, provided a law is made by Parliament in that behalf.	Reasoning
If clause (1) had stood by itself, it may not have been easy to include within its purview income derived by a State from commercial activities, but since clause (2), in terms empowers Parliament to make a law levying a tax on commercial activities carried on by or on behalf of a State, the conclusion is inescapable that these activities were deemed to have been included in Cl.	Reasoning
(1) and that alone can be the justification for the words in which Cl.	None
(2) has been adopted by the Constitution.	None
It is plain that Cl.	None
(2) proceeds on the basis that but for its provision, the trading activity which is covered by it would have claimed exemption from Union taxation under Cl.	None
(1).	Reasoning
That is the result of reading clauses (1) and (2) together.	None
Clause (3) then empowers Parliament to declare by law that any trade or business would be taken out of the purview of Cl.	Reasoning
(2) and restored to the area covered by Cl.	None
(1) by declaring that the said trade or business is incidental to the ordinary functions of Government.	None
In other words, Cl.	None
(3) is an exception to the exception prescribed by Cl.	None
(2).	Reasoning
Whatever trade or business is declared to be incidental to the ordinary functions of Government, would cease to be governed by Cl.	None
(2) and would then be exempt from Union taxation.	None
That, broadly stated, appears to be the result of the scheme adopted by the three clauses of Art.	None
289.	Reasoning
PARTIII The crucial question arising in this batch of appeals pertains to the meaning of the expression Union taxation occurring in Article 289(1).	Issue
According to the appellantsmunicipal corporations, the property taxes levied either by Punjab Municipal Act, 1911, as extended to and applicable in the New Delhi Municipal Corporation area or by the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 applicable to the Delhi Municipal Corporation area do not fall within the ambit of the expression Union taxation.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to them, Union taxation means levy of any of the taxes mentioned in the Union List (List I in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution).	Arguments of Petitioner
May be, it may also take in levy of Stamp duties (which is the only taxation entry in the Concurrent List) by Parliament, but by no stretch of imagination, they contend, can levy of any tax provided in the State List (List II in the Seventh Schedule) can be characterised as Union taxation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Merely because the Parliament levies the tax provided in List II, such taxation does not amount to Union taxation.	Arguments of Petitioner
There are many situations where the Parliament is empowered by Constitution to make laws with respect to matters enumerated in List II.	Arguments of Petitioner
For example, Articles 249, 250, 252 and 357 empower the Parliament to make laws with respect to matters enumerated in List II in certain specified situations.	Arguments of Petitioner
If any taxes are levied by Parliament while legislating under any of the above articles, such taxation cannot certainly be termed as Union taxation.	Arguments of Petitioner
It would still be State taxation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The levy of taxation by Parliament within the Union territories is of a similar nature.	Arguments of Petitioner
Either because the Union territory has no legislature or because the Union territory has a legislature but the Parliament chooses to act in exercise of its overriding power, the taxes levied by a parliamentary enactment within such Union territories would not be Union taxation.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is relevant to notice, the learned Counsel contend, that the legislatures of the Union territories referred to in Article 239A as well as the legislature of Delhi created by Article 239AA are empowered to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List II and List III of the Seventh Schedule, just like any other State legislature any taxes levied by these legislatures cannot certainly be characterised as Union taxation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Merely because the Parliament has been given an overriding power to make a law with respect to matters enumerated even in List II, in supersession of the law made by the legislature of the Union territory, it does not follow that the law so made is any the less a law belonging to the sphere of the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
The test in such matters  it is contended  is not who makes the law but to which matter in which List does the law in question pertain.	Arguments of Petitioner
Clause (4) of Article 246 specifically empowers the Parliament to make laws with respect to any matter enumerated in List II in the case of Union territories.	Arguments of Petitioner
This shows that even the said clause recognises the distinction between List I and List II in the Seventh Schedule, it is submitted.	Arguments of Petitioner
151.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Attorney General appearing for the Union of India supported the contentions of the appellantsmunicipal corporations.	Arguments of Petitioner
152.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, the contentions of the learned Counsel for the respondents are to the following effect a Union territory is not a State within the meaning of Article 246.	Arguments of Respondent
Even prior to the Seventh (Amendment) Act, Part C States, or for that matter Part D States, were not within the purview of the said article.	Arguments of Respondent
The division of the legislative powers provided by clauses (1), (2) and (3) of Article 246 has no relevance in the case of a Union territory.	Arguments of Respondent
Union territory, as the name itself indicates, is a territory belonging to Union.	Arguments of Respondent
A Union territory has no legislature as contemplated by Part VI of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
A Union territory may have a legislature or may not.	Arguments of Respondent
Even if it is bestowed with one, it is not by virtue of the Constitution but by virtue of a Parliamentary enactments, e.g., Government of Part C States Act, 1951 (prior to November 1, 1956) and Government of Union Territories Act, 1963.	Arguments of Respondent
Even the legislature provided for Delhi by Article 239AA of the Constitution with effect from February 1, 1992 is not a legislature like that of the States governed by Part VI of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
Not only the powers of the legislature are circumscribed by providing that such legislature cannot make laws with reference to certain specified entries in List II but any law made by it even with reference to a matter enumerated in the State List is subject to the law made by Parliament.	Arguments of Respondent
In any event, the position obtaining in Delhi after February 1, 1992 is not relevant in these appeals since these appeals pertain to a period anterior to the said date.	Arguments of Respondent
The Punjab Municipal Act, 1911(as extended and applied to the Union Territory of Delhi by Part C States (Laws) Act) and the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 are parliamentary laws enacted under and by virtue of the legislative power vested in Parliament by clause (4) of Article 246.	Arguments of Respondent
The taxes levied by the said enactments constitute Union taxation within the meaning of Article 289(1) and hence, the properties of the States in the Union Territory of Delhi are exempt therefrom.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance is placed upon the majority opinion in Re Sea Customs Act in support of the above propositions.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that there are no reasons to take a different view now.	Arguments of Respondent
On a consideration of rival contentions, we are inclined to agree with the respondentsStates.	None
The States put together do not exhaust the territory of India.	None
There are certain territories which do not form part of any State and yet are the territories of the Union.	None
That the States and Union territories are different entities, is evident from clause (2) of Article 1 indeed from the entire scheme of the Constitution.	None
Article 245(1) says that while Parliament may make laws for the whole or any part of the territory of India, the legislature of a State may make laws for the whole or any part of the State.	Reasoning
Article 1(2) read with Article 245(1) shows that so far as the Union territories are concerned, the only lawmaking body is the Parliament.	None
The legislature of a State cannot make any law for a Union territory it can make laws only for that State.	None
Clauses (1), (2) and (3) of Article 246 speak of division or legislative powers between the Parliament and State legislatures.	None
This division is only between the Parliament and the State legislatures, i.e., between the Union and the States.	None
There is no division of legislative powers between the Union and Union territories.	Reasoning
Similarly, there is no division of powers between States and Union territories.	None
So far as Union territories are concerned, it is clause (4) of Article 246 that is relevant.	None
It says that the Parliament has power to make laws with respect to any matter for any part of the territory of India not included in a State notwithstanding that such matter is a matter enumerated in the State List.	None
Now, the Union territory is not included in the territory of any State.	None
If so, Parliament is the only lawmaking body available for such Union territories.	None
It is equally relevant to mention that the Constitution, as originally enacted, did not provide for a legislature for any of the Part C States, (or, for that matter, Part D States).	None
It is only by virtue of the Government of Part C States Act, 1951 that some Part C States including Delhi got a legislature.	None
This was put an end to by the States Reorganisation Act, 1956.	None
In 1962, the Constitution Fourteenth (Amendment) Act did provide for creation Constitution of legislatures for Union territories (excluding, of course, Delhi) but even here the Constitution did not itself provide for legislatures for those Part C States it merely empowered the Parliament to provide for the same by making a law.	None
In the year 1991, the Constitution did provide for a legislature for the Union Territory of Delhi (National Capital Territory of Delhi) by SixtyNinth (Amendment) Act (Article 239AA) but even here the legislature so created was not a full fledged legislature nor did have the effect of assuming that it could lift the National Capital Territory of Delhi from Union territory category to the category of States within the meaning of Chapter I of Part XI of the Constitution.	None
All this necessarily means that so far as the Union territories are concerned, there is no such thing, as List I, List II or List III.	None
The only legislative body is Parliament or a legislative body created by it.	None
The Parliament can make any law in respect of the said territories subject, of course, to constitutional limitations other than those specified in Chapter I of Part XI of the Constitution.	None
Above all, Union Territories are not States as contemplated by Chapter I of Part XI they are the territories of the Union falling outside the territories of the States.	None
Once the Union territory is a part of the Union and not part of any State, it follows that any tax levied by its legislative body is Union taxation.	None
Admittedly, it cannot be called State taxation and under the constitutional scheme, there is no third kind of taxation.	None
Either it is Union taxation or State taxation.	None
This is also the opinion of the majority in Re Sea Customs Act.	None
B. P. Sinha, C.J., speaking on behalf of himself, P. B. Gajendragadkar, Wanchoo and Shah, JJ.	None
while dealing with the argument that in the absence of a power in the Parliament to levy taxes on lands and buildings (which power exclusively belongs to State legislatures i.e. Item 49 in List II), the immunity provided by Article 289(1) does not make any sense observed thus (at pp.	None
177273 of AIR)	None
It is true that List I contains no tax directly on property like List II, but it does not follow from that that the Union has no power to impose a tax directly on property under any circumstances.	Reasoning
Article 246(4) gives power to Parliament to make laws with respect to any matter for any part of the territory of India not included in a State notwithstanding that such matter is a matter enumerated in the State List.	Reasoning
This means that so far as Union territories are concerned Parliament has power to legislate not only with respect to items in List I but also with respect to items in List II.	Reasoning
Therefore so far as Union territories are concerned.	None
Parliament has power to impose a tax directly on property as such.	Reasoning
It cannot therefore be said that the exemption of States property from Union taxation directly on property under Art.	None
289(1) would be meaningless as Parliament has no power to impose any tax directly on property.	Reasoning
If a State has any property in any Union territory that property would be exempt from Union taxation on property under Art.	Reasoning
289(1).	Reasoning
The argument therefore that Art. 289(1) cannot be confined to tax directly on property because there is no such tax provided in List I cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
Rajagopala Iyyengar, J. agreed with Sinha, C.J. on this aspect, as indeed on the main holding.	None
The decision in Re Sea Customs Act (AIR 1963 SC 1760 ) has been rendered by a Bench of nine learned Judges.	None
The decision of the majority is binding upon us and we see no reason to take a different view.	None
Indeed, the view taken by the majority accords fully with the view expressed by us hereinabove.	None
Now, so far as the analogy of laws made by Parliament under Arts.	None
249, 250, 252 and 357 are concerned, we think the analogy is odious.	None
Articles 249, 250 and 357 are exceptional situations which call for the Parliament to step in and make laws in respect of matters enumerated in ListII and which laws have effect for a limited period.	Arguments of Petitioner
Article 252 is a case where the State legislatures themselves invite the Parliament to make a law on their behalf.	Reasoning
These are all situations of what may be called substitute legislation either because of a particular situation or because there is no legislature at a given moment to enact laws.	None
As against these provisions, clause (4) of Art.	None
246 is a permanent feature and laws made thereunder are laws made in the regular course.	None
In this connection, it is necessary to remember that all the Union territories are not situated alike.	None
There are certain Union territories (i.e., Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Chandigarh) for which there can be no legislature at all as on today.	None
There is a second category of Union territories covered by Art.	None
239A (which applied to Himachal Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, Goa, Daman and Diu and Pondicherry now, of course, only Pondicherry survives in this category, the rest having acquired Statehood) which have legislatures by courtesy of Parliament.	None
The Parliament can, by law, provide for constitution of legislatures for these States and confer upon these legislatures such powers, as it may think appropriate.	None
The Parliament had created legislatures for these Union territories under the The Government of Union Territories Act, 1963, empowering them to make laws with respect to matters in ListII and ListIII, but subject to its overriding power.	None
The third category is Delhi.	None
It had no legislature with effect from November 1, 1956 until one has been created under and by virtue of the Constitution SixtyNinth (Amendment) Act, 1991 which introduced Art. 239AA.	None
We have already dealt with the special features of Art. 239AA and need not repeat it.	None
Indeed, a reference to Art.	None
239B read with cl.	None
(8) of Art.	Reasoning
239AA shows how the Union Territory of Delhi is in a class by itself but is certainly not a State within the meaning of Art.	None
246 or PartVI of the Constitution.	None
In sum, it is also a territory governed by cl.	None
(4) of Art. 246.	Reasoning
As pointed out by the learned Attorney General, various Union territories are in different stages of evolution.	None
Some have already acquired Statehood and some may be on the way to it.	None
The fact, however, remains that those surviving as Union territories are governed by Art.	None
246(4) notwithstanding the differences in their respective set ups and Delhi, now called the National Capital Territory of Delhi, is yet a Union territory.	None
It would be appropriate at this stage to refer to a few decisions on this aspect.	None
In T. M. Kanniyan (AIR 1968 SC 637 ), a Constitution Bench speaking through Bachawat, J. had this to say (at p. 641)	None
Parliament has plenary power to legislate for the Union territories with regard to any subject.	Reasoning
With regard to Union territories, there is no distribution of legislative power.	Reasoning
Article 246(4) enacts that Parliament has power to make laws with respect to any matter for any part of the territory of India not included in a State notwithstanding that such matter is a matter enumerated in the State List.	Reasoning
In R.K. Sen v. Union, 1966(1)	None
SCR 430, it was pointed out that having regard to Art. 367, the definition of State in S. 3(58) of the General Clauses Act, 1897 applies for the interpretation of the Constitution unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context.	None
Under that definition, the expression State as respects any period after the commencement of the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956 shall mean a State specified in the First Schedule to the Constitution and shall include a Union territory.	None
But this inclusive definition is repugnant to the subject and context of Art.	None
246.	Reasoning
There, the expression State means the States specified in the First Schedule.	Reasoning
There is a distribution of legislative power between Parliament and the legislatures of the States.	Reasoning
Exclusive power to legislate with respect to the matters enumerated in the State List is assigned to the legislatures of the States established by Part VI.	Reasoning
There is no distribution of legislative power with respect to Union territories.	Reasoning
That is why Parliament is given power by Art.	None
246(4) to legislate even with respect to matters enumerated in the State List.	None
If the inclusive definition of State in S. 3(58) of the General Clauses Act were to apply to Art.	None
246(4), Parliament would have no power to legislate for the Union territories with respect to matters enumerated in the State List and until a legislature empowered to legislate on those matters is created under Art.	None
239A for the Union territories, there would be no legislature competent to legislate on those matters moreover, for certain territories such as the Andaman and Nicobar Islands no legislature can be created under Art.	None
239A, and for such territories there can be no authority competent to legislate with respect to matters enumerated in the State List.	None
Such a construction is repugnant to the subject and context of Art.	None
246.	Reasoning
It follows that in view of Art.	None
246(4), Parliament has plenary powers to make laws for Union territories on all matters.	Reasoning
Parliament can by law extend the Incometax Act, 1961 to a Union territory with such modification as it thinks fit.	None
The President in the exercise of his powers under Art.	None
240 can make regulations which have the same force and effect as an Act of Parliament which applies to that territory.	None
The President can therefore by regulation made under Art.	None
240 extend the Incometax Act, 1961 to that territory with such modifications as he thinks it.	None
The President can thus make regulations under Art.	None
240 with respect to a Union territory occupying the same field on which Parliament can also make laws.	None
We are not impressed by the argument that such overlapping of powers would lead to a clash between the President and Parliament.	None
The Union territories are centrally administered through the President acting through an administrator.	None
In the cabinet system of Government the President acts on the advice of the Ministers who are responsible to Parliament. . . . . . . . . .	None
It is not necessary to make any distribution of incometax with respect to Union territories as those territories are centrally administered through the President.	None
(Emphasis added)	None
We respectfully agree with the above statement of law.	None
We do not think it necessary to refer to or discuss the propositions laid down in Management of Advance Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Shri Gurudasmal, 1970(3) SCR 881 holding that the amended definition of State in clause (58) of Section 3 of the General Clauses Act applies to interpretation of Constitution by virtue of Art.	None
372A nor with the contrary proposition in the dissenting judgment of Bhargava, J. in Shiv Kirpal Singh v. V.V. Giri, 1971(2)	None
SCR 197.	None
It is enough to say that context of Art.	None
246 indeed of Chapter I in Part XI excludes the application of the said amended definition.	None
In Mithanlal (AIR 1958 SC 682 ) (supra), T. L. Venkatrama Iyer, J., speaking for the Constitution Bench, while dealing with an argument based on Art.	None
248(2) observed (Para 8) That Article has reference to the distribution of legislative powers between the Centre and the States mentioned in Parts A and B under the three Lists in Sch.	None
VII, and it provides that in respect of matters not enumerated in the Lists including taxation, it is Parliament that has power to enact laws.	None
It has no application to Part C States for which the governing provision is Art. 246(4).	None
Moreover, when a notification is issued by the appropriate Government extending the law of a Part A State to a Part C State, the law so extended derives its force in the State to which it is extended from S. 2 of the Part C States (Laws) Act enacted by Parliament.	None
The result of a notification issued under that section is that the provisions of the law which is extended become incorporated by reference in the Act itself, and therefore a tax imposed thereunder is a tax imposed by Parliament.	None
There is thus no substance in this contention.	None
(Emphasis added)	None
To the same effect is the decision of a Division Bench in Satpal Co. v. Lt. Governor, 1979(3)	None
SCR 651.	None
It is then argued for the appellants that if the above view is taken, it would lead to an inconsistency.	None
The reasoning in this behalf runs thus a law made by the legislature of a Union territory levying taxes on lands and buildings would be State taxation, but if the same tax is levied by a law made by the Parliament, it is being characterised as Union taxation this is indeed a curious and inconsistent position, say the learned counsel for the appellants.	None
In our opinion, however, the very premise upon which this argument is urged is incorrect.	None
A tax levied under a law made by a legislature of a Union territory cannot be called State taxation for the simple reason that Union territory is not a State within the meaning of Art. 246 (or for that matter, ChapterI of PartXI) or PartVI or Arts. 285 to 289.	None
Lastly, we may refer to the circumstance that Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 was enacted by Parliament.	None
Hence, so far as the Delhi Municipal Corporation area is concerned, the taxes are levied under and by virtue of a Parliamentary enactment.	None
So far as the New Delhi Municipal Corporation area is concerned, the taxes were levied till 1994 under the Punjab Municipal Act, 1911 as extended and applied by the Part C State (Laws) Act, 1950 enacted by Parliament.	None
It is held by this Court in Mithanlal (AIR 1958 SC 682 ) that extension of an Act to an area has the same effect as if that Act has been made by the extending legislature for the area.	None
The Court said (at pp.	None
68586)	None
Moreover, when a notification is issued by the appropriate Government extending the law of a Part A State to a Part C State, the law so extended derives its force in the State to which it is extended from S. 2 of the Part C States (Laws) Act enacted by Parliament.	None
The result of a notification issued under that section is that the provisions of the law which is extended become incorporated by reference in the Act itself, and therefore a tax imposed thereunder is a tax imposed by Parliament.	None
There is thus no substance in this contention.	None
(Also see T. M. Kanniyan (1968) 2	None
SCR 103 at p. 108 (AIR 1968 SC 637 at p. 641).)	None
It must accordingly be held that with effect from 1950, it is as if the property taxes are levied by a Parliamentary enactment.	None
In 1994, of course, Parliament itself enacted the New Delhi Municipal Corporation Act (with effect from May 25, 1994) repealing the Punjab Municipal Act.	None
Taxes levied under these enactments cannot but be Union taxation Union taxation in a Union Territory.	None
For all the above reason, we hold that the levy of taxes on property by the Punjab Municipal Act, 1911 (as extended to Part C States of Delhi by Part C States (Laws) Act, 1950), the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 and the New Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (both Parliamentary enactments) constitutes Union taxation within the meaning of Art.	Decision
289(1).	Reasoning
PARTIV The Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957, the Punjab Municipal Act, 1911 (as extended to the Union Territory of Delhi) and the New Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 (N. D. M. C. Act) specifically exempt the properties of the Union from taxation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 119 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act is in terms of Art. 285 of the Constitution.	None
It reads Taxation of Union properties  (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this Chapter, lands and buildings being properties of the Union shall be exempt from the property taxes specified in section 114 Provided that nothing in this subsection shall prevent the Corporation from levying any of the said taxes on such lands and buildings to which immediately before the 26th January 1950, they were liable or treated as liable, so long as that tax continues to be levied by the Corporation on other lands and buildings.	None
Subsection (3) of Section 61 is also in terms of Art. 285 of the Constitution.	None
It reads Nothing in this subsection shall authorise the imposition of any tax which the provincial legislature has no power to impose in the Province under the Constitution Provided that a committee which immediately before the commencement of the Constitution shall lawfully levying any such tax under this section as then in force may continue to levy such tax until provision to the contrary is made by Parliament.	None
Subsection (1) of S. 65 of the N. D. M. C. Act is again in the same terms as Article 285.	None
None of the above enactments provide any exemption in favour of the properties of a State.	None
Section 115(4) of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, Section 61 of the Punjab Municipal Act and Section 62 of the N.D.M.C. Act levy property tax on all the properties within their jurisdiction.	None
From the fact that properties of the Union have been specifically exempted in terms of Article 285 but the properties of the States have not been exempted in terms of Article 289 shows that so far as these enactments go, they purport to levy tax on the properties of the States as well.	Reasoning
The State Governments, it is equally obvious, are not claiming exemption from municipal taxation under any provision of the concerned State enactment but only under and by virtue of Article 289 of the Constitution.	None
They are relying upon clause (1) of Article 289 which is undoubtedly in absolute terms.	None
Clause (1) of Article 289 says, the property and income of a State shall be exempt from Union taxation.	Reasoning
But clause (1) does not stand alone.	None
It is qualified by clause (2)  which in turn is qualified by clause (3).	None
Where an exemption is claimed under clause (1), we cannot shut our eyes to the said qualifying clause and give effect to clause (1) alone.	None
In the decision in A.P.S.R.T.C., this Court has held that clause (2) is an exception to clause (1) and that clause (3) is an exception to clause (2).	None
When a claim for exemption is made under clause (1) of Article 289, the Court has to examine and determine the field occupied by clause (1) by reading clauses (1) and (2) together.	None
If there is a law made by Parliament within the meaning of clause (2), the area covered by that law will be removed from the field occupied by clause (1).	None
By way of analogy, we may refer to subclause (f) of clause (1) and clause (5) of Article 19, which has been explained by a Special Bench of eleven Judges in R.C. Cooper v. Union of India, 1970(1) SCC 248 in the following words Clause (5) of Article 19 and clauses (1) and (2) of Article 31 prescribe restrictions upon State action, subject to which the right to property may be exercised.	None
But before we elaborate this aspect, it would be appropriate to examine the meaning and scheme of Article 289 and the object underlying it.	None
Since Article 289 is successor to Section 155 of the Government of India Act, 1935  	Issue
no doubt, with certain changes  it would be helpful to refer to and examine the purport and scope of Section 155 as it obtained prior to its amendment in 1947.	Issue
We would also be simultaneously examining the scheme and purport of Article 289.	Issue
It would be appropriate to read both Article 289 and Section 155 together Exemption of property and income of a State from Union taxation  (1) The property and income of State shall be exempt from Union taxation.	Reasoning
Nothing in clause (1) shall prevent the Union from imposing, or authorising the imposition of, any tax to such extent, if any, as Parliament may by law provide in respect of a trade or business of any kind carried on by, or on behalf of, the Government of a State, or any operations connected therewith, or any property used or occupied for the purposes of such trade or business, or any income accruing or arising in connection therewith.	None
Provided that Nothing in clause (2) shall apply to any trade or business, which Parliament may by law declare to be incidental to the ordinary functions of Government.	Reasoning
155.	None
(1) Subject as hereinafter provided, the Government of a Province and the Ruler of a Federated State shall not be liable to Federal taxation in respect of lands or buildings situate in British India or income accruing, arising or received in British India Provide that  (a) where a trade or business of any kind is carried on by or on behalf of the Government of a Province in any part of British India, outside that Province or by a Ruler in any part of British India, nothing in this subsection shall exempt that Government or Ruler from any Federal taxation in respect of that trade or business, or any operations connected therewith, or any income arising in connection therewith, or any property occupied for the purposes thereof (b) nothing in this subsection shall exempt a Ruler from any Federal taxation in respect of any lands, buildings or income being his personal property or personal income.	Reasoning
Nothing to this Act affects any exemption from taxation enjoyed as of right at the passing of this Act by the Ruler of an Indian State in respect of any Indian Government securities issued before that date.	None
The first distinguishing feature to be noticed is that while Section 155 spoke of lands and buildings belonging to the Government of a Province situate in British India being exempt from Federal taxation we are leaving out the portion relating to Rulers of Acceding States Federating States.	None
Article 289(1) speaks of the property of a State being exempt from Union taxation The second material difference is between proviso (a) to Section 155(1) and clause (2) of Article 289 corresponding to it.	None
Under the proviso, trade or business carried on by a Provincial government was excluded from the exemption provided in the main limb of subsection (1) whereas clause (2) does not itself deny the exemption to such trade or business it merely enables the Parliament to make a law levying tax on such trade or business.	None
This change has a certain background, which we shall refer to later.	None
The third distinguishing feature between the said proviso and clause (2) is this while the denial of exemption provided by the proviso was to the trade or business carried on by a Provincial government outside its territory, clause (2) of Article 289 contains no such restrictive words.	None
The fourth distinguishing feature is the provision in clause (3) of Article 289, which enables the Parliament to declare which trades businesses are incidental to ordinary functions of government, in which event those trades businesses go out of the purview of clause (2) no such provision existed in Section 155.	None
Even under the Government of India Act, 1935 the power to levy taxes on lands and buildings was vested in the Provincial legislatures alone.	None
Federal legislature had no power to levy such taxes.	None
If so, the question arises  why did the British Parliament provide that the lands and buildings of a Provincial government situated in British India are exempt from Federal taxation.	Issue
Since, no Federal tax could ever have been levied by the Federal legislature on lands or buildings, is the exemption meaningless ?	Issue
This is the question which was also agitated before the learned Judges who answered the Presidential reference in Re Sea Customs Act (AIR 1963 SC 1760 ).	None
Sri P.P. Rao and other learned counsel appearing for the State governments submit that the said exemption is neither meaningless nor unnecessary.	None
They submit that the language used in the main limb of subsection (1) of Section 155 was used advisedly to meet a specific situation.	None
Their explanation, as condensed by us in our words, is to the following effect Even at the time of enactment and commencement of the Government of India Act, 1935, the area now comprised in the Union Territory of Delhi was comprised in the Chief Commissioners Province of Delhi besides Delhi, there were several other Chief Commissioners Provinces within British India every Provincial government and almost every major native State had properties in Delhi for one or the other purpose prior to the commencement of the 1935 Act, there was no such thing as division of powers between the Centre and the Provinces Provinces were mere administrative units the concept of division of powers between the Federation Centre and its units Provinces, i.e., the concept of a Federation, broadly speaking, was introduced by the said Act for the first time in such a situation, it was necessary that the mutual respect and regard between the Centre and the Provinces basic to a federal concept, is affirmed and given due constitutional recognition even before the enactment of the Delhi Laws Act, 1912, the Governor General in Council with the sanction and approbation of the Secretary of State for India, had, by proclamation published in Notification No. 911 dated the 17th day of September, 1912, taken under his immediate authority and management, the territories mentioned in ScheduleA to the Act that portion of the district of Delhi comprising the tehsil of Delhi and police station of Mehrauli which were formerly included in the Province of Punjab, with a view to provide for the administration thereof by a Chief Commissioner as a separate Province to be known as the Province of Delhi it was the said status which was affirmed by the Delhi Laws Act, 1912 Section 5 of the Government of India Act, 1935 made a clear distinction between the Provinces and the Chief Commissioners Provnices while the Provinces were provided with legislatures ChapterIII of PartIII of the Act, the Chief Commissioners Provinces, governed by PartIV of the Act, had no legislatures of their own the only legislature for them was the Federal legislature any tax levied in the Chief Commissioners Province could have been levied only by the Federal legislature or the Governor General, as the case may be Section 99(1) of the Act provided that the Federal Legislature may make laws for the whole or any part of British India or for any Federated State and a Provincial Legislature may make laws for the Province or for any part thereof all this shows that the tax on lands or buildings in the Chief Commissioners Provinces including Delhi could have been levied only by Federal legislature Section 155(1) was meant to exempt the lands or buildings of Provincial governments from such federal taxation  it is submitted.	None
We find the above explanation cogent and acceptable.	None
It fully explains the use of the words lands and buildings in Section 155(1) of the Act.	None
We think it unnecessary to repeat the whole reasoning once again.	None
As against the words lands and buildings belonging to a provincial government in Section 155 of the Government of India Act, 1935, Article 289(1) uses a single expression Property and says that property of a State shall be exempt from Union taxation.	None
The expression Property is indubitably much wider.	None
It takes in not only lands and buildings but all forms of property.	None
While the Constituent Assembly debates do not throw any light upon the reason for this change  from lands or buildings to property  it is, in all probability, attributable to the large number of representations made by several Provincial governments to the Constituent Assembly that not merely the lands or buildings but any and every trade and business carried on by a State Government should equally be entitled to exemption.	None
Sri B. Sen invited our attention to those representations and submitted that it is these representations which induced the Constituent Assembly to draft clause (2) of Article 289 in a manner different from proviso (a) to Section 155(1).	None
Be that as it may, the fact remains that the expression property in Article 289(1) has to be given its natural and proper meaning.	None
It includes not only lands and buildings but all forms or property.	None
The explanation offered by the learned counsel appearing for the States, set out in extenso hereinabove, for the use of the words lands or buildings in Section 155(1) is equally valid for clause (1) of Article 289 insofar as it pertains to lands and buildings.	None
It must be remembered that both Section 155(1) and Article 289(1) exempt the income as well derived by a Provincial government State government from Union taxation.	None
Both the property and income of the States are thus exempt under clause (1) of Article 289 subject, of course, to clause (2) thereof.	None
Now what does clause (2) of Article 289 say ?	Issue
It may be noticed that the language of the first proviso to Section 155 and of clause (2) of Article 289 is practically identical except for the two distinguishing features mentioned hereinbefore.	None
It would, therefore, suffice if we discuss the proviso.	None
It says  omitting reference to Princely States  that where a trade or business of any kind is carried on by or on behalf of the government of a Province in any part of British India outside that Province, nothing in subsection (1) shall exempt that Government from any Federal taxation in respect of that trade or business or any operations connected therewith or any income arising in connection therewith or any property i.e., lands and buildings occupied for the purposes thereof.	None
it is necessary to emphasise that the proviso to Section 155(1) which by its own force levied taxes upon the trading and business operations carried on by the Provincial governments did not either define the said expressions or specify which trading or business operations are subject to taxation.	None
On this account, the proviso was not and could not be said to have been, ineffective or unenforceable.	None
It was effective till January 26, 1950.	None
Clause (2) of Article 289 also similarly does not define or specify  nor does it require that the law made thereunder should so define or specify.	None
It cannot be said that unless the law made order and with reference to clause (2) specifies the particular trading or business operations to be taxed, it would not be a law within the meaning of clause (2).	None
Coming back to the language of clause (2), a question is raised, why does the proviso speak of taxation in respect of trade or business when the main limb of subsection (1) speaks only of taxes in respect of lands or buildings and income ?	Issue
Is the ambit of proviso wider than the main limb ?	Issue
Is it an independent provision of a substantive nature notwithstanding the label given to it as a proviso ?	Issue
Or is it only an exception ?	Issue
It is asked.	None
We are, however, of the considered opinion that it is more important to give effect to the language of and the intention underlying the proviso than to find a label for it.	None
It is clarificatory in nature without a doubt it appears to be more indeed.	None
It is concerned mainly with the income of Provincial governments referred to in the main limb of subsection (1).	None
It speaks of tax on the lands or buildings in that context alone, as we shall explain in the next paragraph.	None
The idea underlying the proviso is to make it clear that the exemption of income of Provincial government operates only where the income is earned or received by it as a government it will not avail where the income is earned or received by the Provincial government on account of or from any trade or business carried on by it  that is a trade or a business carried on with profit motive.	Reasoning
In the light of the language of the proviso to Section 155 and clause (2) of Article 289, it is not possible to say that every activity carried on by the government is governmental activity.	None
A distinction has to be made between governmental activity and trade and business carried on by the government, at least for the purposes of this clause.	None
It is for this reason.	None
We say, that unless an activity in the nature of trade and business is carried on with a profit motive, it would not be a trade or business contemplated by clause (2).	None
For example, mere sale of government properties, immovable or movable, or granting of leases and licences in respect of its properties does not amount to carrying on trade or business.	None
Only where a trade or business is carried on with a profit motive  or any property is used or occupied for the purpose of carrying on such trade or business  that the proviso or for that matter clause (2) of Article 289 would be attracted.	None
Where there is no profit motive involved in any activity carried on by the State government, it cannot be said to be carrying on a trade or business within the meaning of the proviso clause (2), merely because some profit results from the activity.	None
We may pause here a while and explain why we are attaching such restricted meaning to the words trade or business in the proviso to Section 155 and in clause (2) of Article 289.	None
Both the words import substantially the same idea though, ordinarily speaking, the expression business appears to be wider in its content.	None
The expression, however, has no definite meaning its meaning varies with the context and several other factors.	None
See Board of Revenue v. A.M. Ansari, 1976(3) SCC 512 and State of Gujarat v. Raipur Manufacturing Company, 1967(1)	None
SCR 618.	None
As observed by Lord Diplock in Town Investments Limited v. Department of Environment, 1977(1) All ER 813 (HL), the word business is an etymological chameleon it suits its meaning to the context in which it is found.	None
It is not a term of legal art and its dictionary meanings, as Lindley, C.J. pointed out in Rolls v. Miller, 1884(27)	None
Ch D 71 embrace almost anything which is an occupation, as distinct from a pleasure  anything which is an occupation or a duty which requires attention is a business Having regard to the context in which the words trade or business occur  whether in the proviso to Section 155 of the Government of India Act, 1935 or in clause (2) of Article 289 of our Constitution  they must be given, and we have given, a restricted meaning, the context being levy of tax by one unit of federation upon the income of the other unit, the manifold activities carried on by governments under our constitutional scheme, the necessity to maintain a balance between the Centre and the States and so on.	None
Proviso (i) not only speaks of trade or business carried on by the Provincial governments outside their respective territories but also any operations connected therewith or any income arising in connection therewith or any property occupied for the purposes thereof.	None
So far as operations connected with the trade or business is concerned, they naturally go along with the main trade or business.	None
No difficulty is expressed by anyone on this count.	None
Similarly, with respect to any income arising in connection with such trade or business too, no difficulty is expressed since the income is an incident of the trade or business.	None
Difficulty is, however, expressed regarding the other set of words or any property occupied for the purposes thereof.	None
The said words, in our opinion, mean that if any property, i.e., any land or building is occupied by the Provincial government for the purpose of any trade or business carried on by the Provincial government, such land or building too loses the benefit of exemption contained in the main limb of subsection (1) it becomes liable to Federal taxation.	None
To repeat, the central idea underlying the proviso is to remove the trading or business operations from the purview of the main limb of subsection (1) of Section 155.	None
Now, coming to clause (2) of Article 289, position is the same with the two distinguishing features mentioned supra, viz., (a) under this clause, removal of exemption is not automatic it comes about only when the Parliament makes a law imposing taxes in respect of any trade or business carried on by a State Government and all activities connected therewith or any property used or occupied for the purposes of such business as also the income derived therefrom.	None
If any property  whether movable or immovable  is used or occupied for the purpose of any such trade or business, it can be denied the exemption provided by clause (1) but this denial can be only by way of a law made by Parliament and (b) the exception contemplated by clause (2) is not confineed to trade and business carried on by a State outside its territory as was provided by the first proviso to Section 155.	None
Even the trade or business carried on by a State within its own territory can also be brought within the purview of the enactment made by Parliament in terms of the said clause.	None
Adverting to the matters before us, the question is whether the Parliament has made any law as contemplated by clause (2) of Article 289 ?	Issue
For, if no such law is made, it is evident, all the properties of State governments in the Union Territory of Delhi would be exempt from taxation.	None
Parliament has admittedly not made any law as contemplated by clause (3) of Article 289.	None
We have observed hereinbefore that the claim of exemption put forward by State Governments in respect of their properties situated in N.D.M.C. and Delhi Municipal Corporation areas is founded  and can only be founded  on Article 289.	None
The States invoke clause (1) of the article but we are of the considered opinion that clause (1) cannot be looked at in isolation it must be read subject to clause (2).	None
All the three clauses of Article 289 are parts of one single scheme.	None
Hence, when a claim for exemption with reference to clause (1) is made, one must see what is the field on which it operates and that can be determined only by reading it along with clause (2).	None
The exemption provided by Article 289(1) is a qualified one  qualified by clause (2), as explained hereinbefore.	None
It is not an absolute exemption like the one provided by Article 285(1).	None
If there is a law within the meaning of clause (2), the field occupied by clause (1) gets curtailed to the extent specified in clause (2) and the law made thereunder.	None
It is, therefore, necessary in this case to determine whether the Punjab Municipal Act, Delhi Municipal Corporation Act and N.D.M.C. Act are or can be deemed to be enactments within the meaning of clause (2) of Article 289.	None
These enactments  and certainly the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act and N.D.M.C. Act  are postconstitutional enactments.	Reasoning
As stated hereinbefore, these enactments while specifically exempting the Union properties in terms of Article 285, do not exempt the properties of the States in terms of Article 289.	None
As a matter of fact, Section 115 (4) of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act and Section 62(1) of the N.D.M.C. Act expressly exempt properties used exclusively for charitable purposes or for public worship as defined by them but do not provide for an exemption in the case of the properties of the States in terms of Article 289.	None
It cannot be said, or presumed, that Parliament was not aware of, or conscious of, Article 289 while enacting the said Acts.	None
Section 62(1) and (2) of the N.D.M.C. Act read The omission cannot be said to be unintentional  particularly in the case of Delhi Municipal Corporation Act and N.D.M.C. Act.	None
The intention is clear and obvious the enactments do not wish to provide for any exemption in favour of properties of the States situated within their respective jurisdictions.	None
Taxes are levied on all properties within their jurisdiction except the properties specifically exempted, irrespective of who owns them and to what use they are put.	None
In such a situation, the question is, how should they be understood ?	None
Two views can be taken one that since the said enactments do not expressly purport to have been made under and as contemplated by clause (2) of Article 289, they should not be read and understood as laws contemplated by or within the meaning of the said clause (2).	None
The effect of this view would be that the properties of the State in Union Territory of Delhi will be totally exempt irrespective of the manner of their use and occupation.	None
In other words, the consequence would be that the relevant provisions of the said enactments would be ineffective and unenforceable against all the properties held by the States in the Union Territory National Capital Territory of Delhi, irrespective of the nature of their user or occupation.	None
The second view is that since there is always a presumption of constitutionality in favour of the statutes and also because the declaration of invalidity or inapplicability of a statute should be only to the extent the enactment is clearly outside the legislative competence of the legislative body making it or is squarely covered by the ban or prohibition in question, the declaration of invalidity should not extend to the extent the enactments can be related to and upheld with reference to some constitutional provision, even though not cited by or recited in the enactment.	None
Similarly, the declaration of inapplicability should only be to the extent the law is plainly covered by the ban or prohibition, as the case may be.	None
What is not covered by the constitutional bar should be held to be applicable and effective.	None
In our respectful opinion, the latter view is consistent with the wellknown principles of constitutional interpretation and should be preferred.	None
We may pause here and explain our viewpoint.	None
If the law had expressly stated that it is a law made under and with reference to clause (2) of Article 289, no further question would have arisen.	None
The only question is where it does not say so, can its validity or applicability be sustained with reference to clause (2).	None
In our considered opinion, it should be so sustained, even though it may be that the appellantcorporations have not chosen to argue this point specifically.	None
As would be evident from some of the decisions referred to hereinafter, the fact that a party or a government does not choose to put forward an argument cannot be a ground for the Court not to declare the correct position in law.	None
The appellants are saying that all the properties of the States are not exempt because the taxes levied by them do not constitute Union taxation within the meaning of clause (1) of Article 289.	None
We have not agreed with them.	None
We have held that the taxes levied by the aforesaid enactments do constitute Union taxation within the meaning of clause (1) of Article 289 and that by virtue of the exemption provided by clause (1), taxes are not leviable on State properties.	None
In view of the fact that clauses (1) and (2) of Article 289 go together, form part of one scheme and have to be read together, we cannot ignore the operation and applicability of clause (2), at the same time.	Reasoning
Reference to a few decisions would bear out our view.	None
In Charanjit Lal Chowdhary v. Union of India, 1950 SCR 869 , Fazl Ali, J. stated it is the accepted doctrine of the American Courts, which I consider to be wellfounded on principle, that the presumption is always in favour of the constitutionality of an enactment, and the burden is upon him who attacks it to show that there has been a clear transgression of the constitutional principles.	None
In Burrakur Coal Co. v. Union of India, 1962(1)	None
SCR 44, Mudholkar, J., speaking for the Constitution Bench, observed Where the validity of a law made by a competent legislature is challenged in a Court of law, that Court is bound to presume in favour of its validity.	None
Further, while considering the validity of the law the Court will not consider itself restricted to the pleadings of the State and would be free to satisfy itself whether under any provision of the Constitution the law can be sustained.	None
In Rt. Rev. Magr.	None
Mark Netto v. Govt. of Kerala, 1979(1) SCC 23	None
, the Constitution Bench considered the question whether a rule made by the Government of Kerala is violative of the right conferred upon the minorities by Article 30.	None
It was held In that view of the matter the Rule in question its wide amplitude sanctioning the withholding of permission for admission of girl students in the boys minority school is violative of Article 30, if so widely interpreted it crosses the barrier of regulatory measures and comes in the region of interference with the administration of the institution, a right which is guaranteed to the minority under Article 30.	None
The Rule, therefore, must be interpreted narrowly and is held to be inapplicable to a minority educational institution in a situation of the kind with which we are concerned in this case.	None
We do not think it necessary or advisable to strike down the Rule as a whole but do restrict its operation and make it inapplicable to a minority educational institution in a situation like the one which arose in this case.	None
Reference may also be made to another Constitution Bench decision in Sanjeev Coke Manufacturing Co. v. M s. Bharat Coking Ltd., 1983(1) SCC 147.	None
The following observations in Para 26 are apposite	None
The deponents of the affidavits filed into Court may speak for the parties on whose behalf they swear to the statements.	None
They do not speak for the Parliament.	None
No one may speak for the Parliament and Parliament is never before the Court.	None
After Parliament has said what it intends to say, only the Court may say what the Parliament meant to say.	None
None else.	None
Once a statute leaves Parliament House, the Courts is the only authentic voice which may echo (interpret) the Parliament.	None
This the Court will do with reference to the language of the statute and other permissible aids.	None
The executive Government may place before the Court their understanding of what Parliament has said or intended to say or what they think was Parliaments object and all the facts and circumstances which in their view led to the legislation.	None
When they do so, they do not speak for Parliament.	None
No Act of Parliament may be struck down because of the understanding or misunderstanding of Parliamentary intention by the executive government or because their (the Governments) spokesmen do not bring out relevant circumstances but indulge in empty and selfdefeating affidavits.	None
They do not and they cannot bind Parliament.	None
Validity of legislation is not to be judged merely by affidavits filed on behalf of the State, but by all the relevant circumstances which the Court may ultimately find and more especially by what may be gathered from what the legislature has itself said.	None
Lastly, we may quote the pertinent propositions enunciated in Ram Krishna Dalmia v. Justice Tendolkar, 1959 SCR 279 to the following effect (b) that there is always a presumption in favour of the constitutionality of an enactment and the burden is upon him who attacks it to show that there has been a clear transgression of the constitutional principles (e) that in order to sustain the presumption of constitutionality the Court may take into consideration matters of common knowledge, matters of common report, the history of the times and may assume every state of facts which can be conceived existing at the time of legislation and These are wellsettled propositions.	None
Applying them, it must be held that the aforesaid Municipal Laws are inapplicable to the properties of State Governments to the extent such properties are governed and saved by Clause (1) of Article 289 and that insofar as the properties used or occupied for the purpose of a trade or business carried on by the State Government (as explained hereinbefore) are concerned, the ban in Clause (1) does not avail them and the taxes thereon must be held to be valid and effective.	None
It may be reiterated that the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 and the N.D.M.C. Act, 1974 are postconstitutional enactments and that the Punjab Municipal Act too must be deemed to be a postconstitutional enactment for the reasons given hereinabove.	Reasoning
It must, therefore, be held that the levy of property taxes by the said enactments is valid to the extent it relates to lands and buildings owned by State Governments and used or occupied for the purposes of any trade or business carried on by such State Government.	Reasoning
In other words, the levy must be held to be invalid and inapplicable only to the extent of those lands and buildings which are not used or occupied for the purposes of any trade or business carried on by the State Government, as explained hereinbefore.	None
It is for the appropriate assessing authorities to determine which land building falls within which category in accordance with law and in the light of this judgment and take appropriate further action.	Reasoning
In this connection, we may mention that the assessing authorities under the Act have to decide several questions under the Act including the questions whether any land or building is being used for charitable purpose or public worship.	None
They also have to decide whether a land is an agricultural land.	None
These are difficult questions as would be evident from a reference to the plethora of decisions under the Incometax Act where these expressions occur.	None
For this reason, neither the exemption can be held to be ineffective nor the authorities can be said to have no jurisdiction to decide these questions.	None
Appeals are provided to Civil Courts against the orders of the assessing authorities.	None
In the light of the above position of law, it is for the Union of India to consider whether any steps are to be taken to maintain the balance between the Union and the States in the matter of taxation.	None
PARTV The following conclusions flow from the above discussion (a) the property taxes levied by and under the Punjab Municipal Act, 1911, the New Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 and the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 constitute Union taxation within the meaning of Clause (1) of Article 289 of the Constitution of India (b) the levy of property taxes under the aforesaid enactments on lands and or buildings belonging to the State Governments is invalid and incompetent by virtue of the mandate contained in Clause (1) of Article 289.	Decision
However, if any land or building is used or occupied for the purposes of any trade or business trade or business as explained in the body of this judgment carried on by or on behalf of the State Government, such land or building shall be subject to levy of property taxes levied by the said enactments.	Decision
In other words, State property exempted under Clause (1) means such property as is used for the purpose of the Government and not for the purposes of trade or business (c) it is for the authorities under the said enactments to determine with notice to the affected State Government, which land or building is used or occupied for the purposes of any trade or business carried on by or on behalf of that State Government.	Decision
We direct that this judgment shall operate only prospectively.	Decision
It will govern the Financial Year 199697 (commencing on April 1, 1996) and onwards.	Decision
For this purpose, we invoke our power under Article 142 of the Constitution.	Decision
The reasons are the following (a) according to the judgment under appeal, the properties of the State were exempt in toto whereas according to this judgment, some of the properties of the State situated within the Union Territory of Delhi may become liable to tax.	None
The assesses are the State Governments and the taxes are being levied under a Parliamentary enactment.	None
This interState character of the dispute is a relevant factor (b) from the year 1975 upto now, there have been no assessments because of the judgment of the High Court and (c) retrospective assessment of properties under the above enactments appears to be a doubtful proposition at any rate, not an advisable thing to do in all the facts and circumstances of this case.	None
Before parting with this case, it would be appropriate to refer to a submission of Sri B. Sen.	None
He submitted that the exemption provided by Clause (1) of Article 289 does not and cannot apply to compensatory taxes like water tax, drainage tax and so on.	None
Even where the enactment does not specifically and individually enumerate these components of property taxes, i.e. where the levy is of a composite tax known as Property tax it must be presumed, says Sri B. Sen, that part of the property taxes are compensatory in nature.	None
We are, however, not inclined to express any opinion on this aspect in the absence of any material placed in support thereof.	None
We cannot permit this new plea, which does not appear to be a pure question of law, to be raised for the first time at the time of arguments in these appeals writ petitions.	None
The appeals and writ petitions are accordingly disposed of in the above terms.	Decision
The judgment of the High Court shall stand modified to the extent it is contrary to this judgment.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
Order accordingly.	Decision
