 Mitter, J. 1.	None
This is an appeal from a judgment of the Madhya Pradesh High Court by a returned candidate at an election to Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly from Ujjain North Constituency held in February 1967 declaring the election of the appellant void under s. 98 of the Representation of the People Act (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	None
2.	None
There was no less than eight candidates at the said election, five of whom polled very few votes.	Facts
The result of the election so far as the other three were concerned was as follows1.	Facts
Mahadev Govind Joshi, the returned candidate secured 23, 709 votes 2.	Facts
Mrs. Hansaban Patel polled 10, 767 , , 3.	Facts
Shri Bansidhar Azad polled 7, 093	None
The election petition was filed by the husband of the 2nd respondent, Mrs. Hansaben Patel.	None
In the petition numerous grounds were taken.	Facts
for declaring the election of the appellant void under the Act and no less than five issues with different sub heads were flamed by the court on August 31, 1967, but at the final stage the hearing only the first issue was canvassed.	Facts
The said issue reads as follows 1.	Facts
(a) Was the respondent No. 1 holding one or more of the three following offices of profit ?	Facts
(i) his being included in the panel of lawyers prepared by the Central and Western Railway Administration (ii) his holding the post of the president member of a tribunal constituted under section 73 of the M.P. Town Improvement Trusts Act, 1960 (iii) his holding the office of Professor of law in the Madhav College, Ujjain on regular salary of Rs. 250 p.m. (b) If so, its effect ?	None
3.	None
Before the trial Judge a number of documents were exhibited and some witnesses were examined.	Facts
The learned trial Judge was of opinion that the appellant, the successful candidate held an office of profit under Government being on the panel of lawyers prepared by the Central and Western Railway Administration and having been at the material time a Professor of Law in the Madhav College on a regular salary of Rs. 250 per month, but he was not prepared to hold on the material before him that the appellant held the post of the Presidentmember of a Tribunal constituted under s. 73 of the Madhya Pradesh Town Improvement Trust Act, 1960.The first alleged disqualification is based on a letter of appointment dated February 6, 1962 addressed by the Chief Commercial Superintendent to the appellant who accepted the conditions and terms of that letter by his reply within a few days thereafter.	Facts
The letter of the Commercial Superintendent shows that the appellants name.	Facts
was kept on the panel of Railway Pleaders for conducting suits filed against the Union of India in the courts of Ujjain on the terms and conditions therein mentioned.	Facts
It is not necessary to recapitulate the terms excepting three or four to be mentioned presently.	Facts
The first term showed that the appellant was ordinarily to be entrusted with cases up to valuation of rupees three thousand only.	Facts
The ninth term imposed a condition on the appellant that he would not accept any briefs against.	Facts
any Railway in any court.	Facts
Clause (13) of the terms is really the most important one for our present purposesand reads as followsYou will be expected to watch cases coming up for hearing against this Railway in the various courts at UJB and give timely intimation of the same to this office.	Facts
H no instructions regarding any particular case are received by you, will be expected to appear in the court and obtain an , adjournment to save the exparte proceedings against this Railway in the court.	Facts
You will be paid Rs. 5 for every such adjournment if you are not entrusted with the conduct of the suit later On.	Facts
The other terms deal mostly with the fees and the expenses to which the appellant would be entitled if he accepted the engagement.	Facts
4. The question before us is, whether by accepting the engagement, the appellant could be said to have held an office of profit.	None
The word office according to Websters New World Dictionary means, inter alia, a function or duty assigned to someone, specially as an essential part of his work or position, a position of authority or trust especially in a Government, Corporation etc.	Reasoning
According to Jowitts Law Dictionary, it means the right and duty to exercise an employment such as an office of a trustee, executor, guardian, director, Sheriff, Judge etc.	Reasoning
The expression office of profit finds a place in an old English Act, namely, the Act of Settlement, 1701, s. 3 of which provided that no person having an office or place of profit under the Crown could be a member of the House of Commons.	Reasoning
The meaning of the expression came up for consideration by this Court in a recent case.	None
The Statesman (Private) Ltd. v.H.R. Deb and others( 1968 3 S.C.R. 614) decided on April 2, 1968.	None
There, a question arose as to whether the respondent, H.R. Deb, was qualified to hold a judicial office in India in terms of s. 7 (3) of the Industrial Disputes Act.	None
Under that provision a person shall not be qualified for appointment as the presiding officer of a Labour Court, unless inter alia (d) he has held any judicial office in India for not less than seven years.	None
The facts relating to the career of Mr. Deb as found by this Court were as follows.	None
He was first appointed in 1940 as a Sub Deputy Collector and was vested with powers of a Third Class Magistrate.	None
Thereafter, he was vested with powers of a Second Class Magistrate, and after a year or so with those of a First Class Magistrate.	None
There seems to have been some difference of opinion between the Judges of the High Court on the point as to whether Mr. Deb held a judicial office or whether he merely discharged certain judicial functions.	None
According to the judgment of this Court delivered by the learned Chief Justice the dispute, therefore, really reduces itself to this Does the Magistrate hold an office?	None
An office means no more than a position to which certain duties are attached.	None
The learned Chief Justice also referred to the Judicial Officers Protection Act which was enacted to protect not only Civil Judges but also Magistrates, and observed that office means a fixed position for performance of duties.	None
5.	None
We may also refer to certain observations of the House of Lords in the case of Mcmillan v. Guest(1942 A.C. 561).	None
There LOrd Wright in delivering his opinion saidThe word office is of indefinite content.	None
Its various meanings cover four columns of the New English Dictionary, but I take as the most relevant for purposes of this case the following A position or place to which certain duties are attached, especially one of a more or less public character.	None
6.	None
This was a case arising out of assessment under the Incometax Act.	None
The appellant was a director of A. Wander, Ld., a private company which was resident and controlled in the United Kingdom.	None
He was appointed a director by the articles of association and had no contract of service with the company.	None
Since 1919 he had been resident in the United States of America, and in 1938 he became a naturalized American citizen.	None
He had gone over to America to take over the management of a company in Chicago allied to the predecessors of A. Wander, Ld., for whom he opened a Canadian office, and concerned himself in the administrative and selling organization there.	None
Copies of minutesannual balance sheets etc. were regularly sent to the appellant in America, but he attended no board meetings in England except one in 1931 and only one in Chicago in 1925.	None
He was not required to attend board meetings of the English company, and notices of such meetings were not sent to him.	None
The question before the House of Lords was whether he held an office within the U.K. for the purposes of rule 6 of the Rules applicable to Sch.	None
E to the Income Tax Act, 1918 and the House of Lords was of the view that he held an office and dismissed his appeal.	None
If by office is meant the right and duty to exercise an employment or a position to which certain duties are attached as observed by this Court, it is difficult to see why the engagement of the appellant in.	None
this case under t, he letter of February 6, 1962 would not amount to the appellant s holding an office.	None
By the said letter he accepted certain obligations and was required to discharge certain duties.	None
He was not free to take a brief against the Railway Administration.	None
Whether or not the Railway Administration thought it proper to entrust any particular case or litigation pending in the court to him, it was his duty to watch all cases coming up for hearing against the Railway Administration and to give timely intimation of the same to the office of the Chief Commercial Superintendent.	None
Even if no instructions regarding any particular case were given to him, he was expected to appear in court and obtain an adjournment.	None
In effect this cast a duty on him to appear m court and obtain an adjournment so as to protect me interests of the Railway.	None
7.	None
The duty or obligation was a continuing one so long as the railway did not think it proper to remove his name from the panel of Railway lawyers so long as he did not intimate to the Railway Administration that he desired to be free from his obligation to render service to the Railway.	None
In the absence of the above he was bound by the terms the engagement to watch the interests of the Railway Administration, give them timely intimation of cases in which they were involved and on his own initiative apply for an adjournment in proceedings in which the Railway had made no arrangement for representation.	None
It is true that he would get a sum of money only he appeared but the possibility that the Railway might not engage him is a matter, of no moment.	None
An office of profit really means an office in respect of which a profit may accrue.	None
It is not necessary that it should be possible to predicate of a holder of an office of profit that he was bound to get a certain amount profit irrespective of the duties discharged by him.	None
8. Learned counsel for the appellant argued that the appellant was not a salaried employee of the Railway.	Arguments of Petitioner
He was not even bound to act for the Railways and if he thought it proper to accept a brief against the railway the Railway Administration could only take steps against him for breach of professional etiquette and nothing more.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to counsel, he could only get remuneration in case he thought it proper to act on the terms of the letter and appeared in any case to support the cause of the Railway.	None
In our view, although it was open to the appellant to terminate the engagement at any time and he might even commit a breach of etiquette by accepting a brief against the Railway without formally putting an end to the engagement, that would not detract from the position that he was in duty bound to work the Railway Administration and see that its causes did not suffer by default.	Reasoning
So long as the engagement was not put an end to, he was holding an office of profit in the Railway Administration, and as such was disqualified for being elected to the Legislative Assembly of Madhya Pradesh. 9.	Reasoning
The question as to whether the appellant was holding an office of profit under the Government of Madhya Pradesh as a Professor of Law in the Madhav College, Ujjain is not altogether free from difficulty.	None
This college was at first one owned and managed by the Government.	None
In 1950 the appellant was invited by the Principal of the College to come and work as a lecturer.	None
He did so for some time and his work was purely on the basis of an arrangement between himself and the Principal.	None
In July, 952 the Principal wrote to the Education Department that the appellant should be formally appointed.	None
Thereupon the Deputy Secretary, Education Department, wrote to the Director of Education on April 7, 1952 conveying sanction of the Rajpramukh to the appellants appointment on one years probation as a part time Professor of Law in Madhav College on a fixed salary of Rs. 250 per month with effect from the date he assumed his duties in a temporary capacity, that is to say, August 1, 1951.	None
The appellant was employed only as a part time lecturer without increment or Provident Fund benefits.	None
His appointment was never confirmed by any letter.	None
It is, however, the common case of the parties that he continued to act as a lecturer in Law in Madhav College till July 1967.	None
Up to March 1959 the College was not only a Governmentowned institution but one which was being managed from day to day directly by its Education Department.	None
In 1959 there were certain changes in the management of the institution, but without the Government relinquishing ownership or ultimate control.	None
As a matter of fact, .	None
an agreement was entered into on March 16, 1959 between the Governor of Madhya Pradesh and Vikram University Ujjain, a body corporate formed under s. 3 of the Madhya Bharat Vikram University Act, 1955, regarding certain terms under which the Governor had offered to transfer to the University the management of the Madhav College, together with its buildings and premises etc. for a period of five years in the fi.rst instance commencing from the 1st of April, 1959 and ending on the 31st March, 1964.	None
The agreement also recorded that the University was to be in charge of the management for the said period subject to the terms and conditions therein mentioned.	None
Under cl.	None
(15) of the said terms and conditions the existing members of the staff and other servants of the said college shall be treated as being on deputation to the University during its period of management and shall be deemed to have been deputed on the usual foreign service conditions, retaining their lien in the State Educational Service.	None
The University shall be liable to make payment of salaries and other allowances, except the deputation allowance, to the members of the staff and other servants of the said college, in employment at the date of its transfer.	None
Under cl.	None
(16) the University shall be entitled to make fresh appointments in regard to the staff and other servants for the said college and, on the University informing the Governor in this behalf, the Governor shall take back within a period of three months from the date of receiving information from the University, in the State Governments service the members of the existing staff and other servants belonging to the said college at the time of execution of this agreement.	None
On March 31, 1964 a telegram was sent to the ViceChancellor, Vikram University recording that pending Government decision on Sen Committee Report existing arrangement regarding Madhav College may continue on the same terms till 30th of June 1964.	None
There is a further letter dated July 17, 1964 showing that the Government had decided to.	None
transfer the management of the College and a regular transfer deed was in the course of preparation, but , actually there is nothing to show that a transfer deed was executed as contemplated.	None
The position became complicated by reason of the fact that as a Government servant under the Fundamental Rules in force at the time of his appointment, the appellant could continue in service only till he attained the age of 55.	None
The age of superannuation was later increased to 58.	None
But even on this basis the appellant had attained the age of 58 on June 30, 1964 and would be deemed to have retired from Government service unless a special order to continue him in service was made.	None
No such order was, as a matter of fact, made.	None
Under the Rules of the University a teacher could be continued in service up to the age of sixty but not beyond with this qualification that if a teacher reached the age of sixty during the currency of an academic session he might be permitted to continue in service and retire at the end of the session.	None
10.	None
The letters which passed between the Vikram University on the one hand and the Government of Madhya Pradesh and or the appellant in this case on the other which form part of the record do not permit us to come to any conclusion as to the manner in which the employment of the appellant under the Government as a parttime Professor of Law in Madhav College came to an end.	None
On January 1, 1965 the Under Secretary to the Government of Madhya Pradesh, Education Department, wrote a letter to the Principal of Madhav College asking for information as to whether the appellant, a parttime Professor of Law, was confirmed in his existing post.	None
The record does not include any reply to this letter.	None
On May 22, 1967 the Registrar of the University addressed a letter to the Principal, Madhav College drawing his attention to the fact that in terms of el. 5 of Schedule B of Statute 7B of the University Calendar the appellant would retire on June 30, 1967 as he had already attained the age of 60 years on 31st July 1966.	None
The occasion for writing this letter is not quite clear unless it related to his election to the Legislative Assembly because by the last sentence of the letter the writer was asking the Principal as to whether the appellant had resigned from his post on his being elected as an M.L.A. On July 4, 1967 after the filing of the election petition, the Registrar of Vikram University intimated to the appellant in writing that his services as parttime Professor of Law would not be required with effect from the commencement of the academic session 196768 i.e. from Monday, the 17th July 1967.The letter went on to addYour tenure as parttime Professor of Law in Madhav College, Ujjain has therefore ceased with effect from June 30, 1967.	None
11.	None
By letter dated 31st July 1967 the Registrar of the University intimated the Secretary to the Government of Madhya Pradesh Education Department, that under instruction dated 31st March 1967 the University had been asked to maintain the status quo with respect to teachers transferred to the University until final terms and conditions of transfer were eftected and in the absence of any Government orders to the contrary, the appellant also continued to remain in the service of the University.	None
Finally, the letter recorded that in terms of the rules of the University fixing 60 years as the age of superannuation for teachers, the appellant had been informed that his services would not be required after 30th June 1967.	None
It was during the hearing of the election petition that a letter dated 9th October 1967 came to be written by the Under Secretary to the Government of Madhya Pradesh, Education Department to the Registrar, Vikram University that the appellant had ceased to be in Government service with effect from 30th June 1964 in terms .of	None
the rule prescribing 58 years as the age of superannuation for Government servants.	None
12.	None
The last letter may legitimately be subject to a comment that efforts were being made to establish that the appellant had ceased to be in Government service after June 30, 1964.	None
It is all the more surprising that the letter of October 9, 1967 should be written at such an opportune moment when more than two years before the Under Secretary was himself enquiring of the Principal as to whether the appellant had been confirmed in his existing post. 13.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant contended that after attaining the age of 58 the appellant must be treated as not in ernment service and as the University had the power to manage the affairs of the College, in effect it retained him in exercise of its rights under the above mentioned rule but this would not make the appellants emp1oyment one under the Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, it was contended by learned counsel for the resportdent that we should ignore these deeming provisions of the Fundamental Rules and hold that.	Arguments of Respondent
as a matter of fact the appellant had continued in service till 1967 notwithstanding the Fundamental Rules of the Madhya Pradesh Government and the rules of the University which permitted the termination of his service before February 1967 but which were never resorted to.	Arguments of Respondent
For the purpose of this case, it is nor necessary to express any final opinion on the joint except to say that the contention put forward on behalf of the appellant seems to have great force.	None
The appellant was only a temporary Government servant.	Reasoning
lie had never become permanent.	Reasoning
lie really had no lien on the post.	Reasoning
He was sent on deputation to the University in 1959 and in the ordinary course of things such deputation would have come to an end in 1964 when he attained the are of superannuation.	Reasoning
It was really for the Umversity.	Reasoning
to ignore the fact.	Reasoning
that he had been superannuated.in 1964 and.continue	Reasoning
him in service, but that would be an act of the University and not of the Government.	Reasoning
There is room for doubt as to whether in the circumstances mentioned above the appellant was holding an office Of profit under the Government as a Lecturer in law in the Madhav College by reason of the fact that no order was passed in respect of him at any time either by the Government or by the University until after the filing of the election petition.	Reasoning
The last point of disqualification alleged was whether the appellant could be said to have been a holder of an office of profit by reason of his appointment as Chairman of the Improvement Trust Tribunal in Ujjain City.	Reasoning
The appointment was gazetted in October 1966 by a notification to the effect that the State Government was pleased to constitute the Tribunal as specified below for the purpose of s. 73 of the Madhya Pradesh Improvement Trusts Act, 1960, for acquisition of land at Ujjain.	Reasoning
President Shri M.C. Joshi, Advocate, Ujjain.	None
Assessors.	None
1.	None
Shri Chand Narayan Rajdan, Retired Traffic Superintendent Agar Light Railway Ujjain.	None
14.	None
The High Court in its judgment noted that there was no clear positive indication that the appellant had been consulted beforehand.	None
There is certainly no evidence that he had acted on the appointment or that he had ever taken charge of the office.	Reasoning
The finding of the High Court is that when the order was delivered at his house, the appellant took it and did not inform anybody connected with the Trust, or as for that matter, the Government, that the order had come to him by mistake and he was not M. C. Joshi as mentioned in the notification.	Reasoning
The High Court gave, the appellant what it terms the benefit of doubt on this alleged disqualification.	Reasoning
But quite apart from the mistake as regards the name, it is difficult to hold that the appellant held the office of profit as the President of the Tribunal.	Reasoning
As noted already, he had never been approached for the purpose nor had he ever signified his willingness to act under the terms of the notification.	Reasoning
He had never taken charge of any office nor had he ever discharged any function with regard to the office.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, it would hardly be right to hold that he was holding an office of profit under the Government.	Reasoning
On the materials before it the High Court was not prepared to hold that the appellant was the holder of an office of profit and on the facts of this case, we do not feel called upon to disturb the finding.	Reasoning
of the High Court.	Reasoning
15.	None
In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.	Decision
