 Sikri, J. 1.	None
This is an appeal by certificate of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh against its judgment dismissing a petition filed under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution by the appellant.	Issue
The appellant is a Private Limited company, hereinafter referred to as the Company, and three persons hold shares of the Company as underShares Amount Rs.	Facts
Sri C. P. Sarathy Mudaliar 279727,970 Sri C. P. Singaram 4204,200	None
Sri C. P. Doraiswamy 5005,0002.	None
The Company was doing transport business and for the assessment year 195960 (Previous year ending 31st March, 1959), it claimed a sum of Rs. 48,600/ as development rebate in respect of the four new buses purchased by it and brought to use during the year.	None
The Income Tax Officer disallowed the amount but the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, on appeal, allowed the entire sum of Rs. 48,600/ as development rebate On May 27, 1959, the three shareholders entered into a partnership and the capital of the firm was as follows Rs. C. P. Sarathy Mudaliar 25,000 C. P. Singaram 10,000 C. P. Doraiswamy 10,000 Total 45,000 3.	None
On June 30, 1959, the Company passed a resolution transferring a number of motor buses, including the four in respect of which development rebate had been claimed, to the partnership firm for a sum of Rs. 2,52.000.	None
The company was not wound up and is still in existence and carrying on business as a transport company.	Facts
On February 7, 1962, the Incometax Officer, purporting to act under S. 35 (11) of the Incometax Act. 1922, hereinafter referred to as the Act.	Facts
Issued a memorandum to the appellant stating, inter alia, thatsince the assets were transferred within 10 years I propose to invoke the provisions of S. 35 of the Act and rectify the income by including the rebate allowed as income of the assessee.	Facts
He invited the assessee to give his objections if any.	Facts
The appellant thereupon filed a petition in the High Court on February 19, 1962, praying inter alia that the Incometax Officer be prohibited from proceeding with the rectification of the Incometax assessment for 195960, as per the memorandum dated February 7, 1962.	Facts
Two points were taken in the petition First that S. 10 (2) (vib) of the Incometax Act was repugnant to Art.	Facts
14 of the Constitution and, secondly, that assuming that S. 10 (2) (vib) was intravires, this transaction did not amount to a sale or transfer.	Facts
4.	None
The High Court held that Section 10 (2) (vib) was not repugnant to Art.	Facts
14 of the Constitution, and that the transaction amounted to transfer within S. 10 (2) (vib).	Facts
5.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant, Mr. Naunit Lal, has reiterated the same points before us.	None
Section 10 (2) (vib) and S. 35 (11) are in the following terms10 (2) Such profits or gains shall be computed after making the following allowances, namely (vib) in respect of a new ship acquired or new machinery or plant installed after the 31st day of March.	None
1954, which is wholly used for the purposes of the business carried on by the assessee, a sum by way of development rebate in respect of the year of acquisition of the ship or of the installation of the machinery or plant, equivalent to (i) in the case of ship (ii) in the case of a ship acquired before the 1st day of January, 1958, and in the case of any machinery or plant, twentyfive per cent of the actual cost of the ship or machinery or plant to the assessee.	None
and if any such ship, machinery or plant is sold or otherwise transferred by the assessee to any person other than the Government at any time before the expiry of ten years from the end of the year in which it was acquired or installed, any allowance made under this clause shall be deemed to have been wrongly allowed for the purposes of this Act.	None
Section 35 (11) Where an allowance by way of development rebate has been made wholly or partly to an assessee in respect of a ship, machinery or plant in any year of assessment under Cl.	None
(vib) of subs.	None
(2) of S. 10, and subsequently at any time before the expiry of ten years from the end of the year in which the ship was acquired or the machinery or plant was installed (i) the ship, machinery or plant is sold or otherwise transferred by the assessee to any person other than the Government or the development rebate originally allowed shall be deemed to have been wrongly allowed, and the Incometax Officer may, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act proceed to recompute the total income of the assessee for the relevant year as if the recomputation is a rectification of a mistake apparent from the record within the meaning of this section, and the provisions of subs.	None
(1) shall apply accordingly, the period of four years specified therein being reckoned from the end of the year in which the transfer takes place or the money is so utilised.	None
6.	None
There is no doubt that on the true interpretation of S. 10 (2) (vib) it is clear that if an assessee sells to a person other than the Government at any time before the expiry of ten years from the end of the year in which the motor vehicle was acquired, the allowance is deemed to have been wrongly allowed for the purposes of the Act.	None
but if the assessee sells it to the Government no such consequence follows.	None
7.	None
The learned Additional Solicitor  General says that the object was to help in the development of industry indeed the rebate was called development rebate and in order to achieve this object a condition was put that if the assessee did not utilise it in his own business the rebate would be forfeited or deemed to have been allowed wrongly, i.e., not really for development purposes.	Arguments of Respondent
He said that by a sale to the Government this object was not defeated because the Legislature assumes that the Government will act in the public interest.	Arguments of Respondent
In our opinion, there is no discrimination which is hit by Art.	Reasoning
14 of the Constitution in this case.	Reasoning
The Legislature has directed the giving of a rebate on conditions which are exactly the same for every assessee, one condition being that if the assessee sells before the expiry of ten years from the end of the year in which it was acquired, to a person other than the Government, he would forfeit such rebate.	Reasoning
This condition is applicable to every assessee and an assessee has a choice of either selling to a person other than the Government and forfeiting the rebate or selling to the Government and keeping the rebate with himself.	Reasoning
The discrimination, if any, arises on the choice made by the assessee.	Reasoning
The Legislature perhaps presumes that if the machinery is offered to the Government for sale, the Government will only buy it at a price which will take into consideration the rebate taken by the assessee.	Reasoning
In our opinion, therefore, it has not been established that S. 10 (2) (vib) violates Art.	Reasoning
14 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
8.	None
Mr. Naunit Lal then urges that in this case there has been no sale or transfer within S. 10 (2) (vib).	Arguments of Petitioner
He says that the company consisted of the same three persons as the partnership firm.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further says that it is not a commercial transaction at all and what the latter part of S. 10 (2) (vib) contemplates is a commercial sale or transfer.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection he relies on Commr.	None
Of Incometax v. Sir Homi Mehtas Executors (1955)	None
28 ITR 928 (AIR 1956 Bom 415 ), Rogers and Co. v. Commr.	None
Of Incometax (1958) 34 ITR 336 (AIR 1959 Bom 150 ) and Commr of Incometax v. Mugneeram Bengur (1963) 47 ITR 565 (Cal) .	None
In the first case the facts in brief were these.	None
The assessee and his sons formed a private limited company and transferred to that company shares in several joint stock companies which the assessee had held jointly with his sons, for Rs. 40,97,000 which was the market value of the shares at that time.	None
It was found that these shares had cost to the assessee only Rs. 30,45,017 and the Incometax authorities levied incometax on the difference between the market price and the cost price of the shares on the ground that the assessee had made a profit to that extent by this transaction.	None
The High Court held that though the assessee and his sons on the one hand and the private limited company formed by them were distinct entities in law but in truth and substance the only result of this particular transaction was that Sir Homi Mehta and his sons held these very shares in a different way from the way from the way they held before the transaction.	None
It observed thatthey adopted a different mode, the mode of the formation of the limited company with all its advantages, in order to hold these shares and to deal with these shares and to make profit out of these shares.	None
It further held that Sir Homi Mehta did not deal with these shares in the ordinary course as a businessman when he transferred these shares to the private limited company.	None
In our opinion, this case has no relevance to the question of the interpretation of the words sold or otherwise transferred in the latter part of S. 10 (2) (vib).	None
9.	None
The second case (1958) 34 ITR 336 (AIR 1959 Bom 150 ) is on the same lines.	None
The Calcutta High Court in (1963)47 ITR 565 (Cal), followed Doughtys case, 1927 AC 327, but there too they were not concerned with the interpretation of the words sold or otherwise transferred.	None
10.	None
If we look at the resolution, dated June 30, 1959, it is quite clear that it is a sale for consideration of a number of buses by the limited company to the partnership.	Reasoning
It would be a sale under the Sale of Goods Act and it would be a sale in any other proper meaning which might be given to the word sale.	Reasoning
We are not concerned whether any profit resulted to the assessee but what we are concerned with is whether the assessee had sold or transferred these buses to the partnership.	Reasoning
To us the answer seems to be plain that whether the transaction resulted in profit to the company or not, the transaction comes within the purview of the latter part of S. 10 (2) (vib).	Reasoning
11.	None
In the result the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.	Decision
12.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
