 Vaidialingam, J.1.	None
In this appeal, by special leave, the short question, that arises for consideration, is as to whether the appellant railway is entitled to claim exemption from payment of terminal tax, under Item 2 of Sch.	Issue
B of the rules framed by the Municipal Board of Saharanpur The appellant will be so entitled, if it is held to be a railway, as contended, on behalf of the appellant.2.	Issue
The High Court of Allahabad, in its order and judgment, under appeal, has held that the appellant is not a railway, but only a tramway encl.	Facts
as such, not eligible for exemption, from the tax, in question.	Facts
The short facts, leading to this appeal, may now be briefly set out.	Facts
The appellant is a limited liability company, and it runs railway, between Sahadara, in Delhi and Saharanpur, in the State of Uttar Pradesha distance of about 95 miles or 148.865 kilo meters.	Facts
The appellant company also operates within the municipal area of Saharanpur.	Facts
The company was, originally, registered as a tramway, under the Indian Tramway Act, 1886 (Act 11 of 1886) (hereinafter galled the Tramways Act), on November 20, 1905.	Facts
By Notification No. 5752, dated July 5, 1907, the GovernorGeneral in Council extended to the appellant company, the whole of the Indian Railways Act, 1890 (Act 1 of 1890) (hereinafter called the Railways Act), excepting the provisions of S. 1353.	Facts
The Municipal Board of Saharanpur, the first respondent herein imposes a terminal tax, under the provisions of S. 128(1) (xiii) of the United Provinces Municipalities Act 1916 as amended by Act I of 1918.	Facts
Under the said Act, the first respondent has prohibited the importation of goods, within the local limits of the Saharanpur Municipality, by rail, until the tax leviable thereon, or in respect thereof, has been paid, in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the Rules.	Facts
The Board has also framed rules for the assessment and collection of Terminal Tax, as authorized by the (government Notification No. 856/XID.T. 3, dated May l, 1919.	Facts
The rules have been amended, as per another notification No. 5965 XID.T. 3, dated September 21, 1939.4.	Facts
Item 2 of Sch.	Facts
B of these rules, provides for a list of articles being exempted from payment of Terminal Tax.	Facts
The said item is as followsRailway stores and materials, which are required for use on Railway whether in construction, maintaining or working the same and which are not removed outside the Railway land boundaries but not stores imported into Municipal limits for purchase and consumption by Railway employees nor stores with which Railway Cooperative Stores are stocked for sale to Member.	Facts
It is the claim of the appellant that, till 1961.	None
, the first respondent has never imposed any terminal tax, on railway stores and materials required for use on the railway of the appellant company, for the purposes mentioned in Item 2 of Sch.	Facts
B. But, for the first time, in January 1962, according to the appellant, the first respondent imposed tax on such stores and attempted to make the appellant liable.	Facts
The appellant company protested against this levy, on the ground that, it being a railway, was entitled to the exemption provided in respect of railway stores and materials, which are required for use on railways.	Facts
But, the first respondent, by its order, dated October 11, 1962, overruled the appellants objections in this regard.	Facts
An appeal, taken by the appellant company, to the Additional District Magistrate.	Facts
Saharanpur, under S. 160 of the Municipalities Act, read with the relevant Rules, did not meet with success, as the said Magistrate rejected the appeal, by his order, dated May 25, l965.5.	Facts
The appellant company filed Civil Miscellaneous Writ No. 3567 of 1965, in the High Court of Allahabad challenging the levy of terminal tax and claimed exemption, under Item 2 of Sch. B, referred to earlier.	Facts
The learned Judges of the Allahabad High Court, by their judgment, dated September 10, 1965, dismissed the writ petition.	Facts
They were of the view that the appellant company was not a railway, but a tramway constructed under the Tramways Act.	Facts
In this connection, the learned Judges adverted to the Railways Act, which defines both the terms tramway and railway.	Facts
It is their view that when a tramway and a railway, are both separately defined in an Act a tramway cannot also be a railway.6.	Facts
The learned Judges of the High Court, then referred to the fact that so far as the appellant company was concerned the Central Government had not applied S. 135 of the Railways Act, though all the other provisions of that Act had been applied.	Issue
They further held that a mere application of the Railways Act, in whole or in part, to a tramway, will not convert the tramway into a railway and that, in order to be a railway it has to be opened.	Issue
in accordance with the provisions contained in Chap.	Facts
IV of the Railways Act.	Issue
So, they concluded that, inasmuch as the appellant railway was not opened in accordance with the provisions of the Railways Act, it had been from its inception, and it continued to be, not a railway, but only a tramway.	Issue
On this line of reasoning, the High Court further held that in the, rules framed by the Municipal Board, the expression railway must be intended to refer only to railways coming under the Railways Act and could not include a tramway, like the appellant, opened under the Tramways Act.	Issue
In consequence, the claim of the appellant, for exemption, was, according to the High Court, rightly rejected by the authorities.	Facts
The result was the dismissal of the appellants writ petition, by the High Court.7.	Issue
We shall now refer to the main features of the appellant company.	None
The appellant railway is worked by steam, or other mechanical power, and is not wholly within a Municipal area.	None
The railway line comprises narrow guage track of 2 6 guage, and consists of main line, transportation sidings and commercial sidings.	None
The line passes through four districts, viz., Saharanpur Muzaffarnagar, Meerut and Delhi, within the provinces of Uttar Pradesh and Delhi.	None
The system has about 155 level crossings comprised of Special Class, Aclass.	None
Bclass and Cclass Some of the level crossings are provided with signalling and interlocking arrangements and the system takes in 406 bridges and 26 railway stations, in all.	None
The bridges and culverts are maintained, in accordance with the instructions contained in Way and Works Manual of the Indian Railways, and the railway stations are fitted with Morse speakers and instruments, for working trains, as per general rules applicable to all railways.	None
There is annual inspection of the railway line, by the Additional Commissioner of Railways Safety appointed by the Government, to inspect Indian Railways.	None
There are arrangements for through booking of goods and passengers.	None
From what is stated above, it will be seen that the appellant Company is a railway, as commonly understood and described in ordinary parlance.8.	None
The Tramways Act was an Act passed to facilitate the construction and to regulate the working of Tramways.	None
Section 3 (5) defines tramway as followstramway means a tramway having one, two or more rails, and includes(a) any part of a tramway, or any siding, turnout, connection, line or track belonging to a tramway,(b) any electrical equipment of a tramway, and(c) any electric supplyline transmitting power from a generating station or substation to a tramway or from a generating station to a substation from which power is transmitted to a tramway.	None
The expression order, under S. 3 (6), means an order authorizing the construction of a tramway under the Act, and includes a further order substituted for, or amending, extending or varying, that order.	None
There are various other provisions in this Act relating to the construction and maintenance of tramways, orders authorizing the construction of tramways, and other incidental matters.9.	None
The Railways Act was an Act to consolidate, amend and add to the law relating to Railways in India.	None
Section 3 (1) defines tramway as meaning a tramway constructed under the Tramways Act, or any special Act relating to tramways.	None
Section 3 (4) defines railways and is as followsrailway means a railway, or any portion of a railway, for the public carriage of passengers, animals or goods, and includes(a) all land within the fences or other boundary marks indicating the limits of the land appurtenant to a railway(b) all lines of rails, sidings or branches worked over for the purposes of or in connection with, a railway(c) all stations, offices, warehouses, wharves, workshops, manufactories, fixed plant and machinery and other works constructed for the purposes of, or in connection with, a railway and(d) all ferries, ships, boats and rafts which are used on inland waters for the purposes of the traffic of a railway and belong to or are hired or worked by the authority administering the railway.	None
This Act also contains various provisions relating to the opening of railways, inspection of railways, construction and maintenance of works, working of railways and several other incidental matters.	None
Section 135, occurring in Chap.	None
X, containing supplemental provisions, relates to taxation of railways by local authorities.	None
That section reads135.	None
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any enactment, or in any agreement or award based on any enactments, the following rules shall regulate the levy of taxes in respect of railways and from railway administrations in aid of the funds of local authorities, namely(1)	None
A railway administration shall not be liable to pay any tax in aid of the funds of any local authority unless the Central Government has, by notification in the Official Gazette, declared the railway administration to be liable to pay the tax.(2) While a notification of the Central Government under Cl.	None
(1) of this Section is in force, the railway administration shall be liable to pay to the local authority either the tax mentioned in the notification or, in lieu thereof, such sum, if any, as an officer appointed in this behalf by the Central Government may, having regard to all the circumstances of the case, from time to time determine to be fair and reasonable.(3)	None
The Central Government may at any time revoke or vary a notification under Cl.	None
(1) of this section.(4)	None
Nothing in this section is to be construed as debarring any railway administration from entering into a contract with any local authority for the supply of water or light, or for the scavenging of railway premises or for any other service which the local authority may be rendering or be prepared to render within any part of the local area under its control(5) Local authority in this section means a local authority as defined in the General Clauses Act, 1897, and includes any authority legally entitled to or entrusted with the control or management of any fund for the maintenance of watchmen or for the conservancy of a riverThe point to be noted, in this provision, is that unless a notification has been issued by the Central Government, under subs.	None
(1) of S. 135, declaring a railway administration to be liable to pay a tax, a railway administration shall not be liable to pay any tax in aid of the funds of any local authority.	None
Section 146, giving power to the Government to extend the Railways Act to certain tramways, is as follows 146.	None
(1) This Act or any portion thereof may be extended by notification in the Official Gazette(a) to any tramway which is wholly within a municipal area or which is declared not to be a railway under Cl.	None
(20) of Article 366 of the Constitution, by the State Government and(b) to any other tramway, by the Central Government.(2)	None
This section does not apply to any tramway not worked by steam or other mechanical powerWe have already pointed out that all the provisions of the Railways Act, except Section 135, have been extended to the appellant company10.	None
The next enactment to be referred to is the Indian Railway Companies Act. 1895 (Act 10 of 1895), which provided for the payment, by railway companies registered under the Indian Companies Act. 1882.	None
of interest out of capital during construction.	None
Section 2 (1) defines railway as meaning a railway as defined in S. 3, Cl.	None
(4) of the Railways Act Section 3 provided for a railway company paying interest on its paidup share capital, out of capital, for the period, and subject to the conditions and restrictions contained in that section There are other consequential provisions in this Act.11.	None
The Indian Tramways Act, 1902 (Act 4 of 1902), was one to apply the provisions of the Indian Railway Companies Act, 1895, to certain tramway companies.	Reasoning
The preamble to this Act 4 of 1902, stated that it was expedient to apply the provisions of the Indian Railway Companies Act 1895 to companies formed for the construction of tramways not differing in structure and working from light railways.	None
This preamble will clearly show that, even as early as 1902, the Legislature considered that though certain systems were called tramways, substantially they did not differ, in structure and working from light railways.12.	None
The expression railway is defined in S. 311 (2) of the Government of India Act, 1935, as followingrailway includes a tramway not wholly within a municipal area.	Reasoning
It is to be noted that if a system, though a tramway, is wholly not within a municipal area, that system will be a railway.	None
Entry 58 of List	None
I (Federal List) of the Seventh Schedule to the 1935 Act, wasTerminal taxes on goods or passengers carried by railway or air, taxes on railway fares and freights.	None
It is again, to be noted, that under this Entry, in respect of a tramway, which is not wholly within a municipal area and which will, therefore, be a railway under S. 311 (2), the levy of terminal tax on goods or passengers carried by such a system, will be within the competence of the Federal Legislature.13.	None
Under Art.	None
366 (20) of the Constitution	Reasoning
, the expression railway is dealt with, as followsRailway does not include(a) a tramway wholly within a municipal area, or(b) any other line of communication wholly situate in one State and declared by Parliament by law not to be a railway.	None
It may be noted here that the appellants system does not come within the exclusions mentioned in Cl.	None
(a) or (b) of this definition.	None
Entry 89 of List I (Union List) of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, is as follows Terminal taxes on goods or passengers, carried by railway, sea or air taxes on railway fares and freightsIt may be noted that the competent 1egislative body to levy terminal taxes on goods or passengers, carried by the appellants system which will be a railway, under Art 366 (20) is the Parliament.14.	None
The only other Act to be referred to is the Railways (Local Authorities Taxation) Act, 1941 (Act 25 of 1941), which was an Act to regulate the extent to which railway property shall be liable to taxation imposed by an authority.	None
Section 3 (1) of that Act provided that a railway administration shall be liable to pay any tax in aid of the funds of any local authority, if the Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, declared it to be so liable.	None
Section 4 provided for the Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, revoking or varying any notification issued under S. 135 (1) of the Railways Act.15.	None
The learned Additional SolicitorGeneral, appearing for the appellant, pointed out that the expression railway had not been defined in the United Provinces Municipalities Act, or in the Terminal Tax Rules.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the absence of any special definition contained in the provisions, granting the exemption, in question, the expression railway, occurring in Item 2 of Sch.	Arguments of Petitioner
B of the Terminal Tax Rules, must bear the commonly understood meaning of a carriage of passenger and goods, on iron rails.	Arguments of Petitioner
By virtue of the definition, in S. 311 (2) of the 1935 Act, and the provisions, corresponding to it, in the Constitution, viz., Art. 366	Arguments of Petitioner
(20), the appellants system, though registered under the Tramways Act, was a railway.	Arguments of Petitioner
The mere fact that S. 135 of the Railways Act, had not been applied to the appellants system, is not a decisive factor against the appellant, as had been assumed by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the various features of the appellants system, and pointed out by us earlier, it is argued that the appellants system is a Railway, both in law and in fact.	Arguments of Petitioner
It satisfies all the ingredients of a railway and, if that is so, the appellants are entitled to the exemption provided for, under Item 2 of Sch.	Arguments of Petitioner
B of the Terminal Tax Rules.16.	Reasoning
On the other hand, Mr. Garg, learned counsel appearing for the respondent Board, pressed before us for acceptance the various reasons, given by the High Court, for holding that the appellant is not entitled to claim the exemption.	Arguments of Respondent
In particular, counsel pointed out that there were two different enactments, one dealing with tramways and the other with railways, being the Tramways Act and the Railways Act, respectively.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, there were two different systems, under two different names, namely tramways and railways, which was clearly known to the authorities concerned at the time when the Terminal Tax Rules were framed, and so when the expression railway was used in the exemption clause, it must have been the intention of the framers of the Rules to bring, within its ambit, only the railways constructed under the Railways Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellants system, though called a railway and though it might have all the features of a railway, it is pointed out, nevertheless, that inasmuch as it has been constructed under a different enactment, viz., the Tramways Act, it cannot be treated as railway for the purposes of the exemption.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel also stressed that S. 135 of the Railways Act had not been applied to the appellant.17.	Arguments of Respondent
We are not impressed with the approach made by the learned Judges of the High Court, for Negativing the claim for exemption, made by the appellant.	Reasoning
It must be borne in mind that the expression railway has not been defined either in the concerned Municipalities Act, or the Rules, if such is the case, the definition must hold the field.	Reasoning
Going by the definition of the expression railway, contained in S. 311 (2) of the Government of India Act, 1935, and the corresponding provision in Art. 366 (20) of the Constitution, the appellants system is a railway.	None
All the provisions of the Railways Act have been extended to the appellant, excepting S. 135.	Reasoning
In our opinion, if the appellant is a railway, otherwise, the mere fact that the provisions of S. 135 of the Railways Act, have not been applied, is of no consequence.	Reasoning
We have already referred to the fact, which is not in dispute, that the appellants railway passes through four districts in U. P. and Delhi, and that it has got all the features of a railway, as ordinarily understood.18.	Reasoning
In this connection we may refer to certain English decisions, where the claim made on behalf of system, for being taxed at a concessional rate, had come up for consideration.19.	None
In Blackpool and Fleetwood Tramroad Co. v. Thornton Urban Council, (1907)1 KB 568, the Court of Appeal had to consider as to how far the Blackpool and Fleetwood Tramroad Company, the appellant before them, was entitled to the assessment, at a lower rate, under S. 211 (1) (b) of the Public Health Act, 1875 (38 and 39 Vict.	None
c. 55).	None
The material portion of that section wasthe occupier of any landused only as a canal or as a railway, constructed under the powers of any Act of Parliament for public conveyance shall be assessed in respect of the same in the proportion of one fourth part only of the net annual value thereof.	None
The question was as to whether the appellant, in that case, was a railway to whom the said provision would apply.	None
The appellant company had constructed and maintained a tramroad connecting two systems of tramways, under the local Acts of 1896 and 1898.	None
Various provisions of the Railways Clauses Consolidation Act. 1845, had been applied to the tramroad.	None
The tramroad, in that case, was on rails on sleepers, fenced off from adjoining land, excepting at the level crossings of roads.	None
The Divisional Court had rejected the Claim of the appellant, but the Court of Appeal held that the tramroad was land used only as a railway constructed under the power of an Act of Parliament for public conveyance, within the meaning of S. 211 (1) (b) of the Punjab Health Act, 1875, and that the company was, consequently, entitled to be assessed, in respect of the said railway, at onefourth of its net annua1 value.	None
The appellants contended that the tramroad was and could only be worked as a railway and was, in feet and in law, used as a railway and, in consequence, they urged that the tramroad, maintained by them, is land used only as a railway.	None
The Court of Appeal noted that the rails were raised and laid on sleepers, just as a railway is laid, and that was the main distinction between the appellants system and a tramway, which ran along public streets and in grooved rails.	None
No doubt, it was pointed out for the Urban Council, that the appellant company had been incorporated under the Tramways Act and the very fact that certain provisions of the Railway Clauses Consolidation Act were applied to the appellants system showed that the appellant was not a railway.	None
The Court of Appeal held that it was impossible to distinguish the piece of tramroad, owned by the appellants, from a railway and	None
that the exemption provided for in the.	None
Public Health Act applied to the tramroad of the appellants as it would, to any ordinary railroad passing through parts where it was not deriving the full benefit from the district rates in those parts.	None
The Court of Appeal also rejected the contention of the Urban Council that the tramroad, owned by the appellants could he treated as a railway only for particular purposes and not for the purpose of claiming the exemption under the Public Health Act.	None
because, according to the Court of Appeal, a reading of Section 211 (1) (b) of the Public Health Act showed that it applied to land used as a railway, i.e., constructed as a railway in fact20.	None
This decision was taken in further appeal, before the House of Lords, whose decision is reported as Thornton Urban Council v. Blackpool and Fleetwood Tramroad Co., (1909)	None
AC 264, and the decision of the Court of Appeal was confirmed.	None
In the course of the judgment, after referring to S. 211 of the Public Health Act, Lord Macnaghten observed, at p. 267Now	None
it cannot be denied that the rails on which the tramcars run, with the embankment or foundation on which they rest, and everything that supports them, do form a road or way was constructed under parliamentary powers for public conveyance.	None
Is it a railway?	None
There is nothing in the Public Health Act, 1875, or in the earlier Acts, in which the same provision is found, to confine the word railway as used in those Acts to a particular kind of railway, or to limit the generality of the expression in any way.21.	None
His Lordship, Further observed at p. 268It seems to me that if it is a railway in fact, not differing from other railways in any material particular, it is nonetheless a railway because the promoters in their special Act chose to call it a tramroad a very convenient term to use for the title of their Act and the name under which they sought incorporation.	None
Nor is it the less a railway because some only of the sections of the Railways Clauses Consolidation Act are incorporated in the special Act, or because, if one did not know what the thing really was, the language used for the purpose of applying the sections which are incorporated might seem to import that it was not, properly speaking, a railway at all.	None
You must look at the special Act to see that it confers the appropriate powers of construction.	None
Everything else in the Act is, I think, beside the question which this House has now to determine.22.	None
In our opinion, the observations of the House of Lords, extracted above, are apposite, to the case on hand.	Reasoning
We have already pointed out that neither the Municipal Act, nor the Terminal Tax Rules give any special definition of the expression railway and, so far as we could see, there is nothing in the said Act or the Rules to indicate that the word railway, in Item of Sch. B, is used only to refer to A railway registered under the Railways Act or to limit the generality of the expression railway in any way.	Reasoning
Under those circumstances, if the appellant is a railway in fact, as commonly understood there does not appear to be any serious controversy on that pointit will be a railway, notwithstanding the fact that it is registered as a tramway, under the Tramways Act.	Reasoning
The legislature itself has applied the various provisions of the Railways Act to the appellant and the appellant also satisfies the definition of a railway under the Government of India Act, 1935 and the Constitution.	Reasoning
The provisions of the Indian Railway Companies Act, 1895, have also been applied to the tramways constructed, under the Tramways Act by the Indian Tramways Act of 1902.	Reasoning
The second preamble to the last mentioned Act, clearly shows that the tramways to which the Indian Railway Companies Act was made applicable, do not differ in structure and working from railways.23.	Reasoning
The object underlying the exemption under Item 2 of Sch.	Reasoning
B to the Terminal Tax Rules.	Reasoning
is also not far to seek.	Reasoning
The railways pass through areas where it is not deriving the full benefit of all the amenities provided by the Municipal Boards.	Reasoning
Therefore, in our opinion, the appellant satisfies the definition of a railway, so as to be entitled to the exemption provided under Item 2 of Sch.	Reasoning
B.24.	None
Before we close the discussion, we will also refer to the decision of the House of Lords in Tottenham Urban Council v. Metropolitan Electric Tramways, Ltd., 1913 AC 702.	None
The same question, regarding the eligibility of a tramway for exemption, under S. 211 (1) (b) of the Public Health Act, 1875, came up for consideration in that case.	None
From the judgment, it will be seen that the company were working, as, a connected system, a tramway and a light railway, which were constructed in and along certain public streets and roads, in the district of the Urban Council.	None
The tramway, was constructed under the Tramway Acts and Orders and the railway, under the Light Railways Act, 1896.	None
Both were identical as to the mode of construction and materials used.	None
The claim of the company in respect of the railway, as such, for assessment at a lower rate, was accepted but, so far as the tramway was concerned, the House of Lords held that it is not a railway, within the meaning of S. 211(1)(b) of the Public Health Act, 1875.	None
The research given by the House of Lords, for not accepting the claim of the tramway, was that in the great bulk of public legislation, relating to railways, the legislation has universally been understood and interpreted by Courts as applying only to that which is popularly known as a railway, and not to that which is popularly known as a tramway.	None
And special emphasis is laid by the House of Lords that the legislature has used the word railways and not railways and tramways, in S. 211 of the Public Health Act, 1875.25.	None
We are only adverting to this decision to show that on the basis of an interpretation placed by the Courts, the House of Lords held that the word railways, in the Public Health Act, 1875, will not take in tramways.	Reasoning
But, no such circumstances, as pointed out by the House of Lords, in the said decision, exist in the present case before us.	Reasoning
On the other hand, the position is exactly the opposite, as will be seen from the Government of India Act, 1935, and the Constitution.	Reasoning
Even applying the popular test, adopted by the House of Lords, in this case, the appellant is undoubtedly a railway.26.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the principles laid down by the House of Lords in 1909 AC 264, apply to the particular matter on hand and, we hold that the appellant, being a railway, is entitled to the exemption under Item 2 of Sch.	Reasoning
B to the Terminal Tax Rules, in question.27.	Reasoning
We, accordingly, allow the appeal and set aside the judgment of the High Court, and further direct that a writ will issue, as prayed for by the appellant.	Decision
The appellant will be entitled to its costs, from the first respondent, both in this Court and in the High Court.28.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
