Dr. Mukundakam Sharma, J. Since the issues raised and argued in these matters are interconnected, we propose to dispose both of them by this Order.	None
Civil Appeal No. 2147 is filed by the Maharashtra Land Development Corporation against the State of Maharashtra seeking to challenge the judgment and order of the Bombay High Court dated October 8, 2003 in Writ Petition No. 1052 of 1998.	Issue
Civil Appeal No. 2148 is filed by K.N. Shaikh against the State of Maharashtra seeking to challenge the judgment and order of the Bombay High Court dated October 8, 2003 in Writ Petition No. 1383 of 2002.2.	Issue
At the first stage we will deal with Civil Appeal No. 2147, and after pronouncing the judgment herein we shall deal with Civil Appeal No. 2148.Civil Appeal No. 2147 of 20043.	Issue
By the judgment in Writ Petition No. 1052 of 1998, the High Court reversed the order and concurrent findings recorded by the SubDivisional Officer on 23rd April, 1985 and the Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal on 21st February, 1998 wherein it was held that the land in question is neither forest nor private forest as referred to in the Maharashtra Private Forests (Acquisition) Act, 1975 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Issue
The gamut of events that led to the passing of the impugned judgment and order of the High Court may be elaborated here.	Facts
The land in question was part of an original Survey No. 345 in village Dahisar, Maharashtra, measuring about 650 acres.	Facts
At all relevant times, it was shown as forest land in the Revenue records.	Facts
In or about 1947, out of 650 acres, around 365 acres was acquired for the purpose of creating a National Park at Borivli.	Facts
Original Survey No. 345 was subsequently divided into three survey numbers, being Survey Nos. 345A, 345B and 345C.	Facts
The land which was acquired was Survey No.	None
345B. From the remaining land, land admeasuring about 75 acres was given Survey No.	Facts
345C and the land in question admeasuring about 209 acres was given Survey No.	None
345A. It is the case of the State of Maharashtra that village Dahisar was ExKhot village.	None
The whole land of Survey No. 345 of village Dahisar was originally owned by exkhot of the area by name Haji Ali Kasam Agboatwala, who expired in the year 1945.	Facts
Administration Suit No. 3415 of 1957 was filed in the High Court of Judicature at Bombay and the Court Receiver, High Court of Bombay was appointed as the Court Receiver for administration and management of the estate belonging to Agboatwala.	Facts
In 1962, in pursuance of an order passed by the High Court, the suit land was sold which was purchased by one M s. Veekaylal Investment Company (Company for short) from the Court Receiver.	Facts
According to the case of the State, even at that juncture the suit land was forest land.	Facts
In 196364, proceedings were initiated under the Bombay Salsette Estate Abolition Act, 1951, and vide an order dated 24th December, 1964, the entire land bearing Survey No. 345A was held forest and vested in the State under Section 4 of the said Act.6.	Facts
On 27th August, 1975, a notice was issued by the State Government to the Company under subSection (3) of Section 35 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 calling upon the Company, the owner of the land, to show cause as to why notification under subSection (1) of Section 35 of the Act should not be issued for regulating and or prohibiting the nonforest activities on the land.	Facts
The said notice was issued in respect of total area of land bearing Survey No. 345A admeasuring 209 acres.7.	Facts
On 30th August, 1975, the Maharashtra Private Forests (Acquisition) Act, 1975 came into force under which allegedly land bearing Survey No. 345A stood acquired and vested in the State Government on the appointed day i.e. August 30, 1975.	Facts
Accordingly, on October 8, 1975, the Sub Divisional Officer, Bombay Suburban District, in exercise of power under Section 5 of the Act, issued notice to the company to hand over possession of the entire land of Survey No. 345A admeasuring 209 acres.	Facts
The company filed a reply to the said notice contending that the land bearing Survey No. 345A was not forest, much less a private forest.	Facts
The company also called upon the Collector to hear and decide the question as to whether or not the land was forest or private forest and whether it vested in the State Government under the Act.	Facts
An inquiry was conducted under Section 6 of the Act by the SubDivisional Officer, Bombay Suburban District, wherein notices were issued to the company, being the owner of the land as well as to the Court Receiver.	Facts
Subsequently, by an order dated 12th November, 1975, the SubDivisional Officer held the land to be private forest and also held that the land stood acquired and vested in the State of Maharashtra.	Facts
The company was, therefore, called upon to hand over possession of the land within 10 days to the Collector of Bombay.8.	Facts
The company challenged the said order passed by the Sub Divisional Officer by filling an appeal before the Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal and the Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal vide its order dated 20th March, 1976 dismissed the appeal, upholding and confirming the order passed by SubDivisional Officer and observing that the land in question was forest within the meaning of Section 2(ci) of the Act of 1975.	Facts
It was also held to be private forest falling under Section 2(f) of the Act and as such, stood acquired and vested in the State of Maharashtra.	Facts
The said order was never challenged in further proceedings by the company and became final, conclusive and binding on the parties.9.	Facts
It may be stated that when the question of handing over actual and physical possession of land bearing Survey No. 345A came up, it was revealed that out of 209 acres of land of Survey No. 345A, land admeasuring about 53 acres was in possession of the Maharashtra Land Development Corporation (the appellant herein), and 50 acres was in possession of K.N. Shaikh (appellant in Civil Appeal No. 2148 of 2004).	Facts
The Company, in the circumstances, handed over to the RespondentState, possession of land admeasuring about 106 acres of land out of 209 acres of Survey No.	None
345A.	None
The appellantCorporation herein objected to handing over possession of the land which was with it.	None
It filed Miscellaneous Petition No. 512 of 1976 in the Bombay High Court challenging the notice issued by SubDivisional Officer.	Facts
It also challenged an order dated November 12, 1975 passed by SubDivisional Officer, holding the land to be forest as also judgment and order dated March 20, 1976 passed by Revenue Tribunal confirming the order passed by SubDivisional Officer.	Facts
The orders were not challenged by the aggrieved party and they had become final.	Facts
The appellantCorporation herein challenged the above decisions, contending that they were inter alia in violation of principles of natural justice.	None
The said Miscellaneous Petition No. 512 of 1976, however, came to be settled on the basis of consent terms arrived at between the parties on 19th April, 1984.	Facts
The consent terms, inter alia, provided that fresh inquiry will be conducted under Section 6 of the Act regarding vesting of the property admeasuring 53 acres in possession of the appellantCorporation.	None
It was also ordered that in case the authority comes to the conclusion that the land in possession of appellantCorporation is a forest and private forest and that it stood acquired and vested in the Government of Maharashtra, the appellantCorporation would hand over possession of the land to the SubDivisional Officer.11.	Facts
In pursuance of the consent terms arrived at between the parties, the SubDivisional Officer conducted fresh inquiry under Section 6 of the Act, after issuing necessary notice to the appellantCorporation herein.	Facts
After hearing the appellantCorporation, the SubDivisional Officer, by an order dated 23rd April, 1985, held that land admeasuring 53 acres out of Survey No. 345A in possession of the appellantCorporation was neither a forest nor private forest and as such did not stand acquired and vested in the Government of Maharashtra in accordance with the provisions of the Act.12.	Facts
The Respondent State challenged the said order passed by the SubDivisional Officer by filing an appeal before the Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal.	Facts
The Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal, vide its judgment and order dated 29th September, 1986, allowed the appeal, set aside the order passed by the SubDivisional Officer and declared that the land admeasuring 53 acres in possession of respondent No. 1 as forest and private forest as defined in the Act.	Facts
The Tribunal also held that in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the land stood acquired and vested in the State of Maharashtra.13.	Facts
Aggrieved with the order passed by Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal dated 29th September, 1986, the appellant Corporation filed Writ Petition No. 4726 of 1986 in the Bombay High Court.	Facts
A Division Bench of the Bombay High Court vide its judgment and order dated 13/17th March, 1992 confirmed the order passed by Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal, holding that the land in possession of respondent No. 1 was forest and private forest, and as such, stood acquired and vested in the State of Maharashtra.14.	Facts
The appellantCorporation challenged the order passed by the Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal and confirmed by a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court by carrying the matter to this Court.	None
This Court, by an order dated 27th August, 1992, allowed the appeal, set aside the order passed by this Court as well as by Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal and remanded the matter to the Tribunal, directing it to dispose of the appeal afresh by affording to both the parties an opportunity of adducing additional evidence.15.	Facts
After remand, the matter was placed before the Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal.	Facts
It was reheard and vide its judgment and order dated 4th December, 1992, the Tribunal held that the entire land bearing Survey No. 345A admeasuring 209 acres was neither forest nor private forest and did not stand acquired and vested in the State of Maharashtra.16.	Facts
The Department of Forest, being aggrieved by the above decision of Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal, filed Writ Petition No. 2023 of 1994 in the Bombay High Court and the High Court vide its judgment and order dated 11/15/16/17th April, 1996 allowed the petition and quashed and set aside the order passed by Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal concluding that the entire land bearing Survey No. 345A, admeasuring 209 acres was forest and private forest which stood vested in the Government of Maharashtra under the provisions of the Act of 1975.17.	Facts
The judgment and order of the Bombay High Court was again challenged by the appellantCorporation, approaching this Court by way of Special Leave Petition No. 14259 of 1996 and this Court vide its order dated 24th September, 1996, again set aside the order of the High Court and remanded the matter to the Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal by granting liberty to the parties to lead further evidence before the Tribunal and by directing the Tribunal to reach a decision having regard to the material on record as also which might be brought on record by the parties.18.	Facts
The Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal, in pursuance of the direction issued by the Apex Court, considered the question in the light of the rival contentions and the evidence before it and by an order dated 21st February, 1998, and once again held that the land in question cannot be treated as forest or private forest under the Act of 1975, and hence no action could be taken under the said Act.	Facts
The appeal filed by the Respondents came to be dismissed.	Facts
It is that order passed by the Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal on 21st February, 1998 which was challenged by the respondent in Writ Petition No. 1052 of 1998 before the Bombay High Court.	Facts
The Bombay High Court, however, allowed the petition (Writ Petition No. 1052 of 1998 and decided in favour of the State of Maharashtra, Respondent herein.	None
In deciding the matter, the Bombay High Court held The Tribunal then	None
statedIn this view of the admitted position, we cannot altogether refrain ourselves from finding some substance in the submission of respondent No. 1 to the effect that in the absence of any fresh evidence from the appellant, there is no fresh material to disturb the finding of the Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal as given in its last judgment of 4th December, 1992.	None
With respect, the above approach of the Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal is not in consonance with law and cannot be approved.	None
It is not open to the Tribunal to proceed on the basis that since there is no fresh material to disturb the finding of the MRT as given in its judgment dated 4th December, 1992, the said finding called for no interference.	None
Once a petition was filed against the said judgment in the High Court and the High Court set aside that judgment and the Supreme Court allowed the appeal directing the Tribunal to consider and decide the matter afresh, in the eye of law, it cannot be said that there were findings by the Tribunal in its earlier judgment and in absence of fresh evidence, those findings need not be disturbed.	None
To us, therefore, it is clear that this is a jurisdictional error committed by the Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal and the order is indeed vulnerable104.	None
On various grounds discussed by us in earlier part of the judgment, the Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal has committed an error of law apparent on the face of the record by holding that the land bearing Survey No. 345A of village Dahisar was neither forest nor private forest and by taking such view, it exceeded jurisdiction and hence, the said decision deserves to be quashed by this Court by exercising powers under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution and accordingly, the said decision is quashed and set aside.105.	None
For the aforesaid reasons, in our opinion, the petition (Writ Petition No. 1052 of 1998) deserves to be allowed and is accordingly allowed.	None
The order passed by the Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal on 21st February, 1998 in Appeal No.	Facts
Forest3 of 1997 is quashed and set aside and the land bearing Survey No. 345A situate at Dahisar is held to be private forest under the provisions of the Maharashtra Private Forests (Acquisition) Act, 1975 and deemed to have vested in the State Government.	None
Rule is accordingly made absolute.	None
In the facts and circumstances, however, there shall be no order to costs.	None
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court, the appellantCorporation has approached this Court by way of appeal.	None
In this appeal, we heard the learned counsel appearing for both parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ashok Desai, Senior Advocate and Mr. Jay Savla, appearing on behalf of the appellant Corporation, submitted that the findings of the Sub Divisional Officer in concluding that the appellant Corporations land was not a private forest on the appointed day, i.e. 30.08.1975, would be final, subject to the decision of the Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such a conclusion, according to the counsel for the appellantCorporation, stemmed from the language of Section 6 of the Act.	None
Emphasis was also placed by the counsel on the fact that the SubDivisional Officer, while deciding the matters, considered the fact that the land was dropped from acquisition in earlier land acquisition proceedings and it was not found suitable for the development of a National Park.21.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the counsel for the appellantCorporation, the Indian Forest Act, 1927 clearly differentiates between Government Forest and Privately Owned Forest.	Arguments of Petitioner
While it was admitted that the Government can regulate or prohibit certain activities in such land, ownership would continue to vest with the private party.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was the counsels submission that there is therefore, no automatic vesting of a privately owned forest, i.e. private forest with the Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel also took us through the reasons behind the decision of Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal to buttress his arguments.	Arguments of Petitioner
Adjudication as to the nature of land whether it is forest or private forest, according to Counsel for the appellantCorporation, had to be done in accordance with the provisions of 1975 Act.22.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the respondentState had two opportunities in separate rounds of litigation to produce evidence, documentary or otherwise, and despite such opportunities, no evidence was adduced.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel for the appellantCorporation stated that twice the matter had reached upto the highest Court of the country and that on both the occasions, the Supreme Court allowed the appeal filed by the appellantCorporation, remanded the matter to the Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal and granted liberty to the parties to adduce additional evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was the contention that additional evidence had not been led by the respondent herein but further materials had been produced on record by the first respondent and that if on the basis of such materials, the Tribunal had decided the matter in favour of the appellantCorporation, counsel contended, the State respondent herein had no right to make grievance against such order.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regards the Bombay High Courts reliance on the decision of this Court in T.V. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India, reported at (1997) 2 SCC 267 , it was pleaded by the counsel for the appellantCorporation that forest land as considered by this Court in the light of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, must be understood according to its literal, dictionary meaning, and must not be understood to include any area recorded as forest in the Government records irrespective of ownership.	None
Moreover, it was also contended that the provisions of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980 do not deal with the acquisition or vesting of privately owned land or forest as the case may be.	None
Lastly, it was also contended by the counsel for the appellantCorporation that the notice purportedly issued under Section 35(3) of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 declaring the land to be a private forest was never produced in previous stages of litigation, and no opportunity to dispute the particulars of the notice was ever provided to the appellantCorporation.	None
On behalf of the respondentState, it was submitted that in the proceedings initiated under Section 37 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code, and in the enquiry held in respect of the applicability of the Bombay Salsette Estate Abolition Act, 1951, it was found that the land in Survey No. 345 is a forest land.	Arguments of Respondent
Before the Mamlatdar, evidence was adduced by the predecessorininterest of the appellantCorporation, M s. Veekaylal Investment Company, to the effect that Survey No. 345 was a jungle.	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended by the learned counsel appearing for the respondentState that the Company at the time took the stand that the land in question is a jungle, and not a waste land, with a view to prevent its vesting in the State Government under Section 4 of the Bombay Salsette Estate Abolition Act, 1951.	Arguments of Respondent
It was urged before this Court that the appellantCorporation, now as the successorininterest of M s. Veekaylal Investment Company is adopting a diametrical opposite stand that the said land is not a forest land and hence is not permissible.25.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel for the RespondentState also contended that Survey No. 345A in its entirety is part of Sanjay Gandhi National Park Division.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of the interim orders passed by the Bombay High Court from time to time, and in particular, of the orders dated 7th May 1997 and 17th July 1999 which applied to the said land, according to counsel for the State Government, the land over which the State Government claimed ownership was forest and private forest and vested in the State Government.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also submitted that irrelevant and extraneous factors have been kept in mind by the Tribunal for coming to the conclusion that the land was not forest private forest.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel contended that the Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal did not take into account and consider in their proper perspective, the relevant provisions of the Indian Forest Act, 1927, Maharashtra Private Forest (Acquisition) Act, 1975 as well as other Acts and various decisions of the Supreme Court, including T.V. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India, reported at (1997) 2 SCC 267.	Arguments of Respondent
26.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also the submission of the respondentState that the provisions of the Maharashtra Private Forest (Acquisition) Act, 1975 must be given an expansive interpretation in view of the fact that the Act was introduced to ameliorate grave concerns over the fact that private forests in Maharashtra had been severely depleted due to unregulated, unrestricted and excessive exploitation.	Arguments of Respondent
A bare reading of the Act, it was contended, would make it clear that the definition of forest under Section 2 (ci) (ii) includes land which was part of a forest in addition to land which is presently part of one, and even for lands which could be treated as forests in the future.	Arguments of Respondent
Moreover, the State submitted, the definition of private forests in Section 2 (f) of the Act is not only confined to any forest which is not the property of the Government, but also includes, inter alia ,any land in respect of which a notice has been issued under Section 35(3) of the Indian Forest Act.	Arguments of Respondent
As long as it was established that the land was subject to such a notice, the learned counsel contended, it was enough to vest the land in the State Government without any enquiry.	Arguments of Respondent
This case is placed in the context of the State Governments attempt to acquire the land in question as a private forest, amidst the efforts of the Maharashtra Land Development Corporation to continue its quarrying operations in the area.	None
Therefore, this case is one that must seek to attain a fine balance between the process of development on the one hand, and the ecological imperative of preserving the environment on the other.	None
This Court has for long been an outspoken critic of attempts to degrade the environment, and a vocal supporter of sustainable development.	None
Since Independence, India has travelled a long way on the path of progress and industrialization to achieve a better quality of life.	None
A developing country like ours cannot afford to ignore the growing needs of teeming millions, but this development shall have to resonate with the preservation of the environment.	None
Mahatma Gandhi once said that earth provides enough to satisfy every mans need but not every mans greed.	None
It is the greed of the mankind which has brought environment degradation and pollution.	None
Preservation of the ecosystem is an immutable duty under the Constitution  a fine balance must be struck between environmental protection and development.	None
Many regions in India are biodiversity hotspots, known to host a staggering variety of flora and fauna.	None
However, they are under the constant threat of environmental degradation and rapid depletion of natural resources, due to various factors, including the desire to earn quick money.	None
Consequently, a major challenge in this backdrop is to arrive at a successful model of sustainable development  one that aims to preserve the rich ecosystem, while addressing the economic needs of the people in the region.	None
In as recently as September 2010, this Court has observed in Glanrock Estates v. State of Tamil Nadu Writ Petition (Civil) Nos. 242 of 1988 and 408 of 2003 that 8.	None
Forests in India are an important part of the environment.	None
They constitute a national asset.	None
In various judgments of this Court delivered by the Forest Bench of this Court in the case of T.N. Godavarman v. Union of India (Writ Petition No. 202 of 1995), it has been held that inter generational equity is part of Article 21 of the Constitution.	None
What is intergenerational equity?	None
The present generation is answerable to the next generation by giving to the next generation a good environment.	None
We are answerable to the next generation and if deforestation takes place rampantly then intergenerational equity would stand violated.	None
The doctrine of sustainable development also forms part of Article 21 of the Constitution.	None
The precautionary principle and the polluter pays principle flow from the core value in Article 21.	None
The important point to be noted is that in this case we are concerned with vesting of forests in the State.	None
When we talk about intergenerational equity and sustainable development, we are elevating an ordinary principle of equality to the level of over arching principle.	None
However, it is pertinent to note here that the primary issue involved in this case is as to whether on the appointed day, i.e., 30.08.1975 under the Maharashtra Private (Acquisition) Forest Act, 1975 the Appellants land of 53 acres was a private forest or not.	Issue
In this regard, we have perused the relevant sections of the Act, and the same may be produced herein.	None
The Preamble of the Act reads thus An Act to acquire private forests in the State and to provide for certain other matters.	None
WHEREAS the forest land in the State is inadequateAnd WHEREAS the private forest in the State is generally in highly degraded and overexploited state and is adversely affecting agriculture and agricultural populationAND WHEREAS it is, therefore, expedient to acquire private forests in the State of Maharashtra generally for conserving their material resources and protecting them from destruction or overexploitation by their owners and for promoting systematic and scientific development and management of such forests for the purpose of attaining and maintaining ecological balance in the public interest AND WHEREAS it is also expedient to provide that in the case of owners of private forests (other than those whose lands were used for extracting minor minerals such as quarries) whose total holdings of lands became less than twelve hectares on the appointed day on account of acquisition of their forest lands under this Act, or whose total holdings of lands was already less than twelve hectares on the day immediately preceding the appointed day, the whole or the appropriate portion of their forest lands so acquired shall be restored to, and revested in, them, so that their total holdings of lands may be twelve hectares or else, as the case may be, and they may be able to continue to earn their livelihood from such lands and to provide for certain other purposes hereinafter appearing.	None
The State Act defines forest in section 2(ci) thus Forest means a tract of land covered with trees (whether standing, felled, found or otherwise), shrubs, bushes, or woody vegetation, whether of natural growth or planted by human agency and existing or being maintained with or without human effort, or such tract of land on which such growth is likely to have an effect on the supply of timber, fuel, forest produce, or grazing facilities, or on climate, stream flow, protection of land from erosion, or other such matters and includes(i) land covered with stumps of trees of forest(ii) land which is part of a forest or lies within it or was part of a forest or was lying within a forest on the 30th day of August, 1975(iii) such pasture land, waterlodged or cultivable or noncultivable land, lying within or linked to a forest, as may be declared to be forest by the State Government(iv) forest land held to let for purpose of agriculture or for any purposes ancillary thereto(v) all the forest produce therein, whether standing, felled, found or otherwise It also defines private forest in Clause (f) of section 2 which reads as under Private forest means any forest which is not the property of Government and includes(i) any land declared before the appointed day to be a forest under section 34A of the Forest Act(ii) any forest in respect of which any notification issued under subsection (1) of section 35 of the Forest Act, is in force immediately before the appointed day(iii) any land in respect of which a notice has been issued under subsection (3) of section 35 of the Forest Act, but excluding an area not exceeding two hectares in extent as the Collector may specify in this behalf(iv) land in respect of which a notification has been issued under section 38 of the Forest Act(v) in a case where the State Government and any other person are jointly interested in the forest, the interest of such person in such forest(vi) sites of dwelling houses constructed in such forest which are considered to be necessary for the convenient enjoyment or use of the forest and lands appurtenant thereto.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 3 of the Act mandates that all private forests will vest in the State Government.	None
Section 4 enumerates steps to be taken by the Government on acquisition of private forests.	None
Section 5 enables the State Government to take over possession of private forests.	None
Sections 6 to 19 deal with settlement of disputes, determination of amount to be paid to the owners of private forests, deduction of amount of encumbrances and extinguishment of rights of other persons, appeals, revisions etc.	None
Section 21 empowers the State Government to declare certain lands as private forests.	None
It also provides that on publication of the notification by the State Government regarding declaration of any land as private forests, certain consequences would ensue.	None
In the context of this legislative scheme, the primary argument of the appellantCorporation has been that the States contention to give an expansive interpretation to the term forest as defined in Clause (ci) of section 2 of the Act is erroneous.	None
The State has submitted that forest would include even land which was a forest in past irrespective of whether on the appointed day, i.e, 30.8.1975, the same was not a forest.	None
According to the appellant, accepting such an interpretation would tantamount to land which was a forest even 50 or 100 years ago, to stand vested and acquired on the appointed day, resulting in an absurdity.	None
To buttress this argument, it has been the endeavour of the appellant to prove that the said portion of the land was not a forest on the appointed day.	None
The appellantCorporation has pointed out to us the conclusions reached by both the Authorities in their orders dated 23.4.1985 and 21.2.1998.	None
These orders relied on the fact that the portion of the said land was under quarrying operations, and that it was too rocky and devoid of tree growth.	None
Moreover, land acquisition proceedings initiated vide order dated 15.9.1973 were withdrawn on the recommendation of the Forest Department.	None
All these findings were put forth by the appellantCorporation to contend that the land was not a forest as per the provisions of the Act.	None
Despite these averments, we are unable to agree with the contention of the appellantCorporation.	None
The definition of a forest as enunciated in Section 2 (ci) (ii) of the Act specifically includes land which is part of a forest or lies within it or was part of a forest or was lying within a forest on the 30th day of August, 1975.	None
It is already established that subsequent to proceedings initiated under the Bombay Salsette Estate Abolition Act, 1951, the entire land bearing Survey No. 345A was held to be a forest vide an order dated 24th December, 1964.	Reasoning
A bare reading of the provision also indicates that the definition of forest is an inclusive definition and therefore, it could have a wider connotation and it would not be appropriate to give it a restrictive meaning.	Reasoning
Every word and phrase of the Act is to be understood in its context and must be given significance so that they are not rendered redundant.	Reasoning
The appellant has steadfastly maintained that the interpretation of the provisions cannot mean land which was a forest in the past (i.e. before 30th August, 1975) to be a forest according to the Act.	Reasoning
This argument might have had some force had the time period in question related to many decades or even a century before.	Reasoning
The aforementioned proceedings were concluded in proximity to the appointed day in question, and the character of land cannot be said to have changed over such a relatively short period of time.	Reasoning
It is beyond doubt that the land which encompassed the said portion of 53 acres belonging to the appellantCorporation was a forest on the appointed day.	Reasoning
In our considered opinion, the facts on record seem to overwhelmingly support such a conclusion.35.	Reasoning
The appellant has submitted that although the word Forest was added in the Record of Right after such proceedings, it was later dropped when the matter went up in appeal to the Commissioner.	Reasoning
Even if this were to be considered, it is to be noted that the preponderance of evidence seems to indicate the land in Survey No. 345 was considered as forest.	Reasoning
This is amply supported by documentary evidence, including the mortgage deed of 1900, and the revenue records of the past 50 years.	Reasoning
Moreover, the conveyance deed dated 29.3.1975 which was executed by the Court Receiver to the appellant, clearly describes the land as piece or parcel of forest land with structures.	Reasoning
This is further buttressed by the mutation entries till 196970 which described the land as a forest.	Reasoning
Even the mutation entries from 197071, have only changed the recording to huts, quarry and grass which does not in any way dispute the nature of the land.	Reasoning
That apart in the enquiry conducted under subSection(2) of Section 37 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code, it was admitted by the Company through whom the appellant had derived title that the land was forest land.	Reasoning
Therefore, there is overwhelming documentary evidence and also contemporaneous evidence on record to prove and establish that the land, in question, even in recent times was considered as forest land and also retained its character as such.36.	Reasoning
Therefore, the issue of whether the land in question was a forest on the appointed day, has to be seen in the context of whether the entire land that encompassed the disputed area was a forest on the said date.	Reasoning
In order to seek the reasons behind such an analysis, we need only look into the legislative scheme of the Act, which has been elaborated hereinabove.	Reasoning
The Statement of Objects and Reasons, which supplement and aid in the interpretation of the provisions, state The total forest area in the State of Maharashtra is approximately 21 per cent of the total area.	None
This is less that the national average and is also substantially less that the 33 1/3 per cent recommended by the National Forest PolicyOut of the total area under Forests, a considerable area is private forests.	None
While no detailed survey has been made, a Committee appointed a decade ago estimated the same as approximately 8,985 sq.kms.	None
These forests are in a very bad state of regression.	None
On the one hand, they have been severely depleted due to unregulated, unrestricted and excessive exploitation, and on the other hand, there has been a lack of fresh plantation and investment in these areas.	None
Of late, there has been an excessive spurt of indiscriminate fellings and these valuable forests are fast disappearing.	None
As owners of such forests have failed to reboise these areas, large areas have been rendered barren and uncultivable and more and more areas are increasingly being brought to the same state The Preamble to the Act, which is the guiding light to its interpretation, also expresses similar concerns as to the depletion of forest cover in the State.	None
In this light, it is important to construe the provisions of the Act in tune with the purpose of its enactment.	None
Such a rule of interpretation has been supported by the decisions of this Court in a catena of cases.	None
In Union of India v. Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd., reported at (2008) 7 SCC 502 , this Court observed that all statutes have to be considered in light of the object and purport of the Act.	None
In Reserve Bank of India v. Peerless General Finance and Investment Co. Ltd. and Ors., reported at (1987) 1 SCC 424 , this Court held that Interpretation of statutory provisions must depend on the text and the context.	None
They are the bases of interpretation.	None
One may well say if the text is the texture, context is what gives the colour.	None
Neither can be ignored.	None
Both are important.	None
That interpretation is best which makes the textual interpretation match the contextual.	None
A statute is best interpreted when we know why it was enacted.	None
With this knowledge, the statute must be read, first as a whole and then section by section, clause by clause, phrase by phrase and word by word.	None
If a statute is looked at, in the context of its enactment, with the glasses of the statutemaker, provided by such context, its scheme, the sections, clauses, phrases and words may take colour and appear different than when the statute is looked at without the glasses provided by the context.	None
With these glasses we must look at the Act as a whole and discover what each section, each clause, each phrase and each word is meant and designed to say as to fit into the scheme of the entire Act.	None
No part of a statute and no word of a statute can be construed in isolation, Statutes have to be construed so that every word has a place and everything is in its place.	None
In Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. L. V. A. Dixitulu and Others, reported at (1979) 2 SCC 34 , a Constitutional Bench of this Court observed The primary principle of interpretation is that a constitutional or statutory provision should be construed according to the intent of they that made it (Code).	None
Normally, such intent is gathered from the language of the provision.	None
If the language of the phraseology employed by the legislation is precise and plain and thus by itself, proclaims the legislative intent in unequivocal terms, the same must be given effect to, regardless of the consequences that may follow.	None
But if the words used in the provision are imprecise, protean, or evocative or can reasonably bear meaning more than one, the rule of strict grammatical construction ceases to be a sure guide to reach at the real legislative intent.	None
In such a case, in order to ascertain the true meaning of the terms and phrases employed, it is legitimate for the court to go beyond the arid literal confines of the provision and to call in aid other wellrecognised rules of construction such as its legislative history, the basic scheme and framework of the statute as a whole, each portion throwing light on the rest, the purpose of the legislation, the object sought to be achieved and the consequences that may flow from the adoption of one in preference to the other possible interpretation.	None
Therefore it is clear that the purpose of the statute and the intention of the legislature in enacting the same must be of paramount consideration while interpreting its provisions.	Reasoning
In this instance, moreover, the provisions of the Act present no apparent conflict with the overarching objective of vesting private forests with the State in the Governments efforts to protect them.	Reasoning
Further, it is important to note that the said area was being used for quarrying operations by the appellantCorporation.	None
That the said portion in the area of Survey 345A measuring 209 acres is claimed to be rocky and devoid of growth certainly does not change the character of the forest land.	None
It cannot be disputed that within forest areas, there exists water bodies swamp land, grass land etc.	Reasoning
The very existence of such land within the forest area would and could not change the nature and character of the forest land and the same would still continue to be treated as forest land.	Reasoning
In many instances across the country, mining and quarrying operations, while regulated, do take place in forest land, and they can very well be considered as forest produce.	Reasoning
However, the harmful effects of the ecological imbalance that may result as a consequence of quarrying operations in a forest zone is also to be considered.39.	Reasoning
Thus, in light of the legislative scheme of the Act, and the provisions discussed herein, we are of the considered opinion that the said portion of the land, measuring 53 acres will vest with the respondentState as a private forest.	Reasoning
That the area fell within a part designated as forest on the 30th of August, 1975 is beyond dispute and is supported by the evidence on record.	Reasoning
Therefore, by virtue of Section 2 (ci) (ii) of the Act, the portion in dispute will also be designated as a private forest under Section 2(f) of the Act, and the authorities are directed to maintain it as such.40.	Reasoning
It may also be cursorily mentioned here that both parties have made submissions with regard to the requirement of issuance of notice as per Section 35(3) of the Act.	Reasoning
Neither the issuance and service of the notice, nor its publication in the Government Gazette could be challenged as both the exercises have been done in the present case.	Reasoning
The High Court in its impugned order has extensively dealt with the same and has recorded a finding that notice was issued to the registered owner and served.	Reasoning
These conclusions have not been specifically challenged by the appellant.	Reasoning
It is proved and also recorded that the notice under Section 35(3) of Forest Act was issued to the owner on 8.8.1975 and was served on the recorded owner.	Reasoning
Since the notice was issued and served on the recorded owner, the same was sufficient compliance.	Reasoning
In order to fortify our conclusions we also rely on the judgment of this Court in Chintamani Gajaman Velkar	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of Maharashtra Ors.	Reasoning
Reported in (2003) 3 SCC 143, wherein this Court held that irrespective of whether the notice was served on the land owner before the appointed date or not, issuance of notice before that day would itself be sufficient for vesting the land in the State.41.	Reasoning
The appellantCorporation has also alleged that the States decision to consider the disputed land as automatically vested with the Government was irrational and disproportionate.	Reasoning
In this regard, it was the argument of the learned counsel for the appellant that while it may be possible for the Government to regulate and prohibit certain activities in forest lands, the ownership would continue to vest with the private owners, and there cannot be any automatic vesting of the same.	Reasoning
Thus it was argued that taking away the ownership of the land was wholly disproportionate in nature.42.	Reasoning
Being called upon to review this administrative action, we have examined as to whether the same amounts to irrational or disproportionate.	Reasoning
The common yardstick to determine whether the act on the part of the Government violates established principles of administrative law has been the Wednesbury principle of unreasonableness, employed both by English and Indian Courts.	Reasoning
The Wednesbury principle was enunciated by Lord Greene MR in Associated Provincial Picture Houses Limited v. Wednesbury Corporation reported at (1947) 2 All ER 680.	None
To quote the learned Judge on the principle enunciated What then are those principles?	None
They are well understood.	None
They are principles which the court looks to in considering any question of discretion of this kind.	None
The exercise of such discretion must be a real exercise of the discretion.	None
If, in the statute conferring the discretion, there is to be found expressly or by implication matters which the authority exercising the discretion ought to have regard to, then in exercising the discretion it must have regard to those matters.	None
Conversely, if the nature of the subject matter and the general interpretation of the Act make it clear that certain matters would not be germane to the matter in question the authority must disregard those irrelevant collateral matters.	None
However, the Wednesbury principle of reasonableness has given way to the doctrine of proportionality.	None
Through his decision in the celebrated case of Council of Civil Services Unions v. Minister for the Civil Services reported at 1985 AC 374, Lord Diplock widened the grounds of judicial review.	None
He mainly referred to three grounds upon which administrative action is subject to control by judicial review.	None
The first ground being illegality, the second irrationality and the third procedural impropriety.	None
He also mentioned that by further development on a case to case basis, in due course, there may be other grounds for challenge.	None
He particularly emphasized the principles of proportionality.	None
Thus, in a way, Lord Diplock replaced the language of reasonableness with that of proportionality when he said By irrationality I mean what can by now be succinctly referred to as Wednesbury unreasonablenessIt applies to a decision which is so outrageous in its defiance of logic or of accepted moral standards that no sensible person who had applied his mind to the question to be decided could have arrived at it The principle of proportionality envisages that a public authority ought to maintain a sense of proportion between particular goals and the means employed to achieve those goals, so that administrative action impinges on the individual rights to the minimum extent to preserve public interest.	None
Thus implying that administrative action ought to bear a reasonable relationship to the general purpose for which the power has been conferred.	Reasoning
The principle of proportionality therefore implies that the Court has to necessarily go into the advantages and disadvantages of any administrative action called into question.	Reasoning
Unless the impugned administrative action is advantageous and in public interest such an action cannot be upheld.	Reasoning
At the core of this principle is the scrutiny of the administrative action to examine whether the power conferred is exercised in proportion to the purpose for which it has been conferred.	Reasoning
Thus, any administrative authority while exercising a discretionary power will have to necessarily establish that its decision is balanced and in proportion to the object of the power conferred.45.	Reasoning
This principle has found favour in recent times with this Court, and a number of decisions reflect the shift towards the doctrine of proportionality.	Reasoning
In Bhagat Ram v. State of Himachal Pradesh reported at (1983) 2 SCC 442 , this Court held that if the penalty imposed is disproportionate to the gravity of the misconduct, it would violate Article 14 of the Constitution.	None
In ExNaik Sardar Singh v. Union of India and Ors reported at (1991) 3 SCC 213 where instead of one bottle of brandy that was authorized, the delinquent was found carrying four bottles of brandy while going home on leave.	None
He was sentenced to three months rigorous imprisonment and dismissal from service which was found by this Court to be disproportionate to the gravity of the offence proved against him.	None
In Coimbatore District Central Coop.	None
Bank v. Employees Assn. reported at (2007) 4 SCC 669 this Court stated that the doctrine of proportionality has not only arrived in our legal system but is here to stay.	None
With the increasing presence and visibility of administrative law and the need to control possible abuse of discretionary powers by various administrative authorities, certain principles have been evolved by reference to which the action of such authorities can be judged.	None
If any action taken by an authority is contrary to law, improper, irrational or otherwise unreasonable, a court competent to do so can interfere with the same while exercising its power of judicial review.	None
In Charanjit Lamba vs. Commanding Officer, Southern Command and Ors, reported at AIR 2010 SC 2462 , it was held that The constitutional requirement for judging the question of reasonableness and fairness on the part of the statutory authority must be considered having regard to the factual matrix obtaining in each case.	None
It cannot be put in a straitjacket formula.	None
It must be considered keeping in view the doctrine of flexibility.	None
Before an action is struck down, the court must be satisfied that a case has been made out for exercise of power of judicial review.	None
We are not unmindful of the development of the law that from the doctrine of Wednesbury unreasonableness, the court is leaning towards the doctrine of proportionality The test of proportionality is therefore concerned with the way in which the decisionmaker has ordered his priorities, i.e., the attribution of relative importance to the factors in the case.	None
Thus, it is not so much the correctness of the decision that is called into question, but the method to reach the same.	Reasoning
In this context, we are to see if the decision of the respondentState in considering the disputed property to be automatically vested with the Government is commensurate with public interests, in a way that affects individual rights in a minimal way.51.	Reasoning
The decision of the Government, as we have elucidated earlier, has been guided by the provisions in the Act, which seek to conserve and protect private forests in the State of Maharashtra that have been facing severe depletion and exploitation.	Reasoning
Therefore, the Act, which provides for the vesting of private forests with the Government, does so in the general interests of the public in tune with principles of environmental protection and sustainable development, to which we have alluded at the outset.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the respondentState was only acting in accordance with the principles envisaged in the Act.	Reasoning
This action cannot in any way said to be disproportionate or irrational solely because it divests the appellantCorporation of the land within Survey	None
345A.	None
The circumstances of this case, especially in so far as it relates to the quarrying operations conducted by the appellantCorporation in the said area, merit that the State protects the interests of the general public by acquiring the land as a private forest.	Reasoning
Therefore, after giving thoughtful consideration to the issues, we find that the appellant has failed to make out any case before us for interference with the orders passed by the High Court.	Decision
Hence, in the light of the aforesaid issues, principles and precedents in question, we are of the considered opinion that the appeal is without merit and deserves to be dismissed.	Decision
Civil Appeal No. 2148 of 200453.	Decision
Civil Appeal No. 2148 is filed by K.N. Shaikh appellant herein against the State of Maharashtra seeking to challenge the judgment and order of the Bombay High Court dated October 8, 2003 in Writ Petition No. 1383 of 2002.	Decision
The said Writ Petition was preferred against the decision of the Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal upholding the order of the SubDivisional Officer declaring that the survey No. 345A constitutes a private forest in terms of Section 2(f) of the Maharashtra Private Forest Act, 1975 and that it stood vested in the State Government in terms of Section 3(1) thereof.	Decision
The Bombay High Court, while dismissing Writ Petition No. 1383 of 2002, held So far as Writ Petition No. 1383 of 2002 is concerned, the Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal considered the matter again after the review petition was allowed by this Court and dismissed the appeal filed by the petitioner appellant.	Decision
We see no infirmity in the reasons recorded and conclusions reached by the Tribunal.	Decision
In our opinion, the said decision requires no interference.	Decision
The petition, therefore, deserves to be dismissed and is accordingly dismissed.	Decision
Before this Court, Counsel for the appellant herein has contended that the Bombay High Court failed to consider the additional submissions put forth by the appellant, and proceeded to dismiss the appeal in a common judgment.	Decision
However, upon hearing the learned counsel and on perusal of the submissions, we find that the appellant herein has placed similar, if not identical, arguments to that of the Maharashtra Land Development Corporation.55.	Decision
Counsel for the appellant herein has primarily contended that the meaning of forest must be understood in its ordinary sense, and that it would be inconceivable to think of forest land without trees and shrubbery.	Decision
Consequently, it was submitted, the rocky area devoid of growth cannot be considered a forest and must instead be understood as a wasteland that cannot vest with the State Government.	Decision
For reasons elaborated in the previous appeal, we are unable to agree with the learned counsel for the appellant.	Decision
The land in question remains, in essence, a forest and the mere purported presence of a rocky area therein cannot change its character.56.	Decision
Moreover, it is pertinent to observe that the appellant has based his claim on the basis of possession of land without any deed of conveyance or sale deed to support the same.	Decision
Moreover, such a claim is not based on any interest on the land, but on the fact that the appellant used to perform quarrying operations on the same.	Decision
Therefore, the Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal while holding that the land in question cannot be treated as forest or private forest under the Act of 1975, still chose to dismiss the claim of the appellant herein.	Decision
In appeal, the High Court was also inclined to do the same.	Decision
Consequently, it is clear that the appellant stands on the same, if not weaker, footing as the Corporation.	Decision
In the light of the reasons that we have enunciated in Civil Appeal No. 2147 of 2004, which are entirely applicable to the case at hand, we find that the appeal is without merit and deserves to be dismissed.	Decision
