 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted.	None
Oil Palm India Limited is a Government Company (for short, the Company).	Facts
The Union of India and the State of Kerala are its shareholders.	Facts
It is indisputably a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India.	Facts
Appellant herein was appointed as a worker in the services of the Company in the year 1982.	Facts
12 posts of Watchman Messenger Attender fell vacant.	Facts
Recruitment to the said post is not governed by any statutory rules.	Facts
Admittedly, all the workmen who were in service of the Company were to be considered therefor.	Facts
Applications having been invited for filling up of the said 12 posts, 253 persons applied therefor.	Facts
A written test was conducted on 18.01.2001.	Facts
Appellant herein stood first in the written examination.	Facts
The said written examination was conducted by the Kerala State Productivity Council in terms of the resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company dated 13.06.2000.	Facts
It is not in dispute that the written test was conducted for eliminating those who had failed to secure the minimum qualifying marks in the written test.	Facts
It has also not been disputed that out of 253 applicants, only 197 appeared therein.	Facts
However, keeping in view the total number of posts which were required to be filled up, only 36 candidates who got the highest marks were called for interview, appellant being one of them.	Facts
It is furthermore not in dispute that after a policy decision was taken to call only those candidates who had come within the zone of three times of the number of posts, the minimum qualification was reduced to 46 marks and 11 more persons were permitted to appear at the interview.	Facts
It has furthermore not been disputed that 100 marks were fixed both for written test as well as vivavoce.	None
Appellant, having not been selected, filed a writ petition, on the premise that Respondent Nos. 4 and 5 were appointed by the company, although not eligible therefor.	None
It had categorically been stated that they were called for interview only one day prior to the holding thereof.	Facts
It was alleged that the top officers of the Company personally went to the houses of Respondent Nos. 4 and 5 and handed over the appointment orders on 22.05.2001, which was a Sunday.	Facts
It was also contended that the list of the selected candidates had not been published.	None
The Writ Petition of the appellant was dismissed by a learned Single Judge of the High Court by a judgment and order dated 22.12.2005, holding From the counter affidavit and also from the lists furnished by the petitioners themselves it is clear that of the 11 included in the additional list only two were appointed and they are serial Nos. 6 and 8 in the additional list.	Facts
It is also stated in the counter affidavit that 50 marks were given to the written test and 50 marks for the interview.	Facts
That will not vitiate the selection as held by the Supreme Court in Subash Chandra Verma v. State of Bihar 1995 Supp.	Facts
(12) SCC 325.	Facts
Selection is a matter of policy and if the Selection Committee thought it fit to have the ratio of 14 for the purpose of selection, it cannot be said that the selection is vitiated on that only ground.	Facts
It is now settled law that it is for the party who alleges vitiating factors like favouritism, malafides etc. to plead and prove the same.	Facts
A Writ Appeal preferred thereagainst by the appellant was also dismissed by a Division Bench of the High Court, opining We find hardly any substance in the arguments as above.	None
Interview was a mandatory step to be followed.	Facts
In the matter of selection to the post of Watchman, we feel it is more appropriate to set apart 50 marks for the interview.	Facts
Physical fitness and personality are essential requirements for a watchman Resourcefulness, aptitude and initiative are qualities essential for a Messenger and Attender, apart from the bookish knowledge.	Facts
The above qualities are best assessable by an interview.	Facts
Dr. K.P. Kylasanatha Pillay, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, assailed the judgment of the learned Single Judge as also the Division Bench of the High Court, contending1)	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court committed a manifest error in passing the impugned judgment in so far as it failed to take into consideration the fact that the zone of consideration cannot be enlarged arbitrarily.2) Having regard to the nature of the duties required to be performed by the Watchman Messenger Attender, 100 marks could not have been fixed for oral interview.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. C.N. Sree Kumar, the learned counsel appearing for the company and Mr. G. Prakash, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of Respondent No. 5, on the other hand, would support the judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
Selection of the candidates was to be made from amongst the workers who had been working in the Company for a long time.	None
Although there may not have been any statutory rules governing recruitment to the posts in question, evidently a practice therefor was prevailing.	None
Rule of the game for the said purpose was fixed, namely, 36 persons would be called for interview from amongst those who were successfully competed the written examination.	None
The fact that the appellant obtained more than 73 marks in the written examination and topped the list is not in dispute.	None
The fact that he was eligible for consideration for appointment in the post is also not in dispute.	None
It has furthermore not been in dispute that the minimum qualifying marks in the written test was fixed.	None
It is, however, not known whether the same was 50 or not, but then it was admittedly higher than 46.	None
The Managing Director of the Company in his counter affidavit categorically stated Since the number of posts that were available to be filled up was 12, initially it was decided to call 36 candidates who had scored the highest marks in the written test and these candidates were called to appear for an interview on 22.3.2001.	None
However, it was then decided by the Company to enlarge the zone of consideration to 14 and on the basis of this decision, call letters were again issued to the next 11 candidates, fixing a cut off mark of 46 out of 100.	None
The candidates who were thus called for the interview were interviewed on 22.3.2001 by a panel consisting of the Companys Chairman, Managing Director, Under Secretary to the Department of Agriculture, Government of Kerala and an outside expert member from the Kerala State Productivity Council, Kalamassery.	None
Why such a decision had been taken after the publication of the result of the written examination and after calling 36 candidates for interview is not known.	None
Why the Company intended to enlarge the zone of consideration from 1 3 to 1 4 has also not been disclosed.	Issue
Why the cutoff mark was also lowered remained a mystery.	None
It may be that in a given situation, a decision of the State may be changed, but therefor good and sufficient reasons must be assigned.	Reasoning
The Company failed to do so.	Reasoning
The decision taken in this behalf smacks of arbitrariness.	Reasoning
It prejudiced the candidates like the appellant.11.	Reasoning
It is now wellsettled that ordinarily rules which were prevailing at the time, when the vacancies arose would be adhered to.	Reasoning
The qualification must be fixed at that time.	Reasoning
The eligibility criteria as also the procedures as was prevailing on the date of vacancy should ordinarily be followed.	Reasoning
In Pitta Naveen Kumar Ors.	None
v. Raja Narasaiah Zangiti Ors. 2006 (9) SCALE 298 , a rule framed by the State of Andhra Pradesh reducing the cutoff mark was struck down by this Court, holding The question, however, remains as to whether the State could reduce the cutoff marks.	None
If the cutoff mark specified by the State is arbitrary, Article 14 would be attracted.	None
The Tribunal did not have any jurisdiction to pass an interim order directing reduction in the cutoff mark.	None
The cutoff mark at 66 was fixed having regard to the ratio of the candidates eligible for sitting at the written examination at 150.	None
An interim order as is wellknown is issued for a limited purpose.	None
By reason thereof, the Tribunal had jurisdiction to grant a final relief.56.	None
Moreover, the Tribunal could not have directed the Commission to do something which was contrary to rules.	None
An interim order is subject to variation or modification.	None
An interim order would ordinarily not survive when the main matter is dismissed.	None
The Commission also did not intend to abide by the said directions.	None
It wanted the State to pass an appropriate order.	None
It was, pursuant to or in furtherance of the said desire of the Commission as also the direction of the Tribunal as contained in its interim order dated 6.1.2005, GOMs 200 was issued.	None
The said Government Order was, thus, not issued by the State of its own.	None
There was no independent application of mind.	None
The statutory requirements for passing an government order independent of the interim directions issued by the Tribunal were wholly absent.	None
Reliance placed my Mr. Sree Kumar on Vijay Syal and Another v. State of Punjab Others (2003) 9 SCC 401 runs counter to the submission of the learned counsel.	None
Therein, the appellants secured less marks than those whose appointments were in question.	None
In that situation it was held that they were to be denied appointments on the ground that they were called for in the interview in the second list, the position of the appellant could not improve.	None
Allegedly, when those candidates who belonged to Scheduled Caste and had secured higher marks and in that view of the matter, the appellant therein could not be selected in the general category.	None
In the said decision, however, the Bench categorically opined that the marks allocated for the viva voce should not normally exceed 12.5 noticing the decisions of this Court in Ashok Kumar Yadav v. State of Haryana (1985) 4 SCC 417 , All India State Bank Officers Federation v. Union of India (1997) 9 SCC 151 as also Jasvinder Singh v. State of JK (2003) 2 SCC 132 .	None
The question as to how much marks should be allocated for interview would depend upon the post and nature of duties to be performed.	None
The nature of duties to be performed on the post of Watchman Messenger Attender is not such which requires a high intellectual ability or any particular trait of the candidates which is required to be judged by an expert.	None
See e.g. I.I.T., Kanpur v. Umesh Chandra and Others (2006) 5 SCC 664 .	None
We may notice that in Inder Parkash Gupta v. State of JK and Others (2004) 6 SCC 786 , a threeJudge Bench opined It is true that for allocation of marks for viva voce test, no hardandfast rule of universal application which would meet the requirements of all cases can be laid down.	None
However, when allocation of such marks is made with an intention which is capable of being abused or misused in its exercise, it is liable to be struck down as ultra vires Article 14 of the Constitution of India.36.	None
We would proceed on the assumption that the Commission was entitled to not only ask the candidates to appear before it for the purpose of verification of records, certificates of the candidates and other documents as regards qualification, experience, etc. but could also take viva voce test.	None
But marks allotted therefor should indisputably be within a reasonable limit.	None
Having regard to Rule 8 of the 1979 Rules higher marks for viva voce test could not have been allotted as has rightly been observed by the High Court.	None
The Rules must, therefore, be suitably recast.	None
In this case allocation of marks for interview was in fact misused.	Reasoning
It not only contravened the ratio laid down by this Court in Ashok Kumar Yadav (supra) and subsequent cases, but in the facts and circumstances of the case, it is reasonable to draw an inference of favouritism.	Reasoning
The power in this case has been used by the Appointing Authority for unauthorized purpose.	Reasoning
When a power is exercised for an unauthorized purpose, the same would amount to malice in law See The Manager, Govt.	Reasoning
Branch Press and Another v. D.B. Belliappa  AIR 1979 SC 429 , Punjab State Electricity Board v. Zora Singh and Others  (2005) 6 SCC 776 and K.K. Bhalla v. State of M.P. and Others  (2006) 3 SCC 581 .	Reasoning
For the reasons aforementioned, the impugned judgments cannot be sustained, which are set aside accordingly.	Decision
Selection of Respondent Nos. 4 and 5 is set aside.	Decision
The company is directed to appoint the appellant.	Decision
The appeal is allowed with cost.	Decision
Counsels fee assessed at Rs. 10,000/.	Decision
