 N. RAY, C.J.1.	None
These appeals by special leave raised the question of the validity of notices of demand under the Assam Taxation (on Goods carried by Road or on Inland Waterways) Act, 1961 hereinafter referred to as the New Act.2.	None
The Assam Taxation (on goods carried by road or Inland Waterways) Act, 1954 hereinafter referred to as the Old Act was passed by the Assam Legislature in 1954.	Facts
On 26th September, 1960 this Court declared the Old Act to be ultra vires the Constitution on the ground that prior sanction of the President was not taken.	Facts
On 6th April, 1961 the New Act was passed by the Assam Legislature.	Facts
The New Act was published in the Gazette on 15th April, 1961.	Facts
The New Act was to remain in force with retrospective effect from 24th April, 1954 up to 1st March, 1962.3.	Facts
On 28th July, 1961 the New Act was challenged by about 485 assessees in the Assam High Court.	Facts
The High Court passed an order staying all proceeding.	Facts
The order staying proceedings continued till the New Act was held ultra vires the Constitution by the High Court.	Facts
On 1st August, 1963, the High Court held that New Act to be ultra vires.	Facts
On 1s August, 1963 the High Court granted certificates of fitness to appeal to this Court.4.	Facts
On 13th December, 1963 on a writ application filed by Khyerbari Tea Co. Ltd. this Court held the New Act to be valid.	Facts
The decision of this Court is reported in (1964 5 S.C.R. 975) Kyerbari Tea Co. Ltd. Anr.	Facts
vs. The State of Assam.5.	Facts
On 4th March, 1964 the State of Assam on the strength of the certificate granted by the High Court filed an appeal in this Court against the judgment of the High Court dt.	Facts
1st August, 1963.	Facts
On 28th October, 1964 this Court granted interim stay of the operation of the judgment of the High Court dt.	Facts
1st August, 1963.	Facts
On 29th January, 1965 the interim stay granted by this Court was made absolute subject to the condition that the assessment proceedings in respect of 485 respondents would continue but no levy would be made, and the respondents could initiate assessment proceedings in respect of those assessees.	Facts
On 1st April, 1968 this Court accepted the appeals filed by the State Government.6.	Facts
It is only after the State obtained interim order from this Court on 29th January, 1965 that notices under s. 7(2) of the New Act were issued.	Facts
These appeals challenged the validity of those notices.	Facts
In Civil Appeals No. 140143 of 1973 notice under s. 7(2) of the New Act was issued on 4th March, 1965 for the return of the quarter 1st January to 31st March, 1962.	Facts
In Civil Appeal No. 687 of 1973 notice under s. 7(2) of the New Act was issued on 4th march, 1965 for the return of the quarter 1 January to 31st March, 1962.	Facts
In Civil Appeals No. 262275 of 1973 notice under s. 7(2) of the New Act was issued on 2nd August, 1965 for the return of the quarter 1st October, 1961 to 31st December, 1961.	Facts
In Civil Appeals No. 1761762 of 1973 notice under s. 7(2) of the New Act was issued on 30th February, 1965 for the return of the quarter 1 October, 1961 to 31st December, 1961, respondentassessees challenged these demand notices in the High Court on the ground that the notices were illegal and beyond the jurisdiction of the State.	Facts
The broad contention of the assessees was that the State could issue notices within two years from the expiry of the return period and none of the notices was within the time mentioned in the New Act, and, therefore, the State had no jurisdiction is issue the notices.	Facts
The State, on the other hand, contended that from 10th August, 1961 to 1st August, 1963 there was an order of the High Court staying all proceedings, and therefor, it was not possible to issue any notice until the State was permitted by orders of the Court to commence proceedings.7.	Facts
The High Court accepted the contention of the assessees.	Facts
The High Court held that the notices were barred by limitation in terms of the provisions contained in s. 7(2) of the New Act.	Facts
Each of the challenged notices was much beyond the date of expiry of two years from the date when return should have been filed.	Facts
The High Court held that the provisions contained in the Limitation Act do not apply to legislation of the type of the New Act.8.	Facts
Sec. 3 of the New Act is the charging section.	None
Under that section tax is levied on (a) manufactured tea and (b) jute in bales carried by means mentioned therein.	None
The period and the rate for taxes are specified in the Schedule.	None
The tax levied on manufactured tea shall be realised from the producer.	None
The tax levied on jute shall be realised from the dealer.9.	None
Sec. 7 of the New Act speaks of return.	None
There are four subsections of s. 7.	None
The first subsection requires every producer and dealer to furnish returns of manufactured tea carried in tea containers and jute carried in bales in such from and to such authority as may be prescribed.	None
The second subsection states that in case of any producer or dealer who, in the opinion of the Commissioner, is liable to pay tax for any return period or a part thereof, the Commissioner may serve within two years of the expiry of the aforesaid period, a notice in the prescribed from requiring him to furnish a return of goods carried and such producer or dealer shall thereupon furnish the return within the date and to the authority mentioned in the notice.	None
The notices in the present appeals are issued under this subs.	None
(2) of s. 7 of the New Act.	None
The third subsection states that the returns, during the first year of operation of the New Act, shall be furnished for such period and within such time as may be notified by the Commissioner and thereafter quarterly and within thirty days of completion of the quarter in respect of which the returns are to be filed.	None
The fourth subsection states that if any producer or dealer discovers any omission or other error in any return furnish by him he may furnish a revised return at any time before assessment is made on the original return.10.	None
Sec. 9 of the New Act speaks of assessment.	None
There are four subsections of s. 9. Subs.	None
(1) states that if the Commissioner is satisfied that a return furnished by a dealer or a producer under s. 7 in respect of any period is correct and complete, he shall, be an order in writing, assess the producer or dealer and determine the tax payable by him on the basis of such return.	None
Subs.	None
(2) states that if the Commissioner is not satisfied that a return furnished under s. 7 is correct and complete, he shall serve on the producer or dealer a notice requiring him, on the date and hour and place mentioned therein, either to attend in person or to produce or cause to be produced any evidence on which he may rely in support his return.	None
Subs.	None
(3) states that on the day mentioned in the notice under subs.	None
(2) or as soon afterwards as may be, the Commissioner, after hearing such evidence as the producer or dealer may produce and such other evidence as the Commissioner may require, shall, by an order in writing, assess the producer or dealer and determine the tax payable by him on the basis of such assessment.	None
Subs.	None
(4) states that if a producer or dealer fails to make a return as required by s. 7 or having made the return, fails to comply with the terms of the notice issued under subs.	None
(2) of s. 9, the Commissioner shall, by an order in writing, assess to the best of his judgment the producer or dealer and determine the tax payable by him on the basis of such assessment.	None
It is provided that before making assessment the Commissioner may allowed the producer or dealer such further time as he thinks fit to make the return or to comply with the terms of the notices issued under subs.	None
(2) of s. 9.11.	None
The Rules under the New Act are framed under s. 32 of the New Act.	None
Rules No. 6 states that every dealer or producer shall furnish return of the total gross weight of jute or tea carried to the Superintendent in Form I. Rule No. 8 states that the notice referred to in subs.	None
(2) of s. 7 may be issued to dealer or producer who have failed to submit returns within the period mentioned in subs.	None
(3) of s. 7.	None
The notices shall be in Form II.	None
Rule No. 9 states that every dealer or producer shall submit to the Superintendent every quarter a return so as to reach that officer on or before the dates therein, 30th April, 30th July, 30 October, and 30th January are the dates on or before which the producer or dealer shall submit return for the quarters preceding these dates, viz., quarters ending 31st March, 30th June, 30th September, and 31st December, respectively.12.	None
Form No.	None
I under Rule No. 6 mentions the name of the dealer, the return period and the details of new weight carried and amount of tax.	None
Form No. II under s. 7(2) and Rule No. 8 states that whereas the person notified carried manufactured tea or jute as the case may be, during the period ending on the date mentioned therein	None
and whereas the carrier is liable to pay tax he is required to furnish a return.13.	None
The New Act received the assent of the President on 6th April, 1961.	None
It was notified in the Gazette on 12th April, 1961.	None
The New Act was deemed to have had effect as from 24th April, 1954 and remained in force till 31st March, 1962.	Facts
Sec. 3 of the New Act refers to the Schedule which specifies the period and rate of tax.	None
The rates vary from year to year.	None
In view of the fact that the New Act became retrospective w.e.f. 1954, s. 7(3) of the New Act provided that returns during the first year of operation of the New Act shall be furnished for such period and within such time as may be notified by the Commissioner an thereafter quarterly and within thirty days of completion of the quarter in respect of which the returns are to be failed.	None
It therefore follows that the return for the years during which the New Act became retrospective in operation was to furnish in accordance with the notification to be issued by the Commissioner under s. 7(3) of the New Act.	None
The present appeals do not concern that aspect of the New Act.	None
After the New Act came into existence returns were to be furnished by the producers and dealers on 30th April, 30th July, 30th October and 30th January for the preceding quarters.	None
The provisions contained in s. 7(1) of the New Act enjoined dealers and producers to furnish returns on the date mentioned in the Rules for the appropriate quarters.	None
The provisions of s. 7(2) of the New Act contemplate cases where the Commissioner may serve within two years of the expiry of the return period a notice upon producer or dealer who, in the opinion of the Commissioner, is liable to tax for any return period or a part thereof.14.	None
On behalf of the State the Solicitor General raised three contentions.	Arguments of Petitioner
First, that for the period 1st October, 1961, 31st December, 1961 or for the period 1st January, 1962 to 31st March, 1962 the State could not issue any notice by reason of stay of proceedings granted by the High Court on 10th August, 1961.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was said that when this Court on 28th October, 1964 granted interim stay of operation of the High Court Judgment dt.	Arguments of Petitioner
1st August, 1963 it was possible for the State to issue notice.	Arguments of Petitioner
The State issued notice within two years from 28th October, 1964.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also said that if the period of two years be counted from 13 December, 1963 when this Court pronounced the New Act to be valid in the case of Khyerbari Tea Co. Ltd. (1) (supra) the notices would be within the period of two years from 13 December, 1963.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was emphasised by the Solicitor General that an act of Court granting stay of the proceedings should not be permitted to act adversely to the interest of the State against whom the injunction was granted.15.	Arguments of Petitioner
The second contention of the Solicitor General was that s. 9(4) of the New Act confers power on the Commissioner to assess to the best of his judgment if a producer or dealer fails to furnish a return as required by s. 7 or having made the return fails to comply with the terms of the notice issued under s. 9(2) of the New Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The notice under s. 9(2) of the New Act refers to cases where if the Commissioner is not satisfied with the return furnished under s. 7 he serves a notice on the assessee to produce evidence in support of the return.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Solicitor General learned heavily on the words if a producer or dealer fails to make a return as required by s. 7 and contended that s. 7(1) of the New Act required the producer or dealer to make a return and that s. 7(2) of the New Act did not itself require the producer of dealer to make a return but only clothed the Commissioner in certain circumstances to call for a return.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the Solicitor General submitted that the condition precedent to the exercise of power under s. 9(4) of the New Act is a default with reference to s. 7(1) of the New Act and not the issue of a notice under s. 7(2) of the New Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Solicitor General submitted that at best s. 7(1) of the New Act regulates the exercise of the power created by s. 9(4) of the New Act but is not the source and condition of the power.16.	Arguments of Petitioner
The third contention of the Solicitor General was that by obtaining and enjoying the benefit of an injunction for the relevant period expiring within the period of two years prescribed by s. 7(2) of the New Act the respondent must be deemed to have waived the benefit of s. 7(2) of the New Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
This was amplified to mean that the interim injunctions in the present cases were founded on the postulate that the action restrained during the pendency of the proceedings would be and could be taken if the ground of attack ultimately failed on the conclusion of the proceedings.	None
The Solicitor General further submitted that a party who obtained such an injunction could not set up a plea arising solely from the injunction issued and ultimately dissolved.	None
It was said that by reason of such injunction if a preliminary step like a notice within a particular period became impossible, it must be deemed to have been waived just as any provision intended for the protection of the property owner may be waived by him by a course of conduct where it would be unjust to permit it to be set up.17.	None
The first contention on behalf of the State that it became impossible for the State to issue notice under s. 7(2) of the New Act within two years of the expiry of the period of return is unsound on principle and facts.	Arguments of Petitioner
The maxim lex non cogit ad impossibilia means that the law does not compel a man to do that which he cannot possibly perform.	Reasoning
In the present appeals, the applications were moved in the High Court for stay of proceedings.	Reasoning
The respondents challenged the validity of Act, and, therefore, asked for an injunction restraining the State from taking proceedings under the Act.	Reasoning
At no stage, did the State ask for variation or modification of the order of injunction.	Reasoning
It is well known that if it is brought to the notice of a Court that proceedings are likely to be barred by time by reason of any order of injunction or stay the Court passes such suitable or appropriate orders as will protect the interest of the parties and will not prejudice either party.	Reasoning
Even when certificate to appeal to this Court was granted on 1st August, 1963, the State did not ask for any order for stay of operation of the judgment.	Reasoning
That is quite often done.	Reasoning
For the first time, on 10th August, 1964 the State field an application for stay of operation of the judgment of the High Court.	Reasoning
The State did not take steps at the appropriate time.	Reasoning
This Court on 28th October, 1964 granted an interim order staying the operation of the High Court judgment.	Reasoning
The interim order was made absolute on 28th January, 1965 with certain conditions.	Reasoning
The State cannot take advantage of its own wrong and lack of diligence.	Reasoning
The State cannot contend that it was impossible to issue any notice within the period mentioned in s. 7(2) of the New Act.	Reasoning
The State did not endeavour to obtain appropriate orders to surmount the difficulties by reason of the injunction against taking steps within the time contemplated in s. 7(2) of the New Act.	Reasoning
The State is guilty of default.	Reasoning
The State had remedies open to take steps by asking for modification of the order.	Reasoning
The State had to assert the right that the State was entitled to demand taxes and the respondent was liable to pay the same.	Reasoning
The State followed the policy of inactivity.	Reasoning
Inactivity is not impossibility.	Reasoning
The order of injunction is not to be equated with an act of God or an action of the enemy of the State or a General Strike.18.	None
The second contention of the State that the State has power under s. 9(4) of the New Act to pass an order of best assessment is unmeritorious.	Arguments of Petitioner
The provisions contained in s. 7 of the New Act indicate these steps.	None
A producer or dealer is to furnish a return for the preceding quarter on 30th April, 30th July, 30 October, 30 January.	None
Where a producer or dealer is liable to pay tax for any return period and he does not furnish a return, the Commissioner may, within two years of the expiry of the period, serve a notice requiring him to furnish a return.	None
The provisions contained in s. 9(4) of the New Act with regard to best judgment assessment apply where a producer or dealer fails to make a return or having made the return fails to comply with the terms of the notice under s. 9(2) of the New Act.	None
A notice under s. 9(2) of the New Act is served where the Commissioner is not satisfied with the return furnished under s. 7 of the New Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The words if a producer or dealer fails to make a return as required by s. 7 occurring in s. 9 of the New Act apply to failure to make a return contemplated by both subss.	None
(1) and (2) of s. 7 of the New Act.	None
To accede to the contention of the Solicitor General that the words if a producer or dealer fails to make a return as required by s. 7 occurring in s. 7 of the New Act apply only to a return under subs.	None
(1) of s. 7 of the New Act is to read new words into the Legislation.	None
In order to have the best judgment assessment under s. 9(4) of the New Act, there must be first a failure to furnish a return under s. 7(1) of the New Act or a failure to furnish a return after notice under s. 7(2) of the New Act.	None
Further, the contention of the Solicitor General means that there will never be any question of limitation of time with regard to service of notice by the commissioner to file a return.	None
Sec. 7(2) of the New Act is a section conferring power and jurisdiction on the authorities to tax by calling upon the producer or declare to file a return within the time mentioned therein.	None
If a return under s. 7(1) is not made, the service of a notice under s. 7(2) of the Act is the only method for initiation of valid assessment proceedings under the Act.	None
The period of two years under s. 7(2) of the New Act is a fetter on the power of the authority and is not just a bar of time.	None
No assessment can be legally made under s. 9(4) of the New Act without service of a notice under s. 7(2) of the New Act within two years in case where the assessee has not submitted any return under s. 7(1) of the New Act.19.	None
The words if a producer or dealer fails to make a return as required by s. 7 occurring in s. 9 of the New Act make it clear that s. 9 can come into operation only when there is a failure to comply with the requirements of s. 7 and not the requirements only under subs.	None
(1).	None
Reference may be made to s. 11 of the New Act.	None
Sec.	None
11 deals with escaped assessment.	None
There is a time limit for initiating an escaped assessment under s. 11 of the New Act.	None
The time limit is two years from the end of the return period.	None
It is the scheme of the Act that the service of notice within two years of the return period is an imperative requirement for initiation of assessment proceedings as also reassessment proceeding under the Act.20.	None
This Court in State of Assam Anr. vs. D.C. Choudhuri Ors.	None
1970 1	None
SCR 780 considered the provisions of Assam Act IX of 1939.	None
Secs.	None
19 and 20 of the Assam Act of 1939 are pari materia with ss. 7 and 9 of the New Act.	None
Sec.	None
19(1) of the Assam Act of 1939 required persons whose agricultural income exceeded the limit of taxable income prescribed to furnish within thirty days as specified in the notice a return.	None
Sec. 19(2) of the Assam Act of 1939 stated that in the case of any person whose total agricultural income is, in the opinion of the Agrl. ITO, of such amount as to render such person liable to payment of agricultural incometax for any financial year, the Agrl.	None
ITO may serve in that financial year a notice requiring him to furnish a return.	None
Sec. 20(4) of the Assam Act of 1939 provided that if persons failed to make a return under subs.	None
(1) or subs.	None
(2) of s. 19 or failed to comply with terms of a notice under subs.	None
(2) of s. 20 or to produce any evidence required under subs.	None
(3) of s. 20, the Agrl.	None
ITO shall make the assessment in the best of his judgment.	None
Sec.	None
30 of the Assam Act of 1939 provided that if for any reason the Agricultural income has escaped assessment for any financial year the Agrl.	None
ITO may at any time within there years of the end of that financial year serve on the person liable to pay tax a notice as fully mentioned therein and way proceed to assess or reassess as stated in the section.21.	None
In the Assam case (supra) the assessees received a notice in 1961 to furnish returns for the years 194950 to 195354.	None
The assessees did not submit any return.	None
Thereafter they received a notice of demand for payment of tax on the basis of best judgment assessment under s. 20(4) of the Assam Act.	None
The assessees were not served with any notice under s. 19(2) of the Assam Act which provided for a notice to be served on the assessee during the respective financial year, nor under s. 30 of the Assam Act which dealt with escaped assessment.	None
The purchasers of the tea estate were similarly served with assessment orders under s. 20(4) of the Assam Act.	None
The purchasers were also not served with any notice under s. 19(2) or s. 30 of the Act.	None
This Court held that if no return was made in pursuant to the general notice under s. 19(1) of the Act, assessment could be made against an assessee under s. 19(2) of the Act serving an individual notice during that financial year.	None
Once that financial year was over and no return was made in response to general notice under s. 19(1) of the Act and no individual notice was served under s. 19(2) of the Act there could arise a case of escaped assessment.	None
The only way to bring escaped assessment income to tax was to initiate proceedings where notice in accordance with s. 30 was served within three years of the end of that financial year.	Reasoning
No such proceedings were initiated in that Assam case (supra), and, therefore, the assessment orders were quashed.	Reasoning
The Assam case is an authority for the proposition that if no notice is served in accordance with the provisions of the Act there cannot be any initiation of assessment proceedings and there would be no jurisdiction to assess.22.	Reasoning
In the present case the notices of demand were illegal.	None
The best judgment assessment which was made under s. 9(4) of the New Act would be attracted only if there was a failure to furnish a return as contemplated in subss.	None
(1) and (2) of s. 7 or failure to comply with the terms of the notice under s. 9(2) of the New Act.23.	None
The third contention of the Solicitor General is that the respondents waived service of a notice within two years of the expiry of the return period by reason of the order of injunction obtained by them.	Arguments of Petitioner
Waiver is either a form of estoppel or an election.	None
The doctrine of estoppel by conduct means that where one by words or conduct wilfully causes another to believe in the existence of certain sate of things, and induces him to act on that belief, or to alter his own previous position, the former is concluded from averring against the latter a different state of things as existing at that time.	Reasoning
The fundamental requirement as to estoppel by conduct is that the estoppel must concern an existing state of facts.	Reasoning
There is no common law estoppel funded on a statement of future intention.	Reasoning
The doctrine of promissory estoppel is applied to cases where a promiser has been estopped from acting inconsistently with a promise not to enforce an existing legal obligation.	Reasoning
This doctrine differs from estoppel properly so called in that the presentation relied upon need not be one of present fact.	Reasoning
The second requirement of an estoppel by conduct is that it should be unambiguous.	Reasoning
Finally, an estoppel cannot be relief on if the result of giving effect to it would be something that is prohibited by law.	Reasoning
Estoppel is only a rule of evidence.	Reasoning
One cannot found an action upon estoppel.	Reasoning
Estoppel is important as a step towards relief on the hypothesis that the defendant is estopped from denying the truth of something which he has said.24.	Reasoning
In Dawasons Bank Limited vs. Nippon Menkwa Kabushiki Kaisha (62 Indian Appeals 100) the distinction between estoppel and waiver was explained by stating that estoppel is not a cause of action, but waiver is contractual and may constitute a case of action.	None
The reason stated there is that waiver is an agreement to release or not to assert a right.	None
There is no such thing as estoppel by waiver.25.	None
The two decisions on which the Solicitor General relied in support of the application of the principle of waiver in these appeals are Vellayan Chettiar vs. Province of Madras 74 IA 223) and Kammins Ballrooms Co. Ltd. vs. Zenith Investments (Torquary) Ltd. 1971 AC 850).	None
In Vellayan Chettiars case (supra) it was held where the Secretary of State took objection to the sufficiency of notice under s. 80 of the CPC in his written statement, but raised no issue on the point when issues were settled, and took no objection during the trial, the Court held that another defendant was not competent to raise this issue at a later stage as the Secretary of State had waived notice.	None
A notice under s. 80 of the CPC is procedural with regard to institution of a suit.	None
A notice under s. 80 of the CPC is not a part of the cause of action.	None
In the notice under s. 80 of the CPC the cause of action has to be stated.26.	None
In the case of Kammins Ballrooms Co. (supra) the tenants made a request for a new tenancy.	None
The landlords stated that they would oppose an application to the Court for such new tenancy.	None
When the tenants filed an application for grant of a new tenancy, the landlords filed an answer but took no objection to the application being premature.	None
Thereafter the landlords wrote to the tenants that they would make a preliminary objection that application was premature.	None
The Count Court Judge held that s. 29(3) of the relevant Act which provided time for making the applications went to the jurisdiction of the Court and would not be the subject of estoppel or waiver.	None
The Court of Appeal affirmed that decision.	None
The House of Lords was that the requirements of s. 29(3) of the Act were only procedural and the landlords had a right to ignore or object to the tenant premature application but could not waive that right.	None
The majority view further held that the landlords had not waived their right to object that the application was bad.	None
In a statute dealing with landlords and tenants, rights and obligations are created for landlords and tenants.	None
A procedural requirement imposed for the benefit or protection of one party alone has sometimes been construed as subject to implied exception that it can be waived by the party for whose benefit it is imposed.	None
In that context, waive means that the party has chosen not to rely upon the noncompliance of the other party with the requirement, or has disentitled himself from relying upon it either by agreeing with the other party not to do so or because he has so conducted himself that it would not be fair to allow him to rely upon the noncompliance.27.	None
A distinction arises between the provisions which confer jurisdiction and provisions which regulate procedure.	Reasoning
Jurisdiction can neither be waived nor created by consent.	Reasoning
A procedural provision may be waived by conduct or agreement.	Reasoning
In the case of Kammins Ballrooms Co. (supra) it was said that waiver arises in a situation where a person is entitled to alternative rights inconsistent with one another.	Reasoning
If he has knowledge of the facts which give rise to law to these alternative rights and acts in a manner which is inconsistent only with his having chosen to rely on one of them, the law holds him to his choice even though he was unaware that this would be legal consequence of what he did.	Reasoning
He is sometimes said to have waived the alternative right, as for instance a right to forfeit a lease or to rescind a contract of sale for wrongful repudiation or breach of condition.	Reasoning
This is also sometimes described as election rather than wavier.	Reasoning
Another type of waiver debars a person from raising a particular defence to a claim against him.	Reasoning
It arises when he either agrees with the claimant not to raise that particular defence or so conduct himself as to be estopped from raising it.28.	Reasoning
In the present case, the respondent cannot be said to have waived the provisions of the statute.	Reasoning
There cannot be any waiver of a statutory requirement or provision which goes to the jurisdiction of assessment.	Reasoning
The origin of the assessment is either an assessee filing a return as contemplated in the Act or an assessee being called upon to file a return as contemplated in the Act.	Reasoning
The respondents challenged the Act.	Reasoning
The order of injunction does not amount to a waiver of the statutory provision.	Reasoning
The issue of a notice under the provisions of the Act relates to the exercise of jurisdiction under the Act in all cases.	Reasoning
Revenue statutes are based on public policy.	Reasoning
Revenue statutes protect the public on the one hand and confer power on the State on the other.29.	Reasoning
The decision in William Shepard vs. O. E. D. Barron (194 U.S. 55348 L. Ed. 1115) on which the Solicitor General relied for the proposition that the constitutionality of a rule of assessment can be waived does not have any application in the present case.	Reasoning
In the American decision (supra) an objection against the frontage rule of assessment for a public improvement, prescribed by the State laws, was not allowed to be urged to defeat the collection of the assessments.	Reasoning
The reason was that the abutting owners who petitioned for the improvement under the Act, actively participated in carrying out the work, recognized the justice of the assessments from time to time during its progress, and signed a statement for the purpose of inducing the issuance and purchase of country improvement bonds to the effect that the work had been properly done.	Reasoning
In the American decision (supra) the work was done at the instance and request of the owners.	Reasoning
The Court found an implied contract arising from facts that the party at whose request and for whose benefit the work had been done would pay for it in the manner provided for by the Act under which the work was done.30.	Reasoning
It is against principle to suggest that the appellants did any thing wrong or they are taking advantage of anything wrong.	Reasoning
Jessel, M.R. in Re.	Reasoning
Halletts Esate Knatchbull vs. Halleett 13 Ch. D. 696 said Now, first upon principle, nothing can be better settled, either in our own law, or, I suppose, the law of all civilised countries, than this, that where a man does an act which may be rightfully performed, he cannot say that act was intentionally and in fact done wrongly.	Reasoning
The respondents were entitled to impeach the statute under which they were made liable.	Reasoning
The respondents have done no wrong.	Reasoning
The respondents are not taking any advantage of any at of theirs.	Reasoning
The State was entitled to resist the respondents.	Reasoning
The State did so by contending that the Act was valid, but the State took no steps during the pendency of the litigation to take directions from the Court to serve notices of demand upon the appellants to keep alive the right of the respondents.31.	Reasoning
For these reasons the contentions of the Solicitors General fail.	None
The appeals are dismissed.	None
Parties will pay and bear their own costs.	Decision
K. K. Mathew, J.	None
In these appeals, by special leave, the question for consideration is whether the High Court of Assam was right in quashing the notices issued to the respondents on the dates specified in each of the Writ petitions filed by the respondents.2.	Issue
The notices were issued under the Assam Taxation (on Goods Carried by Road or on Inland Waterways) Act, 1961 (hereinafter called the Act) passed by the Legislature of Assam on 6th April, 1961 with retrospective effect from 24th April, 1954 and published in the gazette on 15th April, 1961.	None
The Act was to be operative up to 1st March, 1962.	None
It was passed consequent upon the declaration of the invalidity of the Assam Taxation (on Goods Carried by Road or on Inland Waterways) Act, 1954, by this Court in Atiabari Tea Co. Ltd. vs. The State of Assam Ors.	None
1961 1	None
SCR 809.	None
The respondents challenged the validity of the Act before the High Court of Assam in Writ petitions and they applied for injunction restraining the appellants from taking any proceedings under the Act.	Reasoning
Interim orders of injunction were passed on various dates.	None
The appellants opposed the interim order of injunction.	None
A common order was passed by the Court on 18th September, 1961 making the order absolute and restraining the appellant from taking any proceedings under the Act.	None
Thereafter, in some of the cases the appellants did not oppose the orders of interim injunction as it would have been futile exercise and the interim orders in these cases were also made absolute.3.	None
The High Court allowed the Writ petitions on 1st August, 1963 and declared the Act ultra vires the powers of the Legislature and granted certificates of fitness to appeal to this Court.4.	None
Khyerbari Tea Co. Ltd. and another approached this Court under Art.	None
32 of the Constitution praying for a declaration that the Act was ultra vires the power of Assam Legislature and this Court by its judgment dt.	None
13th	None
December, 1963 held that the Act was valid (Khyerbari Tea Co. Ltd. Anr.	Facts
vs. The State of Assam (1964 5 SCR 780).5.	Facts
Against the decision of the High Court declaring the Act ultra vires, the State of Assam filed appeals before this Court on 4th March, 1964 and applied for stay on 10th August, 1964 and interim stay of the order of the High Court declaring the Act ultra vires was granted on 28th October, 1964 and the orders of stay were made absolute on 29th January, 1965.	None
This Court allowed the appeals filed by the appellants on 1st April, 1968 declaring the Act to be valid.6.	None
Notices were issued by the Superintendent of Taxes to the respondents on various dates specified in the respective Writ petitions after this Court passed orders staying the operation of the order of the High Court for filing the returns for the quarters mentioned in the writ petitions.	None
These were the notices that the respondents successfully challenged before the High Court.7.	None
The question, which arose for consideration before the High Court of Assam was, whether, since no notices were issued within the time specified in s. 7(2) of the Act, the respondents could be called upon to file returns.8.	None
Before we proceed to consider the question, it is necessary to set out the relevant provisions of the Act.9.	None
The Act is an Act to levy a tax on goods carried by vehicles.	None
Sec.	None
3(1) is the charging section and it says that subject to the provisions of the Act, there shall be levied a tax on (a) manufactured tea and (b) jute in bales carried by motor vehicle, car, trolley, boat, animal and human agency or any other means except railways and airways in such manner and in respect of such period and at, such rate as specified in the schedule.	None
Subss.	None
(1) and (2) of s. 7 read (1) Every producer and dealer shall furnish returns of manufactured tea carried in tea containers and of jute carried in bales in such form and to such authority as may be prescribed.(2)	None
In the case of any producer or dealer who, in the opinion of the Commissioner, is liable to pay tax for any return period or a part thereof, the Commissioner may serve within two years of the expiry of the aforesaid period, a notice in the prescribed from upon him requiring him to furnish a return of goods carried and such producer or dealer shall thereupon furnish the return within the date and to the authority mentioned in the notice.	None
Sec.	None
9(4) provides If a producer or dealer fails to make a return as required by s. 7 or having made the return, fails to comply with the terms of the notice issued under subs.	None
(2) of this section, the Commissioner shall, by an order in writing, assess to the best of his judgment the producer or dealer and determine the tax payable by him on the basis of such assessmentProvided that before making assessment the Commissioner may allow the producer or dealer such further time as he thinks fit to make the return or to comply with the term of the notices issued under subs.	None
(2) of this section.10.	None
There is no dispute between the parties that the twoyears period specified in s. 7(2) expired on 31st December, 1963 and that all the impugned notices were issued after the expiry of that period.11.	None
The High Court was of the view that since no notices were issued to the respondents by the Commissioner within the period specified in s. 7(2), the respondents were not liable to furnish returns.	None
The High Court held that the issue of notices within the period specified in the subsection was a condition of the exercise of the power to call for returns.12.	None
The learned Solicitor General appearing for the appellants submitted that it was on account of orders of injunctions passed by the High Court that notices could not be issued to the respondents by the Commissioner and that before the period for the issue of notice under s. 7(2) expired, namely, 31st December, 1963, the High Court had declared the Act to be ultra vires the powers of the legislature which completely disabled the Commissioner from issuing the notices within the period specified in the subsection.13.	None
According to the Solicitor General, s. 7(2) postulates ability on the part of the Commissioner to issue notices during the twoyear period as required by the subsection and therefore it cannot apply to a case where it was rendered impossible for the Commissioner to issue the notices within that period by an act of the Court.	None
He submitted that the liability to submit the return was created by s. 7(2) and that issued of notice under s. 7(2) was only a step in the procedure for making the assessment and therefore if a dealer failed to make the return in accordance with s. 7 which, of course, would include the liability created by s. 7(1) to file the return, it would be open to the appropriate officer to assess the dealer to the best of his judgment under s. 9(4) and therefore, even if no notice under s. 7(2) was issued within the twoyears period, that would not in any way disable the officer concerned to make a best judgment assessment under s. 9(4).	None
He further submitted that by obtaining and enjoying the benefit of the orders of injunction, the respondents must be deemed to have waived their right to insist upon the notices within the period specified in s. 7(2).	None
He contended that after having successfully prevented the Commissioner from issuing the notices within the period by obtaining the orders of injunction, the respondents should not be heard to say that they were entitled to notices within the period specified in s. 7(2) of the Act.14.	None
On the other hand, it was argued on behalf of the respondents that issue of notice within the period specified in s. 7(2) was a condition for the exercise of the jurisdiction to make the assessment and as no notices were issued within the period specified in s. 7(2), the condition precedent for the liability to file returns was not fulfilled and there was, therefore, no liability for the respondents to file returns, or power in the authorities to make assessments.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, the argument for the respondents was that s. 7(1) by itself did not create any liability to submit the return within any period, that the liability to submit the return could arise only when the Commissioner issues the notice within the period specified in s. 7(2) and, since no such notices were issued to the respondents before the expiry of two years from the date specified in s. 7(2), the Commissioner became functus officio both for the reason that the period of two years specified in s. 7(2) had expired and also for the reason that the operation of the Act came to an end and that they could not, therefore, be assessed to tax.	Arguments of Respondent
They also contended that by approaching the High Court and obtaining orders of injunctions, they never waived their right to insist upon the notice within the period.	Arguments of Respondent
They submitted, by approaching the Court and obtaining the orders of injunction, they were exercising their rights as ordinary citizens and no inference of waiver of their right to the notices within the period specified in s. 7(2) would be permissible.15.	Arguments of Respondent
The question for consideration is whether, the respondents, after having obtained the orders of injunction from the Court restraining the appellants from taking any proceedings under the Act and thereby prevented the Commissioner from issuing the notices during the period, could, thereafter, insist upon the notices within that period as a condition for their liability to file the returns or for the authorities for making the assessments, and whether the Commissioner could have issued the notices before the appeal were preferred against the order of the High Court declaring the Act as invalid and stay of that order was obtained from this Court.16.	Issue
The respondents obtained the orders of injunction from the Court which, the Court would not have issued, had the Court at the time that the Act was intra vires the power of the Legislature as it ultimately turned out to be by the decision of this Court.	None
The Court issued the orders of injunction on the basis of its view that the respondents had a prima facie case but when ultimately this Court declared that the Act was valid, justice requires that the respondents should not be allowed to set up the contention that they were entitled to get the notices within the period during which the injunction orders operated or within the period during which the judgment of the High Court declaring the Act ultra vires remained in operation.	None
In other words, the respondents, after having successfully prevented the Commissioner from issuing notices by virtue of the orders of injunction obtained by them from the High Court, should not be heard to say that they were entitled to notices as they themselves made it impossible for the Commissioner to issue the notices within the period by obtaining the orders of injunction.	None
When the orders of injunction were passed by the Court restraining the appellants from taking any proceedings under the Act, could the Commissioner have issued the notices ?	None
Clearly not.	None
If it was impossible for the Commissioner to issue the notices to the respondents within the period by virtue of the orders of injunction, could the law insist upon the issue of the notices within that period ?	None
Again, the answer must be no.	None
And, the Commissioner could not have issued the notices after the High Court, by its order, declared the Act to be invalid until the operation of that order was stayed by this Court.17.	None
The law in its most positive and preemptory injunctions, is understood to disclaim, as it does in its general aphorisms, all intention of compelling performance of that which is impossible.	None
Where the law creates a duty or charge, and the party is disabled to perform it, without any default in him, and has no remedy over, there the law will in general excuse him and though impossibility of performance is in general no excuse for not performing an obligation with a party has expressly undertaken by contract, yet when the obligation is one implied by law, impossibility of performance is a good excuse.	None
(see Brooms Legal Maxims, 10th Ed. 1939 pp. 162163).	None
The same principle has been stated in Craies on Statute Law (6th Ed.	None
p. 268)	None
Under certain circumstances compliance with the provisions of statutes which prescribe how something is to be done will be excused.	None
Thus, in accordance with the maxim of law, Lex non cogit ad impossibilia, if it appear that the performance of the formalities prescribed by a statute has been rendered impossible by circumstances over which the persons interested had no control, like the act of God or the Kings enemies, these circumstances will be taken as a valid excuse.18.	None
We think the circumstance that the appellants were prevented by the orders of injunction from taking any proceedings under the Act coupled with the fact that the High Court declared the Act to be invalid, made it impossible for the Commissioner to issue the notices within the period specified in s. 7(2).	None
There is no reason to distinguish between an Act of God or Kings enemies preventing an act being done and the circumstances here which put it beyond the control of the Commissioner to issue the notices.19.	None
It was argued for the respondents that issue of notices within the period specified in s. 7(2) was a condition for liability to file the return and since no notices were issued within the period, the liability to file the return did not arise and the Court cannot extend the time for issuing the notices.20.	Arguments of Respondent
Let us assume that the provision for issue notice within the period specified in s. 7(2) was mandatory and was a condition precedent for the liability to file the returns.	None
Even so, the respondents could have waived the benefit of it and, in fact, they did waive it by their conduct.	None
In other words, even if the issue of notices within the period provided in s. 7(2) was mandatory and no liability to file the returns arose until the notices were issued, the respondents could have waived the benefit of the notices as the issue of notices was only for the benefit of the respondent and did not subserve any principal of public policy.21.	None
In Vellayan Chettiyar vs. Province of Madras AIR 1947 PC 197 the question arose whether notice under the provision of s. 80 of the CPC was mandatory and could be waived by the party entitled to it.	None
The Privy Council said that although the provision for issue of notice was mandatory, the party which was entitled to the benefit of notice could waive it.	None
The language of s. 7(2) is, no doubt, mandatory, but the subsection was not enacted on the basis of any public policy.	None
Its purpose is only to give a dealer notice of his duty to submit the return created by subs.	None
(1) of s. 7.	None
Whenever a statute makes the performance of an act within a specified period mandatory and it is seen from the provisions of the statute that the performance of the act within the period is solely for the benefit of a party and no question of public policy is involved in its performance within period, it has been held that the party entitled to insist upon its performance within the period can waive it.	None
As the issue of notice within the period specified in s. 7(2) is clearly for the benefit of the dealer and if he, by his conduct, evinces an intention that he will not insist upon it then it will be inconsistent with all notions of justice to hold that he should be allowed to insist upon it.	None
The respondents clearly know when they applied and obtained the orders of injunction that the Commissioner would be disabled from issuing the notices under s. 7(2) during the period of the operation of the orders of injunction.	None
And the law made it impossible for the Commissioner to issue the notice as long as the order of the High Court declaring the Act as invalid remained in operation.	None
How then could the Commissioner have issued the notices to the respondents within the period specified in s. 7(2) ?	None
22.	None
In Graham vs. Ingleby 1848 1 Exch.	None
651, the question was whether the Statute 4 Anne, c. 16, s. 11, which enacted that no dilatory plea should be received in any Court of record, unless the party offering such plea, do, by affidavit, prove the truth thereof, or show some probable matter to the Court to induce them to believe that the fact of such dilatory plea is true was for the benefit of a party and could be waived.	None
The defendant pleaded in abatement, and purported to verify the plea by an affidavit, but the words before me were omitted from the jurat.	None
The plaintiff replied by traversing the plea, made up the issue and delivered it, with notice of trial for the ensuring Liverpool Assizes.	None
Also both parties took further steps in the action.	None
Pollock C.B. said The affidavit is bad, by reason of the omission of the words before me in the jurat.	None
It is the same as if there had been no affidavit.	None
With respect to the other question Suppose there had been no affidavit	None
whatever, and the plaintiff had replied, joining issue, and a trial had taken place, the even of which was a verdict in favour of the defendant, upon which judgment was entered up, could the whole proceedings have been set aside before there was no affidavit ?	None
It is clear that they could not.	None
The question then is, what is the meaning of the statute of Anne?	None
In my opinion, that Act had not any public for its object, but solely the protection of plaintiffs against the delivery and effect of dilatory pleas.	None
It enacts, that no such plea shall be received, unless verified by affidavit.	None
If a plaintiff chooses to waive that provision, which is introduced for his benefit, he cannot afterwards sign judgment for want of such affidavit Parke B. said I concur in opinion with the Lord Chief Baron.	None
The present affidavit is equivalent to no affidavit.	None
The question then is, what is the meaning of the Statute of Anne, which requires an affidavit of verification as a condition precedent to a valid plea in abatement ?	None
If that enactment be intended for the sole benefit of plaintiffs, then the maxim applies Quilebet potest renunciare juri pro se introduco.	None
It is evident that the requirements of that Statute are solely for the benefit of plaintiffs, and in order to prevent them from being delayed in their suits and that they have to reference whatever to other suitors or to the rest of the Queens subjects.	None
It follows, that although an affidavit is so defective as to amount to no affidavit, a plaintiff may, if he choose, waive the benefit of his right, and join issue on the plea and go to trial and if he does so, he cannot afterwards avail himself of the provisions of the statute.	None
So, if he should demur to this plea, he would, in like manner, waive the benefit of the Statute.	None
If it were otherwise, the inconvenience would be great, as already pointed out.23.	None
These observations were quoted with approval by Lord Pearce and their correctness affirmed by Lord Diplock in Kamins Co. vs. Zenith Investment (supra) (H.L.E.) Lord Diplock made it clear that waiver is a word which is sometimes used loosely to describe a number of different legal grounds on which a person may be debarred from asserting a substantive right which he once possessed or from raising a particular defence to a claim against him which once possessed or from raising a particular defence to a claim of against him which would otherwise be available to hi.	None
He observed that there is a type of waiver which arises in a situation where a person is entitled to alternative rights inconsistent with one another as when he has knowledge of the facts which give rise in law to these alternative rights and acts in a manner which is consistent only with his having chosen to rely on one of them and the law holds him to his choice even though he was unaware that this would be the legal consequence of what he did.	None
He then said that there is a second type of waiver which debars a person from raising a particular defence to a claim against him when he either agrees with the claimant not to raise that particular defence or so conducts himself as to estopped from raising it.24.	None
Issacs J. in delivering the judgment of the High Court of Australia in Craine vs. Coloniat Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd. said  Waiver is a doctrine of some arbitrariness introduced by the law to prevent a man in certain circumstances from taking up two inconsistent positions (see per James L.J. in Picher vs. Rawlins 1872, 7 Ch. App. 259, et sed.	None
It is a conclusion of law when the necessary facts are established.	None
It looks, however, chiefly to the conduct and position of the person who is said to have waived, in order to see whether he has approbated so as to prevent him from reprobating in English terms, whether he has elected to get some advantage to which he would not otherwise have been entitled, so as to deny to him a later election to the contrary (see per Lord Shaw in Pitman vs. Crum Ewing, 1911 AC 217).	None
His knowledge is necessary, or he cannot be said to have approbated or elected.25.	None
In Corporation of Toronto vs. Russell 1908 AC 493, the Judicial Committee held that where a notice in writing of intention to purchase compulsorily was required to be given to the owner of lands, the provision being entirely for his benefit, he might waive it.26.	None
The High Court granted the orders of injunction on the basis that there was a prima facie case for the respondents.	None
The High Court held that the Act was invalid on the basis of its view that it was ultra vires the powers of the State Legislature.	None
But when this Court declared that the High Court was wrong and that the Act was valid, justice requires that neither the order of injunction nor the order of the High Court declaring the Act invalid should prejudice the rights of the parties as ultimately declared.	None
No act of a Court should prejudice a party.	None
That is the first principle of justice.	None
It was the orders of injunction and the order declaring the Act as ultra vires which made it impossible for the Commissioner to issue the notices within the period specified in s. 7(2).	None
When this Court, by its judgment, upheld the appellants contention that the Act as valid, how could the appellants be put in the position which they would have occupied had the High Court not passed those wrong orders, except by dispensing with the necessity of issuing notices within the time?	None
The principle of restitution requires that the party prejudiced by a wrong order of the Court should be put in the position which he or it would have occupied had the wrong order not been passed.27.	None
It was contended on behalf of the respondents that the appellants should have specifically told the High Court at the time the injunction orders were made absolute that if the Commissioner was not permitted to issue the notices within the period specified in s. 7(2), it would be impossible for the appropriate authority to call for the returns and make the assessments and that at any rate the appellants should have subsequently applied to the Court for modification of the injunction orders to the extent of permitting the Commissioner to issue the notices within the period and the failure of the appellants to do so shows lack of diligence on their part and that the Court should not help parties who were not diligent in their conduct.28.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not think there is any substance in the argument.	None
It was after consideration of the arguments of both sides that the Court made the interim orders of injunction absolute on 18th September, 1961 stating that the appellants were restrained from taking any proceedings under the Act.	None
Therefore, in some applications for injunctions, the appellants did not enter appearance and object to interim order of injunction being made absolute, knowing fully well that since the Court had passed a considered order on 18th September, 1961, it would be futile to urge further objections to the grant of injunction by the Court.	None
That apart, the Commissioner had time to issue the notices from 1st August, 1963 when the High Court declared the Act to be ultra vires till 31st December, 1963 when the two year period expired.	None
But as the Act was declared had, it was impossible for him to issue the notices within the period.	None
Nor is there any substance in the argument of the respondents that the appellants should have approached this Court when this Court by its judgment in Khyerbari Tea Co. Ltd. case (supra) declared the Act to be intra vires and moved the Court for stay of the operation of the judgment of the High Court.	None
We think that the appellants were bound to appeal to this Court against the order of the High Court declaring the Act as invalid in order to get ride of the effect of that judgment as that judgment was binding between the parties to it notwithstanding the decision in Khyerbari Tea Co. Ltd. case (supra) that the Act was valid.	None
The appellants were, therefore, entitled to a reasonable period for filing appeals and for applying for stay of the judgment of the High Court declaring the Act to be ultra vires.29.	None
It may be recalled that the judgment in Khyerbari Tea Co. Ltd. case (supra) was rendered on 13th December, 1963 and the appellants preferred the appellants to this Court on 4th March, 1964.	None
How is it possible to say that the appellants were guilty of laches when it is seen that they filed the appeals within the period of limitation prescribed by law ?	None
We have to judge the rights of the parties on the basis of the law and cannot allow ourselves to be swayed by any sentimental considerations.30.	None
We think the respondents were bound to file the returns even though the notices were not issued to them within the period specified in s. 7(2).	None
The liability to file the return was created by s. 7(1) and as the requirement of notice within the period specified in s. 7(2) could not have been insisted upon by the respondents for the reasons which we have given, the authority empowered to make the assessment under s. 9(4) was competent to do so.	None
We think the High Court went wrong in allowing the writ petitions.31.	None
We would, therefore, set aside the orders of the High Court, dismiss the writ petitions and allow the appeals without any order as to costs.	None
M. H. Beg, J. I have had the advantage of going through the judgment of the learned Chief Justice and my learned Brother Mathew, I regard that I regret that I am compelled to reach a conclusion which amounts to holding that the taxing authorities will, in the circumstances of these cases, have no right whatsoever left to assess the respondents for taxes which they were found finally entitled to realise when this Court held the Assam Taxation (on Goods Carried by Road or on Inland Waterways) Act, 1961, (hereinafter referred to as the Act), to be valid on 13th December, 1963.	None
Under the provisions of the Act which we have to interpret, this seems to be the inevitable result.	None
As my approach is perhaps slightly different from the one adopted by Mylord the Chief justice, I will stated may reasons also.2.	None
If it shock ones conscience to thing that the mere fact that the High Courts orders prohibiting the Commissioner from proceeding under the Act should completely frustrate the intentions of a statute which was ultimately found by this Court to be quite valid and existing for the relevant period in the eye of law, it should disturb ones equanimity no less that those who represented or advised the taxing authorities of the State should not have brought to the notice of the High Court the grant loss to the exchequer of the State and the possible automatic victory which the respondents may secure by mere lapse of time.	None
The High Court would, I have no doubt, have suitably modified its orders to meet the requirements of law and justice in such cases if the possible consequences of its orders had been brought to its notice.3.	None
In the agreement with Mylord the Chief justice, I do not think that taxing authorities of the State were faced with a situation which could approximate to one where an Act of God had robbed them of the power to act or that they could not possibly have done anything at all within the time fixed by s. 7, subs.	None
(2) of the Act.	None
I fully share the view that the taxing authorities were inexcusably nonchalant or unconcerned about the possible consequences of their neglect or inactivity upon the revenues of the State.	None
It was atleast the duty of the party adversely affected to have brought the relevant provisions of the law to the notice of the Court before it issued the injunction, or, at any rate, even afterwards but within the time prescribed for the notice under s. 7(2) of the Act.	None
A party affected cannot go to sleep over its rights and then attempt to shift the blame on to the Court for the consequences which flow from the orders passed so that it may be able to plead Actus Curias Neminem Gravabit (An act of the Court shall prejudice no man).	None
Such a plea appears to me to be disingenuous.	None
It cannot apply to a case where the damage done to the powers of the taxing authorities was attributable to their own remisness or to that of their legal advisers.4.	None
The next question is Did the acts or conduct of the petitionersrespondents or anything else in the case operate as a waiver or an estoppel which prevented them from agitating the serious question whether the right of the taxing authorities to realise any tax from them under the Act had become extinguished by lapse of time with the Commissioners power to issue notices prescribed by s. 7(2) of the Act ?5.	None
If a waiver is a matter of agreement and not of an inference from any misleading conduct, the parties concerned must apply their minds to the subject matter of what is waived by an agreement between them before any alleged waiver can arise.	None
It is contended here on behalf of the state that it must be assumed that the respondents waived their right to get a notice s. 7(2) of the Act when they obtained the injunctions from the High Court.	None
The authorities cited on behalf of the appellant, which have been discussed by my learned Brother Mathew do effort grounds for contending that a compliance with a provisions intended for the benefit of a party may be waived by the party for whose protection it is designed.	None
But, even in such cases, I think it must be atleast present to the mind of the party waiving a right by adopting a course of action what the underlying assumption is or what the consequence of its conduct is going to be.	None
One can only make an assumption on which an injunction rests if it flows necessarily from the language of the Courts order or anything else on record.	None
But, there is nothing here either in the Courts orders or anywhere else on record to provide a basis for such an assumption.6.	None
Furthermore, the waiver, even where both sides have agreed to waive the operation of a statutory provision, cannot extend to a case in which the effect may be either to oust the jurisdiction conferred by statute or to confer a jurisdiction which, according to the statute, is not there.	None
In other words, if a notice under s. 7(2) of the Act is a condition precedent to the exercise of jurisdiction to make the bets judgment assessment, I do not think that the doctrine or waiver will confer jurisdiction so as to enable parties to avoid the effect of violating a mandatory provision on a jurisdictional matter even by agreement.	None
If, on the other hand, want of notice under s. 7(2) of the Act is not a condition precedent to the exercise of jurisdiction to make a best judgment assessment and, that seems to me to be the crux of the matter on this question it does not appear to me to be necessary to resort at all to a doctrine of a dubious or deemed waiver.	None
In that case, waiver or no waiver, the power to assess would subsist.	None
And, as that power has to be exercised quasijudicially, the taxing authorities could issue a notice to show cause why they should not assess on such materials as they have, even if their power to issue a notice asking for a return under s. 7(2) may have been lost by lapse of time.	None
The power to issue a suitable notice to show cause according to rules of natural justice when a quasijudicial function has to be exercised, can be, as we have repeatedly held, implied and read into the nature of the function to be performed even if it is not expressly mentioned.7.	None
Again, I do not see what representatives the petitioners  respondents had either made or could be deemed to have made by any silence of theirs so as to mislead the taxing authorities.	None
The presumption is that everybody knows the law whether this be so or not in fact.	None
Hence, no estoppel in pass or equitable estoppel, as contemplated by s. 115 Evidence Act, could arise here.	None
Also, there could be no estoppel by record as it was neither actually nor constructively in issue whether the party obtaining an injunction in its favour was or was not to get the benefit of lapse of the time prescribed for a notice under s. 7(2) of the Act.	None
And, therefore, there could be no decision, actual or constructive, on such an issue.	None
That issue could only arise after the time prescribed had expired whatever be the reason why a party could not act during the prescribed time.8.	None
We have been reminded by both sides of what Rowlatt, J., an outstanding authority on law relating to taxation, said in Cape Brandy Syndiate vs. IRC 1921 1 K.B. 64 in a taxing Act one has to look at what is clearly said.	None
There is no room for any intendment.	None
There is no equity about a tax.	None
There is no presumption as to a tax.	None
Nothing is to be read in, nothing is to be implied.	None
One can only look fairly at the language used.	None
I do not think that this was meant to exhaust all principles of interpretation or construction of every type of provision in a taxing statute or to apply to every situation which may arise.	None
In a system, such as ours, where the Constitutionality of all statues, including taxing statutes, can be subjected to judicial review other principles also are, not infrequently, invoked.	None
If, however, s. 9(4) of the Act is to be literally interpreted on this point, we cannot read into it, by implication, an obstacle to the best judgment assessment which is not there.	None
It read as follows 9(4)	None
If a producer or dealer fails to make a return as required by s. 7 or having made the return, fails to comply with the terms of the notice issued under subs.	None
(2) of this section, the Commissioner shall, by an order in writing, assess to the best of his judgment the producer or dealer and determine the tax payable by him on the basis of such assessment Provided that before making assessment the Commissioner may allow the producer or dealer such further time as he thinks fit to make the return or to comply with the terms of the notice issued under subs.	None
(2) of this section.9.	None
It will be seen that s. 7 deals with returns whereas s. 9 deals with assessment, and s. 9(4) deals specifically with the power to make the best judgment assessment.	None
On a reading of s. 9(4), it appears that the two conditions for an exercise of jurisdiction under it are alternative conditions linked with the disjunctive or.	None
A failure to comply with the terms of the notice issued under s. 7(2) is only one of these two alternative sets of conditions.	None
And, this set of conditions comes into existence only after the issue of the notice under s. 7(2) which initiates the proceedings.	None
It is, however, difficult to see how a mere failure to make a return, by itself amounts to initiation of proceedings.	None
Even if the first part of Section 9(4) could conceivably apply to a party after the expiry of two years, during which period a dealer or producer may get a notice under Sect. 7(2) of the Act to make return, yet, the proceedings will have to be commenced by some kind of notice that could, as indicated above, be a notice in exercise of an implied power to observe rules of natural justice although it could not, after the lapse of the prescribed time, be technically a notice under s. 7(2) of the Act.	None
Assuming that the power to issue notice under s. 7(2) is not mandatory but only directory, inasmuch as the Commissioner may issue the required notice, and, furthermore, even assuming, for the purposes of argument, what such a notice, meant for the benefit a party can be and has been waived by it, yet, I fail to see how an assessment under s. 9(4) could escape the bar created by s. 11 of the Act.	None
This section shows that a notice to make a return within two years of the expiry of the return period is a condition precedent to exercise jurisdiction to assess.	None
And, such a notice could only be one under s. 7(2) of the Act.10. Sec.	None
11 of the Act, which seems to clinch the crucial issue, reads as follows 11.	None
If in consequence of definite information which has come into his possession, the Commissioner is satisfied that any producer or dealer, though liable to pay tax in respect of any period, has nevertheless failed to make the return require of him or that tea or jute chargeable to tax has escaped assessment in any period or has been underassessed, the Commissioner may, at any time within two years of the expiry of that period, serve on the producer or dealer liable to pay tax a notice requiring him to furnish within such period, as may be mentioned in the notice, a return of manufactured tea in tea containers of jute in bales carried, in the prescribed from and may proceed to assess or reassesses the producer or dealer and the provisions of this Act shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly Provided that the tax shall be charged at the rate at which it would have ordinarily been charged, had there been no escape or evasion.11.	None
If this provision of s. 11 imposes a limitation upon the power of the Commissioner to assess in every case of escaped assessment, whatever may be the reason for the escape, the best judgment proceedings against the respondents would be barred by the passage of two years after the return period.	None
This result must, on the language of s. 11, flow from it, and not from mere failure of the Commissioner to issue a notice under s. 7(2) of the Act, which the Commissioner may only serve within two years of the expiry of the return period.12.	None
Here, I may refer to State of Assam Anr.	None
vs. D.C. Choudhuri Ors. 1990 1	None
SCR 780 where, interalia, s. 30 of the Assam Agricultural IT Act, which was found to correspond to s. 34 of the Indian IT Act, 1922, was relied upon by this Court to hold hat there is a bar against the proceedings for escaped assessment.	None
Sec. 30 of the Act reads as follows	None
If for any reason any agricultural income chargeable to agricultural incometax has escaped assessment for any financial year, or has been assessed at too low a rate or has been the subject of undue relief under this Act, the Agrl.	None
ITO may, at any time within three years of the end of the financial year, serve on the person liable to pay agricultural incometax on such agricultural income or, in the case of a company on the principal officer thereof, a notice containing all or any of the requirements which may be included in a notice under subs.	None
(2) of s. 19, and may proceed to assess or reassess such income, and the provisions of this Act shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly as if the notice were a notice issued under that subsection Provided 13.	None
If we compare s. 11 of the Act before us with s. 30 of the Assam Agrl.	None
IT Act, we find that, although, the language of s. 11 of the Act before us is somewhat different from that of s. 30 of the Assam Agrl.	None
IT Act, yet, the effect is the same.	None
On the language of s. 11 of the Act before us, it is evident that every case where tea or jute chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for any period or has been under assessed, the Commissioner must take action within two years of the expiry of the return period.	None
I think it is this part of the Act which will operate as a bar to the jurisdiction of the Commissioner to tax any escaped assessment beyond two years of the return period.	None
Therefore, quite apart from the question whether on the mere language of s. 7(2) and s. 9(4) a failure to issue a notice under s. 7(2) of the Act within the return period constitutes a bar to proceedings under s. 9(4) of the Act, I do not see how a failure to issue such a notice would not become a bar due to the clear provision of s. 11 of the Act.	None
This bar, at any rate, is against exercise of jurisdiction to assess beyond the prescribed period.	None
The notice here is part of the Procedure for assessment.	None
There is no power given to issue it beyond the period fixed.	None
There is no provision of the Act making any think like s. 5 or s. 14 of the Limitation Act applicable to proceedings for escaped assessment under the Act.	None
We cannot, by an exercise of our judicial power of interpretation defeat the clear effect of the enacted law.	None
If the law was badly drafted or has revealed a gap which its makers did not forsee, the remedy of the state lies elsewhere.14.	None
I would, therefore, in agreement with Mylord the Chief Justice dismiss these appeals, but, in the circumstances of these cases, award no costs to either side.	None
Order of the Court15.	None
In accordance with the judgments of the majority, the appeals are dismissed.	Decision
The parties will pay and bear their own costs.	Decision
