 K. Das, J.1.	None
This is an appeal on a certificate granted by the High Court of Orissa.	None
The appellants are the State of Orissa and the Collector of Commercial Taxes, Orissa.	None
The respondent is a partnership firm called Messrs. Chakobhai Ghelabhai and Company dealing in bidi leaves.2.	None
The short facts are these.	Facts
The respondent firm has its headquarters in Bagbehera in Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
During the years 1948 to 1951 it was engaged in collecting bide leaves from certain forest areas in Orissa.	Facts
The leaves so collected were made up into bundles and stored in the respondents godowns in Orissa.	Facts
They were then sold and despatched to various destinations outside the State of Orissa.	Facts
The respondent did not get itself registered as a dealer under the Orissa Sales Tax Act, 1947 (Orissa Act XIV of 1947), hereinafter called the Act.	Facts
On July 21, 1950, a notice was issued to the respondent by the Assistant Sales Tax Officer, Patna Circle, requiring it to submit a return in Form No. IV showing separately the particulars of its turnover for each of the quarters commencing October, 1947, and upto June 30, 1950.	Facts
The respondent was also asked to show cause why a penalty should not be imposed on it under S. 12(5) of the Act.	Facts
To this notice the respondent sent a reply to the effect, substantially, that it carried on no selling business in Orissa and was, therefore, under no liability to register itself as a dealer in Orissa or to pay sales tax under the Act.	Facts
Thereafter, the respondent took no part in the assessment proceedings and made no appearance before the assessing authority except on June 30, 1951, when one of its partners Narvaram Popatbhai appeared and said that the accounts were at Bagbehera and the despatches of bidi leaves from Orissa were mixed up with other despatches and, therefore, he was not in a position to give a correct account of the business in Orissa.	Facts
It was admitted, however, that the bidi leaves were collected in Orissa, were processed and manufactured for sale and then stored in godowns in Orissa they were then sold and despatched to different customers outside Orissa.	Facts
The assessing authority held on the materials before it that the transfer of property in the bidi leaves sold and despatched to customers, as aforesaid was completed in Orissa and the respondent wilfully failed to get itself registered and to submit a return of its turnover.	None
The assessing authority then proceeded to assess the tax to the best of its judgment and determined the taxable turnover to be Rs.	None
61,250/ for each of the twelve quarters, the first quarter ending on June 30, 1948, and the last quarter ending on March 31, 1951.	None
It also imposed a penalty of Rs. 500/ for each quarter.	Facts
The orders of assessment were made on two dateson July,4, 1951, for four quarters and on August 29, 1951, for the remaining eight quarters.	Facts
Against these orders of assessment the respondent went up in appeal to the Assistant Collector of Salestax, Sambalpur.	Facts
One of the pleas taken before the appellate authority was that the respondent was not a dealer in Orissa inasmuch as the sales of bidi leaves were not effected in Orissa.	Facts
In the course of the hearing of the appeal this plea was given up, and it was admitted by the respondents pleader that the sales were completed in Orissa.	Facts
The appeal was then heard on the contentions that (1) the turnover determined was excessive, and (2) that no penalty should have been imposed.	Facts
These contentions were rejected by the appellate authority.	Facts
The respondent then moved in revision, but the revision petition having been filed out of time was rejected by the Collector of Commercial Taxes, Orissa.3.	Facts
The respondent then moved the High Court of Orissa by means of a writ petition in which it was contended that (1) the respondent was not a dealer in Orissa (2) that the sales of the postConstitution period were sales within the meaning of the Explanation to Art.	Facts
286 (1) (a) as it then stood and Orissa could not tax them (3) that the notice under S. 12 (5) of the Act was bad on various grounds (4) that the fees levied under R. 59 of the Orissa Sales Tax Rules, 1947, on the respondents memorandum of appeal and revision application were not justified in law and (5) that the assessment was illegally made and so also the penalty under S. 12 (5) of the Act.	Facts
On these contentions the respondent asked for a writ quashing the assessment proceedings and the notices of demand and for a direction for a refund of the fees paid.	Facts
The High Court allowed the petition by its judgment and order dated September 5, 1955.	Facts
It set said the assessment orders, directed a refund of the fees paid and further made an order that the respondent shall be directed to furnish a return of its transactions under S. 11 for the period for which it had been served with a notice under S. 11 (1) of the Act.	Facts
In support of its orders the High Court came to the following findings (1) that the assessment orders were bad because of the repeal if the second proviso to S. 2 (g) of the Act defining Sale, by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950 (2) that the levy of fees on a graded scale amounted to the imposition of a tax which was unwarranted and beyond the rule making power of the State Government and (3) that the notice issued under S. 12 (5) was not is accordance with law.4.	Facts
On behalf of the appellants it has been contended that the High Court was in error in respect of all the three findings are which it had arrived.	Arguments of Petitioner
As to the finding of the High Court that the assessment orders were bad because of the repeal of the second proviso to S.2(g) of the Act, we think that the High Court was clearly in error.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the admission made on behalf of the respondent, it was quite unnecessary, to deal with the second proviso to S.2(g) of the Act or to consider the effect of its repeal by the Adaptation of Law Order, 1950, or the effect of the saving clause in paragraph 20 thereof.	Arguments of Respondent
The admission on behalf of the respondent made in very clear terms as recorded by the appellate authority was that the sales were completed in Orissa.	None
Section2(g) of the Act states S. 2(g)  sale means, with all its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, any transfer of property in goods for cash or deferred payment or other valuable consideration, including a transfer of property in goods involved in the execution of contract but does not include a mortgage, hypothecation, charge or pledge.	None
The admission made in this case clearly brings the sales of bidi leaves within S.2(g) of the Act and as the sales were completed in Orissa, they were liable to tax under the Act.	None
It was quite unnecessary to go to the second proviso to S. 2(g) in view of the admission of the respondent.5.	None
Learned Counsel for the respondent suggested that the admission made by the respondents pleader was an admission on a question of law and therefore, not binding on the respondent.	None
We do not agree.	Reasoning
The question where a sale is completed depends on facts and is not a pure question of law.	Arguments of Respondent
It is worthy of note that a no stage subsequent to the admission did the respondent repudiate it or challenge its correctness.	None
Even in the writ petition it was not stated that a wrong admission had been made on the contrary, the appellate authoritys order in which the admission was set out was an annexure to the writ petition.	Reasoning
It is indeed true that in paragraph 13(a) of the writ petition a contention was raised with regard to the sales of the postConstitution period and a reference was made to the Explanation to Art.	Reasoning
286(1) (a) as it then stood.	Reasoning
But the necessary averments to attract the Explanation were not made, and nowhere was it stated that the goods were despatched outside Orissa for the purpose of consumption in the delivery State.	Reasoning
In other words no foundation was laid for making a distinction between the preConstitution and post Constitution sales, and with regard to all of them it was admitted that they were completed in Orissaan admission which was never repudiated or challenged.	None
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the High Court was clearly in error in its first finding as to the unconstitutionality of the assessment orders made.6.	Reasoning
We think that the High Court was also in error in its finding as to the legality of the fees levied on the memorandum of appeal and the application in revision.	Reasoning
Section 29 of the Act deals with the rule making power.	Reasoning
It states S. 29(1)	None
The State Government may subject to the condition of previous publication, make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.2.	None
In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power such rules may prescribe          (s) the procedure for and other matters (including fees) incidental to, the disposal of appeals and applications for revision and review under S. 23.Rule 59 of the Orissa Sales Tax Rules, 1947, so far as it is relevant for our purpose saysR. 59.	None
FeesSubject to the provisions of R. 60 the following fees shall be payable(i) (ii) On a memorandum of Five per cent of theAppeal against an order amount in dispute of assessment or penalty calculated to the nearest or both or an application arest rupees subject for revision or review of to a minimum of one such order.	None
hundred rupees.(iii) (iv) On an application for One rupee.	None
revision.(v)	None
The first question is if S. 29 (2) (s) is so far as it empowers the State Government to make a rule prescribing fees for appeals and applications in revision was within the legislative competence of the Provincial Legislature.	None
The Act was enacted in 1947and the source of legislative power must be found in the Government of India Act.	None
199935.	None
Item 48 of List II (Provincial Legislative List) in the Seventh Schedule of the said Act related to Taxes on the sale of goods and item 54 read Fees in respect of any of the matters in this list, but not including fees taken in any court.	None
Item 1 related inter alia to constitution and organisation of all courts except the Federal Court, and fees taken therein.	None
The High Court held that the assessing authorities including the Assistant Collector of SalesTax and the Collector of Commercial Taxes, Orissa were not courts in the strict sense of the term Court, though they exercised quasijudicial functions under the Act.	None
We think that that is a correct view.	None
But it does not necessarily follow that the fees imposed under R. 59 read with S. 29(2) (s) are illegal.	None
Under items 48 and 54 the then Provincial Legislature had power to make a law for taxes on the sale of goods and for fees in respect thereof.	None
Even with regard to Court fees, the Provincial Legislature had power to make a law under item 1.We do not think that S. 29(2) (s) can be held to be bad on the ground of legislative incompetence.	None
Nor do we think that R. 59 goes beyond what is permitted under S. 29(2) (s).	None
The fees imposed are not taxes at all they come within the expression other matters (including fees) incidental to the disposal of appeals and applications for revision etc	None
We are unable to agree with the High Court that the word incidental has reference to a matter of casual nature only.	None
The procedure for disposal of an appeal includes as a necessary incidental matter the filing of an appeal on a proper fee.	None
The distinction between a tax and a fee was considered by this Court in Commissioner, Hindu Religious Endowments, Madras v. Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar, 1954	None
SCR 1005 (AIR 1954 SC 282 )	None
and it is unnecessary to repeat what was said there.	None
We consider that the fees imposed by R. 59 are for services rendered by a governmental agency and though ordinarily fees are uniform, there may be various kinds of fees and it is not possible to formulate a definition that would be applicable to all cases.7.	None
Now, the last finding of the High Court is that the notice under S. 12(5) was not in accordance with law.	None
Here again we think that the High Court was in error.	None
The notice was issued in Form No. VI, which is a combined form for the purposes of Ss. 11 and 12.	None
A footnote appended to the form required the assessing authority to score out unnecessary words.	None
The High Court points out that this was not done.	None
We are, however, unable to agree with the High Court that the failure to score out unnecessary words made the notice bad in law.	None
The respondent sent a reply to the notice and claimed that it was not a dealer in Orissa.	None
Obviously, the respondent had no difficulty in understanding that the notice was one under S. 12(5) of the Act.	None
The notice stated in terms that the respondent should show cause why a penalty should not be imposed under S. 12(5) of the Act.	Facts
Section 12(5) as it stood at the relevant time was in these terms S. 12 (5).	None
If upon information which has come into his possession, the Collector is satisfied that any dealer has been liable to pay tax under this Act in respect of any period and has nevertheless wilfully failed to apply for registration, the Collector shall, after giving the dealer a reasonable opportunity of being heard, assess, to the best of his judgment, the amount of tax, if any, due from the dealer in respect of such period and all subsequent periods and the Collector may direct that the dealer shall pay, by way of penalty, in addition to the amount so assessed, a sum not exceeding one and a half times that amount.	None
It has been argued before us that one notice was issued for several quarters and an assessment was made for each quarter separatelyfour quarters on July 4, 1951, and eight quarters on August 29, 1951.This, it is contended, was illegal.	Issue
We are unable to accept this contention as correct.	None
Section 12(5) talks of a period, and the period may consist of more than one quarter.	Reasoning
The return has, however, to be submitted in Form IV which read with R. 20 of the Orissa Sales Tax Rules, 1947, requires the assessee to furnish details of his turnover for each quarter.	Reasoning
The assessment must, therefore, be made on the taxable turnover of each quarter.8.	None
Lastly, it has been argued that there was no notice under S. 12(5) for the last three quarters and, therefore, for those quarters the assessment orders must be held to be bad.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellate authority has pointed out that even for the last three quarters the assessing officer, after he had made his orders of assessment in the first five quarters, had directed the respondent to produce his accounts, but no accounts were produced.	None
Section 12(5) enables the assessing authority to make a best judgment assessment for all subsequent periods after giving the dealer a reasonable opportunity of being heard.	Reasoning
Such an opportunity was given in the present case even in respect of the last three quarters, and we are unable to hold that the assessment for the last three quarters was bad.9.	Reasoning
For the reasons given above, we must allow this appeal, set aside the judgment and order of the High Court dated September 5, 1955, and dismiss the writ petition of the respondent.	Reasoning
The appellants will be entitled to their costs of the proceedings in the High Court and in this Court.10.	Reasoning
Appeal allowed.	Decision
