 Gajendragadkar, J.1.	None
The appellant Pandit Ishwari Prasad Misra sued the respondent Mohammed Isa for the specific performance of an agreement of sale executed by him on May 18, 1950, in the Court of the 1st Additional SubJudge, Muzaffarpur.	Facts
By the said agreement, the respondent had promised to execute a saledeed in favour of the appellant in respect of his house situated at Sitamarhi Bazar, Sitamarhi.	Facts
The appellants claim was decreed by the trial Court which ordered the respondent to execute a saledeed within a month from the date of the decree on receipt of Rs. 4,000/ which is the balance of consideration remaining to be paid to him.	Facts
The respondent challenged this decree by an appeal before the Patna High Court and his challenge has succeeded.	Facts
In the result, the decree passed by the trial Court was reversed and the appellants suit dismissed with costs throughout.	Facts
It is against this decree that the appellant has come to this Court with a certificate issued by the Patna High Court, and so, the principal question which arises in the present appeal is whether the agreement on which the appellants suit is based is genuine, valid and for consideration.2.	Facts
The subjectmatter of the agreement of sale is a house belonging to the respondent.	Facts
According to the appellant, at the time when the agreement was executed, the consideration for the transfer was settled at Rs. 14,000/ out of which Rs. 10,000/ were paid as earnest money.	Facts
The agreement had stipulated that the saledeed to be executed within three months from its date in other words, under the agreement, the respondent was bound to execute The saledeed on or before August 18, 1950.	Facts
The appellant called upon the respondent to carry out the terms of the agreement and offered to pay the balance of Rs. 4,000/, but since the respondent did not comply with he demand made by the appellant but attempted to dispute the genuineness and validity of the agreement itself, the present suit was filed on the 27th August, 1950, for specific performance of the said agreement.3.	Facts
The appellants case is that negotiations for the sale of the respondents house had commenced on the 3rd May, 1950, between the father of the appellant and the respondent at the instance of Bihari Lal Singh who acted as a negotiator.	Facts
The respondent then claimed Rs. 20,000/ as the price of the house and the appellants father was prepared to pay only Rs. 10,000/.	Facts
On the 8th of May, 1950, the parties met again when the appellant raised his offer to Rs. 13,000/, but the respondent refused to go below Rs.	Facts
15,000/.	Facts
At last on May 18, 1950, the respondent went to the appellant and said that he was willing to sell the house for Rs. 14,000/.	Facts
The appellant was then told by the respondent that he was anxious to purchase an Icecream machine which was likely to cost Rs. 12,000/, and so, he wanted the agreement to be made that very day.	Facts
Both of them then went to Babu Amer Choudhury, a senior lawyer of the place at about 9 A.M., but he had then gone to the court which was holding morning sittings, and so, the parties met him at his office at 2 P.M. along with the scribe Khakhan Singh and the necessary stamp paper.	Facts
Thereafter, the parties went to the house of Mr. Choudhary and he dictated the draft of the agreement in the presence of his son who was also a lawyer.	Facts
The draft was taken down by Khakhan Singh.	Facts
After the draft was thus completed, the appellant, the respondent and the scribe went to the house of the appellant.	Facts
At this place Khakhan Singh (P. W. 11) scribe copied the draft fair on a stamp paper which had already been purchased in the morning that day.	Facts
After the draft was thus copied on a stamp paper, the appellant paid to the respondent Rs. 10,000/ and the respondent executed the document admitting in his own handwriting the receipt of the earnest money of Rs. 10,000/.	Facts
The document was then attested by Ganesh Thakur (P. W. 5), Jamuna Singh (P. W. 8) and Bihari Lal Saraogi (P. W. 9).	Facts
That, in brief, is the case set up by the appellant in support of his claim for specific performance.4.	Facts
The respondent, however, denied the appellants claim in toto He suggested that though the agreement of sale bore his thumb marks, he had not entered into any agreement of sale at all.	Facts
He had entrusted the appellant with stamp papers bearing his thumb marks in order that he may act as an arbitrator in his dispute with Ramzan Ali.	Facts
The respondent thus alleged that the appellant had made fraudulent use of the stamp paper entrusted to him by the respondent for a different purpose and had brought into existence a forged document on which the present suit was based.	Facts
The respondent also denied that he had received Rs. 10,000/ or that he wanted to purchase an Icecream machine.	Facts
He urged that the value of the house which was the subjectmatter of the alleged agreement was worth Rs. 60,000/.	Facts
In other words, the respondent disputed the genuineness of the agreement and so, resisted the appellants claim for specific performance.5.	Facts
On these pleadings, the trial Court framed four issues, the principal issue being in regard to the genuineness and validity of the suit agreement and its consideration.	Facts
In support of his case, the appellant examined the stampvendor Harikant Jha (P. W. 3) to prove the purchase of the stamp paper for the purpose of crafting the agreement.	Facts
He examined Mr. Choudhary (P. W. 10), the young lawyer whose father had dictated the draft to prove the fact that a draft had been prepared with the help of the senior lawyer.	Facts
He also examined the three attesting witnesses and the scribe and he gave evidence himself.	Facts
Besides, Mr. Bennett (P. W. 14) was examined as a handwriting expert to show the endorsement made by the respondent admitting the receipt of Rs. 10,000/.	Facts
On the other hand, the respondent examined five witnesses to support his version about the appointment of the appellant as an arbitrator in connection with which a stamp paper bearing his thumb marks had been entrusted to the appellant.	Facts
He also examined Karim Bux (D. W. 6) to prove that the value of property was Rs. 60,000/, and he examined Nasrat Hussain (D. W. 7) a handwriting expert to show that the impugned engrossment was not in his handwriting.6.	Facts
The learned trial Judge rejected the defence theory about the appointment of the appellant as an arbitrator.	Facts
He also held that the evidence about the value of the property given by Karim Bux was unreliable and that the house in question was not worth more than Rs. 14,000/.	Facts
He considered the evidence led by the appellant and accepted the said evidence in its entirety.	Facts
In the result, he found that the agreement of sale on which the suit was based had been executed by the respondent, that it was valid and was supported by consideration.	Facts
That is how a decree for specific performance was passed in favour of the appellant.7.	Facts
The High Court has reversed all the findings recorded by the trial Court.	Facts
It has held that the story about the appointment of the appellant as an arbitrator cannot be said to be altogether improbable and that when comparatively weighed, it appeared to be more probable than that of the appellant.	Facts
It has held that the value of the property including the land can in no way be less than Rs. 30,000/ and on examining the evidence adduced by the appellant, it came to the conclusion that the said evidence was not reliable and really showed a conspiracy between the witnesses and the appellant to bring into existence a false and forged document.	Facts
The evidence adduced by the respondent to support his theory of an attempted arbitration between himself and Ramzan Ali has no doubt been considered by the High Court to be unworthy of credence but on the probabilities, the High Court was prepared to prefer that story to the story of the appellant.	Facts
That, in brief, is the result of the findings made by the High Court.	Facts
In consequence, the trial Courts decree was reversed and the appellants suit was dismissed.	Facts
Thus, it would be seen that the question which we have to decide in the present appeal is a question of fact and its decision lies within a very narrow compass  did the respondent execute the agreement of sale and has be received Rs. 10,000/ as earnest money under it?	Issue
Incidentally, what can be said to be the proper value of the house which is the subjectmatter of the agreement?	None
These are the main points which fall to be decided.8.	None
Before considering the evidence adduced by the parties in the present proceedings, it would be necessary to examine some broad and general features of the case on which both the parties have relied before us.	None
Mr. Sastri for the respondent has urged that there are certain unusual features of the case which lend support to the final decision of the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The first circumstance on which Mr. Sastri relies is that the plaint does not refer to the making of the draft by a Senior lawyer as it should have.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Choudhary, the senior lawyer it is conceded was a lawyer of status in Sitamarhi end the argument is that if his services had been requisitioned in making a draft before the agreement was finalised on a stamp paper, that fact would have been mentioned in the plaint and since it is not so mentioned, the story about the draft should be rejected.	Arguments of Respondent
We are not impressed by this argument.	None
Strictly speaking, we do not see how it was necessary for the appellant to refer to the draft in his pleadings at all.	None
Besides, the story about the draft is supported by all the witnesses examined on the side of the appellant, including Mr. Choudharys son, and unless we are inclined to disbelieve the whole of that evidence, it would be impossible to accede to the argument that the story about the draft is untrue.	None
No doubt, the High Court has come to the conclusion that there has been a conspiracy between all the witnesses, and if that conclusion is right, then the draft would, of course, have to be treated as a false document.	Reasoning
But, for the moment, dealing with the argument about the failure of the appellant to mention the draft in the plaint by itself, we do not think there is any substance in it.9.	None
Then it is urged that there are certain recitals in the draft which are so unusual that it is very unlikely that a senior lawyer could have dictated it.	Arguments of Respondent
The agreement (Ext. 6) describes the property by its boundaries, sets out the details as to the circumstances under which the document came to be executed, recites the payment of Rs. 10,000/ as earnest money, provides that Rs. 14,000/ is the price agreed to be paid, prescribes the period within which the saledeed has to be executed, and contains two clauses which would come into operation on default of the respondent to execute the saledeed.	None
It is on these two clauses that the argument is based.	None
The first out of these two clauses provides thatIf the respondent does not execute the saledeed within the due date, the appellant would be competent to take necessary steps for getting the deed of sale executed in respect of the aforesaid property, otherwise this deed of the contract shall be deemed to be the deed of sale.	None
It is true that if the last recital that the deed of contract shall be deemed to the deed of sale is literally construed, it would be unusual.	None
But, in the context, all that it seems to mean is that saledeed would be executed in the same terms as the agreement of sale.	Reasoning
It seems to us unreasonable to suggest that because this particular part of the clause is somewhat unusually worded, the court should draw the inference that the senior Mr. Choudhary could not have dictated it and the whole story about the draft is false.	Reasoning
The same comment has to be made in respect of the other clause on which the argument is based.	None
This clause provides thatif the claimant does not get the saledeed executed by me, the executant, within the due date or he does not pay the remaining consideration money at proper time, I, the executant, shall be competent to realise the remaining consideration money in proper manner from the claimant and shell forfeit the earnest money.	None
This again is an unusual provision.	None
But it cannot sustain the argument that the story about the draft having been dictated by Mr. Choudhary is untrue.	Reasoning
That fact will have to be decided in the light of the oral evidence adduced by the appellant to show that the draft was in fact dictated by the senior Mr. Choudhary.	Reasoning
Therefore we do not think that the two clauses on which Mr. Sastri relies can justify the conclusion that the story about the draft is a fiction.10.	None
Mr. Sastri then contends that it is very unusual that Rs. 10,000/ should have been said as earnest money when the total price for the property was Rs. 14,000/.	Arguments of Respondent
But this circumstance is explained if the recital in the document is true that the respondent wanted Rs.	Arguments of Respondent
12,000/ urgently for purchasing an Icecream machine.	Arguments of Respondent
That is the representation which the respondent made to the appellant and since the parties knew each other very well and had confidence in each other, the appellant agreed to pay Rs. 10,000/ to the respondent.	Arguments of Respondent
That by itself cannot be said to be a suspicious circumstance at all.	Arguments of Respondent
Then, it is urged that it is very difficult to believe that the appellant should have been in possession of Rs. 10,000/ in cash.	Arguments of Respondent
The argument is that such a large amount would normally be kept in the bank.	Arguments of Respondent
In our opinion this contention is inconclusive.	Arguments of Respondent
It depends on the habits of the persons concerned and the fact that the appellant kept Rs. 10,000/ in his house cannot, by itself, be treated as a suspicious circumstance.	Arguments of Respondent
Similarly, the failure of the appellant to examine the document of title of the respondent is of no consequence because the appellant knew that the respondent was staying in that house for several years and his father used to stay in that house and so, there could have been no difficulty about assuming that the respondent had a title to the house.	Arguments of Respondent
It has also been urged that if the story about the negotiations and the draft was true the appellant should have examined his father and his Manager.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no substance in this argument.	None
On the day when the agreement was entered into, the appellants father had gone to Lucknow and if the appellant is taking the oath in support of his case and he knows all the relevant facts which have to be proved in this case, there is no reason why his father should have stepped into the box or his manager.11.	None
The last contention which is seriously pressed before us by Mr. Sastri is in regard to the value of the property.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Sastri argues that if the value of the property is not less than Rs. 30,000/ as has been found by the High Court, that would be a very significant fact to bear in mind in dealing with the question about the genuineness of the agreement of sale.	Arguments of Respondent
It may be conceded that if the value of the property is found to be as much as Rs. 30,000/ that no doubt, would be a factor in favour of the respondents theory that be could not have agreed and, in fact, did not agree to sell his house to the appellant as alleged by him.	None
The respondent sought to prove the value of his house by examining Karim Bux.	None
This witness who has not read in any school or college, claims to have worked as an estimator in the P. W. D. He has now retired from service.	None
He produced a statement showing the value of the property.	None
This statement estimated the cost of construction of the house at Rs. 29,358/ and the value of the land on which the house stands at Rs.	None
33,900/.	None
It appears that this witness prepared his report two days before he was examined and he was summoned on the day on which he gave his evidence.	None
He admitted that he did not examine any witness or consult sale deeds of any contiguous properties, nor did he examine the foundation of the plinth of the house or see whether the plinth was underground.	None
The number of bricks and their quality has not been considered by him.	None
The value of the woodworks has not been specifically mentioned by him.	None
He has not given the value of cement, mortar and lime separately.	None
He did not even enquire for how much the house had been purchased by the respondent and how much he had spent on its improvements.	None
It is true that on this evidence, the High Court has made a finding that the value of the property cannot be less than Rs.	None
30,000/. We are unable to see, how any finding can be reasonably made about the value of the property on the evidence given by Karim Bux.	None
Having regard to the extent of the land on which the house stands, and bearing in mind that the land and the house are situated in the Tehsil place of Sitamarhi, the value of the land estimated at Rs. 33,900/ is completely fantastic, and it is impossible to consider the evidence of this witness with any seriousness.	None
One has merely to read the answers given by him in his crossexamination to be satisfied that this witness knows very little about the job of valuing properties and has taken no steps to do that job carefully at all.	None
Therefore, we do not think that the evidence of Karim Bux can be used for the purpose of determining the value of the property.12.	None
In this connection, it is relevant to refer to the evidence given by the respondent himself.	None
It is admitted that the house was purchased by the respondents father for Rs.	None
300/. He however, urged that he began to improve the house in 1939 and that the front portion was completed about 9 years before 1953 and inner portion about 3 years before.	None
He stated that he had spent about Rs. 30,000/ in all, and so, he claimed that if the house had been sold in 1950, it would have fetched more than Rs.	None
60,000/	None
Since he claimed to have made substantial improvements, he was crossexamined at length about these improvements.	None
It appears from his evidence that in 1942 he had to borrow Rs.	None
500/ and for that purpose he had to mortgage the land belonging to him.	None
He is a bookbinder by profession and from his evidence, it does not appear that he could have had such large resources at his disposal.	None
Though the construction work went on for several years, he maintained no accounts about the construction, nor was he able to produce any paper to show that Rs. 30,000/ were with him and had been spent by him for the work of Construction.	None
He did not take any permit for cement, because he said that he had purchased the cement before the permit system was introduced from several shops.	None
Realising that it was a tall claim, he modified his answer by saying that he did not purchase any cement but his mason did.	None
Mortar was purchased by him from the shop of one Meghu Mal.	None
He did not know how much amount he spent in purchasing it.	None
Bricks he purchased from several persons and paid them the price, but no receipts were with him.	None
Then he added that he did not himself purchase the bricks, and suggested that about Rs. 9,000/ may have been paid as the price of the bricks.	None
It would thus be seen that the statements made by this witness do not appear to be credible and the claim made by him that the construction work of the house spread over several years and that he spent Rs. 30,000/ for the improvements, cannot, therefore, be accepted as true.	None
In our opinion, on the material as it stands, there was no justification for the High Court to have reversed the finding of the trial Court about the value of the property.	Reasoning
Therefore, the argument that the value of the property was Rs. 30,000/ and that negatives the version about the agreement of sale, must be rejected.13.	None
On the other hand, there are some other broad features of the case which support the appellants version.	None
It appears that the appellants father holds a position of status and reputation in Sitamarhi.	None
He was the Chairman of the Sitamarhi Municipality for some years, and the respondent has admitted that his father who was a doctor and the appellants father who is a Vaidya were friends and that between the families, good relations subsisted.	None
In fact, according to the respondent, the appellants father was looking after his case which was started between him and his father Muzaffaruddin.	None
Now, it seems difficult to believe that if the relations between the parties were cordial and they stayed in houses opposite to each other, the appellant should have suddenly thought of bringing into existence a forged document for the purpose of purchasing the respondents house.	None
Prima fame, the suggestion that the appellant has succeeded in obtaining the help of several persons to carry out the purpose of this conspiracy does not sound reasonable or proper.	None
If the evidence adduced by the appellant turns out to be extremely unsatisfactory, and on a fair appreciation it seems to justify the conclusion that the witnesses have perjured themselves, then, of course, it would be open to a court to hold that the witnesses have entered into a conspiracy.	None
But such a conclusion must be reached only where the character of the evidence given by the witness appears to be so completely unsatisfactory as to lead to the conclusion that it is false and has been given to serve the object of the conspiracy.	None
As we will presently point out, the evidence adduced by the appellant does not appear to us to justify any such conclusion.	None
Therefore, if the theory of conspiracy is rejected and we reject it without any hesitation then the fact that three attesting witnesses and the scribe have supported the appellants case and the young lawyer Mr. Choudhary has proved the draft, goes very much in favour of the appellant.	None
That is the view taken by the trial Court and in our opinion, the trial Court was right.14.	None
There is another factor on which the appellant is entitled to rely and that is the intrinsic evidence of the document itself.	None
We have looked at the document ourselves and we are satisfied that there is no trace of any attempt to squeeze the contents of the document on the stamp paper.	None
The writing of the document appears to be natural and the endorsement made by the respondent acknowledging receipt of Rs. 10,000/ shows no suspicious features at all.	None
Therefore, the appearance of the document and the intrinsic evidence supplied by the manner in which it is written, are factors which are in favour of the appellant.15.	None
Three is one more circumstance on which the Solicitor General for the appellant has very strongly relied.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contends that if he can demonstrate that the arbitration story set up by the respondent in support of his version that a stamp paper was given to the appellant with his thumb marks for the purpose of endorsing the arbitration agreement and it has been fraudulently used by him for the purpose of the suit agreement is false, then the conclusion is inescapable that the agreement is genuine and has been duly executed by the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
It would be recalled that the respondents version in this matter is that at the relevant time, two suits were pending between him and Ramzan Ali.	None
Ramzan Ali was his tenant and he had sued Ramzan Ali for rent and Ramzan Ali had sued in the Rent Controllers Court for the fixation of standard rent.	None
According to him, the dispute between him and Ramzan Ali was referred to the appellant for his arbitration and in that connection stamps were purchased on the 15th of May.	None
Three days thereafter, the appellant told him that the said stamps had been lost and so, stamps were purchased again on the 18th May.	None
Thus, the purchase of the stamps on the 18th May is admitted by the respondent, but it is explained on the ground that he purchased the said stamps because he was told by the appellant that the stamps earlier purchased had been lost.	None
It would thus be seen that the purchase of the stamps on the 15th May plays an important part in proving the version of the respondent.	None
According to him, these stamps were purchased from Raghubir Prasad at Dumra Katchery.	None
It would have been very easy for the respondent to examine Raghubir Prasad to prove the said fact of purchase on the 15th May.	None
He was asked whether he was going to examine Raghubir Prasad and he stated I cannot say if I would examine Raghubir Prasad, Stampvendor.	None
Thus, the failure of the respondent to examine Raghubir Prasad to prove the alleged purchase of stamps from him cannot be ignored in deciding the question as to whether the story about the arbitration agreement is true or not.	None
Incidentally, it may be added that the respondent was asked whether he was in the habit of taking the plea that he had put his thumb marks on a blank paper which had been fraudulently used for another purpose against him.	None
He indignantly denied the suggestion.	None
But a document was produced which shows that in a Money Suit No. 129 of 1947 brought by Sahdeo against the respondent, he had taken a similar plea and had urged that the thumb put by him on a blank paper had been fraudulently used by Sahdeo.	None
Thus, this is not the first time that the respondent is taking such a plea in litigation.16.	None
There are two other circumstances which must be considered in dealing with this matter.	None
The Rent Suit filed by the respondent against Ramzan Ali (No. 103 of 1950) was dismissed on 15th May.	None
No doubt, the respondent says that he got the suit dismissed on the advice of the appellant.	None
But if the suit was got dismissed because Ramzan Ali and the respondent had agreed to refer their dispute to the appellant for his arbitration, one would expect that fact to be mentioned to the court and Ramzan Ali would have endorsed that fact.	None
Nothing of the kind was, however, done and it appears to be a clear case of dismissal of the suit for default.17.	None
What has happened in Ramzan Alis suit (No. 9 of 1950) is still more significant.	None
In that suit, the respondent applied on the 31st May, 1950 that he wanted to adduce oral and documentary evidence and that the case may be adjourned to some other date.	None
This prayer was granted and time was allowed till June 23, 1950.	None
Now if the dispute was referred to arbitration, it was hardly necessary for the respondent to lead any evidence in that suit.	None
All that the parties had to do was to tell the court that the suit need not be proceeded with because the matter in dispute was being adjudicated upon by the arbitrator of their choice.	None
This conduct of the respondent on May 31, 1950 is wholly inconsistent with his theory that the appellant had been asked to arbitrate on the dispute between him and Ramzan Ali.18.	None
Besides, if the story about the arbitration had been true the respondent could have easily examined Ramzan Ali to support his version.	None
When he was asked whether Ramzan Ali had put his thumb mark on the stamp paper which is alleged to have been given to the appellant to engross an agreement, the respondent said that he did not know and by way of explanation, he added that he could not know because he was not on speaking terms with him at that time.	None
He also stated that he was not on speaking terms with him on the day when he gave evidence and so, he had not enquired if he had put his thumb mark on the stamp paper or not.	None
Later on, under stress of crossexamination, he admitted that he was on talking terms with Ramzan Ali since 1951, that he was not his tenant any longer but his brother was, and yet, Ramzan Ali had not been examined by the respondent to prove his case about arbitration.	None
Therefore, it seems to us that the SolicitorGeneral is justified in contending that the relevant evidence bearing on the point clearly shows that the story about the arbitration agreement is untrue, and if that is so, it follows that the stamp papers which were purchased on the 18th May were not purchased because the appellant told the respondent that the earlier stamp papers had been lost, but they were purchased for a purpose other than the alleged purpose of arbitration.	None
On the record, there is no suggestion that there could have been any purpose for the purchase of these stamps other than the one set out by the appellant.	None
Therefore, considering the broad features of the case on which the learned Counsel for the respective parties relied before us, it appears that these features are not inconsistent with the appellants case but are inconsistent with the version set out by the respondent.19.	None
We will now examine the evidence on which the appellant relies.	None
First is the stamp vendor Harikant Jha.	None
He has deposed to the purchase of two stamps on the 18th May, one for Rs.	None
1/8/ and the other for Rs. /12/.	None
There is an endorsement made by him showing the sale of these stamps.	None
It is true that the respondent has not signed in the register or on the back of the stamps, but that makes no difference because the purchase of the stamps from the witness is admitted by the respondent and is no longer in dispute.	None
Since we have held that the story about the arbitration is untrue, it is unnecessary to consider whether the word Mahadnama which, means an agreement meant an agreement of arbitration or an agreement of sale.	None
The arbitration agreement being out of the way, the only agreement for which the stamps were purchase must be the agreement of sale.20.	None
Ganesh Thakur attested the execution of the document.	None
He resides in Mauza Riga which is at a distance of about 6 miles from Sitamarhi.	None
He has deposed to the fact that he used to go to the appellants fathers shop for purchasing medicines and on that occasion, he purchased Raspipri it is not disputed that the appellants father runs a shop where Ayurvedic medicines are sold.	None
He admitted that Raspipris are available in grocers shop but they are not reliable and he preferred to purchase them from a big medicine shop, such as that of the appellants father.	None
When he went to purchase the medicine, he found that the document was being executed.	None
So, he stayed on, attested the document, purchased the medicine, and left the place.	None
This witness is not related to the appellant and is not shown to be hostile to the respondent either.	None
He is a disinterested person who went to the appellants fathers shop to purchase the medicine in the ordinary course, and he swears that he attested the document.	None
He has also referred to the writing of the document by Khakhan Singh and its attestation by two other witnesses.	None
The criticism against this witness which has been accepted by the High Court is that he walked six miles to purchase the medicine which is not likely and that he waited for some time until the document was completed which is improbable.	None
We are not impressed by this criticism.	None
In considering the question as to whether evidence given by the witness should be accepted or not, the court has, no doubt, to examine whether the witness is an interested witness and to enquire whether the story deposed to by him is probable and whether it has been shaken in crossexamination.	None
Now, a person in the position of Ganesh Thakur who stated that he used to go to the shop of the appellants father to purchase the medicine because it was a big store, cannot be blamed for having walked a distance of six miles to purchase Raspipri on that day.	None
Therefore, we see no reason to treat this witness as unreliable.21.	None
The next attesting witness is Jamuna Singh.	None
He stays at Mauza Manora and works as a teacher.	None
He had given a book to the respondent for binding and on that day, he had gone to the respondents shop to take the book back.	None
The respondent was not in his shop and so, he waited in the shop for some time.	None
On seeing the respondent at the shop of the appellant, he walked over there.	None
He saw the execution of the document attested, it and then went back to the respondents shop and took the book from him before he left for his place.	None
This witness has been crossexamined about his qualifications as a teacher.	None
But having considered all the answers given by him in crossexamination, we do not see any reason why he should be treated as unreliable.	None
No doubt, it was suggested to him that he may have been appointed as a teacher during the time when the appellants father was elected as chairman of the Municipality, but he denied it, and yet, the High Court appears to have assumed that the suggestion was proved and has treated that as one reason for disbelieving him.	None
It is hardly necessary to add that it would be unsafe to discard the evidence of a witness which appears otherwise to be reasonable and probable, merely because some suggestions were made to him, without those suggestions being proved to be true.22.	None
That takes us to the evidence of Bihari Lal Saraogi.	None
This witness has attested the document and has stated that he went to attest the document because the respondent asked him to do so.	None
It appears that this witness had a pharmacy and stationery shop to the west of the house in question at the relevant time.	None
Since then, however, he has shifted to Sursand.	None
He was carrying on his business at Sitamarhi for about three years.	None
According to this witness, the respondent had requested him to negotiate the sale of his house with the appellants father and accordingly, in the first stage of the negotiations this witness helped the parties.	None
Now, this witness was asked whether he paid any incometax or salestax for his dealings in the shop and when he answered in the negative, that has been used against him for the purpose of showing that he never stayed in Sitamarhi.	None
Like the two other attesting witnesses, Bihari Lal also does not appear to be interested and we see no reason to disbelieve his evidence.23.	None
The scribe, Khakhan Singh, has supported the appellants case both in regard to the making of the draft and engrossing the draft as a fair copy on the stamp paper.	None
The main point which is made against him is that he did not remember who drew the four lines in the execution portion of the document over the head of the writing showing that the respondent had received Rs. 10,000/.	None
We see no substance in the criticism made against this witness as a result of this statement.	None
We have seen the four lines ourselves and we see nothing suspicious about those lines.	None
Some persons draw lines before they write and some do not, and when lines are drawn, one line may be longer than the other.	None
These are all matters of individual mannerism and no serious point can be made on the statement of the scribe, because, having looked at the lines in relation to the thumb marks made by the respondent, they do not appear to be suspicious at all.24.	None
The appellant has examined himself and he has supported his case.	None
He was also asked whether he and his father kept any books of account or diaries, or whether there was any documentary evidence to show that he had Rs. 10,000/ in hand and that be had paid them to the respondent.	None
The witness admitted that no diary was kept, nor was any accountbook kept.	None
This is the type of answer given by most of the witnesses in this case when they were examined about their books of account.	None
But the failure to keep an account book, or produce it if one is kept, cannot necessarily lead to the inference that the whole of the story deposed to by the witness is for that reason alone untrustworthy.	None
In the present case, we have seen that the stamp paper bearing the thumb marks of the respondent was purchased by the respondent, and we have already emphasised the respondent has not been able to show why it was purchased if it was not for the agreement of sale.	None
He set out an alternative theory about the arbitration which we have rejected.	None
It is in the light of this important circumstance that the oral evidence has to be appreciated.	None
Thus considered, we see no reason why the High Court should have interfered with the conclusions reached by the trial court after appreciating the oral evidence led by the appellant before it.25.	None
That leaves the evidence of the young lawyer Choudhary to be considered.	None
Mr. Choudhary has deposed to the fact that the draft was dictated by his father, was taken down by Khakhan Singh and the said draft has been produced by him.	None
The draft and the suit agreement tally.	None
It appears that Mr. Choudhary went to the house of the respondent along with the appellant to serve notice on him and that has been very severely criticised by the High Court.	None
Mr. Choudhary stated that he did not keep any diary or any account book, and that again has been adversely commented upon by the High Court.	None
But the main point about the evidence of Mr. Choudhary is that he had no reason to take the false oath, and the story deposed to by him as to the making of the draft sounds natural and probable.	None
The High Court has even suggested that this young lawyer has perjured himselfbecause of the glamour of the ExChairman of the Sitamarhi Municipality and perhaps also the prospect of his support in future proved so alluring to him that he had no sense of balance left and laid himself open to any statement which may have been thought necessary to be got through his mouth for the success of the appellant and that without any scruple either of the ethics of the profession or for the sanctity of truth.	None
We have carefully considered the evidence of this young lawyer and we agree with the trial Court that the story deposed to by him is true and straightforward.	None
Thus, the position is that the evidence led by the appellant satisfactorily proves the purchase of the stamps which bore the thumb marks of the respondent, the preparation of the draft and the engrossment of the draft on a stamp paper by the scribe Khakhan Singh, and its attestation by the three attesting witnesses.	Reasoning
That is why we feel no difficulty in holding that the trial Court was right in coming to the conclusion that the suit agreement was genuine and valid and is supported by consideration.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the High Court was not justified in interfering with this conclusion in appeal.26.	None
We have so far not considered the evidence of the experts.	None
Mr. Bennett examined by the appellant supports the appellants case, whereas Nasrat Hussain examined by the respondent supports his case.	None
Evidence given by experts of handwriting can never be conclusive, because it is, after all, opinion evidence.	None
Since we have come to the conclusion that the evidence given by the attesting witnesses and the scribe and the appellant is wholly satisfactory, that evidence proved the execution of the document by the respondent and the said evidence does not really need to be corroborated by the opinion of experts.	Reasoning
Even so, Mr. Bennett does support the appellants cases and though Mr. Nasrat Hussain supports the respondents case, it is significant that he has categorically admitted that what purports to be the writing of the respondent is simulated forgery.	Reasoning
The writing in question purports to acknowledge the receipt of Rs.	Reasoning
10,000/ the appellant says that it is the writing of the respondent, whereas the respondent contends that it is forgery.	Reasoning
The respondents expert calls it simulated forgery.	Reasoning
After the respondents expert described the writing as simulated forgery he was asked a specific question as to whether it would be possible to have simulated forgery where there was no model before the forger of the respondents writing and the expert definitely stated that it would not be possible to bring out simulated forgery without the model of the respondents writing.	Reasoning
This answer clearly means that the appellant or any of his alleged accomplices should have been in possession of a model writing of the respondent, and on this point, not even a suggestion has been made to the appellant that he was in possession of any writing of the respondent.	Reasoning
That only shows that the expert evidence given by Mr. Nasrat Hussain does not really help the respondents case.27.	Reasoning
Before we part with this appeal, it is necessary that we should make some observations about the approach adopted by the High Court in dealing with the judgment of the that court which was in appeal before it.	Reasoning
In several places the High Court has passed severe strictures against the trial Court and has, in substance, suggested that the decision of the trial Court was not only perverse but was based on extraneous considerations.	Reasoning
It has observed that the mind of the learned Subordinate Judge was already loaded with bias in favour of the plaintiff an that the plaintiff had calculated that such of the evidence as he would produce long with the pull and weight that would be harnessed from behind would be sufficient to carry him through.	Reasoning
Similarly, in criticising the trial Court for accepting the evidence of Jamuna Singh, the High Court has observed that the presumption made by the trial Court that teacher, as a rule, is a respectable person, is not any legal appreciation of the evidence but a way found to suit the convenience of the court for holding in favour of the plaintiff.	Reasoning
It would thus be seen that in reversing the decision of the trial Court, the High Court has suggested that the trial Court, was persuaded by extraneous considerations and that some pull and weight had been, used in favour of the appellant from behind.	Reasoning
We are constrained to observe that the High Court was not justified in passing these strictures against the trial Judge in dealing with the present case.	Reasoning
Judicial experience shows that in adjudicating upon the rival claims brought before the courts it is not always easy to decide where truth lies.	Reasoning
vidence is adduced by the respective parties in support of their conflicting contentions and circumstances are similarly pressed into service.	Reasoning
In such a case, it is no doubt, the duty of the Judge to consider the evidence objectively and dispassionately, examine it in the light probabilities and decide which way the truth lies.	Reasoning
The impression formed by the Judge about the character of the evidence will ultimately determine the conclusion which he reached.	Reasoning
But it would be unsafe to overlook the fact that all judicial minds may not react in the same way to the said evidence and it is not unusual that evidence which appears to be respectable and trustworthy to one Judge may not appear to be respectable and trustworthy to another Judge.	Reasoning
That explains why in some cases courts of appeal reverse conclusions of facts recorded by the trial Court on its appreciation of oral evidence.	Reasoning
The knowledge that another view is possible on the evidence adduced in a case, acts as a sobering factor and leads to the use of temperate language in recording judicial conclusions.	Reasoning
Judicial approach in such cases should always be based on the consciousness that one may make a mistake that is why the use of unduly strong words in expressing conclusions or the adoption of unduly strong intemperate, or extravagant criticism, against the contrary view, which are often founded on a sense of infallibility should always be avoided.	Reasoning
In the present case, the High Court has used intemperate language and has even gone to the length of suggesting a corrupt motive against the Judge who decided the suit in favour of the appellant.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the use of such intemperate language may, in some cases, tend to show either a lack of experience in judicial matters or an absence of Judicial poise and balance.	Reasoning
We have carefully considered all the evidence to which our attention was drawn by the learned counsel on both the sides and we are satisfied that the imputations made by the High Court against the impartiality and the objectivity of the approach adopted by the trial Judge are wholly unjustified.	Reasoning
It is very much to be regretted that the High Court should have persuaded itself to use such extravagant language in criticising the trial Court, particularly when our conclusion in the present appeal shows that the trial Court was right and the High Court was wrong.	Reasoning
But even if we had not upheld the findings of the trial Court, we would not have approved of the unbalanced criticism made by the High Court against the trial Court.	Reasoning
No doubt, if it is shown that the decision of the trial Court in a given case is a result of corrupt motive, the High Court must condemn it and must take due further steps in the matter.	Reasoning
But the use of strong language and imputation of corrupt motives should not be made light heatedly because the Judge against whom the imputations are made has no remedy in law to vindicate, his position.28.	Reasoning
What we have said about the extravagant criticism made by the High Court against the trial Judge needs to be repeated in respect of similar criticism made by the High Court against some of the witnesses examined in the case.	Reasoning
There is no doubt that judicial administration should be fearless judges must have full freedom to express their conclusions in respect of the evidence given by the witnesses before them without any favour or fear and so, judicial power to express its appreciation about oral evidence is very wide.	Reasoning
But the very width of the said power must inevitably impose some healthy restraints upon its exercise.	Reasoning
Take, for instance, the criticism made by the High Court against the young lawyer Mr. Choudhary.	Reasoning
In our opinion, that criticism is wholly unjustified.	Reasoning
It is conceivable that in a given case, a court of facts may come to the conclusion that all the witnesses who have supported one party have conspired to give false evidence, and in such a case the court must unhesitatingly record its conclusion to that effect.	Reasoning
But, before such a conclusion is reached, all the pros and cons must be carefully and scrupulously examined and a conscientious effort must always be made not to regard evidence which appears to be unreasonable or improbable as being false and perjured.	Reasoning
We have noticed that the judgment of the High Court shows a tendency to regard every witness whose evidence the High Court did not feel inclined to accept as a perjuror and a conspirator.	Reasoning
This approach again may tend to show with respect, either lack of experience or absence of judicial poise and balance.	Reasoning
It is because the judgment of the High Court showed these glaring infirmities that Mr. Sastri told us at the very outset that in the present appeal, all that he proposed to do was to defend the respondent but not the judgment of the High Court which has been pronounced in his favour.29.	Reasoning
The result is the appeal is allowed, the decree passed by the High Court is set aside and that of the trial Court restored with costs throughout.30.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
