MOHAN, J. Criminal Appeal No. 327 of 1994 is directed against the judgment and order dated 1341994 of the High Court of Calcutta in CO No. 9121 (W) of 1993.	None
Criminal Appeal No. 328 of 1994 is directed against the judgment and order dated 1341994 of the High Court of Calcutta in CO No. 8377(W) of 1993.	None
Criminal Appeal No. 329 of 1994 is directed against the judgment and order dated 13 41994 of the High Court of Calcutta in CO No. 8378(W) of 19 93.	None
All these cases arise out of writ petitions filed in the High Court of Calcutta challenging the validity of sanction and taking cognizance of the cases against each of the respondents by the Designated Court under the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 (hereinafter referred to as TADA).	Issue
A further challenge in the writ petition was also made to the vires of TADA.	None
The orders of sanction and taking cognizance were quashed.	None
The challenge to the Ac t was not gone into since the same was pending at the relevant time before this Court.	None
To highlight the issue involved, it is enough if we advert to the facts in Criminal Appeal No. 328 of 1994 since CO No. 8377(W) of 1993, against which this appeal has been preferred, is the main case.	None
The same decision was applied to Criminal Appeals Nos. 327 and 329 of 1994.	None
The short facts are as under.5.On the evening of 1631993, an explosion occurred at or near Premises No. 267, B.B. Ganguly Street, Calcutta.	Facts
69 persons died, 5 of them died as a result of direct blast and 46 others were injured.	Facts
The said premises and some other buildings adjoining it collapsed and or were badly damaged.6.A complaint was lodged on 1731993 regarding this incident by Mr B.K. Chattopadhaya, SubInspector attached to Bowbazar Police Station.	Facts
This complaint was treated as first information report.	Facts
On that basis, Case No. 84 dated 1731993 was registered in the police station under Sections 120B/436/326/307/302 Indian Penal Code and Sections 3 and 5 of the Explosive Substances Act.	Facts
Having regard to the gravity of the offence, the Commissioner of Police, Calcutta passed an order that the case shall be investigated by a team of highranking police officials.	Facts
In the course of investigation witnesses were examined, various seizures were made and confessions made by two of the accused, namely, Pannalal Jaysoara and Mohammed Gulzar were recorded by a learned Me tropolitan Magistrate on 741993 and 1951993 respectively.	Facts
During investigations it appeared that materials had transpired for prosecuting the accused under Sections 3 and 4 of TADA.	Facts
On 351993, information to this effect was given to the learned Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Calcutta.	Facts
The learned Magistrate made a record of this fact and observed that the investigating officer might proceed to investigate offences under TADA.7.Upon completion of investigation, the police obtained sanction to prosecute under Sections 3 and 5 of the Explosive Substances Act from the State Government.	Facts
Sanction under Section 20A(2) of TADA from the Police Commissioner was also obtained.	Facts
The chargesheet was submitted on 1461993, well within 90 days as is spoken to under Section 167(2)(a)(i) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (hereinafter referred to as the Code).8.The sanction to prosecute under Sections 3 and 5 of the Explosive Substances Act and the sanction under Section 20 A(2) were obtained on 1161993.	Facts
While granting sanction under Section 20A(2) of TADA it was mentioned that the records were placed before the sanctioning authority for examination and perusal.	Facts
It appeared that for the last 5/6 years accused Pannalal Jaysoara had been manufacturing bombs in the Khaskhas room on the first floor of 267, B.B. Ganguly Street, Calcutta as and when required by accused Mohammed Rashid Khan, first respondent in Criminal Appeal No. 328 of 1994.	Facts
Accused Jaysoara was introduced to other accused, namely, Mohammed Abdul Aziz, first respondent in Criminal Appeal No. 329 of 1994 and Lala alias Parwez Khan.	Facts
Death of 69 persons, serious injuries to 46 persons and complete destruction of a twostoreyed building and partial collapse of other two and damage to five more buildings were caused by the accused by an explosion caused by bombs and huge quantities of extremely dangerous nitroglycerinebased explosives which experts have opined to be dangerous to life and property.	Facts
The sanctioning authority mentioned inter alia that the intention of the accused was to strike terror in the people and or to strike terror in a particular section of the people and or to adversely affect the harmony amongst the Hindus and the Muslims.	Facts
It was also mentioned the accused had conspired and prepared to commit disruptive activities.	Facts
In the chargesheet all the necessary ingredients under Sections 3(1) and 4 of TAD A had been mentioned.9.The first respondent, Mohammed Rashid Khan moved a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India making inter alia the following prayersThat the cognizance taken by learned Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Calcutta, Respondent 7, in TADA Case No. 1 of 1993 arising out of Section H (Bowbazar Police Station)	Facts
Case	Facts
No. 84 dated 1731993 and all subsequent proceedings thereto are illegal, void and inoperative in law A writ in the nature of certiorari and or an order of direction in the like nature commanding the respondents to transmit th e records relating to TADA case pending before the said respondent to this Court 689 A writ in the nature of prohibition and or an order of direction in the like nature prohibiting the respondents and or their agents and or their subordinates from proceeding any further with the TADA case	Facts
A writ in the nature of mandamus to respondents to forbear from applying the provisions of TADA against him and from taking any action or step thereunder and to release the petitioner from custody forthwith.10.A declaration was also prayed for that TADA is violative of the Constitution and is liable to be struck down.	Facts
But the High Court by its impugned judgment held that TADA has been wrongly applied in the case and the orders of sanction and further taking cognizance by the Designated Court on 14 61993 was not proper, legal and valid and the same was quashed and set aside.11.Aggrieved by the impugned judgment, the State of West Bengal has preferred these criminal appeals.	Facts
12.Mr K.T.S. Tulsi, learned Additional Solicitor General in attacking the judgment argues as under.13.The High Court gravely erred in quashing the order, taking cognizance, by entering the area which is beyond the scope of jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
The jurisdiction is confined to cases where the allegations before the Designated Court ex facie cannot constitute an offence under TADA.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court cannot examine the merits of the allegations.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact, what has been done by the High Court is a laboured exercise of scrutinising the material placed before the Designated Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
In doing so, it entered into a debatable area and began the process of appreciation of evidence admissibility of confession or prejudgment on trial or determine the guilt or innocence of the accused.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has made an analysis of the materials to determine the truth or otherwise of the allegations.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has conducted a virtual pretrial at a premature stage.	Arguments of Petitioner
On that basis, it had come to a conclusion that there is no evidence in support of these allegations.	Arguments of Petitioner
The law is, the High Court must assume each of the allegations made in the chargesheet to be factually correct and examine the ingredients of the offence without adding or subtracting anything therefrom.14.In support of this submission, learned counsel relies on State of Maharashtra v. Abdul Hamid Haji Mohammed1 wherein this Court has held, the High Court under Article 226 has no jurisdiction to enter into a debatable area whether the direct accusation made in conjunction with the attendant circumstances, if proved to be true, is likely to result in conviction for an offence under TADA.	Arguments of Petitioner
The moment there is a debatable area, in the case, it is not amenable to the writ jurisdiction.	Arguments of Petitioner
In State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal2 it has been categorically laid down that the allegations made in the FIR or the complaint taken on their face value and accepted in its entirety constitute an offence.	None
The High Court is not justified in quashing the criminal proceedings.	None
In State of Bihar v. P.P. Sharma3	Arguments of Petitioner
this Court had ruled that writ petition should not be entertained against charge sheet while exercising jurisdiction.	None
If the matter is considered on merits in the guise of prima facie evidence, it would amount to a pretrial.	None
To the same effect are the following rulings State of Maharashtra v. Abdul Hamid1 (S CC pp.	None
66970,	None
para 7).	None
2.State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal2.	None
3.State of Bihar v. PP Sharma 3 SCC(p) 269, para 68).	Arguments of Petitioner
4.Maninder Kaur v. Rajinder Singh4.	None
5. Radhey Shyam Khemka v. State of Bihar5.	None
6. State of Bihar v. Murad Ali Khan 6 SCC(p) 662).	Arguments of Petitioner
The next submission is, under Article 226 the High Court is not entitled to go into the validity or otherwise of the order granting sanction for prosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
The order of sanction is required to be proved by evidence in the course of trial.	Arguments of Petitioner
All objections with regard to validity or otherwise could be raised there since witnesses are summoned to prove the order and they being subject to crossexamination.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this case, the order of sanction, on the face of it, shows that the sanctioning authority had gone through all the reports, the recorded statements of witnesses, confessions and seizure list and the opinion of experts.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court has to accept these averments on their face value.	Arguments of Petitioner
The correctness or otherwise of the statement is only subject to proof during a trial.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the High Court is wrong in holding, there was no napplication of mind.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the case of PP Sharma3 it has been held, if all the facts of the case are not mentioned in the sanction order the same does not become invalid as the prosecution can prove these facts in the course of trial.	Arguments of Petitioner
The finding of the High Court that the affidavit of Mr Sujit Kumar Sanyal is not proper because he was neither an investigating officer nor an informant is contrary to record.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was brought to the notice of the High Court through the affidavit of the Commissioner of Police that the Special Investigation Team had been set up on 1831993 which was headed by Mr Sujit Kumar Sanyal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Unfortunately, the affidavit of Commissioner of Police was not taken into account.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the contrary findings are wrong.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court wrongly excluded from consideration the effect of confession of the two accused for the reasons that the confession could not have been considered by the Designated Court as the same remained in sealed cover.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this regard, it is submitted that chargesheet specifically refers to the confession recorded by the Magistrate under Section 164 of the Code.18.The High Court has held in the impugned judgment that from the act of preparation and storage of bombs intention to commit offences under TADA cannot be inferred as the motive was to defend the Muslims.	Arguments of Petitioner
This finding is shocking and is contrary to the wellestablished principles of selfdefence.	Arguments of Petitioner
Then again, the preparation and keeping of bombs are illegal.	Arguments of Petitioner
It tantamounts to terrorising the people.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, this would be a terrorist act under Section 3(1).	Issue
If the Act itself is illegal it cannot be justified on the plea of selfdefence.	Issue
The question is whether a right of private defence exists under Indian Penal Code or any other law.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, Section 3(3) is also attracted.19.This Court in Yogendra Morarji v. State of Gujarat 7 SCC(p) 234, para 30) has dealt with the right of selfdefence.	Arguments of Petitioner
The right of selfdefence commences not before a reasonable apprehension arises in the mind of the accused.20.The finding of the High Court that there are no materials in support of allegation of conspiracy under Section.	Arguments of Petitioner
3(3) proceeds on misappreciation of the material and is contrary to the averments contained in the chargesheet.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not necessary to bring home the charge of conspiracy to establish the time and the place of conspiracy or even the actual words of communication.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not necessary to prove who entered into conspiracy and the nature of conspiracy.	Arguments of Petitioner
The existence of conspiracy can be inferred from the conduct of the various accused prior to and subsequent to the conspiracy.	Arguments of Petitioner
Existence of explosive materials is enough to prove the conspiracy when there was preparation for a large number of bombs.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this submission, reliance is placed on Ajay Aggarwal v. Union of India8, dealing with the law relating to conspiracy.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the basis of this citation it is submitted, even if the explosion has not taken place, the very possession of bomb would amount to conspiracy.21.Then again, the High Court has clearly gone wrong in holding that there must be a breakdown of lawenforcing machinery.	Arguments of Petitioner
That would be a condition precedent for prosecuting the accused for offences under TADA.	Arguments of Petitioner
This finding is contrary to the decision of this Court in Kartar Singh v. State of Punjab9.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that ruling the legislative intention to bring TADA has been clearly spelt out.	Arguments of Petitioner
In para 145 at p. 653, of the ruling what has been observed is that the ordinary procedural law was found to be inadequate by the Legislature and, therefore, the object of Legislature in bringing in TADA may not be defeated or nullified.	Arguments of Petitioner
The interpretation of the High Court, if adopted, would clearly make the TADA unworkable.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sections 3 and 4 of TADA are intended for the whole of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has nothing to do with the breakdown of lawenforcing machinery.22.The High Court had gone on a totally incorrect premise when it quashed the order taking cognizance on the ground that it is not a reasoned order.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that no reasons need be stated.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, this approach of the High Court is clearly contrary to the following rulings of this Court(1)	Arguments of Petitioner
Stree Atyachar Virodhi Parishad v. Dilip Nathumal Chord ia 10 SCC(p) 721, para 14).	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) R.S. Nayak v. A.R. Antulay11	Arguments of Petitioner
(SCC pp.	Arguments of Petitioner
75556, para 43).	Arguments of Petitioner
(3) State of Bihar v. Ramesh Singh 12 SCC(p) 39, para 4).	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) Niranjan Singh Karam Singh Punjabi v. Jitendra Bhimraj Bijjaya 13 SCC(p) 85, para 7).23.	Arguments of Petitioner
Equally, the High Court erred in holding that the Court taking cognizance can only look at the police report and nothing else.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is clearly contrary to the ruling of this Court in Satya Narain Musadi v. State Of Bihar14 (SCC pp. 15758, paras 9 and 10).	Arguments of Petitioner
The report under Section 173(2) is accompanied by all the documents and statements.	Arguments of Petitioner
All of them can be looked into.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of the above submissions, it is urged that the judgment of the High Court is perverse and is liable to be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr U.R. Lalit, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellants submits that a chargesheet in criminal law is a mere narration.	None
It is a manifestation of evidence collected.	None
No chargesheet is ever construed in a restricted way, as has been done by the High Court.	None
In this case the High Court has grievously erred.	None
When a police report is filed cognizance is almost automatic.	None
In fact, in A.C. Aggarwal, SubDivisional Magistrate v. Ram Kali15 this Court held that when Section 190(1)(b) of the Code uses the words may take cognizance it means, must take cognizance and that it has no discretion in t he matter.	None
In law, no reasons need be given for taking cognizance under Section 193.	None
Mr Ram Jethmalani, learned Senior Counsel, appearing on behalf of the respondents submits that a report of the police constitutes the facts found as a result of investigation.	Arguments of Respondent
Under Section 173 of the Code the Court is called upon to take action.	Arguments of Respondent
The report in the accompanying documents though complementary must be held distinctive.	Arguments of Respondent
In law, the report should contain the minimum.	Arguments of Respondent
Should the report fail to bring out the ingredients of an offence the same cannot be supplemented by other materials.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, the submission is, the report is relevant for the issue of process.27.	Arguments of Respondent
The impugned order is in two parts 1.	Arguments of Respondent
taking cognizanc e and 2. issuing a process.28.The theory of curable irregularity cannot be applied except in revisional or appellate stage.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 170(5) makes a clear distinction between the report and documents along with the report.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 190(1)(b) states Such facts constitute an offence.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 190 of the Code is controlled by Section 20A(1) and (2) of TADA.	Arguments of Respondent
Under such circumstances, the Court will have to examine whether the bar has be en removed.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of this submission, reliance is placed on Gokulchand Dwarkadas Morarka v. King16.	Arguments of Respondent
Though that case arose under Defence of India Rules, the ratio squarely applies.29.A cognizance which is barred cannot be overcome by a sanction.	Arguments of Respondent
The court must look at the validity of sanction.	Arguments of Respondent
In this case, the sanction was never produced before the Court.	Arguments of Respondent
On the contrary, the Court took cognizance automatically.	Arguments of Respondent
The specific case of these respondents before the High Court was, there was no such sanction.	Arguments of Respondent
The burden that the sanction was granted in relation to the facts constituting the offence has, not been discharged.	Arguments of Respondent
While taking cognizance perusal of sanction is not mentioned.	Arguments of Respondent
T his order is conclusive.30.The Commissioner of Police in his affidavit does not say that he handedit over to the Designated Court and that the Court returned to the Police as there was no infrastructure for safe custody.	Arguments of Respondent
On the basis of the affidavit it is submitted that no sanction was made.	Arguments of Respondent
In criminal justice the quantum of evidence at the time of issuing the process must be the same as at the time of taking cognizance.	Arguments of Respondent
Relying on Vadilal Panchal v.	Arguments of Respondent
Dattatraya Dulaji Ghadigaonkar17	Arguments of Respondent
it is urged that under Section 202 of the Code a plea of selfdefence could be raised and the decision invited at the time of issuing process.31.As regards the exercise of inherent jurisdiction in quashing under section 482 of the Code it could be exercised in three cases When there is a legal bar to prosecution.(ii)	Arguments of Respondent
The FIR and the complaint do not make out the offence.(iii)	Arguments of Respondent
When there is no legal evidence.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court can interfere during investigation (i) not under the inherent powers but under the Constitution of India (ii)after cognizance before charges are framed.	Arguments of Respondent
This can be done both under the inherent powers and Article 226 of the constitution of India (a) on account of the existence of legal bar or where there is no material for issuing process or action(b) there is not enough no legal evidence(c) after charges are framed when there is legal evidence to sustain the charges.	None
It is incorrect to contend that the High Court has appreciated the evidence.	Arguments of Respondent
In order to determine whether the bar has been removed, it can examine the same.	Arguments of Respondent
As a matter of fact, this Court in State of Maharashtra v. Abdul Hamid Haji Mohammed 1 SCC 669) has held that mens rea is necessary in deciding the abetment.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, primarily the Court has to decide whether an order of sanction exists or not.33.	Arguments of Respondent
The sanction in this case is void for the following reasons The order of sanction states that the Commissioner of Police accords sanction for prosecution.	Arguments of Respondent
Legally speaking, it should be for proceeding under TADA and not for prosecution.	Arguments of Respondent
It has been so laid down in Ram Kumar v. State of Haryana Is.(b)There is nonapplication of mind.	Arguments of Respondent
In Gokulchand Dwarkadas	Arguments of Respondent
Morarka16 it is held that there must be application of mind which ratio has been accepted by this Court in Major Som Nath v. Union of India 19.	Arguments of Respondent
Sections 3 and 4 of TADA contemplate various kinds of offences.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 3(1) speaks of different types of offences.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, there must be application of mind as to what offences are alleged.(c)The sanction order says and or.	Arguments of Respondent
This is bad in law.	Arguments of Respondent
It has been so laid down in Major Som Nathl9.	Arguments of Respondent
The sanctioning authority must conform to the same standard as the court and decide conspiracy against each accused.	Arguments of Respondent
The leading case on this aspect is Alvin Krulewitch v. United States20.	Arguments of Respondent
Relying on this ruling it is submitted the Court must insist on an admissible evidence against each accused.	Arguments of Respondent
To the same effect is Walli Mohammad v. King21.	None
If the bombs are intended for selfdefence there is no mens rea.	None
Consequently, there is no offence under TADA.	Arguments of Respondent
Support is derived for this proposition from Niranjan Singh Karam Singh v. Jitendra Bhimraj Bijjaya 1 (SCC at pages 87 88).	Arguments of Respondent
Where preparations are made to meet a communal frenzy, the respondents cannot be prosecuted under TADA.35.	Arguments of Respondent
Upholding the validity of the TADA this Court in Kartar Singh v. State of Punjab9 held that the Act falls under Entry I of List I, i.e., Defence of India.	Reasoning
That being so, the offences under Sections 3 and 4 must relate to sovereignty and integrity of India.	Arguments of Respondent
In Hitendra Vishnu Thakur22	Reasoning
this Court in dealing with the definition of terrorism held Unless the Act complained or falls strictly within the letter and spirit of Section 3(1) of TADA and is committed with the intention as envisaged by that section the accused cannot Hitendra Vishnu Thakur v. State of Maharashtra,be tried and convicted.	Reasoning
Hence, it is submitted the order of sanction must be examined in this light.	Arguments of Respondent
The Designated Court must record the motive as postulated under Section 3(1).	Reasoning
If, therefore, the dominant intention is selfdefence, the matter will have to be viewed only from that angle.	Arguments of Respondent
In Sanjay Dutt v. State through CBI23 this Court held that the accused could prove in relation to offences which do not require mens rea, an innocent possession will not bring the offence under Section 5.	Reasoning
Therefore, it is submitted in cases where mens rea is required like Sections 3 and 4, it must relate to sovereignty and integrity of India.	Reasoning
Hence, the Court will have to determine the dominant intention as laid down in Mathuri v. State of Punjab24.	Arguments of Respondent
In this case, the dominant intention is selfdefence.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, it will not constitute an of fence under TADA.	Arguments of Respondent
In the hargesheet police report, the ingredients of neither Sections 3 nor 4 are mentioned.	Arguments of Respondent
The documents, if taken into consideration, refer to two confessions.	Reasoning
They would only point to selfdefence.36.Mr Dip ankar Ghosh, learned Senior Counsel, appearing on behalf of Rashid Khan, first respondent, in Criminal Appeal No. 328 of 1994, adopting the argument of Mr Ram Jethmalani would urge that there is no valid sanction under Section 3(1) in this case.	Arguments of Respondent
It is the duty of the sanctioning authority to apply its mind.	Arguments of Respondent
In Indu Bhusan Chatterjee v. State25 it has been so laid down.	Arguments of Respondent
The order according sanction must give reasons.	Arguments of Respondent
The necessity for giving reasons has been laid down in Uma Charan v. Stat e of M.p26 and again in Siemens Engg.	Reasoning
Mfg. Co. of India Ltd. v. Union of India27.	Reasoning
With regard to motive and intention, the learned counsel cites Blacks Law Dictionary.38.Therefore, in this case, the intention was not to terrorise.	Reasoning
On the contrary, it is only by way of self defence.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, no exception could be taken to the impugned judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
Having regard to the arguments the following points arise for our determination1.The scope of the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 to interfere with (a) according sanction and (b) taking cognizance.	Issue
Whether the order of sanction is bad in law for (a) nonapplication of mind (b) that it does not give reasons (c) that there is no mention that there is a breakdown of law enforcement machineryit does not speak of conspiracy.	Issue
Section 20A of TADA with regard to taking cognizance of offence postulates under subsection (2), that no court can take cognizance of any offence under this Act without the previous sanction of the Inspector General of Police, or as the case may be, the Commissioner of Police.	None
Such a provision relating to sanction is not new under criminal jurisprudence.	None
Section 132 of the Code provides for sanction.	None
This section is a bar to the prosecution of police officers under Sections 129, 130 or 131.	None
The object is to protect responsible public servants against the institution of possible vexatious and mala fide criminal proceedings for offences alleged to be committed by them while they are acting or purported to act as such in the discharge of their official duty.	None
Section 197 contains a similar sanction.	None
The object of the section is to provide for two things, namely, (1) to protect government servants against institution of vexatious proceedings, and (2) to secure the wellconsidered opinion of a superior authority before a prosecution is lodged against them.	None
Similar provisions are found in other enactments, for example, Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947.	None
Similarly, when Section 20A(2) of TADA makes sanction necessary for taking cognizance  it is only to prevent abuse of power by authorities concerned.	None
It requires to be noted that this provision of Section 20A came to be inserted by Act 43 of 1993.	None
Then, the question is as to the meaning of taking cognizance.	None
Section 190 of the Code talks of cognizance of offences by Magistrates.	None
This expression has not been defined in the Code.	None
In its broad and literal sense, it means taking notice of an offence.	None
This would include the intention of initiating judicial proceedings against the offender in respect of that offence or taking steps to see whether there is any basis for initiating judicial proceedings or for other purposes.	None
The word cognizance indicates the point when a Magistrate or a Judge first takes judicial notice of an offence.	None
It is entirely a different thing from initiation of proceedings rather it is the condition precedent to the initiation of proceedings by the Magistrate or the Judge.	None
Cognizance is taken of cases and not of persons.	None
Cognizance is defined in Whartons Law Lexicon 14th Edn., at page 209.	None
It reads Cognizance (Judicial), knowledge upon which a judge is bound to act without having it proved in evidence as the public statutes of the realm, the ancient history of the realm, the order and course of proceedings in Parliament, the privileges of the House of Commons, the existence of war with a foreign State, the several seals of the King, the Supreme Court and its jurisdiction, and many other things.	None
A judge is not bound to take cognizance of current events, however notorious, nor of the law of other countries.	None
It has, thus, reference to the hearing and determination of the case in connection with an offence.	None
By the impugned judgment the High Court has quashed the orders of sanction and the Designated Court taking cognizance in the matter.	None
Before we go into the merits it is desirable to determine the limitations of power of the High Court under Article 226 in this regard.	None
In the State of Maharashtra v. Abdul Hamid Haji Mohammed1 after holding that the High Court in writ petition under Article 226 can interfere only in extreme cases where charges ex facie do not constitute offence under TADA it was held in paragraph 7 at pages 66970 as under The first question is Whether the High Court was empowered in the present case to invoke its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution to examine the correctness of the view taken by the Designated Court and to quash the prosecution of the respondent under the TADA Act?	None
Shri Jethmalani contended, placing reliance on the decisions in R.P Kapur v. State of Punjab28 and State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal2 that in the facts of this case, the High Court had such a jurisdiction since there is no accusation against the respondent in the chargesheet filed in the Designated Court which, if believed, must result in his conviction for an offence punishable under TADA Act.	None
We are not impressed by this argument of Shri Jethmalani.	None
It is no doubt true that in an extreme case if the only accusation against the respondent prosecuted in the Designated Court in accordance with the provisions of TADA Act is such that ex facie it cannot constitute an offence punishable under TADA Act, then the High Court may be justified in invoking the power under Article 226 of the Constitution on the ground that the detention of the accused is not under the provisions of TADA Act.	None
We may hasten to add that this can happen only in extreme cases which would be rare and that power of the High Court is not exercisable in cases like the present where it may be debatable whether the direct accusation made in conjunction with the attendant circumstances, if proved to be true, is likely to result in conviction for an offence under TADA Act.	None
The moment there is a debatable area in the case, it is not amenable to the writ jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution and the gamut of the procedure prescribed under TADA Act must be followed, namely, raising the objection before the Designated Court and, if necessary, challenging the order of the Designated Court by appeal in the Supreme Court as provided in Section 19 of TADA Act.	None
In view of the express provision of appeal to the Supreme Court against any judgment, sentence or order, not being an interlocutory order of a Designated Court, there is no occasion for the High Court to examine merits of the order made by the Designated Court that the Act applies.	None
We have no doubt that in the present case wherein the High Court had to perform the laboured exercise of scrutinising the material containing the accusation made against the respondent and the merits of the findings recorded by the Designated Court holding that the provisions of TADA Act were attracted, there was sufficient indication that the writ jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution was not available.	None
The ratio of the decisions of this Court in R.P Kapur28 and Bhajan Lal2 on which reliance is placed by Shri Jethmalani, has no application to the facts of the present case.	None
There was thus no justification for the High Court in the present case to exercise its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution for examining the merits of the controversy much less for quashing the prosecution of Respondent Abdul Hamid in the Designated Court for offences punishable under TADA Act.	None
(emphasis supplied) From the above quotation it is clear if there is a debatable area it is not amenable to writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and the gamut of the procedure prescribed under TADA must be followed including challenging the order of the Designated Court under Section 19.	None
It is also clear that the High Court cannot perform a laboured exercise of scrutinising the materials.	None
In State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal2 where a writ petition was filed to quash the first information report and also of the writ of prohibition restraining the police authority from proceeding further into the investigation, the High Court concluded that the allegations do not constitute a cognizable offence.	None
It further held that the power of quashing a criminal proceeding should be exercised sparingly and with circumspection and, that too, in the rarest of rare cases that the Court will not be justified in embarking upon an inquiry as to the reliability or genuineness or otherwise of the allegations made in the first information report or the complaint.	None
It was further held that where the allegations made in the first information report or the complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and accepted in the entirety, do not prima facie constitute any offence or make out a case against the accused, then alone the proceeding could be quashed.	None
In State of Bihar v. PP Sharma3 (at SCC pages 224225, headnote) it is held At a stage when the police report under Section 173 CrPC has been forwarded to the Magistrate after completion of the investigation and the material collected by the Investigating Officer is under the gaze of judicial scrutiny, the High Court would do well to discipline itself not to undertake quashing proceedings in exercise of its inherent jurisdiction.	None
In this case the High Court fell into grave error in appreciating the documents and affidavits produced before it by treating them as evidence, delving into the disputed questions of fact in its jurisdiction under Articles 226/227 and pronouncing the respondents to be innocent and quashing the criminal proceedings by converting itself into a trial court.	None
This was not at all a case where High Court should have interfered in the exercise of its inherent jurisdiction.	None
The appreciation of evidence is the function of the criminal courts the Special Judge was seized of the matter.	None
He had heard the arguments on the question of cognizance and had reserved the orders.	None
The High Court did not even permit the Special Judge to pronounce the orders.	None
The High Court, under the circumstances, could not have assumed jurisdiction and put an end to the process of investigation and trial provided under the law.	None
Entertaining the writ petitions against chargesheet and considering the matter on merit on the guise of prima facie evidence to stand an accused for trial amounts to pre trial of a criminal trial under Article 226 or 227 even before the competent Magistrate or the Sessions Court takes cognizance of the fence.	None
The chargesheet and the evidence placed in support thereof form the base to take or refuse to take cognizance by the competent court.	None
It is not the case that no offence had been made out in , the charge sheets and the first information report.	None
Grossest error of law has been committed by the High Court in making pretrial of a criminal case in exercising its extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226.	None
In Maninder Kaur v. Rajinder Singh4 (at SCC page 26, para 4) this Court observed thus The matter is plain and simple as on the statement of complainant and her two witnesses, the learned Magistrate came to the opinion that there was sufficient ground for proceeding in the complaint and he issued process against the accusedrespondents.	None
Now at that stage to judge the sufficiency or otherwise of the ground for proceeding was beyond the power of the High Court so as to quash the proceedings under Section 482, C rPC.	None
The value to be attached to the statement made by the appellant under Section 164, CrPC was to be examined at the enquiry at the pre charge stage and possibly at the trial, if charge was to be framed.	None
In Radhey Shyam Khemka v. State of Bihar5 (at SCC pp.	Arguments of Petitioner
59 60, para 8)	None
it was held thus The complaint made by the Deputy Secretary to the Government of India to the CBI mentions different circumstances to show that the appellants did not intend to carry on any business.	None
In spite of the rejection of the application by the Stock Exchange, Calcutta they retained the share moneys of the applicants with dishonest intention.	None
Those allegations were investigated by the CBI and ultimately chargesheet has been submitted.	None
On basis of that chargesheet cognizance has been taken.	None
In such a situation the quashing of the prosecution pending against the appellants only on the ground that it was open to the applicants for shares to take recourse to the provisions of the Companies Act, cannot be accepted.	None
It is a futile attempt on the part of the appellants, to close the chapter before it has unfolded itself.	None
It will be for the trial court to examine whether on the materials produced on behalf of the prosecution it is established that the appellants had issued the prospectus inviting applications in respect of shares of the Company aforesaid with a dishonest intention, or having received the moneys from the applicants they had dishonestly retained or misappropriated the same.	None
That exercise cannot be performed either by the High Court or by this Court.	None
If accepting the allegations made and charges levelled on their face value, the Court had come to conclusion that no offence under the Penal Code was disclosed the matter would have been different.	None
This Court has repeatedly pointed out that the High Court should not, while exercising power under Section 482 of the Code, usurp the jurisdiction of the trial court.	None
The power under Section 482 of the Code has been vested in the High Court to quash a prosecution which amounts to abuse of the process of the court.	None
But that power cannot be exercised by the High Court to hold a parallel trial, only on basis of the statements and documents collected during investigation or inquiry, for purpose of ex pressing an opinion whether the accused concerned is likely to be punished if the trial is allowed to proceed.	None
In State of Bihar v. Murad Ali Khan6 (at SCC pages 662 663, para 15)this Court held It is trite that jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC, which saves the inherent power of the High Court, to make such orders as may be necessary to prevent abuse of the process of any court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice, has to be exercised sparingly and with circumspection.	None
In exercising that jurisdiction the High Court should not embark upon an enquiry whether t he allegations in the complaint are likely to be established by evidence or not.	None
That is the function of the trial Magistrate when the evidence comes before him.	None
Though it is neither possible nor advisable to lay down any inflexible rules to regulate that jurisdiction, one thing, however, appears clear and it is that when the High Court is called upon to exercise this jurisdiction to quash a proceeding at the stage of the Magistrate taking cognizance of an offence the High Court is guided by the allegations, whether those allegations, set out in the complaint or the chargesheet, do not in law constitute or spell out any offence and that resort to criminal proceedings would, in the circumstances, amount to an abuse of the process of the court or not.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
In Municipal Corpn.	None
of Delhi v. Ram Kishan Rohtagi29 (at SCC p. 6, para 10) it is reiterated It is, therefore, manifestly clear that proceedings against an accused in the initial stages can be quashed only if on the face of the complaint or the papers accompanying the same, no offence is constituted.	None
In other words, the test is that taking the allegations and the complaint as they are, without adding or subtracting anything, if no offence is made out then the High Court will be justified in quashing the proceedings in exercise of its powers under Section 482 of the present Code.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
In Municipal Corpn.	None
of Delhi v. Purshot am Dass Jhunjunwal a30 (at SCC p. 10, para 5) it was further made clear As to what would be the evidence against the respondents is not a matter to be considered at this stage and would have to be proved at the trial.	None
We have already held that for the purpose of quashing the proceedings only the allegations set forth in the complaint have to be seen and nothing further.	None
In this legal back ground we will analyse the facts as contained in the chargesheet Accused Mohd.	None
Rashid Khan and his relatives reside at 43, B.B. Ganguly Street, Calcutta12.	None
He used to maintain a group of antisocials.	None
Local people were scared of him and his m en.	None
No one dared to object or raise voice against them as all knew the consequences.2.	None
The said Mohd.	None
Rashid Khan had his office in Premises No. 266, B.B. Ganguly Street.3.Accused Rashid Khan, a Satta Bookie, used to run his satta business inside Satta Gali at Premises Nos. 266 and 267, B.B. Ganguly Street.4.	None
The investigation revealed that since last 5/6 years Accused 3 Pannalal Jaysoara had been manufacturing bombs on the first floor of 267, B.B. Ganguly Street as and when required by Accused 1 Md.	Facts
Rashid Khan, the Satta Bookie.	None
Kalloo Sarafaraz Khan, a henchman of Accused 1 picked up Accused 3 Pannalal Jaysoara first for preparing bombs for their group and through accused Kalloo Sarafaraz Khan, Accused 3 Pannalal Jaysoara was introduced to Accused 1 Md.	None
Rashid Khan, Accused 2 Abdul Aziz, Accused 7 Lala Parwez Khan, accused Zakrin and Accused 8 Parvez Imtiaz Khan.	None
It also transpired that accused Pannalal used to take cash Rs 100 regularly every week either from accused Rashid Khan or from accused Kalloo Sarafaraz Khan.	None
Accused 3 Pannalal used to receive the said money from the office of accused Rashid Khan at 266, B.B. Ganguly Street.5.	None
This bombmanufacturing matter was supervised mainly by accused Kalloo and accused Lala (absconding) and sometimes by accused Imtiaz Khan (absconding).	None
Accused Md.	None
Rashid Khan, Abdul Aziz and Zakrin Khan used to visit the first floor of 267, B.B. Ganguly Street, also for the same purpose.	None
30 (198 3)6.	None
After the communal riot in recent past between Hindus and Muslims in Bombay, Accused 1 Md.	None
Rashid Khan became very worried for the Muslims because, according to him, a large number of Muslims died at Bombay and the local Government did nothing for their community and he apprehended that such sort of communal riot might take place in Calcutta and Government may not stand by the side of Muslims as in Bombay as a result many Muslims would die.	None
As such accused Md.	None
Rashid Khan hatched a conspiracy with his henchmen viz.	None
accused Kalloo, Lala, Zakrin, Khalid, Murtaza, Aziz, Gulzar etc. to procure huge quantity of explosive materials for preparing large number of bombs with a view to k ill the Hindus in Calcutta by using those bombs through Muslim brothers.	None
(emphasis supplied)7.	None
Pursuant to that conspiracy Accused 5 was entrusted with the task of procuring explosive materials.	None
For this, Accused 1, Rashid Khan, paid money to Accused 5 Md.	None
Khalid through accused Kalloo.	None
Within a few days, Accused 5 Khalid, with the help of accused Hassu procured huge quantities of explosive materials and brought those to the first floor of 267, B.B. Ganguly Street, in two drums and two bags and kept the same there with the help of accused Murtaza, Gulzar, Tenia and Ukil.	None
Again on 1631993 accused Md.	None
Khalid and accused Hassu brought explosive materials in two bags and with accused Gulzar and Mustafa Murtaza came near the Satta Gali at about 20/20.30 hrs.	None
There with the help of accused Tenia, Ukil and Khurshid brought those bags inside the Khaskhas Godown on first floor of 267, B.B. Ganguly Street through Satta Gali.	None
At that time there were some other persons present in Satta Gali who saw this.	None
Thereafter accused Murtaza, Khalid and Hassu and Khurshid kept two drums and four bags together and placed a plastic sheet.	None
Accused Khalid and Hassu opened those bags and brought out explosive materials and some small tin containers.	None
Then accused Tenia, Ukil, Hassu and Khurshid started mixing the explosive materials while accused Gulzar, Khalid and Murtaza started straining the materials.	None
Accused Gulzar tried to open the lid of a d rum but he was asked by accused Khalid and accused Murtaza not to do so.	None
As such he did not open the lid of the drum.	None
Soon after accused Nisar Gulzar, Khalid and Murtaza were straining those explosive materials.	None
Accused Lala, Kalloo and Imtiaz came inside the first floor of 267, B.B. Ganguly Street and supervised this manufacturing process.	None
Owner of Khaskhas Godown, E.M. Naushad and his men were present inside the first floor of the said building i.e. inside his godowncumresidential place at that time.	None
At about 21.00/21.30 hours of that night, an electrician of that locality who used to sleep in the night inside the Khaskhas Godown regularly also came there but being rebuked by accused Murtaza he left the Khaskhas Go down.	None
Some other people who used to stay during night were also present inside the Khaskhas Godown on that night.8.	None
Thereafter at intervals accused Gulzar and accused Khalid left that house for their destinations.	None
All the street lights an d lights inside Satta Gali and lights on the first floor of 267, B.B. Ganguly Street and its surrounding areas were burning.	None
A few persons were present inside Satta Gali then.	None
On the same morning, i.e., 1631993, accused Kalloo with accused Imt iaz went to the place of accused Pannalal Jaysoara and asked him to come to their place at Bowbazar Street for preparing bombs.	None
At about 22.00/22.30 hours, on that day, accused Pannalal came to the office of accused Md.	None
Rashid Khan at 266, B.B. Ganguly Street.	None
There he met accused Aziz, Rashid, Lala and Zakrin who took him to the Khaskhas GodowncumFactory located on the first floor of 267, B.B. Ganguly Street through Satta Gali where accused Murtaza, Tenia, Nisar, Ukil, Hassu and Khurshid were found preparing bombs and there was huge quantity of the mixture of explosive materials over a plastic sheet on the first floor of 267, B.B. Ganguly Street besides a number of empty small tin containers.9.	None
At about 23.00/23.30 hours on 1631993, accused Pannalal, after preparing a few bombs came down and went out, being followed by a witness.	None
Accused Zakrin was found standing near the Satta Gali and accused Md.	None
Rashid Khan was then talking with two persons of Haberly Lane, sta nding on the pavement in front of 266, B.B. Ganguly Street.	None
At that time, accused Pannalal went to accused Rashid Khan and told him that it would take long time, even up to the next day evening, to prepare bombs  with all such huge quantity of ex plosive materials and asked accused Rashid Khan as to the necessity of preparing such large number of bombs.	None
Accused Rashid Khan answered him in presence of those two persons as to why large number of bombs were necessary referring to recent past Bo mbay Riot.10.	None
Then Accused 1 Mohammed Rashid Khan asked Accused 3, Pannalal, to start the work of preparation of bombs and thereafter went towards his hotel Shahi Darbar.	None
After departure of accused Rashid Khan, Accused 3 Pannalal also left that place for his residence.11.	None
At about 23.59 hours on 1631993 the explosion took place resulting in death of 69 persons and 46 persons injured.	None
Due to this explosion the houses either collapsed or got damaged.	None
The facts also disclose that confessions were made by Accused 3, Pannalal and Accused 6, Md.	None
Gulzar under Section 164 of the Code before the Magistrate.	None
Now, we come to the order granting sanction.	None
The order of sanction by the Commissioner of Police is dated 11 6 1993.	None
It inter alia says WHEREAS, it appears from all the reports, recorded statements of witnesses, confessional statement of accused persons viz.	None
Pannalal Jaysoara and Md. Gulzar, the seizure lists, opinion of experts, Order No. 4509P dated 11 61993 from the Joint Secretary to the Government of West Bengal case diary etc.	None
in connection with Bowbazar PS.	None
C No. 84 dated 1731993 under Sections 120B/436130213071 326 IPC, under Sections 3 and 5 of Explosive Substances Act, under Section 3 and TADA Act, placed before me, that on 1631993 at about 23.59 hours there was an explosion due to blast of bombs and explosive materials which caused destruction of Premises No. 267, B.B. Ganguly Street, Calcutta12 and damage to Premises Nos. 266, 268A, 43/3, 42/1, B.B. Ganguly Street, 1, Haberly Lane, 37, Robert Street, Calcutta12 etc. and death of 69 persons and injuries to large number of people.	None
(emphasis supplied)Thereafter, it proceeds to say that the accused with intent to strike terror in the people and or to strike terror in a particular section of the people and or to alienate a particular section of people, to adversely affect the harmony amongst the Hindus and Muslims were engaged in preparing and or causing to be prepared, bombs, with explosive substances and highly explosive materials by procuring them, which acts were likely to cause death or injuries to persons and loss of or damage to and or destruction of properties and thereby committed terrorist acts, (emphasis supplied)AND WHEREAS it appears, from the aforesaid records and documents, that the aforesaid persons conspired and were preparing to commit disruptive activities.	None
AND WHEREAS, it appears after due consideration of all the records, documents etc. mentioned earlier, that the aforesaid persons by their acts have committed offences punishable under Sections 3 and 4 of the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1993.	None
(emphasis supplied)Now, therefore, on careful consideration of all the facts, materials and circumstances of the case and in exercise of the powers conferred upon me by Section 20A(2) of the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1993, I, Shri Tushar Kanti Talukdar, Commissioner of Police, Calcutta, do hereby accord sanction for prosecution under Sections 3 and 4 of the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1993 of the following persons, viz., (1) Md.	None
Rashid Khan, son of late Ramzan Khan, of 43, B.B. Ganguly Street, Calcutta 1 2.	None
O n this, the Designated Court passed the following order on 1461963 Received chargesheet against the accused (1) Md.	None
Rashid Khan, (2) Abdul Aziz C.K., (3) Pannalal Jaysoara, (4) Md.	None
Mustafa Murtaz a Murtaja, (5) Md.	None
Khalid, (6) Md.	None
Gulzar, (7) Md.	None
Parvez Khan Parwez Lala and (8) Imtiaz Khan under Sections 120 B/436/302/307/326 IPC, under Sections 3 and 5, E.S. Act and under Sections 3 and 4, TADA Act.	None
PP Shri Sisir Ghosh prays for taking cognizance.	None
Heard.	None
Perused the police papers.	None
Cognizance taken.	None
Accused 7 and 8 are repo rtedly absconding.	None
(emphasis supplied) Issue warrant of arrest against accused Parvez Khan Md.	None
Parvez Khan Parwez Lala and accused Imtiaz Khan.	None
Fix 1071993 for E.R. to date.	None
The High Court in the impugned judgment criticises the order of sanction.	None
It inter alia holds It has been specifically alleged that no sanction order was given by the Commissioner of Police  Respondent 3 before the Designated Court took cognizance on 1461993.	None
Respondent 3 has not affirmed an affidavit denying the said allegations made by the petitioner.	None
The said affidavit affirmed by S.K. Sanyal also does not disclose that he was authorised to affirm the affidavit on behalf of the Commissioner of Police  Respondent 3.	None
There is, therefore, no specific denial by the Commissioner of Police of the averment in the writ petition that no sanction had been granted by him prior to the Designated Court taking cognizance.	None
It is significant that although it is alleged in the said affidavit of S.K. Sanyal that he produced the case diary including the sanction order to the Designated Court and the Designated Court returned the same to him for making copies as the Court did not have the necessary infrastructure, the same is not recorded in the proceeding before the Designated Court nor there is any mention in the sanction order filed in Court and subsequently returned as appears from the record of the Designated Court.	None
It further held Even assuming that the original had been returned to the prosecution for making copies, the said fact should have also been recorded in the courts record.	None
In the absence of such recording of fact question may arise whether the said sanction order was placed before the Designated Court.	None
it w ill be noticed that the Police Report and this last page (which is page no. 14) is much lighter than the type impression in the preceding 13 pages of the said report.	None
(emphasis supplied)In my view this aspect of the matter is not so vital so as to affect the validity of the sanction order or for the purpose of taking cognizance and the writ court should not enter into the aforesaid controversy.	None
It has, therefore, been suggested that the sanction is in respect of nonexistent offences and that it is not a sanction in respect of any offence under the TADA Act of 1987 as required by Section 20A(2) of the Act and that it is not a sanction in respect of offences under Sections 3 and 4 of the TADA Act of which cognizance was taken by the Designated Court on 1461993.	None
The sanction in the aforesaid manner according to the learned advocate for the petitioner shows complete nonapplication of mind by the Commissioner of Police while making that order and according to him the order of sanction is accordingly, bad.	None
It further proceeds to hold that the order of sanction suffers from the following infirmities No intention to kill Hindus has been mentioned.	None
(2) Facts for taking action under Section 4 have not been set out.	None
(3) Threat to sovereignty and integrity has not been stated.	None
(4) Confession cannot be taken into account for inferring the intention.	None
(5) There is no whisper of an allegation of conspiracy.	None
(6) There is no mention that ordinary machinery has broken down.	None
After holding so, the order of the Designated Court dated 1461993 is quashed on the following grounds Order taking cognizance does not show that the sanction to prosecute was considered.	None
Reasons for taking cognizance have not bee n recorded.	None
(2) The order does not show that confessions were perused.	None
(3) The Court while taking cognizance cannot refer to any material other than police report.	None
(4) Intention to commit offence under TADA cannot be inferred as the motive was to defend Muslims.	None
The High Court, after quashing the order of sanction and taking cognizance ordered as follows This order, however, will not prevent the respondentState to take steps for making any fresh application for sanction before the Commissioner of Police on the basis of fresh materials, if there be any, and accordingly to apply for taking of cognizance before the Designated Court on the basis of such fresh materials if the same is permissible and if the respondent is so advised in accordance with law.	None
From the above analysis of the judgment, it is clear what actually the High Court has done is to appreciate the evidence at the pretrial stage.	None
The affidavit of Mr Tushar Kanti Talukda r, Commissioner of Police, Calcutta, which came to be filed pursuant to the permission granted by the Court, categorically states that sanction was accorded by him.	None
The Commissioner had gone through the voluminous records and came to the conclusion on his own.	None
It is further stated by him as under I state that I had examined in particular the statements of witnesses indicating that the accused persons along with others conspired to create disharmony between the two major communities and over a period had systematically been collecting huge quantities of explosive substances to use them whenever needed.	None
In fact, on 1631993 one instalment of two big bags of explosives had arrived at the place and were kept in the khaskhas room of 267, B.B. Ganguly Street.	None
These two bags were in addition to two big bags and two drums that had arrived earlier and stored in the same room.	None
The statements of witnesses and confessional statements of two accused clearly indicate that the accused had no faith in the established Government.	None
The accused men had openly declared that the Government had done nothing to protect the Muslims against the Hindus in Bombay riots and in Calcutta the Government will also do nothing to protect the Muslims.	None
It was declared that thus it was necessary to arm the Muslims with huge quantities of bomb s so that they could use those for their protection.	None
The statements and confessions indicate that bombs were being manufactured on that day to attain such object.	None
One of the confessing accused, who is an expert in manufacturing bombs, had stated in his confession that he was told by Rashid Khan to prepare bombs from such huge quantities of explosive substances.	None
The accused in his confession also stated that he told Rashid Khan that preparing bombs out of such huge quantities of explosives would not only take whole night of 16th March but would also need to next day till near about the evening.	None
The materials also indicate that on that day while he left after preparing some bombs, others continued to manufacture bombs out of explosive substances that had been collected.	None
I was satisfied that the facts emerged did call for prosecution under Sections 3 and 4 of TADA.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
It should also be stated, at this stage, that the High Court had overlooked the fact that Mr Sujit Kumar Sanyal had sworn to the earlier affidavit as the Head of the Special Investigating Team which has also been mentioned by the Commissioner.	None
Merely because of the failure of the Court to mention that it had perused the order of sanction while taking cognizance cannot lead to the conclusion that the existence of the order of sanction could be doubted.	None
The finding that there was no order of sanction is not correct factually.	None
The affidavit of Sujit Kumar Sanyal clearly states as under I say that on 1461993 before the learned Designated Court had passed the order taking cognizance I had placed all the papers including the two sanctions and the statements recorded under Section 161 of the Code before the Court.	None
I say that it was well within the competence of the learned Chief Metropolitan Magistrate to be informed that investigation under Sections 3 and 4 of TADA Act was being carried on and to correct the records by adding Sections 3 and 4 of the said Act.	None
Again in paragraph 12, the affidavit proceeds to state I further say that it was only in course of the investigation that materials indicating commission of offences under Sections 3 and 4 of the said Act of 1987 had transpired.	None
I further say that after the cognizance had been taken on the basis of the chargesheet and the materials collected after investigation being the materials in the case diary which include two sanctions and the statements recorded under Section 161 of the Code and the documents seized and various seizure lists the learned Designated Court issued warrant of arrest against the absconding accused persons.	None
Paragraph 13 mentions as follows I say that the sanction under the said TADA 1993 was granted on 1161993 being No. 1 by the Commissioner of Police, Calcutta and under the Explosive Substances Act on that day being 4509P by the Government of West Bengal.	None
I further say that the chargesheet that was filed on 1461993 has specifically mentioned that such sanction had already been obtained.	None
It is categorically denied that the initiation and continuation of the said criminal proceeding against the petitioner and before the Designated Court under the TADA and said order dated 1461993 is illegal.	None
It is not necessary to mention in the order sheet that sanction was granted.	None
It is emphatically denied that no sanction was given by Respondents 3 and 4 or that the law enjoins a duty upon the Designated Court to record by an order the fact of having received such sanction.	None
There is no justification on the part of the High Court to ignore this affidavit because the Commissioner of Police, Calcutta had sworn to the fact that a Special Investigation Team had been set up on 1831993 which was headed by Sujit Kumar Sanyal.	None
The order of sanction, on the face of it, shows that the sanctioning authority had perused the police papers.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court had to necessarily accept these averments on their face value.	None
The correctness or otherwise of the statement could be gone into only at the time of trial.	None
This Court in State of Bihar v. PP Sharma, IAS3 already referred t o, held as under (SCC pp.	None
25025 1, paras 27, 28 and 3 1 )	None
The sanction under Section 197 CrPC is not an empty formality.	None
It is essential that the provisions therein are to be observed with complete strictness.	None
The object of obtaining sanction is that the authority concerned should be able to consider for itself the material before the Investigating Officer, before it comes to the conclusion that the prosecution in the circumstances be sanctioned or forbidden.	None
To comply with the provisions of Section 197 it must be proved that the sanction was given in respect of the facts constituting the offence charged.	None
It is desirable that the facts should be referred to on the face of the sanction Section 197 does not require the sanction to be in any particular form.	None
If the facts constituting the offence charged are not shown on the face of the sanction, it is open to the prosecution, if challenged, to prove before the court that those facts were placed before the sanctioning authority.	None
It should be clear from the form of the sanction that the sanctioning authority considered the relevant material placed before it and after a consideration of all the circumstances of the case it sanctioned the prosecution.	None
In the present case the investigation was complete on the date of sanction and police reports had been filed before the Magistrate.	None
The sanctioning authority has specifically mentioned in the sanction order that the papers and the case diary were taken into consideration before granting the sanction.	None
Case diary is a complete record of the police investigation.	None
It contains total material in support or otherwise of the al legations.	None
The sanctioning authority having taken the case diary into consideration before the grant of sanction it cannot be said that there was nonapplication of mind on the part of the sanctioning authority.	None
It is nobodys case that the averment in the sanction order to the effect that case diary was taken into consideration by the competent authority, is incorrect.	None
We, therefore, do not agree with the finding of the High Court and set aside the same.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
Finally, we are at a loss to understand as to why and on what reasoning the High Court assumed extraordinary jurisdiction under Articles 226/227 of the Constitution of India at a stage when the Special Judge was seized of the matter.	None
In view of this decision, the approach of the High Court under Article 226 is clearly wrong.	None
63.	None
It is true, as contended by Mr Ram Jethmalani, there must be valid sanction, otherwise there is a bar to take cognizance.	None
In Gokulchand Dwarkadas Morarka v. King 16 it was observed thus (AIR at p. 84)	None
The sanction to prosecute is an important matter it constitutes a condition precedent to the institution of the prosecution and the Government have an absolute discretion to grant or withhold their sanction.	None
They are not, as the High Court seem to have thought, concerned merely to see that the evidence discloses a prima facie case against the person sought to be prosecuted.	None
They can refuse sanction on any ground which commends itself to them, for example, that on political or economic grounds they regard a prosecution as inexpedient.	None
Looked at as a matter of substance it is plain that the Government cannot adequately discharge the obligation of deciding whether to give or withhold a sanction without a knowledge of the facts of the case.	None
Nor, in their Lordships view, is a sanction given without reference to the facts constituting the offence a compliance with the actual terms of clause 23.	None
Reliance is placed by the learned counsel on Niranjan Singh K.S. Punjabi v. Jitendra Bhimraj Bi jjaya13 (SCC at page 83) wherein at para 5 this Court observed thus Section 227, introduced for the first time in the new Code, confers a special power on the Judge to discharge an accused at the threshold if , upon consideration of the record and documents he considers that there is not sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused.	None
In other words his consideration of the record and document at that stage is for the limited purpose of ascertaining whether or not there exists sufficient grounds for proceeding with the trial against the accused.	None
If he comes to the conclusion that there is sufficient ground to proceed, he will frame a charge under Section 228, if not he will discharge the accused.	None
It must be remembered that this section was introduced in the Code to avoid waste of public time over cases which did not disclose a prima facie case and to save the accused from avoidable harassment and expenditure.	None
(emphasis supplied) Equally, reliance is placed on State of Karnataka v.	None
L. Muniswamy31	None
In para 10, p. 704, it is held as under It is wrong to say that at the stage of framing charges the court cannot apply its judicial mind to the consideration whether or not there is any g round for presuming the commission of the offence by the accused.	None
As observed in the latter case, the order framing a charge affects a persons liberty substantially and therefore, it is the duty of the court to consider judicially whether the material warrants the framing of the charge.	None
It cannot blindly accept the decision of the prosecution that the accused b e asked to face a trial.	None
In our considered view, certainly the Designated Court could do all these at the time of framing of charges and not the High Court under Article 226, as has been done in the instant case.67.We are not in a position to accept the submissions of the learned counsel for the respondent that in order to find out whether a valid sanction existed, the High Court had appreciated the findings.68.Equally, much cannot be said of the fact that the order of sanction mentions sanction for prosecution, since it is stated sanction for prosecution under Sections 3 and 4 of TADA Act means only sanction to proceed under Sections 3 and 4 of TADA Act.	Reasoning
The ruling of Ram Kumar v. State of Haryana18, deal t with the different situation as to the scope of sanction under Sections 132 and 197 of the Code.	Reasoning
In the case of a public servant, both the sanctions were necessary.	Reasoning
That judgment has no application to the present case.69.Having regard to the various acts of expressed conspiracy, it has to be and or.	Reasoning
It is only during the trial the prosecution has to prove the part played by each of the accused.	None
In Alvin Krulewitch v. United States20, it was held thus(L Ep.	None
799)	None
When the trial starts, the accused feels the full impact of the conspiracy strategy.	None
Strictly, the prosecution should first establish prima facie the conspiracy and identify the conspirators, after which evidence of acts and declarations of each in the course of its execution are admissible against all.	None
But the order of proof of so sprawling a charge is difficult for a judge to control.	None
As a practical matter, the accused often is confronted with a hodgepodge of acts and statements by others which he may never have authorized or in tended or even known about, but which help to persuade the jury of existence of the conspiracy itself.	None
In other words, a conspiracy often is proved by evidence that is admissible only upon assumption that conspiracy existed.	None
(emphasis supplied)Hence, proving of conspiracy against each accused would arise only at the stage of the trial which is yet to commence in the instant case.	None
In Walli Mohammad v. King21 it is held as under The statements of each prisoner are evidence against himself only and are inadmissible against his fellow accused.	Reasoning
Consequently, the only safe method of testing the strength of the case for the prosecution is to take each mans case separately, neglect the evidence of the other and ask whether the conflicting and inconsistent nature of the matters alleged and persons implicated combined with the admission that the accused man was himself present is enough to justify a verdict against him.	Reasoning
It may be possible that each is sheltering a third person and even if it be possible that one of the two accused is guilty, there must be circumstances from which could be deduced which of the two is the guilty one.	Reasoning
Though proof of motive is not essential , it is a material consideration.	Reasoning
But it is not legitimate to speculate as to possible but unproved motives.	Reasoning
The difficulty in all cases where two persons are accused of a crime and where the evidence against one is inadmissible against the other is that however carefully assessors or a jury are directed and however firmly a Judge may steel his mind against being influenced against one by the evidence admissible only against the other, nevertheless the mind may inadvertently be affected by the disclosures made by one of the accused to the detriment of the other.	Reasoning
Neither of these rulings would apply because the question of leading evidence by the prosecution in relation to conspiracy, as stated above, would arise only during the stage of trial which is yet to commence in the instant case.	None
As to the fact of conspiracy, the chargesheet clearly mentions the same.	None
Therefore, factually, this finding is wrong.	Reasoning
We are not in a position to accept the argument of the learned counsel for the respondent that if the bombs are for selfdefence, there is no mens rea and therefore, no offence under TADA.	None
The finding of the High Court on this aspect is as under It may be noted that if according to the police report itself the reason or intention behind preparing and storing bombs was to defend the Muslim community in the event or riot taking place by possible attack by Hindus because the Government would not take action as was done in Bombay, it cannot possibly be inferred or said that the accused intended to strike terror or that he had any other intent specified under the TADA Act.	None
It has, however, been submitted by Mr Roy in the course of his argument that there are statements of witnesses to the effect that the people of the locality were scared of the accused, implying that they were considered as dangerous persons.	None
It has been submitted further that 21 1949 AIR(PC) 103, 104 50 CrLJ 340 assuming the fact to be true, from this fact it does not follow that the accused entered into a conspiracy to prepare and store bombs with any of the intents specified in Section 3(1) viz.	None
to strike terror amongst t he people or a section of the people.	None
It must also be remembered that mens rea is an essential ingredient of an offence.	None
The least we can say is that this finding is shocking.	None
We may usefully refer t o Ajay Aggarwal case8.	None
At pages 617618, paras 810 it is stated 8.	None
It is not necessary that each conspirator must know all the details of the scheme nor be a participant at every stage.	None
It is necessary that they should agree for design or object of the conspiracy.	None
Conspiracy is conceived as having three elements (1) agreement (2) between two or more persons by whom the agreement is effected and (3) a criminal object, which may be either the ultimate aim of the agreement, or may constitute the means, or one of the means by which that aim is to be accomplished.	None
It is immaterial whether this is found in the ultimate objects.	None
The common law definition of criminal conspiracy was stated first by Lord Denman in Jones case that an indictment for conspiracy must charge a conspiracy to do an unlawful act by unlawful means and was elaborated by Willies, J. on behalf of the judges while referring the question to the House of Lords in Mulcahy v. Reg32 and House of Lords in unanimous decision reiterated in Quinn v. Leathem33A conspiracy consists not merely in the intention of two or more, but in the agreement of two or more, to do an unlawful act, or to do a lawful act by unlawful means.	None
So long as such a design rests in intention only, it is not indictable.	None
When two agree to carry it into effect, the very plot is an act in itself, and the act of each of the parties, promise against promise, actus contra actum, capable of being enforced, if lawful and punishable if for a criminal object, or for the use of criminal means.9.	None
This Court in E. G. Barsay v. State of Bombay34 held The gist of the offence is an agreement to break the law.	None
The parties to such an agreement will be guilty of criminal conspiracy, though the illegal act agreed to be done has not been done.	None
So too, it is an ingredient of the offence that all the parties should agree to do a single illegal act.	None
It may comprise the commission of a number of acts.	None
Under Section 43 of the Indian Penal Code, an act would be illegal if it is an offence or if it is prohibited by law.	None
In Yash Pal Mittal v. State of Punjab35 the rule was laid as follows (SCC p. 543, para	None
9)The very agreement, concert or league is the ingredient of the offence.	None
It is not necessary that all the conspirators must know each and every detail of the conspiracy as long as they are coparticipators in the main object of the conspiracy.	None
There may be so many devices and techniques adopted to achieve the common goal of the conspiracy and there may be division of performances in the chain of actions with one object to achieve the real end of which every collaborator must be aware and in which each one of them must be interested.	None
There must be unity of object or purpose but there may be plurality of means sometimes even unknown to one another, amongst the conspirators.	None
In achieving the goal several offences may be committed by some of the conspirators even unknown to the others.	None
The only relevant factor is that all means adopted and illegal acts done must be and purported to be in furtherance of the object of the conspiracy even though there may be sometimes misfire or overshooting by some of the conspirators.10.	None
In Mohammad Usman Mohammad Hussain Maniyar v. State of Maharashtra36 it was held that for an offe nce under Section 120B IPC, the prosecution need not necessarily prove that the conspirators expressly agreed to do or cause to be done the illegal act, the agreement may be proved by necessary implication.	None
The very preparation of bombs and possession of bombs would tantamount to terrorising the people.	None
If proved, it will be a terrorist act and subsections (1) and (3) of Section 3 of the Act may also be attracted .	None
The existence of 26 live bombs is a clear indication of conspiracy.	None
As regards the nonmention of threat to sovereignty and integrity in sanction order, we think there is a misunderstanding.	None
This Court in Kartar Singh v. State of P unjab9 (at SCC p. 633) determined the legislative competence of Parliament to enact this law.	None
What is relied on by the learned counsel for the respondents is paragraph 68 of the said judgment.	None
That states as follows (SCC pp.	None
63334)	None
The terrorism, the Act (TADA) contemplates, cannot be classified as mere disturbance of public order disturbing the even tempo of the life community of any specified locality  in the words of Hidayatullah, C.J. in Arun Ghosh v. State of W.B.37	None
but it is much more, rather a grave emergent situation created either by external forces particularly at the frontiers of this country or by antinationals throwing a challenge to the very existence and sovereignty of the country in its democratic polity.	None
Again, in Hitendra Vishnu Thakur v. State of Maharashtra22 it	None
i s stated in para 7 at p. 618 as under Terrorism is one of the manifestations of increased lawlessness and cult of violence.	None
Violence and crime constitute a threat to an established order and are a revolt against a civilised society.	None
Terrorism has not been defined under TADA nor is it possible to give a precise definition of terrorism or lay down what constitutes terrorism.	None
It may be possible to describe it as use of violence when its most important result is not merely the physical and mental damage of the victim but the prolonged psychological effect it produces or has the potential of producing on the society as a whole.	None
There may be death, injury, or destruction of property or even deprivation of individual liberty in the process but the extent and reach of the intended terrorist activity travels beyond the effect of an ordinary crime capable of being punished under the ordinary penal law of the land and its main objective is to overawe the Government or disturb harmony of the society or terrorise people and the society and not only those directly assaulted, with a view to disturb even tempo, peace and tranquillity of the society and create a sense of fear and insecurity.	None
Again, in (para 14, p. 623), this Court went on to hold Therefore, it is the obligation of the investigating agency to satisfy t he Designated Court from the material collected by it during the investigation, and not merely by the opinion formed by the investigating agency, that the activity of the terrorist fall s strictly within the parameters of the provisions of TADA before seeking to charge sheet an accused under TADA.	None
The Designated Court must record its satisfaction about the existence of a prima facie case on the basis of the material on the record before it proceeds to frame a chargesheet against an accused for offences covered by TADA.	None
(emphasis in original) Without proceeding further, all that we can say, in this case, is that the materials are enough to bring the case under Section 3(1) of the Act.	None
Of course, in order to establish this, evidence will have to be led in during the trial.	Reasoning
Therefore, we restrain from making any further observation which may tend to prejudice the parties.	Reasoning
If that be so, the question of mentioning in the sanction order that the ordinary law has broken down, does not arise.	Reasoning
78.Coming to taking cognizance, it has been held by the High Court that it is not a reasoned order.	Reasoning
We are of the view that the approach of the High Court in this regard is clearly against the decision of this Court in Stree Atyachar Virodhi Parishad case10 in (para 14, p. 72 1), which is as under It is in the trial, the guilt or the innocence of the accused will be determined and not at the time of framing of charge.	None
The court, therefore, need not undertake an elaborate enquiry in sifting and weighing the material.	None
Nor is it necessary to delve deep into various aspects.	None
All that the court has to consider is whether the evidentiary material on record if generally accepted, would reasonably connect the accused with the crime.	None
No more need be enquired into.	None
Again, in Niranjan Singh K.S. Punjabi case13 it is stated at (SCC page 85, para 7), as under Again in Supdt.	Reasoning
Remembrancer of Legal Affairs, W.B. v. Anil Kumar Bhunja38, this Court observed in paragraph 18 of the judgment as underThe standard of test, proof and judgment which is to be applied finally before finding the accused guilty or otherwise, is not exactly to be applied at the stage of Section 227 or 228 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.	Reasoning
At this stage, even a very strong suspicion founded upon materials before the Magistrate, which leads him to form a presumptive opinion as to the existence of the factual ingredients constituting the offence alleged, may justify the framing of charge against the accused in respect of the commission of that offence.	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)80.The confessional statements of the two accused were very much there before the Court.	None
There is no reason to believe that the Court had not looked at the same.81.The other finding that what can be looked at is only the police report, cannot be sustained.	Reasoning
In Satya Narain Musadi v. State of Biharl4 (SCC at pages 157158, para 10) it was held as under The report as envisaged by Section 173(2) has to be accompanied as required by subsection (5) by all the documents and statements of the witnesses therein mentioned.	Reasoning
One cannot divorce the details which the report must contain as required by subsection (5) from its accompaniments which are required to be submitted under subsection (5).	Reasoning
The whole of it is submitted as a report to the Court.	Reasoning
But even if a narrow construction is adopted that the police report can only be what is prescribed in Section 173(2) there would be sufficient compliance if what is required to be mentioned by the statute has been set down in the report.	Reasoning
To say that all the details of the offence must be set out in the report under Section 173(2 ) submitted by the police officer would be expecting him to do something more than what Parliament has expected him to set out therein.	Reasoning
If the report with sufficient particularity and clarity specifies the contravention of the law which is the alleged offence, it would be sufficient compliance with Section 11.	Reasoning
The details which would be necessary to be proved to bring ho me the guilt to the accused would emerge at a later stage, when after notice to the accused a charge is framed against him and further in the course of the trial.	Reasoning
The ruling Uma Charan v. State of M.p26 cited by Mr Dipankar Ghosh, has no application to the facts of this case because Regulation 5(5) of the Indian Public Service (Appointment by Promotion) Regulations, 1955, in that case, required reasons to be recorded.83.That is not the position here.	Reasoning
Hence, that is clearly distinguishable.	Reasoning
The High Court has found in the impugned judgment as follows The acts which the accused persons did is the act of preparation and storage of bombs, which are undoubtedly made o f explosive substances.	Reasoning
From these acts of preparation and storage of bombs, it cannot be inferred that the accused intended to kill the Hindus or strike terror amongst the people or a section of the people, alienate a section of the people or adversely affect the harmony among different sections of the people.	Reasoning
Such an intent cannot be inferred from the mere preparation and storage of bombs.	Reasoning
It may be noted in this connection that police report does not disclose that the accused persons caused the explosion.	Reasoning
As a consequence of the explosion which occurred on 1631993 a large number of persons who were killed were Muslims and not Hindus and even from the consequences of the explosion with which the accused have not been charged, it cannot b e inferred that accused who are alleged to have been responsible for the preparation and storage of the bombs, intended to kill Hindus, or strike terror amongst a section of people or that they had any of the intents specified in Section 3(1) of the Act.	Reasoning
We are clearly of the opinion that this is a perverse reasoning.84.On intention and motive, we only need to refer to Corpus Juris Secundum (A Contemporary Statement of American Law), Volume 22.	None
It is held at page 116 (Criminal Law) as under Intention (a) In general (b) Specific or general intent crimes (a)In general.	None
As actual intent to commit the particular crime toward which the act moves is a necessary element of an attempt to commit a crime.	Reasoning
Although the intent must be one in fact, not merely in law, and may not be inferred from the overt act alone, it may be inferred from the circumstances.	None
As regards motive in American Jurisprudence, 2nd Edn., Vol. 21, in Section 133, it is stated as under Motive.	None
In criminal law motive may be defined as that which leads or tempts the mind to indulge in a criminal act or as the moving power which impels to action for a definite result.	None
Tested in the light of the above, suffice it to hold the preparation and storage of bombs, as pointed out above, are per se illegal acts.	None
The intention that it was to defend the Muslims, is totally unwarranted.	Reasoning
Bomb is not a toy or top to play with.	Reasoning
The further question is, when does the socalled right of selfdefence arise?	None
The High Court should have assumed that each of the allegations made in the chargesheet to be factually correct and should have examined the ingredients of the offence.	Reasoning
As rightly contended by Mr U.R. Lalit, learned Senior Counsel, the chargesheet cannot be considered in a restricted way.87.On a careful perusal of the judgment we are left with the impression that the High Court had indulged in a laboured exercise, without limiting itself to the proper jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, in matters of this kind.	Reasoning
We do not want to elaborate on the motive to prepare bombs and the intention thereto since the trial is yet to commence.88.For all the above reasons we have absolutely no hesitation in holding that the High Court has clearly exceeded its powers under Article 226 of the Constitution in quashing the orders of sanction and taking of cognizance.	None
Therefore, we set aside the impugned judgment of the High Court and direct the Designated Court to proceed with the case in accordance with the law with utmost expedition.	Decision
89.	Decision
In the result, the criminal appeals are allowed accordingly.	Decision
