 Hegde, J.1.	None
These are connected appeals by certificate.	Facts
They are directed against the decision of the High Court of Madras in a Reference under Section 66 (1) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 (to be hereinafter referred to as the Act).2.	Facts
The question of law referred for ascertaining the opinion of the High Court wasWhether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Department was justified in assessing the assessee in the status of an Association of Persons?In this case we are concerned with the assessment of the assessees for the assessment years 19571958 to 196263.	Issue
In all these years the assessees were assessed as an Association of the persons.	Facts
The contention of the assessees is that in the years, in question, they should have been assessed as individuals and not as an Association of Persons.	Facts
Therefore, the only question that calls for decision is as to the status of the assessee during the relevant assessment years.3.	Facts
For deciding the question formulated above, it is necessary to divide the assessment years into two groups.	None
For the assessment years 195758 and 195859 the assessees themselves submitted their return in the status of Association of Persons but for the later years, they submitted their returns as individuals.	Facts
In their returns for the assessment years 195960, they stated that they have divided their interest in the shares and therefore, they should be thereafter assessed as individuals.	None
It is necessary to mention one other circumstance before we proceed to set out the relevant facts.	None
The income in which we are concerned in this case arises under two heads.	None
Part of the income arises from house property and the remaining income arises from dividends from shares.	None
So far as the income from house property is concerned, the High Court has answered the question in favour of the assessee the Revenue has not appealed against that decision.	None
Hence we need not go into that aspect.	None
All that we have to decide in the present case is whether the dividend income which is the subjectmatter of these appeals should be assessed in the hands of the appellants as an Association of Persons or as individuals.4.	None
Now, we shall refer to the material facts as could be gathered from the case stated by that Tribunal.	Facts
One Sinnamani Nadar (who will be hereinafter referred to as Nadar) and his son Ganesan partitioned their family properties on December, 4, 1940.	Facts
Thereafter, Nadar started a firm of his own on June 27, 1955.	Facts
Later Nadar executed a settlement deed in favour of his four grandsons, namely, G. Murugesan, G. Kathiresan, G. Raja Shanker and G. Vettrivel.	Facts
The property covered by the said settlement deed included a house property, which had been let out.	Facts
Under this settlement deed, the donees are to enjoy during the lifetime the properties gifted and thereafter the same was to devolve on their children.	Facts
Sometime thereafter Nadar purchased a number of shares in Joint Stock Companies in the name of G. Murugesan and Brothers.	Facts
For each of such purchase, a debit entry was made in the books of the firm.	Facts
The share applications addressed to the companies for the transfer of the shares from the prior owners to the name of G. Murugesan and Brothers were signed by Padmavathy Ammal, the mother of donees as their guardian.	Facts
The donees were minors at the time most of these transactions took place.	Facts
Murugesan became a major on March 3, 1955.	Facts
After 1959, Murugesan himself signed all transfer applications both on his behalf as well as on behalf of his brothers.	Facts
The youngest of the brothers became a major on 15121962.	Facts
The income from the house property and the dividend income from shares were credited to an account called G. Murugesan and Brothers in the books of Nadars Firm.	Facts
In those books, there are separate accounts for G. Murugesan, G. Kathiresan, G. Raja Shankar and G. Vetrivel.	Facts
Private income and expenses of these persons were credited or debited to those individual accounts.	Facts
At the end of each year the balance in the account of G. Murugesan and Brothers is transferred in equal proportion to the individual accounts of the four persons mentioned above.	Facts
There was a partition between Ganesan and his sons on 321958, but that does not include the house property or the shares gifted by Nadar to his grandsons.	Facts
As mentioned earlier for the assessment years 195758 and 195859, the assessees submitted their returns in the status of Association of Persons and thereafter they submitted their returns as individuals.5.	Facts
On the basis of the above facts, the Incometax Officer assessed the assessee during all the years mentioned earlier in the status of Association of Persons.	Facts
His orders were confirmed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	Facts
But on a further appeal to the Appellate Tribunal, the Tribunal held that the assessee should be assessed as individuals and not as Association of Persons.	Facts
At the instance of the Commissioner, the question set out earlier was referred to the High Court.	Facts
The High Court answered that question in the affirmative and in favour of the Revenue.6.	Facts
The High Court was of the opinion that because of the facts that the shares were purchased jointly in the name of G. Murugesan and Brothers, the transfer applications were filed by Padmavathy acting as guardian of all the assessees, and further, after Murugesan became major, he collected the dividends jointly on behalf of the assessees, the assessees should be considered to have acted as an Association of Persons.	Facts
That conclusion is challenged before us by Mr. Setalvad, appearing on behalf of the assessees.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel urges that the facts that a joint gift of shares was made in favour of more than one persons or those shares were registered jointly in their names or even the fact that the dividend was realised together do not go to show that the shareholders or the beneficiaries did act as an Association of Persons.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, it is contended on behalf of the Revenue by Mr. Karkhanis that the facts proved in this case clearly establish that the assessees functioned as an Association of Persons.7.	Arguments of Respondent
The expression Association of Persons is not a term of art.	None
That expression has come up for consideration before this Court in more than one case.	None
In Commr. of Incometax, Bombay, North, Kutch and Saurashtra v. Indra Balkrishna (39 ITR 546 AIR 1960 SC 1172 ), this Court after referring to the various judgments, observed thusIt is enough for our purpose to refer to three decisionsIn re.	None
B. N. Elias, (1935) 3 ITR 408 (Cal) Commr. of Incometax v. Laxmidas Devidas (1937) 5 ITR 584 (Bom.)	None
and	None
In re Dwarkanath Harishchandra Pitale, (1937) 5 ITR 716 (AIR 1938 Bom. 353 ).	None
In re B. N. Elias, Derbyshire, C. J., rightly pointed out that the word associate means, according to the Oxford Dictionary, to join in common purpose, or to join in an action.	None
Therefore, an association of persons must be one in which two or more persons join in a common purpose or common action, and as the words occur in a section which imposes a tax on income, the association must be one the object of which is to produce income, profits or gains.	None
This was the view expressed by Beaumont, C. J., in Commr. of Incometax v. Lakshmidas Devidas, at page 589 (1937) 5 ITR 584 (Bom.) and also in In re Dwarkanath Harishchandra Pitale, 5 ITR 716 (AIR 1938 Bom. 353 )	None
In re B. N. Elias, (1935) 3 ITR 408 (Cal.)	None
Costello, J., put the test in more forceful language.	None
He said It may well be that the intention of the Legislature was to hit combinations of individuals who were engaged together in some joint enterprise but did not in law constitute	None
partnershipsWhen we find,that there is a combination of persons formed for the promotion of a joint enterprisethen I think no difficulty arises whatever in the way of saying thatthese persons did constitute an associationWe think that the aforesaid decision correctly lays down the crucial test for determining what is an Association of Persons within the meaning of Section 3 of the Incometax Act, and they have been accepted and followed in a number of later decisions of different High Courts to all of which it is unnecessary to call attention.	None
It is, however, necessary to add some words of caution here.	None
There is no formula of universal application as to what facts, how many of them and of what nature, are necessary to come to a conclusion that there is an association of persons within the meaning of section 3 it must depend on the particular facts and circumstances of each case as to whether the conclusion can be drawn or not.8.	None
In the course of that judgment, this Court also observedWith regard to the shares, dividends, and interest on deposits, there was no finding of any act of joint management.	None
Indeed, the main item consists of the dividends and it is difficult to understand what act of management the widows performed in respect thereof which produced or helped to produce income.	None
For forming an Association of Persons, the members of the association must join together for the purpose of producing an income.	Reasoning
An Association of Persons can be formed only when two or more individuals voluntarily combine together for a certain purpose.	Reasoning
Hence volition on the part of the member of the association is an essential ingredient.	Reasoning
It is true that even a minor can join an Association of Persons if his lawful guardian gives his consent.	Reasoning
In the case of receiving dividends from shares, where there is no question of any management, it is difficult to draw an inference that two or more shareholders functioned as an Association of Persons from the mere fact that they jointly own one or more shares, and jointly receive the dividends declared.	Reasoning
Those circumstances do not by themselves go to show that they acted as an Association of Persons.9.	Reasoning
But unfortunately for the assessees for the assessment years 195758 and 195859, they themselves had submitted their returns in the status of Association of Persons.	Reasoning
Those returns were neither withdrawn nor did they file fresh returns as individuals.	Reasoning
It was for the first time in the appeal, it was argued on their behalf that they should not have been assessed as Association of Persons.	Reasoning
The question whether the assessees functioned as an Association of Persons during those years was best known to them.	Reasoning
Their admission in that regard is an important piece of evidence.	Reasoning
They have made no attempt to show that the said admission was made under erroneous impression of law or is otherwise vitiated.	Reasoning
Hence for those years they were rightly assessed as an Association of Persons.	Reasoning
But so far as the other assessment years are concerned, the same result does not follow.	Reasoning
They themselves have specifically stated that they are no more functioning as Association of Persons.	Reasoning
In the case of association of persons it is always open to its members to withdraw from the same.	Reasoning
No one can be compelled to continue as a member of an association.	Reasoning
For withdrawing from an association there is no particular form needed to be observed.	Reasoning
As seen earlier, herein we are concerned only with the realisation of dividends.	Reasoning
If the individual members of the association choose to realise their dividends as individuals, there is an end of the association.	Reasoning
The assessees assertion that they have realised their dividends in their individual capacity remains unrebutted.	Reasoning
There is nothing to disprove that claim.	Reasoning
None of the facts proved can be said to be inconsistent with the claim made by them.10.	Reasoning
For the reasons mentioned above, we are unable to agree with the High Court that during the assessment years 195960 to 196263, the assessees should be held as having functioned as an association of persons.	Reasoning
Mr. Karkhanis in support of the contention of Revenue relied on the decision of the Bombay High Court in S. C. Cambatta v. Commr. of Incometax, Bombay (14 ITR 748) (AIR 1947 Bom. 264 ).	Arguments of Respondent
Therein, the only question was whether when an action is taken by an Incometax Officer under Section 23A, should the dividend deemed to have been declared to the shareholders must be considered to have been taken by a husband and wife who were the joint holders of a share as an Association of Persons or by the husband alone who under the Articles of Association was to act on behalf of the joint holders.	None
The contention of the Revenue was that the husband alone was the shareholder.	None
On the other hand the contention of the assessee was that they were an Association of Persons and that contention was accepted by the Court.	None
The ratio of that decision has no bearing on the point in issue in the present case.	None
We are also not able to agree with Mr. Karkhanis that the decision of this Court in N. V. Shanmugham Co. v Commr. of Income Tax, Madras, (81 ITR 310) (AIR 1970 SC 1707 ) lends any support for the contention of the Revenue.	None
On the other hand, therein this Court relied upon the decision of this Court in (39 ITR 546) (AIR 1960 SC 1172 ).11.	None
In the result Civil Appeals Nos. 685 and 686 of 1970 are dismissed with no order as to costs.	Decision
Civil Appeals Nos. 687690 of 1970 are allowed with c costs.	Decision
One hearing fee.	Decision
Consequently the answer given by the High Court in those four appeals is discharged and in its place, we answer the question, in the negative and in favour of the assessees.12.	Decision
Order accordingly.	None
