 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted.2.	None
Jurisdiction of a court to interfere with an arbitral award involving interpretation of a contract is involved in these appeals which arise out of a judgment and order dated 4.10.2004 passed by a Division Bench of the High Court of judicature at Madras allowing an appeal from a judgment and order dated 14.1.2000 passed by a learned Single of the said court making the award made by Respondent No.2 herein a rule of Court.	Issue
For the work of construction of Married accommodation for MCPOs CPOs POs and Junior Sailors at Naval Air Station, Arakkonam by the Union of India, an advertisement was issued pursuant whereto appellant submitted its tender on or about 9/17.7.1988 marked as Exhibit C2.	Facts
In its forwarding letter, it was stated We have kept ready all the men and material for early commencement of the work.	Facts
The technical personnel engaged by the firm have the vast experience in the execution of major building projects.	Facts
The total labour component involved in this work is forty per cent of the scope of the contract.	Facts
We can deploy the huge skilled and unskilled labour force already on our rolls for all the works along with the machinery for successful completion of the work positively as per targeted time schedules of the Department.	Facts
The latest ITCC and partnership deed are enclosed as required.	None
A post script added thereto reads as under When our tender opened and Rates Read out, Please Read out over () 2.25 under item 1 of the schedule quoted percentage and total value considered accordingly.	None
Respondent, by a letter dated 19.7.1988 (marked as Exhibit C3) replied thereto, stating On scrutiny of your forwarding letter the following comments are made (a) The Labour component in the work is 20 as included under Special Condition No.17 on Serial Page 94 of the tender and not 40 as referred to by you.(b)	Facts
In case of acceptance of your tender mobilization advance of Rs.35.00 lakhs will be paid against BGBs as per conditions of the tender.(c)	Facts
It is seen that the way the revision has been made in the quoted percentage for Schedule A Part I does not go well with the status of your firm.	Facts
However, your tender is being considered with the reduction of minimum 2.25 over quoted percentage for Schedule A Part I as also read out at the time of opening of tenders wherein your representative was also present.	Facts
Yet again on 5.8.1988, appellant in reply thereto, inter alia, stated We hereby clarify that our rates are worked out and quoted taking total labour component involved in the scope of work as 40.	None
As such the department may please evaluate our tenders on the same basis and consider accordingly.	Facts
XXX	Facts
XXX XXXAfter ascertaining this just before dropping the tender in the tender box, our Managing Partner had to include an extra at 2.25 towards Turnover Sales Tax liability and the vertical line in the sign () has been hurriedly put as shown here once again ()	Facts
.Thus, our quoted rates for item 1 of the schedule is 18.5 i.e. 16.25 quoted by us in the schedule and plus 2.25 quotd in the covering letter along with our tender against item 1 of the schedule.	Facts
We regret for the misunderstanding led in this regard.	None
Offer of the appellant was accepted by the respondents in terms of its letter dated 11.8.1988, the relevant portion whereof reads as under Reference your letter No.Nil dated 9/17.7.1988 forwarding the tender for the above mentioned work.2.	Facts
On behalf of the President of India, I hereby accept your tender for the work mentioned above for the Lump Sum of Rs.7,54,03,216.00 (Rupees Seven Crores Fifty four lakhs three thousand two hundred and sixteen only).3.	Facts
This contract is allotted the number CA No.CEMZ ARK/4 of 198889 which will be quoted by you in all future correspondence in connection with this contract.4.	Facts
The tender enquiry, your tender, the letter referred to above and this letter shall be the sole repository of the contract.	None
With the said letter, the details of amended Lumpsum was appended which reads as under DETAILES OF AMENDED LUMP SUMi) Lump sum amount originally Rs.	Facts
7,67,22,728.00 quotedii) Deducted for reduction of () Rs. 13,91,512.00 2.25 offered on Schedule A Part I vide your letter	Facts
No. NIL dated 9/17 July, 88 while forwarding the tender (i.e. 2.25 on Rs.6,18,45,000/)Note Consequent on SI (ii) above the Representing percentage on Schedule	Facts
A Part I stands amended to 14 Amended Lump Sum Rs.7,54,03,216.00 (Rupees Seven crores fifty four lakhs three thousand two hundred and sixteen only) Indisputably, whereas the main letter dated 11.8.1988 was signed by one L.D. Sharma, Brig.	Facts
Chief Engineer as accepting officer for and on behalf of the President of India, the appendix was signed by some other person for Accepting Officer.	Facts
Indisputably, the representative of the appellant also signed the said letter.	Facts
The said contract, however was terminated on or about 10.7.19916.	Facts
Disputes and differences having arisen between the parties, the arbitration agreement which formed part of the general condition of the contract as also special condition of contract was resorted to.	Facts
Respondent No.2 was appointed as the Arbitrator.	Facts
Before the learned Arbitrator, appellant put forth eight claims, being Dispute regarding additional payment of 2.25 over the quoted rates under item 1 of Schedule A with an overall effect of 4.5 over what has been paid to the plaintiff.(b) Dispute regarding percentage of labour component in the work with reference to the escalation in labour rates and for consequential in labour rates and for consequential payments to the plaintiff.(c)	Facts
Dispute regarding escalation with reference to the extra payment of labour involved in construction of high rise building.(d) Dispute regarding legality of the termination of the plaintiffs contract and for consequential damages.(e)	Facts
Dispute regarding release of the plaintiffs plant and equipment, together with damages for the use of the equipment by the defendant and in default payment of the market value of the plant and equipment as on the date of termination, together with the damages as aforesaid.(f) Dispute regarding balance payment for the work done and material supplied by the plaintiff.(g) Interest at 24 p.a.	Facts
on all amounts due to plaintiff and awarded by the arbitrator from the date when the cause of action for the claim arose, till the date of payment to the plaintiff.	Facts
Respondent repudiated the said claims of the appellant.	Facts
Respondent No.2 made and published an award on 17.9.1996.	Facts
While claims Nos.1 and 5 were allowed in part, claims No.2 and 4 were allowed in toto.	Facts
Claim No.3 was allowed for the amount to which the appellant itself had restricted its claim to.	Facts
Counter claim of the first respondent was rejected.8.	Facts
First respondent filed an application under Section 30 of the Arbitration Act, 1940 (hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as the Act).A learned Single Judge of the High Court rejected the said objection, opining that the award did not warrant any interference.	Facts
The learned Single Judge noticed that claim Nos. 5 and 6 had not been disputed by the first respondent and counter claim No.4 was not pressed.	Facts
It was, therefore, directed payment of a sum of Rs.2,78,17,530.01 p. with further interest 6 per annum from the date of decree till the date of realization.	Facts
The counter claim was also dismissed.9.	Facts
First respondent preferred an intra court appeal thereagainst in terms of clause 15 of the Letters Patent of the High Court read with Section 39 of the Act.	Facts
The Division Bench of the High Court allowed the said appeal in part in respect of three items of claim.	Facts
The objection in relation to fourth item was also dismissed.10.	Facts
Both parties are here before us aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said judgment.11.	Facts
The three heads of claim which were allowed by the respondent No.2 in favour of the appellant are as under (i) Claim of 2.25 over and above the base price as specified in Item No.1 of Schedule A(ii) claim of escalation towards labour component whether 40 or 21And(iii) claim towards higher minimum wages paid to the workmen in terms of a Government of India notification dated 14.10.1986.The fourth claim which was allowed related to loss of profit allegedly suffered by the petitioner for illegal termination of the contract.	Facts
Mr. Gurukrishna Kumar, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, would submit (1) That the Division Bench of the High Court committed a serious error in so far as it failed to take into consideration the distinction between an excess of jurisdiction and an error apparent on the face of the award and as the respondents objection was not in relation to the exercise of excess jurisdiction by the arbitrator, a strict scrutiny test should have been applied.(2) The Division Bench of the High Court committed a serious error of law in so far as it failed to take into consideration that an error apparent on the face of the award would not entitle it to enter into the merit of the matter as the same is confined to the award itself or any note appended thereto.(3) Interpretation of an agreement admittedly being within the realm of the jurisdiction of the Arbitrator, interference therewith is not permissible even if the court takes a different view.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. B.B. Singh, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent, on the other hand, would urge 1) As the jurisdiction of the Arbitrator emanates from the contract, he must exercise the same within the four corners thereof.2) Interpretation of a contract although fell within the jurisdiction of the Arbitrator but in construing the same, he could not have ignored any material document, namely, the final contract entered into by and between the parties on 11.8.1988 and based his interpretation only on the basis of letter of the contractor dated 9/17.7.1988 and, thus, he must be held to have misconducted himself and the proceedings.	Arguments of Respondent
Before adverting to the rival contentions, as noticed hereinbefore, we may briefly notice the reasonings adopted by respondent No.2 in making the award.	None
The learned Arbitrator proceeded on the basis that The letter of the contractor dated 9/17.7.1988 formed part of the contract.	None
The intent of the parties must be ascertained from four documents which formed part of the contract and not de hors the same.	None
Appendix to the letter dated 11.8.1988 having been signed by a person other than the Accepting Officer who was authorized therefor, the same was not binding on the appellant.	None
Although the appellant had signed the work order, the same by itself would not lead to the conclusion that it was estopped and precluded from questioning the quantum of amount mentioned in the said letter dated 11.8.1988.	None
In respect of claim No.1, the learned Arbitrator held On a consideration of the letters and the Exhibits mentioned above, we have to state that a concluded contract has taken place taking into consideration the sign () mentioned in the covering letter.	None
Even assuming that there was a mistake on the part of the respondent reading the covering letter, the contract would remain unaffected.	None
The contention of the respondent that when once the claimant has accepted for the reduction, as is found in Ex.R.7, which is the contractors work order sheet, and which is signed by the contractor on 14.9.1988.	None
, it has to be concluded that there is an acceptance for the reduction.	None
This argument of the learned Counsel for the respondent is not well founded.	None
An acceptance of the contract will have to be considered under the terms of Ex.C.5 dated 11.8.88.	None
In the instance case it is common ground that there is a concluded contract between the parties and what remains is the interpretation of the contract, Ex.C.5 it is not the case of the respondent that Ex.C.5 is a counter offer which was accepted by the claimant.	None
On the other hand, it is agreed by the respondent that acceptance of the contract is solely based on Ex.C.5.	None
The documents filed before me in this case clearly establish the sigh () which is more particularly referred to in Ex.C.5 as the sole repository of the contract.	None
(underlining is mine)	None
In such a case, it has to be concluded that Ex.	None
R.1 is the clear acceptance of the contract.	None
It has to be further noted chat as per the terms of Section 7(2) of the Contract Act, if the proposer does not insist that his proposal should be accepted in the prescribed manner, he in fact accept the acceptance.	None
In respect of claim No.2, the relevant condition of contract, namely, clause (17) although specified that for the purpose of escalation of the labour component, the value of contract should be taken as 21 but as the appellant claimed 40 in its offer, the same would prevail over the contract, stating I state that special condition to the contract that is clause 17 at Page 4 specifies that for the purpose of escalation the labour component for the value of work will be taken as 20 which was later changed as 21.	None
Similarly, fuel component which was shown as 1.5 in the agreement was changed as 2 and the material component which was shown in the agreement on page 90 as 60 was changed into 58.	None
In other words, the total component towards labour, material and fuel comes to 81.	None
The claimant has not claimed anything in excess of 81, for, the escalation clause in the agreement provides, the escalation for an amount not exceeding 81 of the value of the work done.	None
All that he has claimed is, towards fuel 2, towards material 39 and towards labour 40.	None
This change in labour component at 40 is based on Ex.	None
C.22 (R1) dated 9/17.07.88 which has become part of the tender bid.	None
This part of the offer that is tender bid, has been accepted by the respondent, that is to say, that this 21 mentioned in the contract has been substituted as 40.	None
The claimant has made this fact clear in all his subsequent letters.	None
In other words, the contention of the claimant is that the covering letter Ex.C.2 (R1) is part of the tender bid, and since the tender bid has been accepted without any modification, the figure 21 in the condition, has, therefore, to be substituted by 40.	Reasoning
It is on this basis the claimant claims that the labour component should be paid at the rate of 40, while material component would consequently come at 39 and the fuel component will remain at 2.	None
In respect of claim No.3, it was held that in view of the notification issued by the Central Government dated 14.10.1980, the minimum wages payable to the workmen being over and above 20 the general wages, the same would be payable to all the workmen and not those employed in high rise portions of the building.	None
The Division Bench, however, set aside in part the award in respect of the aforementioned claims stating as under However, we find some substance with regard to the claim No.4, loss of profit, there was an admitted delay in handling over the site and supply of materials.	None
We confirm both the award of the Arbitrator and the order of the learned Single Judge with regard to Claim No.4, loss of profit.	None
We may, at the outset, notice the legal principles governing the dispute between the parties.	None
Interpretation of a contract may fall within the realm of the Arbitrator.	None
The Court while dealing with an award would not reappreciate the evidence.	None
An award containing reasons also may not be interfered with unless they are found to be perverse or based on a wrong Proposition of law.	None
If two views are possible, it is trite, the Court will refrain itself from interfering.	None
See State of U.P. v. Allied Constructions (2003) 7 SCC 396 .	None
In Pure Helium India (P) Ltd. v. Oil Natural Gas Commission (2003) 8 SCC 593 , this court, upon referring to the decisions in Allied Constructions (supra), K.R. Raveendranathan v. State of Kerala (1998) 9 SCC 410, H.P. Seb v. R.J. Shah Co. (1999) 4 SCC 214 , Rajasthan State Mines Minerals Ltd. v. Eastern Engg.	None
Enterprises (1999) 9 SCC 283 , Food Corporation of India v. Surendra, Devendra Mahendra Transport Co. (2003) 4 SCC 80 and Shyama Charan Agarwala Sons v. Union of India (2002) 6 SCC 201 , opined as under The principles of law laid down in the aforementioned decisions leave no manner of doubt that the jurisdiction of the court in interfering with a nonspeaking award is limited.42.	None
The upshot of the above decisions is that if the claim of the claimant is not arbitrable having regard to the bar prohibition created under the contract, the court can set aside the award but unless such a prohibition bar is found out, the court cannot exercise its jurisdiction under Section 30 of the Act.	None
The High Court, therefore, misdirected itself in law in posing a wrong question.	None
It is true that where such prohibition exists, the court will not hesitate to set aside the award.	None
In Sudarshan Trading Company v. Government of Kerala Anr.	None
(1989) 2 SCC 38 , the law was laid down in the following terms It was submitted before us that the High Court had exceeded its jurisdiction in acting in the manner it did on these aforesaid aspects.	None
The first question, therefore, that arises for consideration in this case is, whether the award in question was a speaking award or not.	None
In our opinion, the award was not a speaking award.	None
An award can also be set aside if the arbitrator had misconducted himself or the proceedings or had proceeded beyond his jurisdiction.	None
These are separate and distinct grounds for challenging an award.	None
Where there are errors apparent on the face of the award it can only be set aside if in the award there is any proposition of law which is apparent on the face of the award, namely, in the award itself or any document incorporated in the award.	None
It was furthermore observed The next question on this aspect which requires consideration is that only in a speaking award the court can look into the reasoning of the award.	None
It is not open to the court to probe the mental process of the arbitrator and speculate, where no reasons are given by the arbitrator, as to what impelled the arbitrator to arrive at his conclusion.	None
Jurisdiction of the Court to interfere with an award made by an Arbitrator is limited.	None
One of the grounds therefore is the error apparent on the face of the award.	None
We have noticed hereinbefore some precedents operating in the field.	None
What is an error apparent on the face of an award and legal misconduct is stated in State of Rajasthan v. Pure Construction Co.	None
Ltd.	None
Ors.	None
(1994) 6 SCC 485 , in the following terms As reference to arbitration of disputes in commercial and other transactions involving substantial amount has increased in recent times, the courts were impelled to have fresh look on the ambit of challenge to an award by the arbitrator so that the award does not get undesirable immunity.	None
In recent times, error in law and fact in basing an award has not been given the wide immunity as enjoyed earlier, by expanding the import and implication of legal misconduct of an arbitrator so that award by the arbitrator does not perpetrate gross miscarriage of justice and the same is not reduced to mockery of a fair decision of the lis between the parties to arbitration.	None
Precisely for the aforesaid reasons, the erroneous application of law constituting the very basis of the award and improper and incorrect findings of fact, which without closer and intrinsic scrutiny, are demonstrable on the face of the materials on record, have been held, very rightly, as legal misconduct rendering the award as invalid.	None
It was furthermore stated Error apparent on the face of the record does not mean that on closer scrutiny of the import of documents and materials on record, the finding made by the arbitrator may be held to be erroneous.	None
Judicial decisions over the decades have indicated that an error of law or fact committed by an arbitrator by itself does not constitute misconduct warranting interference with the award.	None
In Trustees of the Port of Madras v. Engineering Constructions Corporation Ltd. (1995) 5 SCC 531 , This Court opined 14.	None
A note of clarification may be appended, viz., where the parties choose to refer a question of law as a separate and distinct matter, then the Court cannot interfere with the award even if the award lays down a wrong proposition of law or decides the question of law referred to it in an erroneous fashion.	None
Otherwise, the wellsettled position is that an arbitrator cannot ignore the law or misapply it in order to do what he thinks is just and reasonable.	None
See Thawardas Pherumal v. Union of IndiaIt was clarified 20.	None
The proposition that emerges from the above decisions is this in the case of a reasoned award, the court can interfere if the award is based upon a proposition of law which is unsound in law.	None
The erroneous proposition of law must be established to have vitiated the decision.	None
The error of law must appear from the award itself or from any document or note incorporated in it or appended to it.	None
It is not permissible to travel beyond and consider material not incorporated in or appended to the award.	None
We may, however, notice that in Food Corporation of India v. Joginderpal Mohinderpal Anr.	None
(1989) 2 SCC 347 , referring to a large number of decisions, a Division Bench of this Court held It has to be borne in mind, however, that wrong statement or conclusion of law, assuming even that it was a wrong statement of law, was not wrong statement of the proposition of law which was the basis for decision in this award.	None
Error of law as such is not to be presumed if there is legal proposition which is the basis of the award and which is erroneous as observed in Champsey Bhara Co., then only the award can be set aside.	None
Almost to the similar effect is the decision of another Division Bench of this Court in Numaligarh Refinery Ltd. v. Daelim Industrial Company Ltd. JT 2007 (11) SC 73 , wherein it is stated We have considered the rival submissions of the parties.	None
So far as the legal proposition as enunciated by this Court in various decisions mentioned above, it is correct that courts shall not ordinarily substitute their interpretation for that of the arbitrator.	None
It is also true that if the parties with their eyes wide open have consented to refer the matter to the arbitration, then normally the finding of the arbitrator should be accepted without demur.	None
There is no quarrel with this legal proposition.	None
But in a case where it is found that the arbitrator has acted without jurisdiction and has put an interpretation on the clause of the agreement which is wholly contrary to law then in that case there is no prohibition for the courts to set things right.	None
A contract would warrant construction if the terms thereof are vague and ambiguous.	Reasoning
The letter exhibiting the offer of the appellant refers to four different documents including the letter dated 9/17.07.1988 which was marked as Exhibit C2.	None
Whether in the said letter, the appellant had asked for increase of 2.5 over the base value or deducted 2.5 therefrom is a matter of construction.22.	None
The learned Arbitrator, it is not correct to contend, has not taken into consideration the ultimate contract.	Reasoning
He did take the same into consideration.	Reasoning
He, however, was of the opinion that the aforementioned four letters which were said to be the sole repository of the contract formed part thereof.	Reasoning
He, thus, took into consideration the relevant documents for arriving at a finding as to whether they formed part of the contract.	Reasoning
Offer of the appellant was accepted.23.	Reasoning
The first claim was in relation to disputes regarding additional payment of 2.25 over the quoted rates under item 1 of Schedule A with an overall effect of 4.5 over what had been paid to the plaintiff.	Reasoning
The arbitrator came to the conclusion that the letter dated 9/17.7.1988 (Ex.C.2) does not make out whether the contractor intended to quote the price with 2.25 and therefore, he held that a concluded contract has taken place after taking into consideration the sign () mentioned in the above letter.	Reasoning
The contract will therefore still be enforced even if it is assumed that there was a mistake on the part of the respondent.	Reasoning
The High Court held that it was apparent on the face of record that the contractor intended only to reduce 2.25, which was seen from Ex.C.5, which was final and concluded, claim no 1 fails for that reason.	Reasoning
But as the Arbitrator held that the letter of the contractor dated 9/17.7.1988 formed part of the contract, the claim cannot fail and therefore the award of the Learned Arbitrator, in respect of claim No 1 must be sustained.24.	Reasoning
In relation to Claim No.2, the respondent relied on the fact that the claimant received payment only at the rate of 21 towards labour escalation in the several R.A.Rs and therefore, it has to be presumed that the claimant is entitled to only 21.	Reasoning
The Arbitrator opined that the receipt of money at 21 cannot absolve the claimant from claiming at 40 as per the contract, particularly, when it is clearly mentioned in Ex C.2 (R1) that 40 will be the labour component which forms part of the contract, Ex C.5.	Reasoning
The High Court held that as the Department themselves gave 21 to the contractor, and only 21 of escalation, which was in consonance with the special conditions, which was apparent on the face of the record, the second claim of escalation of 40 was to be set aside.	Reasoning
But, keeping the same principle as applied in relation to Claim No.1, the Arbitrator held that as the covering letter (Ex.C.2) is part of the tender bid, and since the tender bid has been accepted without any modification, the Figure of 21 has to be substituted by 40.	Reasoning
Therefore, in respect of claim No.2, the impugned judgment of the High Court cannot be upheld and the award of the Arbitrator is sustained.25.	Reasoning
The matter might have been different had the respondents in categorical terms rejected the offer made by the appellant as amended by its letter dated 19.7.1988.	Reasoning
It did not do it.	Reasoning
Thus, the contract remained open for construction.26.	Reasoning
We have not been able to persuade ourselves to agree with the reasonings of the Division Bench of the High Court.	Reasoning
The award of the learned Arbitrator in respect of claim No.1, therefore, must be sustained.27.	Reasoning
Keeping in view the fact that the same principle would apply in respect of claim No.2 also, the impugned judgment of the High Court cannot be upheld.28.	Reasoning
So far as Claim No.3 is concerned, the claim towards higher minimum wages paid to the workmen is not in dispute.	Reasoning
A high rise building is a high rise building, it cannot be divided into two parts.	Reasoning
What would constitute a high rise building was defined.	Reasoning
A portion of the building cannot be high rise and a portion would fall within the purview of the said definition.	Reasoning
The learned Arbitrator, in our opinion, had rightly opined that the same workers may have to work for constructions of the entire building as it will be impossible for any contractor to employ any workmen to work exclusively for the high rise building.	Reasoning
Furthermore, the same workmen may have to work in different parts of the same building at different times.	Reasoning
It would lead to an absurd situation if the workmen at one point of time are not paid the 20 of the excess amount and then paid the same and yet again denied the same benefit.	Reasoning
Interpretation of the High Court, therefore, that high rise building mean portion of the building, in our opinion, keeping in view the beneficent nature of the provisions, cannot be accepted.29.	Reasoning
The award of the Arbitrator in respect of claim No.4 has been accepted by the Division Bench.	Reasoning
Mr. B.B. Singh has drawn our attention to clause 11(c) of the general conditions of contract to contend that in terms thereof, no damages were payable.	Reasoning
The question as to whether damages were payable for illegal termination of contract cannot be a subject matter of contract.	Reasoning
The learned Arbitrator has categorically held that not only the termination of contract was illegal, the same was mala fide.	Reasoning
Furthermore, the contention raised before us by Mr. Singh has not been raised before the High Court.30.	Reasoning
In any event, there is a delay of 411 days in filing the SLP of the respondent, for which no sufficient explanation has been given.	Reasoning
For the reasons aforementioned, the appeal filed by Union of India is dismissed and that of the appellant is allowed.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of the case, however, there would be no order as to costs.	Decision
