 Beg, J. 1.	None
The plaintiffsappellants, before us by grant of special leave, had filed a suit on 204l959 far possession against Me defendants respondents, of 331 Canals and 11 Marlas of land the Khasra numbers of which are given in the plaint.	Facts
The plaintiffs were the sons of Smt.	Facts
Premi a daughter of Sham Singh (deceased), the original owner at the plots, and of Smt.	Facts
Malan, who, as the widow of Sham Singh, had gifted the plots in dispute 1935, half and half, to the plaintiffs and Sent.	Facts
Khemi, the younger sister of their deceased mother, Smt.	Facts
Premi.	Facts
It appears that Smt.	Facts
Khemi, who was issueless, had also made a gift in favour of the plaintiffs before her death in 1944.	Facts
The plaintiffs are said to have obtained possession of the whole land in dispute thus gifted to them.	Facts
But, as there was considerable uncertainty at that time about the rights of the daughters and the powers of a widow to donate during her life time under the customary law in Punjab, which was applicable to the parties, the defendantsrespondents, the 8th degree collaterals of Sham Sink, had filed a suit on 371940 for possession of the land in dispute.	Facts
This suit had been stayed from 1941 to 2951946, under the Indian Soldiers (Litigation) Act, 1925, to the benefits of which the plaintiffs were entitled.	Facts
It appears that there was also a dispute over mutation of names between the plaintiffs and defendantsrespondents in revenue courts which ended finally by an order in favour of the appellants donees passed by the Financial Commissioner of Punjab on 13121946.	Facts
DefendantsRespondents, suit of 1940, for declaration of rights and possession, renumbered in 1949, ended with the judgment and decree of a Division Bench of the Punjab High Court passed in favour of the appellants on 21111958.	Facts
2.	None
The plaintiffs asserted, in their suit No. 179 of 1959, filed on 1641959, now before us in appeal, that the defendantsrespondents had taken illegal and forcible possession of the land in dispute after the decision of the High Court on 21111958, and that, as the defendantsrespondents refused to deliver possession of the land to the plaintiffs, they were compelled to file their suit for possession.	Arguments of Petitioner
The defendantsrespondents, however, claimed that they had taken possession over the whole of the land in dispute after the death of Smt.	Arguments of Respondent
Khemi, issueless, in 1944, and that, since then, they had been in open, continuous, exclusive possession as owners, adversely to the rest of the world.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, according to the defendantsrespondents, the plaintiffs suit was barred by limitation.	Arguments of Respondent
3.	None
There cannot be the least doubt, after looking at the plaint, that the plaintiffsappellants, having alleged possession and dispossession, for which they claimed relief by delivery back of possession of the land in dispute to them, the case fell squarely within the ambit of Art.	None
142 of the Limitation Act of 1908.	None
The defendantsrespondents had, however, pleaded the bar of limitation as well as acquisition of title by their adverse possession for over 12 years.	None
4.	None
The Trial Court had framed the first three issues which had a direct bearing on the question whether Art. 142 or 144 of the Limitation Act of 1908 would be applicable.	Issue
These issues were1.	Issue
Whether the plaintiffs obtained the possession of the land in dispute through the Tehsildar near about the date 13121946 as alleged them in para 3 of the plaint?	Issue
O. P. 2.	Issue
Whether the defendants took possession of the land in dispute after 21111958 as alleged in para 5 of the plaint?	Issue
O. P. 3.	None
Whether the defendants have become owners of the land in dispute through adverse possession?	Issue
O. D. 5.	Issue
The Trial Court rightly aced the burden of proof of the first two issues on the plaintiffs and of the third issue upon the defendants.	None
It took up and decided the three issues together holding that the plaintiffs suit is barred by Art.	None
142 of the Limitation Act.	Reasoning
The first Appellate Court also rejected the plaintiffs case of acquisition of possession on 13121946 and then of dispossession after 21111958.	None
It accepted the defendants version.	None
It observed that the oral evidence coupled with the entries in the revenue records conclusively establishes that the possession over the suit land right from 1946 up to the present time was not that of the plaintiffs, but, that of the defendants, who had been asserting their own proprietary rights as collaterals of Sham Singh the husband of Smt.	None
Malan.	None
Although, no issue was framed on the applicability of Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, to such a case, yet the question appears to have been argued for the first time before the first Appellate Court	None
which, relying upon a decision of the Nagpur High Court in Sakhubai v. Eknath Bellappa, AIR 1948	None
Nag	None
97	None
held that, despite the established possession of the defendantsrespondents for over twelve years, the doctrine of lis pendens prevented the rights to the defendants respondents from maturing by adverse possession.	None
It held that the possession of the defendantsrespondents became adverse when their appeal in their suit for possession was dismissed by the Punjab High Court on 21111958.	None
Thus, the first Appellate Court had really used Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act as though it was a provision for excluding the period on time spent in litigation in computing the prescribed period of limitation.	None
The question whether the doctrine of lis pendens, contained in Sec.	None
52 of the Transfer of Property Act, would govern such a case was referred by a Division Bench to a Full Bench of the Punjab High Court.	None
6. A. N. Grover, J., giving the majority opinion of the Full Bench of three Judges of the Punjab High Court, held that, on the concurrent findings of fact recorded by the Courts below, the adverse possession of the defendants, who were appellants before the High Court, commenced during the pendency of the earlier suit, and, once having begun to run, could not stop running merely because of the pendency of the defendants suit for possession which was finally dismissed by the High Court on 2111l958.	None
On the other hand, I. D. Dua, J., expressing his minority opinion of the Full Bench of the High Court, held that the doctrine of lis pendens, contained in Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act, would enable the plaintiffs appellants to overcome the consequences of defendants adverse possession until 21111958 so that the doctrine of lis pendens could operate as a provision enabling exclusion of time during the pendency of the defendants suit of 1940.	None
7. One of the questions attempted to be raised here, involving investigation of fresh facts, was that a portion of the land, entered in revenue records as Banjar, cannot be adversely possessed at all because it is vacant so that it must be deemed to be in the possession of plaintiffs on the principle that possession follows title.	Issue
The plaintiffs had not taken such a case even in their replication in answer to the written statement of the defendants.	Reasoning
Apart from the fact that the question does not appear to have been raised in the courts below, we think that the plaintiffs admission of dispossession by the defendants, implying that the defendantsrespondents were in actual adverse possession of all the land in dispute, debars plaintiffs learned Counsel from raising such a question now.	Reasoning
Furthermore, the patent fallacy underlying such a contention is that Banjar land is incapable of adverse possession.	Reasoning
It may be that Banjar land cannot be cultivated, but, we do not think that it could possibly be urged that it is per se incapable of being actually physically possessed by use for other purposes, such as building or storing of wood or crops, apart from cultivation.	Reasoning
We will say no more about this unsustainable contention.	None
8.	None
It was then urged that Article 142 was not applicable to this case and that no question as to its applicability should have been decided.	Arguments of Petitioner
We fail to see how such a contention could be advanced in view of the assertions in the plaint which clearly compelled the application of Article 142.	Reasoning
As was held by a Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court, in Bindhyachal Chand v. Ram Gharib Chand, AIR 1934 All 993 at p. 999 (FB) the question whether the suit is within time, when the plaintiffs make assertions attracting the application of Article 142, becomes a question of proof of title itself.	Reasoning
Without proof of subsisting title the plaintiffs suit must obviously fait.	Reasoning
It was said there by Sulaiman, C. J. (at page 999)In cases falling strictly under Art. 142, in which the only question is one of discontinuance of possession of the plaintiff and not of adverse possession of the defendant, the question of limitation in one sense becomes the question of title, because by virtue of S. 28, Limitation Act, if the claim is barred by time, the title must be deemed to be extinguished.	None
9.	None
It is true that the extinction of title took place in the case before us during the pendency of the suit.	None
But, it has to be borne in mind that an extinction of title will not be hit by the doctrine of lis pendens simply because it is an extinction during the pendency of a suit.	None
If so wide was the sweep of Section 52 of Transfer of Property Act this provision would have been differently worded.	None
We are of opinion that a case in which the extinction of title takes place by an application of the specific and mandatory provisions of the Limitation Act falls outside the scope of Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act.	None
It would not be governed by provisions of an Act relating to transfer, defined by Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act, but by the Limitation Act exclusively.	None
10.	None
It is Immaterial in the case before us, from the point of view of extinction of title by an application of Section 28 of the Limitation Act of 1908, whether Article 142 or Art.	Reasoning
144 of the Limitation Act is applicable.	Reasoning
The findings of the Courts below, accepted as correct and binding by A. N. Grover, J., in the majority judgment of the Punjab High Court, would make Article 144 also of the Act clearly applicable to the case.	None
All the elements of an open, adverse, hostile, continuous, and exclusive possession of the Defendants for over 12 years were present here.	None
11.	None
It would be idle to contend in the case before us, in view of the pleadings of the parties and the issues framed and decided, that the applicability of Article 142 of the Limitation Act was either not put in issue by pleadings of the parties or an issue on its applicability was not framed.	Reasoning
The first two issues framed have a direct bearing on the applicability of Art. 142.	Reasoning
It is not necessary that the issue framed must mention the provision of law to be applied.	Reasoning
Indeed, it is the duty of the Court, in view of Section 3 of the Limitation Act, to apply the bar of limitation where, on patent facts, it is applicable even though not specifically pleaded.	Reasoning
Therefore, we find no force in the submissions based on the supposed inapplicability of Art.	Reasoning
142 of the Limitation Act of 1908 or assumed defects in procedure adopted in applying in it.	Reasoning
12.	None
The only question of some importance which could be said to arise in this case is Does the doctrine of lis pendens, contained in S. 52 of the Transfer of Property Act, arrest the running of the period of limitation during the pendency of the suit of the defendantsrespondents filed on 37 1940, and, finally decided in second appeal by the High Court on 211158?	Issue
13.	None
We may here set out Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act which runs as follows 52.	None
During the pendency in any Court having authority within the limits of India excluding the State of Jammu and Kashmir or established beyond such limits by the Central Government of any suit or proceeding which is not collusive and in which any right to immovable property is directly and specifically in question, the property cannot be transferred or otherwise dealt with by any party to the suit or proceeding so as to affect the rights of any other party thereto under any decree or order which may be made therein, except under the authority of the Court and on such term as it may impose.	None
Explanation.  	None
For the purposes of this section, the pendency of a suit or proceeding shall be deemed to commence from the date of the presentation of the plaint or the institution of the proceeding in a Court of competent jurisdiction, and to continue until the suit or proceeding has been disposed of by a final decree or order and complete satisfaction or discharge of such decree or order has been obtained, or has become unobtainable by reason of the expiration of any period of limitation prescribed for the execution thereof by any law for the time being in force.	None
14.	None
The background of the provision set out above was indicated by one of us (Beg, J.) in Jayaram Mudaliar v. Ayyaswami, (1972) 2 SCC 200 at p. 217 (AIR 1973 SC 569 ).	None
There, the following definition of lis pendens from Corpus Juris Secundum (Vol. LIV, p. 570) was cited Lis pendens literally means a pending suit, and the doctrine of lis pendens has been defined as the jurisdiction, power, or control which a court acquires over property involved in a suit pending the continuance of the action, and until final judgment therein.	None
It was observed thereExpositions of the doctrine indicate that the need for it arises from the very nature of the jurisdiction of Courts and their control over the subjectmatter of litigation so that parties litigating before it may not remove any part of the subjectmatter outside the power of the Court to deal with it and thus make the proceedings infructuous.	None
15.	None
The doctrine of lis pendens was intended to strike at attempts by parties to a litigation to circumvent the jurisdiction of a court, in which a dispute on rights or interests in immovable property is pending, by private dealings which may remove the subject matter of litigation from the ambit of the courts power to decide a pending dispute or frustrate its decree.	None
Alienees acquiring any immovable property during a litigation over it are held to be bound, by an application of the doctrine, by the decree passed in the suit even though they may not have been impleaded in it.	None
The whole object of the doctrine of lis pendens is to subject parties to the litigation as well as others, who seek to acquire rights in immovable property, which are the subject matter of a litigation, to the power and jurisdiction of the Court so as to prevent the object of a pending action from being defeated.	None
16.	None
It is very difficult to view the act of taking illegal possession of immovable property or continuance of wrongful possession, even if the wrong doer be a party to the pending suit, as a dealing with, the property otherwise than by its transfer so as to be covered by Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act.	None
The prohibition which prevents the immovable property being transferred or otherwise dealt with, by a party is apparently directed against some action which would have an immediate effect similar to or comparable with that of transfer but for the principle of lis pendens.	None
Taking of illegal possession or its continuance neither resemble nor are comparable to a transfer.	None
They are onesided wrongful acts and not bilateral transactions of a kind which ordinarily constitute deals or dealings with property (e.g. contracts to sell).	None
They cannot confer immediate rights on the possessor.	None
Continued illegal possession ripens into a legally enforceab1e right only after the prescribed period of time has elapsed.	None
It matures into a right due to inaction and not due to the action of the injured party which can approach a Court of appropriate jurisdiction for redress by a suit to regain possession.	None
The relief against the wrong done must be sought within the time prescribed.	None
This its the only mode of redress provided by law for such cases.	None
Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act was not meant to serve, indirectly, as a provision or a substitute for a provision of the Limitation Act to exclude time.	None
Such a provision could and would have been there in the Limitation Act, where it would appropriately belong, if the policy behind the law was to have such a provision.	None
17.	None
The policy underlying statutes of limitation, spoken of as statutes of repose or of Peace, has been thus stated in Halsburys Laws of England Vol. 24, p. 181	None
(para 330)330.	None
Policy of Limitation Acts.	None
The courts have expressed at least three differing reasons supporting the existence of statutes of limitations namely, (1) that long dormant claims have more of cruelty than justice in them, (2) that a defendant might have lost the evidence to disprove a stale claim, and (3) that persons with good causes of actions should pursue them with reasonable diligence.	None
18.The object of the law of limitation is to prevent disturbance or deprivation of what may have been acquired in equity and justice by long enjoyment or what may have been lost by a partys own inaction, negligence or laches.	None
19.	None
If Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act was really intended to strike at the running of the period of limitation, based on the considerations mentioned above, it would have made it clear that the law excludes the period spent in any litigation from computation.	None
Exclusion of time in computing periods of limitation is a different subject altogether to which the whole of Part III of the Limitation Act is devoted.	None
There, we find Section 14, which deals with exclusion of time of proceeding bona fide in Court Without jurisdiction.	None
There are certain conditions for the applicability of Section 14 of the Limitation Act.	None
One of these is that the plaintiff should have prosecuted, with due diligence, civil proceedings founded upon the same cause of action.	None
In the case before us, the cause of action arose, according to the plaintiffs, after the decision of the previous suit.	None
The cause of action in the previous suit was entirely different.	None
Indeed, it was the defendantsrespondents who had sought relief there and set up a cause of action.	None
Section 14 of the Limitation Act of 1908, which is the only provision of the statute specifically dealing with exclusion of time spent in another litigation, could not obviously apply to the case now before US.	None
The only mode of relief open to the plaintiffs was to have instituted a suit of their own within the prescribed period of limitation.	None
They did institute the suit now before us but did so long after the period of limitation had expired.	None
In such a case Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act could not, in our opinion, apply at all.	None
The matter could only be covered, if at all by some provision of the statute of limitation which, as already observed, makes no provision for such a case.	None
Me effect of Section 3 Limitation Act is that it expressly precludes exclusion of time on a ground outside this Act even if it parades under the guise of a doctrine which has no application whatsoever here.	None
20.	None
The majority Judgment of the Punjab High Court cites several cases to support the view that limitation would start running against the plaintiffs appellants when the defendants respondents took possession.	None
We need mention only two of these cases Subbaiya Pandaram v. Mahammad Mustafa Marcayar, ILR 46 Mad 751 (AIR 1923 PC 175 ) and, Narayan Jivangouda Patil v. Puttabai, AIR 1945 PC 5 .	None
We are in complete agreement with the majority view.	None
21.	None
It is not possible, in the absence of any provision which should entitle the plaintiffs to exclude time and thus bring their suit within 12 years period of period of limitation, to accept a contention which would enable the plaintiffs to escape the mandatory provisions of Section 3 of the Act read with S.28 and Arts.	Reasoning
142 and 144 of the Limitation Act of 1908.Courts of justice cannot legislate or reconstruct law contained in a statue or introduce exceptions when statutory law debars them from doing so.	Reasoning
Even hard circumstances of a case do not justify the adoption of such a course.	Reasoning
Moreover, we fail to see how the plaintiffs could complain of hardship when their own negligence or failure to act in time enabled defendants to acquire rights by reason of the operation of a law of limitation with the wisdom or justice of which we are not concerned here.	Reasoning
22.	None
A claim was sought to be advanced on behalf of the Custodian of Evacuee Property, who is also a defendantrespondent, based on the provisions of Section 8, subsection 4 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act 1950.	Arguments of Respondent
This question was not gone into by the Punjab High Court.	None
As we are affirming the Full Bench decision of the Punjab High Court, dismissing the plaintiffs suit on the ground that it is barred by limitation, it is not necessary for us to give any decision on any dispute between co defendants  respondents regarding the right to possess any property which may have vested in the Custodian, Evacuee Property.	Reasoning
A decision on such a dispute is not necessary for deciding the case before us.	Reasoning
There is, therefore, no question of res judicata between codefendants on the points raised	None
And we cannot allow the plaintiffs appellants to raise any such question on behalf of the Custodian, Evacuee seemed to be attempting to do, in a desperate attempt to clutch at a straw.	Reasoning
23.	None
The result is that we affirm the judgment and decree of the Punjab High Court and dismiss this appeal.	Decision
An application on behalf of the plaintiffsappellants (C.M. P. No. 2487 of 1967), seeking permission to introduce additional questions in respect of Banjar land, is also dismissed for the reasons already given.	Decision
In the circumstances of this case, we order that the parties will bear their own costs throughout.	Decision
24.	None
Appeal dismissed.	Decision
