 Subba Rao, J. 1.	None
In the town of Nagore in Tanjore District, Madras State, there is a Durgha consecrated to Hazerath Sayed Shahul Hameed Quadir Ali Ganja Savoy Andavar, who lived some 400 years ago.	Facts
The said Durgha receives large income from immovable properties endowed to it and the offerings in cash and kind made by the devotees.	Facts
The Durgha and its properties are now being administered under a scheme settled by the Madras High Court on March 16, 1955.	Facts
Under the scheme the management of the administration of the affairs of the said Durgha vests hereditarily in 8 trustees called Nattamaigars, who constitute a board of trustees.	Facts
The said board of trustees shall from among themselves elect one as a managing trustee and he shall hold office for a term of 3 years.	Facts
The managing trustee shall at the end of each fasli prepare a balance sheet verified by the manager and ascertain the net amount available for payment to kasupangudars, who are the descendants of Saiyed Muhammed Eusoof, the foster son of the saint.	Facts
The Managing Trustee shall declare the amount due to each of the kasupangu (share) and shall allocate the amount to each kasupangudar (sharer) in the list to be prepared for that purpose in each year.	Facts
He shall pay the amount to each kasupangudar in accordance with the list.	Facts
It is said that at present there are 640 kasupangudars.	Facts
Briefly stated under the scheme the management of the properties of the Durgha, both movable and immovable, vests in Nattamaigars, and the kasupangudars are entitled to the surplus in accordance with their shares.	Facts
2.	None
For the assessment years 195354 and 195455 the Incometax Officer assessed the surplus income in the hands of the Managing Trustee as an association of persons.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner, on appeal, confirmed the same.	Facts
On further appeal, the Incometax Appellate Tribunal took the same view.	Facts
At the instance of the assessee, the Tribunal submitted the following question for the opinion of the High Court of Madras under S. 66 (1) of the Incometax Act, 1922, hereinafter called the Act Whether the provisions of S. 41 can be said to apply to the assessee in this case.	Facts
A Division Bench of the High Court, which heard the reference, held that the Managing Trustee qua the surplus income managed the property and deprived the income on behalf of the kasupangudars and that the assessment should be made on the said Managing Trustee to the extent of the interest of each of the kasupangudars in the income received by him.	Facts
In the result it answered the question in the affirmative and in favour of the assessee.	Facts
The Commissioner of Incometax, Madras, on a certificate of fitness granted by the High Court, has preferred the present appeals against the said Order.	Facts
3.	None
The learned Additional Solicitor General, appearing for the Revenue, contended that the Nattamaigars being trustees, the properties of the Durgha vested in them and, therefore, they or the Managing Trustee administered the trust properties in their own right and not on behalf of the kasupangudars and hence, S. 41 of the Act did not apply, with the result the Incometax Officer had rightly assessed the surplus income in the hands of the trustees as an association of persons.	Arguments of Petitioner
4. Mr. A. V. Viswanatha Sastri, learned counsel for the assesseerespondent, argued, on the other hand, that the Nattamaigars of the Durgha were not trustees as understood in the law of trust but were only managers managing the properties on behalf of the Durgha and kasupangudars.	Arguments of Respondent
On that assumption, his argument proceeded, as the Nattamaigars, as managers, held the surplus on behalf of the kasupangudars for distribution in definite shares, S. 41 of the Act was attracted.	Arguments of Respondent
5.	None
At the outset we may make it clear that in this appeal we are concerned only with the surplus remaining on hand with the Nattamaigars after meeting the expenses of the Durgha.	Issue
6.	None
The problem presented in these appeals falls to be decided on a true construction of S.41 of the Act.	None
The material part of S. 41 reads (1) In the case of income, profits or gains chargeable under this Act, which the Courts of Wards, the AdministratorGeneral, the Official Trustees or any receiver or manager (including any person whatever his designation who in fact manages property on behalf of another) appointed by or under any order of a Court or any trustee or trustees appointed under a trust declared by a duly executed instrument in writing whether testamentary or otherwise (including the trustee or trustees under any Wakf deed which is valid under the Mussalman Wakf Validating Act, 1913), are entitled to receive on behalf of any person, the tax shall be levied upon and recoverable from such Court of Warda.	None
Administrators  General, Official Trustee, receiver or manager or trustee or trustees, in the like manner and to the same amount as it would be leviable upon and recoverable from the person on whose behalf such income, profits or gains are receivable, and all the provisions of this Act shall apply accordingly.	None
Under this section the income of properties receivable by the enumerated persons for the benefit of others is liable to be assessed to tax in their hands in the like manner and to the same amount as it would be leviable upon and recoverable from the person or persons on whose behalf such income is receivable.	None
This section centers on the basis fact that the person in whose hands the income is assessable shall be entitled to receive the same on behalf of any person if he is not so entitled, the provisions of the section cannot be invoked.	None
So, it is contended that, as the properties vested in the managing trustee and he received the income in his own right and not on behalf of the beneficiaries, though for their benefit, the said income in the hands of the managing trustee fell outside the scope of S. 41 of the Act.	None
7.	None
There are two answers to this contention.	Reasoning
The doctrine of vesting is not germane to this contention.	Reasoning
In some of the enumerated persons in the section the property vests and in others it does not vest, but they only manage the property.	Reasoning
In general law the property does not vest in a receiver or manager but it vests in a trustee, but both trustees and receivers are included in S. 41 of the Act.	Reasoning
The common thread that passes through all of them is that they function legally or factually for others they manage the property for the benefit of others.	Reasoning
That the technical doctrine of vesting is not imported in the section is apparent from the fact that a trustee appointed under a trust deed is brought under the section though legally the property vests in him.	Reasoning
In the case of a Muslim Wakf the property vests in the Almighty even so the mutawallies are brought under the section.	Reasoning
A reasonable interpretation of the section is that all the categories of persons mentioned therein are deemed to receive the income on behalf of another person or persons or manage the same for his or their benefit.	Reasoning
None of them has any beneficial interest in the income he collects the income for the benefit of others.	Reasoning
In this view, even if the Nattamaigars were trustees in whom the properties of the Durgha vested, they should be deemed to have received the income only on behalf of the Kasupangudars in definite shares.	Reasoning
8.	None
The same conclusion will be reached even if the problem was approached from a different angle.	Reasoning
In the wellknown decision of the Privy Council in Vidya Varuthi Thirtha Swamigal v. Baluswami Ayyar, 48 Ind App 302 at p. 315 (AIR 1922 PC 123 at p. 128), the inappropriateness of the use of the expression trustee to the manager of a Hindu or Mahommadan religious endowments was brought out.	Reasoning
Therein their Lordships observed Neither under the Hindu Law nor in the Mahommedan system is any property conveyed to a shebait or a mutawalli, in the case of a dedication.	Reasoning
Nor is any property vested in him whatever property be holds for the idol or the institution he holds as manager with certain beneficial interests regulated by custom and usage.	Reasoning
Under the Mahommedan Law, the moment a wakf is created all rights of property pass out of the wakif, and vest in God Almighty.	Reasoning
The curator, whether called mutawalli or sajjadanjshin, or by any other name, is merely a manager.	Reasoning
He is certainly not a trustee as understood in the English system.	None
The Privy Council, in the context of a wakf property, reaffirmed the said observations, in Mt. Allah Rakhi v. Mohammad Abdur Rahim, 61 Ind App 50 (AIR 1934 PC 77).	None
The effect of the said decisions is that Nattamaigars are only the managers of the properties in which the Durgha and the kasupangudars have beneficial interests.	Reasoning
The properties do not vest in them.	Reasoning
They receive the income therefrom on behalf of both of them.	Reasoning
After meeting the expenses of the Durgha they hold the balance on behalf of the kasupangudars and distribute the same in accordance with their shares.	Reasoning
In this view, in terms of S. 41 of the Act the Nattamaigars are the managers of the properties on behalf of others and are entitled to receive the income therefrom on behalf of them.	Reasoning
With the result, the income which they hold on behalf of the kasupangudars can be assessed only in their hands in the manner prescribed thereunder.	Reasoning
But it is said that whatever may be the doctrine of Hindu or Mohammadan law, under the terms of the aforesaid scheme the properties vested in the Nattamaigars and therefore, they receive the income in their own right and not on behalf of the kasupangudars.	Reasoning
A careful reading of the relevant part of the scheme does not countenance this argument.	Reasoning
Clause 3 of the scheme, which is the material clause, reads The management and administration of the affairs of the Nagore Durgha at Nagore, Tanjore District, and other thakias and shrines connected therewith (mentioned in Schedule A hereunder) and all properties  movables and immovables  which belong to or have been or may hereafter be given, dedicated, endowed thereto, shall subject to the provisions thereof vest hereditarily in the eight trustees or Nattamaigars of the Durgha who shall constitute the Board of Trustees.	Reasoning
Each trustee or Nattamaigar is entitled to hold office for life, and after him the trusteeship shall devolve on his next male heir in accordance with the custom prevailing in respect of such office in the Durgha.	Reasoning
Under this clause the management and administration of the Nagore Durgha and its properties vest in the Nattamaigars.	None
What vests in the Nattamaigars is not the properties of the Durgha but the management and administration thereof.	Reasoning
Unless the words are clear we are not prepared to hold that the High Court in framing a scheme for the endowments of the Durgha had introduced a foreign concept of trust in derogation of Mohammadan law.	Reasoning
We, therefore, hold that the scheme did not vest the properties of the Durgha in the Nattamaigars.	Reasoning
9.	None
Lastly, a faint argument was raised to the effect that under the scheme the managing trustee was not appointed under any order of a Court but was appointed by an agreement among the trustees.	Reasoning
But in cl. 4 of the scheme the High Court gave a specific direction that the managing trustee shall be elected from among the Board of Trustees.	Reasoning
The Managing Trustee elected was certainly appointed under an order of a Court, for the election was held pursuant to the order of the Court.	Reasoning
That apart, in the view, we have taken, namely, that the Nattamaigars are not interest in the English sense of the term, this question does not arise for consideration.	Reasoning
10.	None
In the result, we hold that the High Court as rightly answered the question referred to it in the affirmative and in favour of the assessee.	Decision
The appeals fail and are dismissed with costs.	Decision
One hearing fee.	Decision
11.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
