Lokeshwar Singh Panta, J. This Statutory Appeal is filed by M s. Indcon Structurals (P) Limited under Section 35L(b) of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) against the Final Order No. 1557/2000 dated 14th November, 2000 of the Customs, Excise and Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal (for short the CEGAT), Chennai, in appeal No.	None
E/1554/94DMD, setting aside the Order dated 16th May, 1994 recorded by the Controller of Central Excise (Appeals), Madras.	None
The appellantCompany is engaged in manufacture of flooring cement tiles using cement, sand, blue metal and gravel along with pigment.	Facts
These are in the form of tiles used for constructing the floor itself or the wall, as the case may be.3.	Facts
The appellantCompany filed classification list claiming the benefit of Notification No. 59/90CE on the ground that the cement tiles in question are not floor coverings in rolls or in the form of tiles as per the description against serial No. 4 of subheading 6807.00 of the Table annexed with the Notification.	Facts
The Superintendent of Central Excise, RangeIXA, Madras, IX Division, issued a showcause notice dated 6th November, 1992 to the appellantCompany (hereinafter referred to as the assesseeCompany) directing it to pay the excise duty on the cement tiles as the said goods are not eligible to avail the benefit of the Exemption Notification No. 59/90CE.	Facts
The assesseeCompany in its reply submitted that cement tiles manufactured by them are used to construct the floor itself and it is not floor coverings in terms of the description of the goods under subheading 6807.00.	Facts
The Assistant Collector of Central Excise, Madras, IX Division  the adjudicating authority, on careful examination of the records and the submissions made before it by both the parties and after taking into consideration the Section Notes Chapter Notes of Chapters 39, 57, 59 and 68, felt it necessary to conduct an onthespot study since the issue for adjudication was in regard to the product classification.	Facts
The adjudicating authority accordingly visited the factory premises of the assesseeCompany and studied the manufacturing process of cement tiles.	Facts
Finally, the adjudicating authority came to the conclusion that cement tiles manufactured by the assesseeCompany are covered under subheading 6807.00 as such the benefit of exemption Notification No. 59/90 dated 20th March, 1994 is available to the Company.4.	Facts
The Revenue preferred an appeal against the said order of the adjudicating authority before the Collector (Appeals).	Facts
The First Appellate Authority confirmed the order of the adjudicating authority holding that the cement tiles manufactured by the assesseeCompany are not floor coverings and the benefit of the Notification has been rightly extended to the Company.5.	Facts
Being aggrieved against the order of the appellate authority, the Revenue filed an appeal before the CEGAT.	Facts
The Member (Technical) of the CEGAT has found no infirmity or perversity in the said order and dismissed the appeal of the Revenue, but the second Member (Judicial) has recorded separate order differing with the order of Member (Technical) and set aside the order of the appellate authority.6.	Facts
The matter came to be referred to the third Member for solving the difference of opinion between the Members of the Bench.	Facts
The third Member (Technical) agreed with the views expressed by Member (Judicial) and accordingly the appeal filed by the Revenue was accepted and the benefit of concession of the the excise duty was denied to the assesseeCompany.	Facts
Hence, the assesseeCompany has filed this appeal before this Court challenging the correctness and validity of the order of the CEGAT.7.	Facts
We have heard the learned counsel for the parties on either side.	None
Mr. V. Lakshmikumaran, the learned counsel for the assesseeCompany, submitted that the assesseeCompany is the manufacturer of the cement, tiles which are used as flooring in the form of floor itself and these are not floor coverings as projected by the Revenue.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, Mr. B. Dutta, the learned Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the Revenue, submitted that it is not in dispute that the product of the assessee is in the form of files, but these tiles are used for floor coverings and as such the majority members of the CEGAT have rightly denied the benefit of exemption to the assesseeCompany.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, the core question involved in the present appeals is whether the cement tiles, manufactured by the assessee Company, are used for floor coverings in the form of tiles for the purpose of assessment of the rate of excise duty under Notification No. 59/90 or the goods are exempted from payment of such duty as claimed by the assesseeCompany.	Issue
Notification No. 59/90CE dated 20th March, 1990 has been issued by the Central Government in exercise of the powers conferred under subsection (1) of Section 5A of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), exempting certain goods specified in column (3) of the Table annexed thereto and under Subheading No.	None
(3) of the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of 1986) specified in column (2) of the said Table, from so much of that portion of the duty of excise leviable thereon which is specified in the said Schedule as is in excess of the amount calculated at the rate specified in the corresponding entry in column (4) of the said Table.	None
Table of the Notification, relevant for the purpose of deciding the present appeal, reads as under Table Sl.	None
No.Subheading No.Description of goodsRate of Duty 1.xxxxxxxxx 2.xxxxxxxxx 3.xxxxxxxxx 4.6807.00All goods excluding the following, namely Floor coverings in rolls or in the form of tiles xxxx15	None
ad valorem	None
It is by now wellsettled that the words and expressions in taxing Statutes, unless defined in the Statute itself, have to be construed in the sense in which the persons dealing with them understand, i.e., as per the trade understanding, commercial and technical practice and usage.	None
We find that the expressions floor coverings in rolls or in the form of tiles are not defined in the Central Excise and Salt Act, 1944 or in the Central Excise Tariff Act or in the Exemption Notification No. 59/90, but it has acquired a definite trade and business understanding.	None
The record shows that the adjudicating authority in its order has recorded categorical finding that in support of the claim, the assesseeCompany has produced on record certificates of the wellknown Architects or Engineers and Town Planners, Interior Design Engineers and Consultants and users to the effect that the cement tiles manufactured by the assesseeCompany are totally different from floor coverings.	None
Some samples pertaining to floor coverings and other products, including cement tiles, were produced by the assesseeCompany as material evidence for comparative analysis before the adjudicating authority at the time of inspection of the factory premises.	None
The adjudicating authority on such inspection had studied the process of manufacture of cement tiles and found that cement, sand, blue metal, gravel were mixed in predetermined proposition along with pigments and then the mixture was poured into moulds, compacted and allowed to set automatically through vibration table.	None
The adjudicating authority further noticed that the cement tiles were demoulded, cured, surface treated and are marketed in the brand name of Eurocon tiles.	None
These tiles are capable of using for wall application of both external internal wall tiling, which form an integral part of the wall on which they are cemented.	None
The adjudicating authority also studied the product in question with reference to its characteristics, temperature resistance, structural properties and durability.	None
The authority has also perused Section Notes Chapter Notes of Chapters 39, 57, 59 and 68 dealing with the goods floor coverings and flooring materials.	None
On going through the expressions given for the products, floor coverings wall coverings under Chapter Headings 39, 57 and 59, which are made out of plastics, coir textiles, the adjudicating authority has observed that floor coverings have got a distinct identity from the floor materials as the floor covering materials are totally different products which are commonly used as an additional coverage to an existing floor wall, only for the purpose of beautification and decoration.	None
The authority also observed that floor coverings are quite replaceable in nature since they are mechanically placed on the floor and could be reusable also, whereas the tiles such as mosaic granite cement tiles which are basically embedded to the floor is normally on lifetime basis and further that such tiles once laid on the floor are almost impossible to remove without breaking or causing damage to the floor itself.	None
The major differences that exist between the floor materials and floor covering materials along with specifications maintained by ISI No. 1237/1980 for cement tiles and ISI No. 11206/1984 and ISI No. 809/92 for other floor covering materials would go to show that basically the specifications so maintained by ISI for cement tiles and for other floor covering materials are not akin in nature.	None
On close examination of the entire material on record, the adjudicating authority has come to the definite conclusion that the cement tiles manufactured by the assesseecompany are in no way akin to floor covering materials and these are covered within the nomenclature of floor tiles and, therefore, the assesseeCompany is entitled to the benefit of Exemption Notification No. 59/90.	Reasoning
The appellate authority as noticed earlier has confirmed the order of the adjudicating authority and held that the cement tiles in question are not floor coverings and the benefit of the notification has been rightly extended to the assesseeCompany.	Reasoning
The Member (Technical) of the CEGAT has also come to the conclusion that the cement tiles in question are flooring materials and become constituent part of the floor or wall or stairways.	Reasoning
These tiles cannot be termed as floor coverings.	Reasoning
In support of his findings, the Member (Technical) has taken into consideration notes of the IS specifications and various certificates issued by the qualified Architects, Engineers, Valuers and InterorDesigners dealing in the said goods.	Reasoning
The other two Members of the CEGAT, in our view, have failed to consider the nomenclature of the words and expressions floor coverings in rolls or in the form of tiles as used under subheadings 6807.00 in the description of goods specified in Table annexed with the Exemption Notification.	Reasoning
The majority Members in recording different view than the one taken by the adjudicating authority, the first appellate authority and the Member (Technical), CEGAT, have only observed that no restricted meaning could be given to the expression floorcoverings as to include only those items which could be just separate or placed on the floor and to put the items that are affixed to the floor to cover the same out of its purview.	Reasoning
The second Member (Technical) in his separate order, supporting the order of the Member (Judicial), has mainly relied upon an earlier decision in Niraj Cement Structurals vs. Collector of Central Excise Mumbai (1998 (101) E.L.T. 284 (Tribunal).	Reasoning
We have gone through the said decision of the Tribunal but, in our considered view, the same is of no assistance or help to the Revenue in peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case.	Reasoning
In that case, the assessee was manufacturer of tiles covered by the same Notification No. 59/90CE and description of the goods were also under the same subheading.	Reasoning
In that case the product manufactured by the Company was used as floor coverings inasmuch as the titles were placed on the floor covering the cable running underneath the floor.	Reasoning
Thus, the findings of the Tribunal in the Niraj Cement case (supra) cannot be uniformity applied to the products in question manufactured by the assesseeCompany.	Reasoning
In the facts and circumstances narrated hereinabove, the noted contentions of the learned Additional Solicitor General do not merit acceptance.	None
The objection of the Revenue that the cement tiles manufactured by the assesseeCompany are covered under the expression floor coverings in rolls or in the form of tiles is misconceived.	Reasoning
We, therefore, hold that as per the trade understanding and usages, cement tiles, the subjectmatter of the present case, is a form of floor itself and, therefore, entitled to the benefit of Exemption Notification No. 59/1990.	Reasoning
According, we allow this appeal and set aside the orders of the majority Members of the CEGAT.	Decision
Consequently, the order of the Member (T) maintaining the order of the appellate authority which, in turn, has confirmed the order of the adjudicating authority are all held as reasonable and sustainable.	Decision
The parties are left to bear their own costs.	Decision
