Madan B. Lokur, J. The substantial issues raised in this appeal, in which the conviction is based on circumstantial evidence, primarily relate to the presence of the convict at the place and time of the murder of Gangamma, the analysis of the fingerprint evidence recovered from the place of incident and the recovery of blood stained clothes of the convict and the ornaments of the deceased at his instance.	Issue
On all issues, we find in favour of the convict and conclude that that none of the circumstances that have been found against him by the High Court and which have led to his conviction have been satisfactorily proved.	Issue
The conviction must, therefore, be set aside.	Issue
The facts On 5th November, 1990 the appellant Prakash, ordinarily a resident of Nagenahalli village in Doddaballapur taluk of Bangalore district was searching for Gangammas house in Bangalore.	Facts
While doing so, he met PW6 (also named Gangamma) and asked her for directions.	Facts
Since PW6 did not know the way to Gangammas house, she took Prakash to PW7 Ammajammas house, and requested her to take Prakash to Gangammas house.3.	Facts
Ammajamma then took Prakash to Gangammas house.	Facts
On reaching there, Prakash informed Gangamma that Swamy (son of her brother PW3 Hucha Basappa) and he had come from the village and he enquired from Gangamma whether Swamy had reached.	Facts
Gangamma informed him that Swamy had not come to her house and asked him (Prakash) to disclose his identity.	Facts
Thereupon, Prakash introduced himself and Ammajamma left them and returned home.	Facts
This happened at about 1.00 p.m. on 5th November, 1990.4.	Facts
In the evening, Gangamma would normally visit PW1 Revammas house, across the road, for watching TV.	Facts
When Gangamma did not come in the evening on 5th November, 1990 Revamma sent her grandson Lohith aged about 5 years to Gangammas house to call her.	Facts
Gangamma then came with Lohith to Revammas house and informed her that she could not watch TV at her house as usual since some relatives from her village had come to her house and she had to cook food for them.	Facts
Soon thereafter, Gangamma left and returned to her house.	Facts
According to the First Information Report (FIR) this was at about 8.00 p.m. on 5th November, 1990.5.	Facts
On the next day, at about 5.30 p.m. Revamma had gone to a medical shop where she learnt that Gangamma had been murdered in her house.	Facts
Thereupon, she went to Gangammas house and found a crowd had gathered over there.	None
She entered Gangammas house and saw the dead body with her clothes and other articles lying scattered about.	Facts
She then sent word through PW4 Muniyappa and others to Gangammas brother PW3 Hucha Basappa about the incident.6.	Facts
Revamma was advised by some people in the crowd to lodge a complaint with the police.	Facts
Therefore, she went to the police station and lodged a complaint about the incident at about 7.30 p.m. and an FIR was registered.7.	Facts
The Investigating Officer PW25 DSouza soon reached the place of occurrence, that is, Gangammas house.	None
The dog squad, a fingerprint expert and a photographer also reached there a little later.	Facts
On a requisition made by the Investigating Officer, PW12 Ramachandra the photographer took photographs of the dead body and the crime scene.	Facts
He also took a photograph of a passbook MO13 lying at the scene of the incident.	Facts
The fingerprint expert PW20 Nanaiah examined nine articles in the premises and found some fingerprints on a plastic cover containing the inscription Canara Bank.	None
Nanaiah took the plastic cover Exh. P18 with him for a detailed examination.8.	None
The Investigating Officer seems to have taken the fingerprint of Gangamma and that was later given to Nanaiah who compared the fingerprint with the chance print on Exh. P18 and concluded that they were not identical.	Facts
He issued a certificate in this regard on 9th November, 1990.9.	Facts
While the Investigating Officer was at the place of occurrence, Hucha Basappa (Gangammas younger brother) arrived and he revealed that he suspected Prakashs involvement in the crime since he was informed that Prakash had visited Gangammas house.10.	Facts
According to the prosecution, on 11th November, 1990 at about 4.45 p.m. Prakash was apprehended and produced before the Investigating Officer.	Facts
Prakash says that he was arrested on 7th November, 1990 He was then arrested and searched and on his personal search some cash was recovered as also a receipt dated 7th November, 1990 issued by Vijayalakshmi Financiers.	Facts
Prakashs clothes, that is, his shirt, dhoti and shawl were found to be blood stained and they too were seized by the Investigating Officer.	None
Prakash made a voluntary disclosure to the Investigating Officer wherein he stated that some ornaments of the deceased were taken by him and pledged with Vijayalakshmi Financiers some ornaments were sold elsewhere and some ornaments were hidden near his fatherinlaws house.	Facts
Prakash took the Investigating Officer to the places mentioned by him and the ornaments were seized.11.	Facts
Prakash also took the Investigating Officer to a place from where he took out a steel rod concealed beneath a stone slab.	Facts
The steel rod was found to be blood stained and was seized by the Investigating Officer in the presence of panch witnesses.	Facts
It was allegedly used to murder Gangamma.12.	Facts
As a part of the investigations, a sample of Prakashs blood was drawn and given to the Investigating Officer who sealed it in a bottle.	None
This was then sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory for examination.13.	Facts
On 14th November, 1990 the Investigating Officer took Prakashs fingerprints and sent them to the fingerprint bureau for comparison.	Facts
On 9th January, 1991 the fingerprint expert, Nanaiah received the fingerprints and he gave a certificate on 11th January, 1991 to the effect that the fingerprint sent to him matched with the chance prints found on the plastic cover	Facts
Exh. P18 found at the place of occurrence.	Facts
Later, an enlarged photoprint of the chance fingerprint Exh.	Facts
P18 was made as Exh.	Facts
P19 and an enlarged photoprint of the fingerprint of Prakash obtained by the Investigating Officer on 14th November, 1990 was made being Exh. P20.	Facts
On 18th March, 1991 Nanaiah marked several identical characteristics on both enlarged photographs and gave an opinion Exh. P21(a) that two fingerprints shall never be identical unless they are derived from the same finger of the same person.	Facts
On these broad facts Prakash was chargesheeted for having murdered Gangamma and for having stolen her cash and ornaments valued at about Rs.25,000/.15.	Facts
The Trial Court, by its judgment and order dated 21st January, 1999 acquitted Prakash.	Facts
The acquittal was set aside in appeal by the High Court of Karnataka by its judgment and order dated 6th July, 2005.	Facts
Criminal Appeal No. 699 of 1999 It is under these circumstances that this appeal is before us.	Facts
Relevant circumstances Both the Trial Court and the High Court proceeded on the basis that the case is one of circumstantial evidence.	None
Both the Courts mentioned the following five relevant circumstances Prakash was found in Gangammas house on the relevant day, that is, 5th November, 1990.2.	None
The fingerprint expert, Nanaiah found Prakashs fingerprint on a plastic cover beaing the inscription Canara Bank Exh P18.	None
This was taken by Nanaiah for comparison and on a comparison having been made, the fingerprints thereon matched the fingerprints of Prakash.3.	None
Prakashs clothes were bloodstained when he was arrested on 11th November, 1990 and the bloodstains tallied with the blood group of Gangamma.4.	None
Gangammas ornaments were recovered by DSouza at the instance of Prakash after his arrest.5.	None
The weapon of offence, that is, a steel rod was discovered at the instance of Prakash from the place where it was concealed.	None
The High Court also mentioned two other circumstances, namely, that Gangamma met with a homicidal death and that Prakash absconded after committing the crime.	None
Presence of Prakash in Gangammas house Both the Courts referred to the evidence of Revamma, Muniyappa, PW6 Gangamma and Ammajamma in this regard.	None
There is no doubt that Revamma did not at all see Prakash at Gangammas house.	None
Her evidence is only to the effect that Gangamma did not come to watch TV with her on the evening of 5th November, 1990 because she had some relatives in her house and she had to cook food for them.	None
These relatives were not identified or named except that she stated that Gangammas nephew Swamy would be coming and that she had to feed him.	None
Similarly, Muniyappa also did not identify or name any of Gangammas relatives in her house.	None
All that he says is that when he was at his shop he observed that some relatives had come to Gangammas house and she had given food to them.	None
He stated that he closed his shop at 8.30 p.m. or so and went home.	None
The evidence of Muniyappa only discloses that Gangamma was alive till about 8.30 p.m. on 5th November, 1990 and was in the company of more than one person.	None
PW6 Gangamma also does not add to the case of the prosecution.	None
She says that Prakash had approached her for directions to Gangammas house and that she took Prakash to Ammajammas house.	None
She did not accompany Prakash or Ammajamma to Gangammas house.	None
Prakash was produced before this witness about 5 or 6 days after the incident when he was brought to her shop by the police and she identified him as the person whom she had met in the afternoon of 5th November, 1990.	None
The only witness who actually saw Prakash with Gangamma was Ammajamma.	None
She narrated the conversation between Prakash and Gangamma and the fact that Gangamma did not know Prakash and had asked him to identify himself.	None
The conversation she heard reveals that Swamy was expected to come to Gangammas house.	None
This witness left midway during the conversation between Prakash and Gangamma and did not actually see Prakash enter her house.	None
A few days after the incident, Ammajamma was called to the police station and she saw Prakash sitting over there and identified him.	None
On the basis of the evidence of these four witnesses, it can at best be said that Prakash was at Gangammas house at about 1.00 p.m. on 5th November, 1990 and that according to him Swamy was also to arrive at Gangammas residence.	None
The whereabouts of Prakash from 1.00 p.m. onwards are not known.	None
It can also be said that Gangamma gave dinner to her relatives at about 8.30 p.m. but these relatives cannot be identified.	None
Prakash may or may not be one of them.	None
It cannot, therefore, be definitely concluded that Prakash was being served dinner by Gangamma at about 8.30 p.m. on 5th November, 1990 or that he stayed in her house thereafter.	Reasoning
But it is clear that even if Prakash was there, he was not alone with Gangamma when she served dinner.25.	Reasoning
Two questions immediately arise in this context Firstly, why is it that Swamy was not examined by the Investigating Officer since he was expected to be at Gangammas residence on 5th November, 1990?	Reasoning
There is absolutely no answer forthcoming from the State in this regard.	Reasoning
The involvement of Prakash in the incident came about only because Hucha Basappa informed the Investigating Officer on the night of 5th November, 1990 that he was not on talking terms with Prakash and that he had given a complaint against him when Prakash tried to assault Hucha Basappa.	Reasoning
This is all the more reason for the Investigating Officer to have questioned Swamy who was expected to be at Gangammas house on 5th November, 1990.26.	Reasoning
Secondly, why is it that no Test Identification Parade was held to determine whether Prakash was actually the person who was seen by PW6 Gangamma and by Ammajamma?	Reasoning
Two types of pretrial identification evidence are possible and they have been succinctly expressed in Marcouix v. The Queen 1976 1 SCR 763 by the Supreme Court of Canada in the following words An important pretrial step in many criminal prosecutions is the identification of the accused by the alleged victim.	None
Apart from identification with the aid of a photograph or photographs, the identification procedure adopted by the police officers will normally be one of two types (i) the showupof a single suspect (ii) the lineuppresentation of the suspect as part of a group.	None
With reference to the first type of identification evidence, the Court quotes Professor Glanville Williams from an eminently readable and instructive article in which he says if the suspect objects to an identification parade the police will merely have him identified by showing him to the witness and asking the witness whether he is the man.	None
Since this is obviously far more dangerous to the accused than taking part in a parade, the choice of a parade is almost always accepted.	None
1963 Criminal Law Review pp.	None
479,480	None
With reference to the second type of identification evidence, Professor Glanville Williams says Since identification in the dock is patently unsatisfactory, the police have developed the practice of holding identification parades before the trial as a means of fortifying a positive identification The main purpose of such a parade from the point of view of the police is to provide them with fairly strong evidence of identity on which to proceed with their investigations and to base an eventual prosecution.	None
The advantage of identification parades from the point of view of the trial is that, by giving the witness a number of persons from among whom to choose, the prosecution seems to dispose once and for all the question whether the defendant in the dock is in fact the man seen and referred to by the witness.	None
Ibid.	None
pp.	None
479,480	None
A similar view was expressed by the Canadian Supreme Court in Mezzo v. The Queen.	None
1986 1	None
SCR 802 An identification parade is not mandatory Ravi Kapur v. State of Rajasthan, (2012) 9 SCC 284 nor can it be claimed by the suspect as matter of right.	None
R. Shaji v. State of Kerala, (2013) 14 SCC 266	None
The purpose of pretrial identification evidence is to assure the investigating agency that the investigation is going on in the right direction and to provide corroboration of the evidence to be given by the witness or victim later in court at the trial.	None
Rameshwar Singh v. State of JK, (1971) 2 SCC 715	None
If the suspect is a complete stranger to the witness or victim, then an identification parade is desirable Mulla v. State of U.P., (2010) 3 SCC 508 , Kishore Chand v. State of H.P., (1991) 1 SCC 286 unless the suspect has been seen by the witness or victim for some length of time.	None
State of U.P. v. Boota Singh, (1979) 1 SCC 31	None
In Malkhan Singh v. State of M.P. (2003) 5 SCC 746 it was held The identification parades belong to the stage of investigation, and there is no provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure which obliges the investigating agency to hold, or confers a right upon the accused to claim a test identification parade.	None
They do not constitute substantive evidence and these parades are essentially governed by Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	None
Failure to hold a test identification parade would not make inadmissible the evidence of identification in court.	None
The weight to be attached to such identification should be a matter for the courts of fact.	None
However, if the suspect is known to the witness or victim Jadunath Singh v. State of U.P., (1970) 3 SCC 518 or they have been shown a photograph of the suspect or the suspect has been exposed to the public by the media R. Shaji no identification evidence is necessary.	None
Even so, the failure of a victim or a witness to identify a suspect is not always fatal to the case of the prosecution.	None
In Visveswaran v. State (2003) 6 SCC 73 it was held The identification of the accused either in test identification parade or in Court is not a sine qua non in every case if from the circumstances the guilt is otherwise established.	None
Many a time, crimes are committed under the cover of darkness when none is able to identify the accused.	None
The commission of a crime can be proved also by circumstantial evidence.	None
What happened in the present case?	None
Both PW6 Gangamma and by Ammajamma saw Prakash for the first time on the afternoon of 5th November, 1990 and they had seen him, if at all, briefly if not fleetingly.	None
It is true that these witnesses had identified Prakash when he was produced before them on his apprehension about five or six days after the incident and also while he was in the dock in court, but the circumstances under which the dock identification took place are not quite satisfactory inasmuch as both the witnesses entered the witness box almost 41/2 years after they are said to have first seen Prakash only briefly and without any identification parade having been conducted.	Reasoning
Given the law laid down by this Court, it would have been more appropriate for the Investigating Officer to have conducted an identification parade so that it becomes an effective circumstance corroborative of the identification of the accused in court.	None
R. Shaji However, that was not done.	None
The Trial Court was of the view that the evidence on record did not inspire confidence as far as fixing the identity of the suspect as Prakash is concerned.	None
The Trial Court took into account the long lapse of time between the incident and the identification of Prakash in court, the absence of any distinguishing features of Prakash, the brief time for which the witnesses saw him and the fact that he was a total stranger to the witnesses.	None
The High Court was satisfied that Prakash was suitably identified but completely overlooked the fact that even if the Trial Court had come to an erroneous conclusion, at best, it placed Prakash at the place of occurrence at 1.00 p.m. and not later.	None
We are of the opinion that given the facts of the case, it would have been more appropriate for an identification parade to have been conducted, but its absence in this case is not necessarily fatal, there being other reasons also for not accepting the case set up by the prosecution.	Reasoning
However, the absence of an identification parade certainly casts a doubt about Prakashs presence at Gangammas house on 5th November, 1990.	None
Even assuming Prakash was present at Gangammas house on 5th November, 1990 at about 1.00 p.m. it does not necessarily follow that he was also present at about 8.30 p.m. that day.	None
Thus, we find that not only is there an absence of some degree of certainty and a doubt about Prakashs presence at Gangammas house on 5th November, 1990 but also an absence of certainty and a doubt whether he was there at 1.00 p.m. and at 8.30 p.m. There does not seem to be any reason at all for Prakash to have gone alone to Gangammas house.	None
He did not know where she lived and even she did not know who he was.	None
It is difficult to imagine that Prakash would leave his house in Nagenahalli village to visit Gangammas house for the purpose of stealing some ornaments, as suggested by the prosecution theft of ornaments being the alleged motive.	None
This presumes that Gangamma had ornaments which were worth stealing and it also presumes that Prakash knew of the existence of these ornaments.	None
Given the evidence before us, we find it very difficult to accept with certainty the case of the prosecution that Prakash alone was with Gangamma on the fateful night of 5th November, 1990.	Reasoning
The view taken by the Trial Court giving Prakash the benefit of doubt is certainly a plausible view and in the absence of any perversity in the view taken, we are of the opinion the High Court ought not to have upset the conclusion arrived at.	Reasoning
We may also mention that from the decision of the High Court it is clear that it has proceeded merely on the basis of probabilities.	Reasoning
The High Court held that Prakash was probably present in Gangammas house on 5th November, 1990 and that in all probability he was the relative who was having dinner at Gangammas house.	Reasoning
In a case of circumstantial evidence, there has to be some degree of trustworthiness and certainty about the existence of the circumstances  mere probabilities are certainly not enough.	Reasoning
Hargun Sunder Das Godeja v. State of Maharashtra, (1970) 1 SCC 724 In our opinion, this is an unsatisfactory way of dealing with the issue and we cannot uphold the view taken by the High Court in this regard.38.	Reasoning
In view of the above, it is not necessary for us to labour on the questions raised on the applicability of the last seen theory.	Reasoning
There is a clear doubt whether Prakash was with Gangamma if he was, then it was at about 1.00 p.m. on 5th November, 1990 there is no evidence that Prakash was with Gangamma thereafter and on the contrary there is evidence that some of her relatives (which may or may not include Prakash) were with her at about 8.30 p.m.	Reasoning
We would be stretching the last seen theory to the vanishing point if we were to apply it to the facts of this case.	None
Fingerprint Evidence	None
The witnesses relevant for the purposes of the fingerprint evidence as a relevant circumstance are Ramachandra (the photographer) and Nanaiah (the fingerprint expert).	None
Ramachandra stated that he had taken a photograph of the bank pass book belonging to Gangamma.	None
He also produced in court the negative of a photograph taken by him marked as MO13(a) of Prakashs fingerprint on the pass book.	None
No positive print or photograph was developed from the negative.	None
In his cross examination, Ramachandra could not say if the fingerprint in the negative was that appearing on the pass book.	None
In the negative photo produced by me today MO.13(a) there are no marks to show that it was taken from that passbook.	None
In other words, there was nothing in MO13(a) to relate it to the pass book.	None
The testimony of Ramachandra with regard to the fingerprints of Prakash on the bank pass book is, therefore, inconsequential.	None
Nanaiah stated that he had obtained from the scene of occurrence a hand print on a plastic cover bearing the inscription Canara Bank.	None
The plastic cover was marked as Exh.P18 and an enlarged photograph of this was marked as Exh. P19.	None
According to Nanaiah, he compared the fingerprints on Exh.	None
P19 with the fingerprint of Prakash on Exh. P20	Facts
and found that it tallied.	None
How did Exh.P20 come into existence?	None
We have been left wondering as there is no answer to this question, nor is there anything to show that Exh.	None
P20 contained a fingerprint of Prakash.	None
Even the testimony of the Investigating Officer DSouza is silent on this aspect.	None
The High Court accepted that Exh.	None
P20 contained Prakashs fingerprint in view of an admission made by him in his statement recorded under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	None
The High Court relied, rather selectively, on a part of the statement given by Prakash in his examination under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	None
The question put to Prakash and the answer given read as under Q PW20 C.K. Nanaiah, Finger Print expert and Dy.	None
S.P. states that on 6.11.1990 he was called to the scene of occurrence amd he visited there, examined the articles found at the place between 830 and 945 p.m. and got a chance print on a plastic cover found there, which is at Ex. P18 and on comparison it was identical with your right middle finger print and issued a certificate as per Ex.	None
P13.	None
What do you say?Ans On 7th date Inspector DSouzagiven me a cover to hold the same.	None
The High Court took into account only the latter part of the answer given by Prakash, namely, that he held a cover.	None
From this, the High Court concluded that The fact that the fingerprint of the accused was found on Ex. P18 (sic Ex. P20) is accepted by the accused himself.	None
In doing so, the High Court ignored the first part of Prakashs statement that this happened on 7th November, 1990.	None
If any credibility is to be given to Exh.P20 then it must be held that Prakash was arrested on 7th November, 1990 but that is not the case of the prosecution.	None
We have, therefore, to proceed on the basis that Prakash was in fact apprehended and arrested on 11th November, 1990 and proceeding on that basis, there cannot be any question of his being given a cover to hold by the Investigating Officer on 7th November, 1990 for the purpose of obtaining his fingerprint.	None
The ultimate conclusion is that there is absolutely no evidence on record to show how Exh. P20 which is said to be the admitted fingerprint of Prakash came into existence.	Reasoning
In the absence of any admitted fingerprint, there is nothing to show that the handprint or the fingerprints on Exh. P18 was that of Prakash.	None
In Hanumant Govind Nargundkar v. State of M.P 1952	None
SCR 1091 it was held It is settled law that an admission made by a person whether amounting to a confession or not cannot be split up and part of it used against him.	None
An admission must be used either as a whole or not at all.	None
A similar view was expressed, rather expansively, in Narain Singh v. State of Punjab (1963)	None
3 SCR 678 and Dadarao v. State of Maharashtra.	None
(1974) 3 SCC 630 Assuming Prakashs fingerprint was in fact obtained by DSouza, it was clearly not given voluntarily, but perhaps unwittingly and in what seems to be a deceitful manner.	None
To avoid any suspicion regarding the genuineness of the fingerprint so taken or resort to any subterfuge, the appropriate course of action for the Investigating Officer was to approach the Magistrate for necessary orders in accordance with section 5 of the Identification of Prisoners Act, 1920.	None
In Mohd.	None
Aman v. State of Rajasthan (1997) 10 SCC 44 this Court referred to the possibility of the police fabricating evidence and to avoid an allegation of such a nature, it would be eminently desirable that fingerprints were taken under the orders of a Magistrate.	None
We may add that this would equally apply to the creating evidence against a suspect.	None
This is what this Court had to say Even though the specimen fingerprints of Mohd.	None
Aman had to be taken on a number of occasions at the behest of the Bureau, they were never taken before or under the order of a Magistrate in accordance with Section 5 of the Identification of Prisoners Act.	None
It is true that under Section 4 thereof police is competent to take fingerprints of the accused but to dispel any suspicion as to its bona fides or to eliminate the possibility of fabrication of evidence it was eminently desirable that they were taken before or under the order of a Magistrate.	None
The Karnataka High Court has taken the view State by Rural Police v. B.C. Manjunatha, ILR 2013 Karnataka 3156 that it is not incumbent upon a police officer to take the assistance of a Magistrate to obtain the fingerprints of an accused and that the provisions of the Identification of Prisoners Act are not mandatory in this regard.	None
However, the issue is not one of the provisions being mandatory or not the issue is whether the manner of taking fingerprints is suspicious or not.	None
In this case, we do not know if Prakashs fingerprint was taken on 7th November, 1990 as alleged by him or later as contended by the Investigating Officer, or the circumstances in which it was taken or even the manner in which it was taken.	None
It is to obviate any such suspicion that this Court has held it to be eminently desirable that fingerprints are taken before or under the order of a Magistrate.	None
As far as this case is concerned, the entire exercise of Prakashs fingerprint identification is shrouded in mystery and we cannot give any credence to it.	None
We are also surprised that though a bloodstained crowbar was seized from the place of occurrence and according to the Investigating Officer, a bloodstained steel rod was recovered at the instance of Prakash, neither of these material objects was sent for fingerprint examination.	None
The investigation was conducted in a rather unconcerned manner, to say the least.	None
Learned counsel for Prakash made two subsidiary submissions, namely, that the photographs taken by Ramachandra of the scene of incident do not show the existence of the plastic cover Exh. P18 and therefore, according to him, the plastic cover was planted subsequently.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are not prepared to accept this submission because it is nobodys case that Ramachandra took photographs of everything or every item found in the residence of Gangamma.50.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also submitted that when Nanaiah took Exh.	Arguments of Petitioner
P18 with him, no mahazar or panchnama was drawn up and nobody was told that the plastic cover bearing the inscription Canara Bank was taken away by him for examination.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is true and we are of the view that this was not permissible and that there should have been some record of the plastic cover having been taken by Nanaiah, especially since the Investigating Officer was present at the spot.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, if the plastic cover was taken away by Nanaiah without the knowledge of the Investigating Officer and right under his nose, then it makes the position even worse for the prosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Be that as it may, we do not doubt the bona fides of Nanaiah since, in his testimony, he clearly stated that he had examined nine articles and one of them was the plastic cover bearing the inscription Canara Bank and that while carrying an object containing prints, there is chance of damage to the prints if the object is not handled properly.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is perhaps to avoid the possible damage that he took the plastic cover with him.51.	Arguments of Petitioner
Our attention was drawn to the Karnataka Police Manual and it appears that Nanaiah followed the guidelines laid down therein and perhaps acted in an overly cautious manner.	Arguments of Petitioner
Guideline No. 1543 provides as follows 1543.	None
The opinion of the finger print expert is of paramount importance in the investigation of various crimes.	Arguments of Petitioner
The following instructions should be followed regarding chance finger and foot prints and their developments, preservation of the scene, method of packing and other matters Guideline 1544 in the Manual contains various provisions and clause (iv) and clause (v) are relevant for our purposes.	None
They read as follows 1544.	None
i) to iii) xxxiv)	None
If latent prints are found on portable articles they should be seized under a detailed panchanama duly packed and labelled and sent to the Finger Print Bureau with a police officer with instructions regarding the care of the package during the journey.v)	None
In sending the articles containing latent prints to the Bureau, proper attention must be given to their package.	None
The following essential points should be borne in mind It should be ensured that no portion of the article where prints may be found should get into contact with anything else and The articles should be securely packed in a suitable container.	None
Clause (iv) was clearly not followed when Nanaiah took the plastic cover along with him and this is an extremely serious lapse.	None
However, we give him the benefit of doubt and assume that it is perhaps with clause (v) in mind that Nanaiah took the plastic cover along with him.	Arguments of Petitioner
While we completely disapprove of the manner in which Exh. P18 was taken away by Nanaiah (and the Investigating Officer did nothing about it), the case of the prosecution does not get strengthened even if a valid procedure was followed, since there is nothing on record to show that the admitted fingerprints on Exh. P20 were those of Prakash which could be compared with the fingerprints on Exh. P18 and the enlarged photograph being Exh. P19.54.	None
Assuming that Exh.	Arguments of Petitioner
P20 was a valid piece of evidence validly obtained, there is no explanation why it was kept by the Investigating Officer from 14th November, 1990 till 9th January, 1991 when it was received by Nanaiah.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Karnataka Police Manual highlights the importance of keeping safe an article containing fingerprints.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of its importance, Nanaiah did not trust anyone with the plastic cover bearing the inscription Canara Bank Exh. P18 and carefully took it along with him to avoid its getting damaged by getting into contact with anything else.	None
On the other hand, we have the Investigating Officer keeping Exh.	Arguments of Petitioner
P20 with him for almost two months and in circumstances that seem unclear.	Arguments of Petitioner
We cannot rule out the possibility of Exh.	Arguments of Petitioner
P20 getting damaged due to careless handling.55.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are of the opinion that there is no fingerprint evidence worth it linking Prakash to the murder of Gangamma.	None
Blood Stained Clothes The witnesses relevant for the recovery of blood stained clothes of Prakash are PW18 Savandaiah, PW21 Shivanna and PW24 Subanna.	None
Savandaiah and Subanna have given a very similar statement to the effect that Prakash was apprehended on 11th November, 1990.	None
They did not state that at the time of his apprehension, he was wearing blood stained clothes.58.	None
However, when Shivanna was called to the police station on 11th November, 1990 he was told that it was for the purpose of witnessing a search of Prakash.	Arguments of Petitioner
He stated that Prakash was wearing a shirt and a panche and he noticed blood stains on both the apparels.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the personal search of Prakash some cash was recovered and a receipt from Vijayalakshmi Financiers was also recovered.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for Prakash sought to take advantage of two discrepant statements made by Shivanna in his crossexamination.	Arguments of Petitioner
One statement is to the effect that before Prakash was searched, the police told Shivanna that he was carrying cash and a receipt.	Arguments of Petitioner
The question raised by learned counsel was how was the police aware of the existence of cash and a receipt on the person of Prakash without having conducted his personal search.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted by learned counsel that this reveals that Prakash had already been searched by the police and Shivanna was summoned only to complete the paper work.	Arguments of Petitioner
We make no comment on this.	None
The second discrepant statement was that Shivanna stated that the police had kept Prakashs clothes on the table.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted, in other words, that the blood stained clothes were already seized by the police and kept on the table.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are not sure whether the actual statement made by Shivanna has been lost in translation.	None
In any event, the recovery of the blood stained clothes of Prakash do not advance the case of the prosecution.	Reasoning
The reason is that all that the prosecution sought to prove thereby is that the blood group of Gangamma was AB and the blood stains on Prakashs seized clothes also belong to blood group AB.	Reasoning
In our opinion, this does not lead to any conclusion that the blood stains on Prakashs clothes were those of Gangammas blood.	None
There are millions of people who have the blood group AB and it is quite possible that even Prakash had the blood group AB.	Reasoning
In this context, it is important to mention that a blood sample was taken from Prakash and this was sent for examination.	Reasoning
The report received from the Forensic Science Laboratory Exh.	Reasoning
P27 was to the effect that the blood sample was decomposed and therefore its origin and grouping could not be determined.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, quite possible that the blood stains on Prakashs clothes were his own blood stains and that his blood group was also AB.	None
Learned counsel for Prakash contended that the report of the serologist was not put to him when he was examined under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	None
The High Court dealt with this issue in a rather unsatisfactory manner.	None
This is what the High Court had to say Even assuming that the report of the Serologist had not been put to the accused in his statement recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C.	None
the same cannot be said to be fatal to the prosecution, more so, when the same had not prejudiced the accused in any way.	None
In fact, we put the said Serologists report Ex.	None
P29 to the learned counsel appearing for the respondent and sought for their explanation in this regard	None
and it is submitted that they have nothing to say in that matter.	None
That means, the respondent has no explanation to offer in this regard.	None
It is one thing to say that no prejudice was caused to Prakash by not affording him an opportunity to explain the serological report.	None
It is quite another thing to put the report to his learned counsel in appeal and give him (the learned counsel) an opportunity to explain the report of the serologist.	Reasoning
The course adopted by the High Court is clearly impermissible.	Reasoning
The law on the subject was laid down several decades ago by the Constitution Bench in Tara Singh v. State 1951 SCR 729 and is to the effect that an accused must be given a chance to offer an explanation if the evidence is to be used against him and the conviction is intended to be based upon it.	Reasoning
It follows that if the accused is not given an opportunity to explain the circumstances against him in the testimony of the witnesses, then those circumstances cannot be used against him, whether they prejudice him or not.	None
This is what the Constitution Bench said It is important therefore that an accused should be properly examined under section 342	None
Now Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and, as their Lordships of the Privy Council indicated in Dwarkanath v. Emperor, AIR 1933 PC 124 if a point in the evidence is considered important against the accused and the conviction is intended to be based upon it, then it is right and proper that the accused should be questioned about the matter and be given an opportunity of explaining it if he so desires.	None
This is an important and salutary provision and I cannot permit it to be slurred over.	None
I regret to find that in many cases scant attention is paid to it, particularly in Sessions Courts.	None
But whether the matter arises in the Sessions Court or in that of the Committing Magistrate, it is important that the provisions of section 342 should be fairly and faithfully observed.	None
This was more clearly spelt out in Ajay Singh v. State of Maharashtra (2007) 12 SCC 341 when this Court held A conviction based on the accuseds failure to explain what he was never asked to explain is bad in law.	None
We are not satisfied with the conclusion of the High Court that since the clothes of Prakash were blood stained and the stains bore the same blood group as that of Gangamma, the circumstance could be used Prakash.	None
A serological comparison of the blood of Gangamma and Prakash and the blood stains on his clothes was necessary and that was absent from the evidence of the prosecution.	None
Ornaments of the deceased According to the prosecution, Prakash had led the Investigating Officer to various places from where some ornaments belonging to Gangamma were recovered.	Arguments of Respondent
The recovery witnesses were examined by the prosecution as well as those persons from whom the ornaments were recovered.	Arguments of Respondent
However, what is of significance is that none of the recovered ornaments could be connected to Gangamma.	Arguments of Respondent
This is a serious lapse in investigation and the mere recovery of some ornaments from some people does not lead to any conclusion that the ornaments so recovered belonged to Gangamma.	None
At the stage of reexamination of Hucha Basappa, the prosecution sought permission to examine him with regard to identification of the ornaments said to belong to Gangamma.	None
However, this was declined by the Trial Judge who perused the statement of the witness recorded under Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure which did not have anything with regard to identification of the ornaments.	None
The High Court adversely commented on this and held that the Trial Judge adopted a very strange procedure while declining to grant the request of the prosecution to have the ornaments identified through Hucha Basappa.	None
According to the High Court, Hucha Basappa had stated in an earlier part of his testimony in court that Gangamma had ornaments such as a gold chain, silver waist belt, silver rings, ear studs etc.	Reasoning
and that he had seen those ornaments and could identify them if he saw them.	Reasoning
Therefore, permission should have been granted to the prosecution to further examine Hucha Basappa and it was for the defence to have brought out any contradiction between the statement made by the witness in court and the statement made by him under Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	Reasoning
Having said that, the High Court concluded that the ornaments belonged to Gangamma.69.	Reasoning
Even if we were to assume that the procedure followed by the Trial Court was incorrect, in the absence of any identification of the ornaments as belonging to Gangamma, the High Court could not have definitely concluded that they did belong to Gangamma.	Reasoning
In any event, even assuming that the ornaments belonged to Gangamma, at best, Prakash would be guilty of having received stolen property but could certainly not be guilty of having murdered Gangamma.	Reasoning
Other issues It was brought to our notice that the steel rod used to kill Gangamma was recovered at the instance of Prakash.	Reasoning
This was hidden under a stone slab and it contained blood stains.	Reasoning
The Investigating Officer made no effort to ascertain whether the blood stains on the steel rod were those of Gangamma nor was any effort made to ascertain whether the steel rod contained any fingerprints which matched with those of Prakash.	Reasoning
This, coupled with the fact that the blood stained crowbar seized at the place of occurrence, was not sent for a chemical examination, raises a grave suspicion that the investigation was not fair and the benefit of this doubt must go to Prakash.	Reasoning
Lakshmi Singh v. State of Bihar, (1976) 4 SCC 394 and State of U.P. v. Arun Kumar Gupta, (2003) 2 SCC 202 All that we need say is that the investigation in the case was very cursory and it appears to us that the Investigating Officer had made up his mind that Prakash had murdered Gangamma and the investigation was directed at proving this conclusion rather the other way around with the investigation leading to a conclusion that Prakash had murdered Gangamma.72.	Reasoning
It is true that the relevant circumstances should not be looked at in a disaggregated manner but collectively.	Reasoning
Still, this does not absolve the prosecution from proving each relevant fact.	None
In a case of circumstantial evidence, each circumstance must be proved beyond reasonable doubt by independent evidence and the circumstances so proved, must form a complete chain without giving room to any other hypotheses and should be consistent with only the guilt of the accused.	None
Lakhjit Singh v. State of Punjab, 1994 Supp (1) SCC 173 Conclusion None of the circumstances relied upon by the prosecution and accepted by the High Court point to the probability of Prakashs guilt or involvement in the murder of Gangamma.	Reasoning
Consequently, we allow this appeal and set aside the judgment and order of the High Court and acquit Prakash of the murder of Gangamma.74.	Decision
Though the murder was committed way back in 1990, scientific methods for investigation were available even at that time but not made use of.	Decision
We must express our unhappiness on this state of affairs.	Decision
At least from now onwards, the prosecution must lay stress on scientific collection and analysis of evidence, particularly since there are enough methods of arriving at clear conclusions based on evidence gathered.	Decision
