 B. Sinha, J. These appeals involving identical questions of law and fact were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.	None
The factual matrix of the matter, however, would be noticed from Civil Appeal No. 2316 of 2000.	None
The management of the New Manekchowk Spinning and Weaving Mills Company Limited was taken over in terms of Section 18(1) of the Industries (Development Regulation) Act, 1951.	Facts
The Gujarat State Textile Corporation Limited was appointed as in Authorized Controller.	Facts
The period of takeover was extended upto 31.03.1974.	Facts
The Parliament thereafter enacted the Sick Textile Undertakings (Nationalization) Act, 1974, (for short, the Act) which came into force with effect from 01.04.1974 in terms whereof the right, title and interest of the said textile mills vested absolutely in the Central Government.	Facts
The Central Government, however, issued an appropriate notification whereby and whereunder the said mills instead of continuing to vest in the Central Government were directed to vest in the National Textile Corporation (Gujarat).	Facts
Statutory provisions Before we advert to the rival contentions of the parties, we may notice some of the relevant provisions of the Act.	None
Appointed day had been defined in Section 2(1) of the Act to mean the 1st day of April, 1974.	None
The term owner has been defined in Section 2(h) of the Act as under (h) .owner, when used in relation to a sick textile undertaking, means any person or firm who or which is, immediately before the appointed day, the immediate proprietor or lessee or occupier of the sick textile undertaking or any part thereof, and in the case of a textile company which is being wound up or the business whereof is being carried on by a liquidator or receiver, includes such liquidator or receiver, and also includes any agent or manager or such owner but does not include any person or body of persons authorized under the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951, or the Sick Textile Undertakings (Taking Over of Management) Act, 1972, to take over the management of the whole or any part of the sick textile undertaking Before the Commissioner of Payments, the creditors became entitled to filed their respective claims for the purpose of disbursement thereof out of the amount of compensation towards nationalization of the mills deposited with it by the Central Government.	None
The claims under the Act are divided into two distinct categories (i) posttakeover management period and (ii) pretakeover management period.	None
The posttakeover management period was 14.02.1969 to 31.03.1974.	None
The Second Schedule appended to the 1974 Act provided Order of priorities for the discharge of liabilities in respect of a sick textile undertaking PART A PostTakeover Management Period Category I  (a) Loans advanced by a bank.	None
(b) Loans advanced by an institution other than a bank.	None
(c) Any other loan.	None
(d)	None
Any credit availed of for purpose of trade or manufacturing operations.	None
Category II  (a) Revenue, taxes, cesses, rates or any other dues to the Central Government or a State Government.	None
(b) Any other dues.	None
In terms of Section 3 of the Act, the right title and interest of the owner in relation to every sick textile undertaking vested absolutely in the Central Government.	None
Section 5 provides that every liability, other than the liability specified in subsection (2) thereof in respect of any period prior to that appointed day, shall be that of such owner and shall be enforceable against him and not against the Central Government or the National Textile Corporation.	None
Subsection (3) of Section 5 reads as under 5.(3)	None
For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that  (a) save as otherwise expressly provided in this section or in any other section of this Act, no liability, other than the liability specified in subsection (2), in relation to a sick textile undertaking in respect of any period prior to the appointed day, shall be enforceable against the Central Government or the National Textile Corporation (b) no award, decree or order of any court, tribunal or other authority in relation to any sick textile undertaking passed after the appointed day in respect of any matter, claim or dispute, in relation to any matter not referred to in subsection (2), which arose before that day, shall be enforceable against the Central Government or the National Textile Corporation.	None
(c) no liability of any sick textile undertaking or any owner thereof for the contravention, before the appointed day, of any provision of law for the time being in force, shall be enforceable against the Central Government or the National Textile Corporation.	None
Section 8 provides for deposit of the amount of compensation in cash by the Central Government.	None
Section 17 provides for appointment of Commissioners of Payments, whereas priority and examination of claims filed before it are contained in Section 21 and 22 of the Act, which read as under The claims arising out of the matters specified in the Second Schedule shall have priorities in accordance with the following principles, namely (a) category I will have precedence over all other categories and category II will have precedence over category III and so on (b) the claims specified in each of the categories, except category IV, shall rank equally and be paid in full, but if the amount is insufficient to meet such claims in full, they shall abate in equal proportions and be paid accordingly (c) the liabilities specified in category IV shall be discharged, subject to the priorities specified in this section, in accordance with the terms of the secured loans and the priority, inter se, of such loans and (d) the question of payment of a liability with regard to a matter specified in a lower category shall arise only if a surplus is left after meeting all the liabilities specified in the immediately higher category.	None
22.	None
(1) On receipt of the claims under section 20, the Commissioner shall arrange the claims in the order of priority specified in the Second Schedule and examine the same in accordance with the said order (2) If on examination of the claims, the Commissioner is of the opinion that the amount paid to him under this Act is not sufficient to meet the liabilities specified in any lower category, he shall not be required to examine the liabilities in respect of such lower category.	None
Section 27 which occurs in Chapter VII of the Act provides as under 27.	None
(1) Where any liability of the owner of a sick textile undertaking arising out of any item specified in category I of the Second Schedule is not discharged fully by the Commissioner out of the amount paid to him under this Act, the Commissioner shall intimate in writing to the Central Government the extent of the liability which remains undischarged, and that liability shall be assumed by the Central Government.	None
(2) The Central Government may, by order, direct the National Textile Corporation to take over any liability assumed by that Government under subsection (1), and on receipt of such direction, it shall be the duty of the National Textile Corporation to discharge such liability.	None
Proceedings	None
The company took some loan from the State Bank of India.	Facts
During the period of takeover also, the State Bank of India continued to extend various credit facilities to the management.	Facts
The Respondent Bank in its claim stated The appellant has given various credit facilities before and after the authorized controller took over the management.	Facts
The appellant had given the facility of hypothecation account with the limit of Rs.	Facts
13,50,000.00p.	Facts
the amount in that account outstanding as on March 31, 1974 was Rs. 1,34,148.39p.	Facts
and the amount outstanding as on March 31, 1974 was Rs. 7,22,343.02p.	Facts
In the Mortgaged account the limit was Rs.	Facts
20,00,000/ and the amount outstanding as on March 31, 1974 was Rs.	Facts
19,74,399.85p.	Facts
and the amount outstanding as on March 31, 1977 was Rs. 24,86,190.93p.	Facts
In the Pledge account the limit was Rs. 30,00,000.00p.	Facts
and the amount outstanding as on March 31, 1974 was Rs. 20,65,989.90p.	Facts
and the one outstanding on March 31, 1977 was Rs.	Facts
28,65,735.15p.	Facts
In the deferred payment guarantee account, the appellant had paid installments of Rs.	Facts
6,43,709.20p and the installments to be paid by the appellant were to the extent of Rs. 6,35,218.42p.	Facts
the appellant paid over due interest of the amount of Rs. 16,800.49p.	Facts
Thus, in this account the total amount claimed was Rs. 12.95,828.20p.	Facts
The appellant had issued cheques on or before March 31, 1974 but paid on or before Sept. 21, 1974, bills cheques of the value of Rs. 6,16,291.58p.	Facts
The appellant had debited Rs. 21,911.65p.	Facts
in the account of the National Textile Corporation as the bills or cheques of this value purchased on or before March 31, 1974 but returned or paid on or before Sept 21, 1974.	Facts
The appellant also claimed bank charges, and other amounts relating to the period upto March 31, 1974 but debited before September 21, 1974.	Facts
The appellant also claimed Bank charges Rs. 17,39,648.00p.	Facts
being the amount of bills cheques purchased by the appellant on or before March 31, 1974 but realized on or after April 1, 1974.	Facts
Thus the appellant in all claimed Rs. 99,97,944.32p.	Facts
under four head as per the statement of the account annexed with the application of claim.	Facts
By an order dated 30.09.1978, the Commissioner of Payments held as under That out of total claims, an amount of Rs.	Facts
51,55,524.81p. could be admitted in Category I, an amount of Rs. 24,86,109.93ps. could be admitted in Category IV and the rest of the amount of Rs. 23,55,939.58ps. could not considered for the purposes of categorization.	Facts
An appeal was preferred thereagainst before the City Civil Court.	Facts
The said appeal was dismissed by an order dated 18.08.1980, holding As discussed in the earlier part of the judgment, only those liabilities falling under the aforesaid two periods are required to be discharged out of the compensation amount fixed from the undertaking except as mentioned in subsection (1) of Section 27 of the Act.	Facts
The appellant had made payments to the supplier after 1.4.1974 i.e. after the appointed day.	Facts
The Act restricted discharge of certain liabilities enumerated in the Second Schedule only falling due upto 31.3.1974.	Facts
The appellants claim cannot be covered in any of the categories in the Second ScheduleSince the liability of the respondent No. 1 does not exist on account of the contract having ceased to have effect on 1.4.1974, the appellants claim for the same reasons become nonexistentIt appears from the award of the Assistant Commissioner of Payments that the adjustments with the respondent No. 2 for the bills purchased or the cheques realized was made.	Facts
That has been done as the bills discounted or purchased on or before March 31, 1974, remained with the erstwhile owners and such ownership on rights vested in the nationalized textile corporation by virtue of Section 4 of the Act A writ petition was thereafter filed before the High Court.	Facts
By reason of the impugned judgment, a learned Judge of the High Court while allowing the said writ petition held as under I have given anxious thought to the submissions made on behalf of the parties.	None
The main question for determination by this Court is whether outstanding dues in different accounts for the pretakeover as on 14.2.1969 were the liabilities of the Authorized Controller, or that liabilities which were thereafter can be considered under Section 5 of the Act for the purpose of awarding the compensation amount.	Facts
For this purpose, we have to see the actual meaning of loan and advances.	Facts
Loans and advance loans have been explained by the Apex Court in the case of Jiwanlal Acharya vs. Rameshwar Agarwalla, reported in AIR 1967 SC 1118 , wherein it has been held that the loan means an advance, whether of money or in kind on interest, made by a moneylender and shall include a transaction on a bond bearing interest in respect of post liability and in transaction, which in substance is a loan.	Facts
When a loan is renewed by the execution of a fresh document of removal, there is no difficulty in holding that the former loan was repaid by borrowing a fresh loan on the document of renewal.	Facts
So, the transaction itself can be treated as a fresh loan.	Facts
The word advance appears to have been used there for convenience of the language, particularly to indicate that the loan must have been made after commencement of the Act.	Facts
It does not imply that there should have been an actual advance, whether of money or any kind.	Facts
Thus, in view of the proposition of law laid down by the Apex Court, the loans advanced by the petitioner bank prior to 14.2.1969, guaranteed by the Authorized Controller and by the State Government and by the State Government and guarantee for the posttakeover period would fall under the category no.1(a) of the Second Schedule and it would not fall in category no. 4 of part B. The Bombay High Court has completely answered the question regarding the liability of the Authorised Controller for the amount due prior to 1.4.1974 and thereafter Submissions Mr. L. Nageshwara Rao, the learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, would submit that the High Court committed a serious error in holding (i) loan was advanced during posttakeover period during which the management was with the corporation (ii) the facility was given by the bank to continue to avail the credit facilities to pay the amount of loan on renewal thereof (iii) the undertaking given by the Controller for continuing to obtain the said facilities would not make the outstanding dues on account of priority claim of the company (iv) There exists a difference between a loan and liability whereas the principal amount would come within the purview of priority claim, claim of interest would not.	Facts
16.	None
Mr. R. Sundaravardan, the learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the State Bank of India, on the other hand, submitted that (i) the bank acted to its detriment at the instance of the Controller and relying on the guarantee furnished by it as also by the State of Gujarat continued to extend the facilities which would amount to a new loan.	Arguments of Respondent
(ii) Such credit facility had been given so that the mills may survive and, thus, the Appellant cannot now be permitted to contend that the loan advanced by the Bank would not be disbursed on a priority basis.	Arguments of Respondent
(iii) In any event, as part of the amount to be paid had been apportioned for past dues in terms of Section 60 of the Indian Contract Act, this Court should not interfere with the impugned judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. T.L. Vishwanatha Iyer, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Bank of Baroda, supplemented Mr. Sundaravardan contending that the deferred payment guarantee should be treated as an advance given during post management period and, thus, would come within the purview of Category I of the Second Schedule of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that for all intent and purport, the liability is akin to the concept of loan and in that view of the matter any amount which was payable as on 31.3.1974 including the amount of interest would come within the purview of the expression loan.	Arguments of Respondent
Priority claims The basic fact of the matter is not in dispute.	None
Although the managements of the textile mills were taken over in terms of the provisions of the 1951 Act, the Authorized Controller managed the affairs of the mills for or on behalf of the owners.	None
The liabilities incurred or profits made during the said period were to be credited to the account of the owners.	None
The owners in terms of the provisions of the Act were not entitled to receive the amount of compensation but also the interest provided for in the said Act as also the amount of compensation payable for taking over the management of the mills under the 1956 Act.	None
The claim of every claimant was required to be determined by the Commissioner of Payments strictly in terms of the provisions of the Act.	None
For the purpose of enabling it to disburse his claim from the amount deposited with it by the Central Government, priorities were to be accorded to the specified category of claim in terms of the Second Schedule of the Act.	None
The Commissioner of Payments as a statutory authority was to act within the fourcorners of the Act.	None
In terms of the provisions of the Act, the liability of the owner has not ceased to run.	Reasoning
The entire claim of the bank, if not capable of being disbursed from the amount deposited by the Central Government, the same would abate.	Reasoning
The claimants, therefore, are entitled to realize their remaining claims from the owners.	Reasoning
The Authorized Controller and the State of Gujarat furnished guarantees.	Reasoning
Guarantees furnished by the State of Gujarat were dehors the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
In terms of the provisions of the Act, the State of Gujarat had no role to pay.	Reasoning
It might have encouraged the Authorized Controller to review the functioning of the mills upon continuing to obtain the facilities of the erstwhile owners from the banks and other industrial institutions for revival of the mill as a part of social welfare measure.	Reasoning
Under the Act, however, it could not have intermeddled with the affairs of the functioning of the mills by the Authorized Controller.	Reasoning
Any action taken pursuant to or in furtherance of any representation made by the State of Gujarat would, thus, be of its own liability.	Reasoning
Such liabilities can be enforced by the claimants.	Reasoning
For the self same reasons any guarantee furnished by the Gujarat Financial Corporation would also be an act on its own behalf.	Reasoning
It, while carrying out the management of the mill, could have incurred loan on behalf of the owner but if it had furnished any guarantee, the same would constitute an independent act, although furnished for obtaining loan or continue to obtain the facilities for running the mills.	Reasoning
It could not act both as a loaner and a guarantor.	Reasoning
The liability of the owner and guarantor would depend upon the terms of the documents executed in favour of the Bank and or provisions of the Indian Contract Act.	Reasoning
Similarly if a claim comes within the purview of Section 27 of the Act, the Central Government would continue to be liable therefor.	Reasoning
A similar guarantee furnished by the Gujarat State Financial Corporation on its own behalf subject to the terms of the guarantee may become enforceable against it.	Reasoning
We are in these appeals, however, only concerned with the interpretation of the relevant provisions of the Second Schedule of the Act.	Reasoning
Continuing the credit facilities given by the banks to the owner, in our opinion, would not amount to a fresh agreement.	Reasoning
For the purpose of attracting the provisions of the Second Schedule, the amount mentioned in Category I must be confined to loans advanced by the banks or other financial institution, or any other loan or any credit availed of for the purpose of trade or manufacturing operations.	Reasoning
A distinction, therefore, exists between a loan given to the Controller and availing of the credit facilities which were available to the owner of the textile mills so as to enable it to carry on the manufacture operation thereof after its take over.	Reasoning
The textile undertakings were sick ones.	Reasoning
The managements of such mills were taken over for the purpose of revival thereof.	Reasoning
If in that process the Authorized Controller was required to raise loan either from a bank or from a financial institution other than a bank or from any other person or availed any other credit, indisputably, the same would come within the purview of CategoryI liability being a posttakeover management period.	Reasoning
Such loan, however, it will bear repetition to state, would not be renewal of pretakeover loan.	None
In Jiwanlal Achariya vs. Rameshwar Lal Agarwalla AIR 1967 SC 1118 , this Court was concerned with interpretation of the expression loan contained in Section 2(f) of the Bihar Money Lending (Regulation of Transactions) Act, 1939, which was in the following terms Loan means an advance, whether of money or in kind, on interest made by a moneylender, and shall include a transaction on a bond bearing interest executed in respect of past liability and any transaction which in substance is a loan, but shall not include This Court in the context of the said definition of loan opined that when a loan is renewed by execution of a fresh document, there is no difficulty in holding that the former loan was repaid by borrowing a fresh loan on the document of renewal.	None
In that case, the appellant therein claimed that no money was in fact advanced on February 4, 1954 and that the promissory note executed on that date was to pay by renewal of a loan for Rs. 4,000/ which had been taken as far back as October 1946.	None
The sum of Rs. 10,000/ included the principal amount of Rs. 4,000 and the reminder was towards interest.	None
In the aforementioned factual matrix, it was held that all that S. 2(f) requires is that there should be an instrument in writing by which the obligor obliges himself to pay the past liability and the instrument should bear interest.	None
In this case, no such document admitting and acknowledge the past loan and a fresh document was executed.	None
Jiwanlal Achariya (supra), therefore, was decided in the fact situation obtaining therein.	None
The High Court in its impugned judgment relied upon State Bank of India vs. Edward Textile Mills Ltd.	None
Ors.	None
AIR 1988 Bombay 313.	None
The said decision was reversed by this Court in State Bank of Indore vs. Commissioner of Payments and Others (2004) 11 SCC 516, holding Thus, the heading of the Second Schedule provides priorities for the discharge of liabilities.	None
The term liability as stated above would include interest.	None
It would include a loan.	None
It would also include credits availed of.	None
It would include revenue, taxes, cesses, rates and other dues.	None
However, the payment in priority is for a loan.	None
The distinction in language makes it very clear that what was to be paid in priority was only the amount of the loan i.e. the principal amount and not the interest amount due thereon.	None
Of course, payments towards interest would remain liabilities.	None
But for recovery of that the remedy would be to proceed against the owner surety.	None
This Court has in the case of Industrial Finance.	None
Corpn. of India Ltd. vs. Cannanore Spg. and Wvg.	None
Mills Ltd held that by virtue of the provisions of the Act the liability of the principal debtor and that on the surety does not come to an end.	None
It is held that if the compensation to be paid by virtue of Section 21 and the Second Schedule does not satisfy the full claim then the creditor is not barred from filing a civil suit for the balance.	None
Further, in the case of Punjab National Bank vs. State of U.P. it has been held that even though mode of recovery, against a surety, may be affected the liability of the principal debtor and the guarantor does not get affected by the provision of this Act.	None
Not only are these authorities binding us	None
but we are in complete agreement with what is laid down therein.	None
It is thus clear that the interest amounts are not to be paid in priority under the provisions of this Act.	None
In this view, strictly speaking, even interest up to 3131974 was not payable in priority Mr. Iyer placed strong reliance upon a decision of this Court in Commissioner of Incometax, Lucknow vs. The Bazpur Cooperative Sugar Factory Ltd. AIR 1989 SC 1866 .	None
In that case, this Court was dealing with the provisions of Income Tax Act, 1961 vis vis the byelaws framed by a cooperative society.	None
The question, which arose for consideration therein, does not arise before us.	None
It was held therein that the deposits made by the members could not be regarded as loans advanced by the members to the assessee.	None
The moneys deposited represented contribution by the members for converting the partly paid up shares into fully paid up shares and thereafter for defraying the loan from the Industrial Finance Corporation.	None
Any balance remaining was to be refunded to the members.	None
Such a question does not arise in the instant case.	None
In Industrial Finance Corporation of India Ltd. v. Cannanore Spinning and Weaving Mills Ltd. and Others (2002) 5 SCC 54 , a Division Bench of this Court interpreting the provisions of the 1974 Act, held Turning attention to the effect of the Sick Textile Undertakings (Nationalisation) Act, 1974, a bare perusal of some of the provisions will indicate that there is no discharge of the liability of principal debtor, leave alone that of the surety.	None
Sections 3, 4, 5 and 20 of the Act of 1974, if read together, would depict that the liability of the owner of the undertaking the debtor continues and it is only the claim against the security which stands discharged by reason of the statutory shift of the charge on to the compensation.	None
The liability of the principal debtor does not in any way come to an end, neither that of the guarantor While doing so, it relied upon a decision of this Court in Punjab National Bank v. State of U.P. and Others (2002) 5 SCC 80 , wherein it had been held that the loan of a guarantor does not come to end with the coming into force of the 1974 Act, stating We have gone through the provisions of the said Act and in our opinion the decision of the courts below is not correct.	None
Section 5 of the said Act provides for the owner to be liable for certain prior liabilities and Section 29 states that the said Act will have an overriding effect over all other enactments.	None
This Act only deals with the liabilities of a company which is nationalised and there is no provision therein which in any way affects the liability of a guarantor who is bound by the deed of guarantee executed by it.	None
The High Court has referred to a decision of this Court in Maharashtra SEB v. Official Liquidator, High Court, Ernakulam where the liability of the guarantor in a case where liability of the principal debtor was discharged under the insolvency law or the company law, was considered.	None
It was held in this case that in view of the unequivocal guarantee, such liability of the guarantor continues and the creditor can realise the same from the guarantor in view of the language of Section 128 of the contract Act as there is no discharge under Section 134 of that Act.	None
In our opinion, the principle of the aforesaid decision of this Court is equally applicable in the present case.	None
The right of the appellant to recover money from Respondents 1, 2 and 3 who stood guarantors arises out of the terms of the deeds of guarantee which are not in any way superseded or brought to a naught merely because the appellant may not have been able to recover money from the principal borrower.	None
It may here be added that even as a result of the Nationalisation Act the liability of the principal borrower does not come to an end.	None
It is only the mode of recovery which is referred to in the said Act.	None
In Rashtriya Mill Mazdoor Sangh v. National Textile Corporation (South Maharashtra) Ltd. and Others (1996) 1 SCC 313 , this Court held that gratuity payable by erstwhile owner cannot be recovered from the Central Government or the Corporation, stating The submission is that since the Act has been enacted to protect the interests of the workmen employed in the textile undertakings whose management has been taken over, subsection (7) of Section 3 should be construed in a manner that the interests of the workmen are protected and are not jeopardised and therefore, subsection (7) of Section 3 should be confined in its application to liabilities other than the liabilities relating to the dues of the workmen in respect of the gratuity payable under the Payment of Gratuity Act.	None
We find it difficult to accept this contention.	None
It is one of the cardinal principles of the statutory construction that where the language of an Act is clear, the preamble cannot be invoked to curtail or restrict the scope of the enactment and only where the object or meaning of an enactment is not clear the preamble may be resorted to explain it.	None
See Burrakur Coal Co. Ltd. v. Union of India SCR at p. 49 and Motipur Zamindary Co. (P) Ltd. v. State of Bihar SCR at p. 504.	None
Here we find that the language of subsection (7) of Section 3 is clear and unambiguous inasmuch as in the said provision it has been declared that any liability incurred by the textile company in relation to the textile undertaking before the appointed day shall be enforceable against the textile company concerned and not against the Central Government or the Custodian.	None
The words any liability in subsection (7) of the said Section 3 are of wide amplitude to cover every liability that was incurred by the textile company in relation to the textile undertaking before the appointed day.	None
Moreover, the statement in the preamble on which reliance has been placed by the learned counsel for the appellant, regarding giving protection to the interests of the workmen employed therein, also indicates that what was intended was to reorganise and rehabilitate the textile undertakings whose management was being taken over with a view to prevent the closure of such undertakings and consequent unemployment of workmen and thereby protect the interests of the workmen who were employed in the textile undertaking at the time of the taking over of the management of the said undertaking.	None
The said statement in the preamble does not refer to persons who had ceased to be in employment of the textile undertaking on the date of such taking over of the management.	None
We are, therefore, unable to hold that subsection (7) of Section 3, must be so construed as to exclude its applicability in respect of liability for payment of gratuity under the Payment of Gratuity Act.	None
The liability of the owner continues even during the takeover period.	Reasoning
Indisputably, however, that would not mean that any act done by the statutory authority or the State would be binding on the owner.	Reasoning
The Gujarat Financial Corporation or the State of Gujarat having furnished guarantee on their own behalf, the same indisputably would continue to remain binding on them.	Reasoning
Such guarantees which were furnished by the Gujarat Financial Corporation or the State of Gujarat would, thus, be enforceable against them.	Reasoning
We, however, may clarify that we, at present advised, have not gone into the question of effect of abatement of claims against the owner.	Reasoning
1958 Act The question now arises for consideration is as to whether the provisions of the Bombay Relief Undertaking (Special Provision) Act, 1958 would be applicable in the instant case.	Issue
The 1958 Act was a temporary Act.	None
Clause (iv) Subsection (1) of Section 4 of the said Act provided 4(iv) any right, privilege, obligation or liability accrued or incurred before the undertaking was declared a relief undertaking and any remedy for the enforcement thereof shall be suspended and all proceedings relative thereto pending before any court, tribunal, officer or authority shall be stayed The provisions of the said Act, however, do not bar adjustment of any account but what was suspended was a declaration of relief undertaking and suspension of any remedy for the enforcement thereof.	Reasoning
What was stayed was the proceedings pending before any court, tribunal, officer or authority, but the same had nothing to do with the adjustment of accounts in terms of the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872.	Reasoning
Section 59 of the Indian Contract Act provides for application of payment where debt to be discharged is indicated.	None
Since 60 thereof provides for application of payment where debt to be discharged is not indicated.	None
Section 61, however, provides that in absence of any party making appropriation, the payment shall be applied in discharge of the debts in order of time, whether they are or are not barred by the law in force for the time being as to the limitations of suits.	None
If the High Court was not correct in holding that the Authorized Controller had renewed the loan taken by the owner, the facilities continued and in that view of the matter Sections 60 and 61 of the Indian Contract Act would become applicable.	Reasoning
In The Union of India v. Kishorilal Gupta and Bros. AIR 1960 SCR 493, upon which Mr. Sundaravardan placed strong reliance, wherein the question which arose for consideration was as to where the parties to an original contract could by mutual agreement enter into a new contract in substitution of an old one, which does not contain an arbitration clause, wherein the dispute resolution mechanism occurring in an earlier contract could be taken recourse to.	None
Subba Rao, J., speaking for the majority, in the fact situation obtaining therein, stated the principle thus The following principles relevant to the present case emerge from the aforesaid discussion (1) An arbitration clause is a collateral term of a contract as distinguished from its substantive terms but nonetheless it is an integral part of it (2) however comprehensive the terms of an arbitration clause may be, the existence of the contract is a necessary condition for its operation it perishes with the contract (3) the contract may be non est in the sense that it never came legally into existence or it was void ab initio (4) though the contract was validly executed, the parties may put an end to it as if it had never existed and substitute a new contract for it solely governing their rights and liabilities thereunder (5) in the former case, if the original contract has no legal existence, the arbitration clause also cannot operate, for along with the original contract, it is also void in the latter case, as the original contract is extinguished by the substituted one, the arbitration clause of the original contract perishes with it and (6) between the two falls many categories of disputes in connection with a contract, such as the question of repudiation, frustration, breach etc.	None
In those cases, it is the performance of the contract that has come to an end, but the contract is still in existence for certain purposes in respect of disputes arising under it or in connection with it.	None
As the contract subsists for certain purposes, the arbitration clause operates in respect of these purposes.	None
The said decision would apply in the instant case.	None
In Lalit Mohan Pandey v. Pooran Singh and Others (2004) 6 SCC 626 , whereupon also the learned counsel placed reliance, this Court emphasized the need to construe the statute having in mind the object underlying the same by stating the principle of purposive construction.	None
Thus, the remedies available to the Bank under the Indian Contract Act would continue to remain available to the respondentBank even if the 1958 Act applies.	None
For the reasons aforementioned, we are of the opinion that the High Court was not correct in taking the views, it did.	Decision
The judgments and orders passed by the High Court are, therefore, set aside with liberty to the parties to file appropriate suits or proceedings before appropriate forum(s) for recovery of the remaining amount, provided any cause of action therefor survives.	Decision
Subject to the observations made herein, the appeals are allowed.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
