 Shah, J. (For Majority) 1.	None
Rustom Cavasji Cooper  hereinafter called the petitioner  holds shares in the Central Bank of India Ltd., the Bank of Baroda Ltd., and the Bank of India Ltd., and has accounts  current and fixed deposit  with those Banks he is also a Director of the Central Bank of	Issue
India Ltd.	Issue
By these petitions he claims a declaration that the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Ordinance 8 of 1969 promulgated on July 19, 1969, and the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act 22 of 1969 which replaced the Ordinance with certain modifications impair his rights guaranteed under Articles 14, 19 and 31 of the Constitution, and are on that account invalid.	Issue
2.	None
In India there was till 1949, no comprehensive legislation governing banking business and banking institutions.	Facts
The Central Legislature enacted the Banking Companies Act 10 of 1949 (later called The Banking Regulation Act) to consolidate and amend the law relating to certain matters concerning banking.	Facts
By Section 5 (b) of that Act, banking was defined as meaning the accepting for the purpose of lending or investment, of deposits of money from the public, repayable on demand or otherwise and by Section 5 (c) a banking company meant any company which transacts the business of banking in India.	Facts
By Section 6 it was enacted that in addition to the business of banking as defined in Section 5 (b) a banking company may engage in one or more of the forms of business specified in clauses (a) to (o) of subs.	Facts
(1).	Facts
By subs.	Facts
(2) of Section 6 banking companies were prohibited from engaging in any form of business other than those referred to in subsection (1).	Facts
The Act applied to commercial banks, and enacted provisions, amongst others, relating to prohibition of employment of managing agents and restrictions on certain forms of employment minimum paid up capital and reserves regulation of voting rights of shareholders and election of Board of Directors prohibition of charge on unpaid capital restriction on payment of dividend maintenance of a percentage of assets return of unclaimed deposits and accounts and balancesheets.	Facts
It also enacted provisions authorising the Reserve Bank to issue directions to and for trial of proceedings against the Banks and for speedy disposal of winding up proceedings against the Banks.	Facts
3.	None
The Banking Regulation Act was amended by Act 58 of 1968, to give effect to the policy of social control over commercial banks.	Facts
Act 58 of 1968 provided for reconstitution of the Boards of Directors of commercial banks with a Chairman who had practical experience of the working of a Bank or financial, economic and business administration, and with a membership not less than 51 per cent consisting of persons having special knowledge or practical experience in accountancy, agriculture and rural economy, banking, cooperation, economics, finance, law and smallscale industry.	Facts
The Act also provided that no loans shall be granted to any Director of the Bank or to any concern in which he is interested as Managing Director, Manager, employee, or guarantor or partner or in which he holds substantial interest.	Facts
The Reserve Bank was invested with power to give directions to commercial banks and to appoint directors or observers in the interest of depositors or proper management of the Banking Companies, or in the interest of Banking policy (which expression was defined by Section 5 (ca) as any policy which is specified from time to time by the Reserve Bank in the interest of the banking system or in the interest of monetary stability or sound economic growth, having due regard to the interests of the depositors, volume of deposits and other resources of the bank and the need for equitable allocation and the efficient use of these deposits and resources.	Facts
The Reserve Bank was also invested with power to remove managerial and other personnel from office and to appoint additional directors, and to issue directions prohibiting certain activities in relation to Banking Companies.	Facts
The Central Government was given power to acquire the business of any Bank if it failed repeatedly to comply with any direction issued by the Reserve Bank under certain specific provision in regard to any matter concerning the affairs of the Bank and if acquisition of the Bank was considered necessary in the interest of the depositors or in the interest of the banking policy or for the better provision of credit generally or of credit to any particular section of the community or in a particular area.	Facts
4. During the last two decades the Reserve Bank reorganised the banking structure.	Facts
A number of units which accounted for a small section of the banking business were amalgamated under directions of the Reserve Bank.	Facts
The total number of commercial banking institutions was reduced from 566 in 1951 to 89 in 1969  73 scheduled and 16 nonscheduled.	Facts
5.	None
In exercise of the authority conferred by the State Bank of India Act 23 of 1955 the undertaking of the former Imperial bank of India was taken over by a public corporation controlled by the Central Government.	Facts
The State Bank took over seven subsidiaries under authority conferred by Act 38 of 1959.	Facts
There were in June 1969, 14 commercial banks operating in India each having deposits exceeding Rs.50 crores.	Facts
The following is an analysis of the commercial banking structure in India in June 1969 ?TABLE?	Facts
Only 13 were operating.	Facts
6.	None
Late in the afternoon of July 19, 1969 (which was a Saturday) the VicePresident (acting as President) promulgated, in exercise of the power conferred by clause (1) of Article 123 of the Constitution, Ordinance 8 of 1969 transferring to and vesting the undertaking of 14 named commercial banks in corresponding new banks set up under the Ordinance.	Facts
The long title of the Ordinance read as follows An Ordinance to provide for the acquisition and transfer of the undertakings of certain banking companies in order to serve better the needs of development of the economy in conformity with national policy and objectives and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.	Facts
By Section 2 banking company was defined as not including a foreign company within the meaning of Section 591 of the Companies Act, 1956.	Facts
An existing bank was defined by Section 2(b) as meaning a banking company specified in column 1 of the First Schedule, being a company the deposits of which, as shown in the return as on the last Friday of June, 1969, furnished to the Reserve bank under Section 27 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, were not less than rupees fifty crores.	Facts
In the Schedule to the Act were included the names of fourteen commercial banks (1) The Central Bank of India Ltd. (2) The Bank of India Ltd. (3) The Punjab National Bank Ltd. (4) The Bank of Baroda Ltd. (5) The United Commercial Bank Ltd. (6) Canara Bank Ltd. (7) United Bank of India Ltd. (8) Dena Bank Ltd. (9) Syndicate Bank Ltd. (10)The Union Bank of India Ltd. (11)Allahabad Bank Ltd. (12)The Indian Bank Ltd. (13)The Bank of Maharashtra Ltd. (	None
14)The Indian Overseas Bank Ltd.	None
These banks were hereinafter referred to as the named banks.	None
A corresponding new bank was defined in relation to an existing bank as meaning the body corporate specified against such bank in column 2 of the First Schedule.	None
By Section 2(g) it was provided that the words and expressions used in the Ordinance and not defined, but defined in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, had the meaning respectively assigned to them in that Act.	Facts
Thereby the definitions of banking and banking company in Section 5 (b) and Section 5 (c) of the Banking Regulation Act were incorporated in the Ordinance.	Facts
7.	None
The principal provisions of the Ordinance were.  	Facts
(1) Corporations styled in the ordinance corresponding new banks shall be established, each such corporation having paidup capital equal to the paidup capital of the named bank in relation to which it is a corresponding new bank.	Facts
The entire capital of the new bank shall stand vested in the Central Government.	Facts
The corresponding new banks shall be authorised to carry on and transact the business of banking as defined in clause (b) of Section 5 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, and also to engage in one or more forms of business specified in subsection(1) of Section 6 of that Act.	Facts
The Chairman of the named bank holding office immediately before the commencement of the Ordinance shall be the Custodian of the corresponding new bank.	Facts
The general superintendence and direction of the affairs and business of a corresponding bank shall be vested in the Custodian, who shall be the chief executive officer of that bank.	Facts
(2) The undertaking within or without India or every named bank on the commencement of the Ordinance shall stand transferred to and vested in the corresponding new bank.	Facts
The expression undertaking shall include all assets, rights powers, authorities and privileges, and all property movable and immovable, cash balances, reserve fund investments and all other rights and interests arising out of such property as are immediately before the commencement of the Ordinance in the ownership, possession, power or control of the named bank in relation to the undertaking, including all books of accounts, registers, records and all other documents of whatever nature relating thereto.	Facts
It shall also include all borrowings, liabilities and obligations of whatever kind then subsisting of the named bank in relation to the undertaking.	Facts
If according to the law of any foreign country, the provisions of the Ordinance by themselves do not effectively transfer or vest any asset or liability situated in that country in the corresponding new bank the affairs of the named bank in relation to such asset or liability shall stand entrusted to the chief executive officer of the corresponding new bank with authority to take steps to wind up the affairs of that bank.	Facts
All contracts, deeds, bonds, agreements, powers of attorney, grants of legal representation and other instruments of whatever nature subsisting or having effect immediately before the commencement of the Ordinance, and to which the named bank is a party or which are in favour of the named bank shall be of as full force and effect against or in favour of the corresponding new bank, and be enforced or acted upon as fully and effectively as if in the place of the named bank the corresponding new bank is a party thereto or as if they are issued in favour of the corresponding new bank.	Facts
In pending suits or other proceedings by or against the named bank, the corresponding new bank shall be substituted in those suits or proceedings.	Facts
Any reference to any named bank in any law other than the Ordinance, or in any contract or other instrument shall be construed as a reference to the corresponding new bank in relation to it.	Facts
(3) The Central Government shall have power to frame a scheme for carrying out the provisions of the Act, and for that purpose to make provisions for the corresponding new banks relating to capital structure, constitution of the Board of Directors, manner of payment of compensation to the shareholders, and matters incidental, consequential and supplemental.	Facts
Corresponding new banks shall also be guided in the discharge of their functions by such directions in regard to matters of policy involving public interest as the Central Government may give.	Facts
(4) On the commencement of the Ordinance, every person holding office as Chairman, Managing Director, or other Director of a named bank, shall be deemed to have vacated office, and all officers and other employees of a named bank shall become officers or other employees of the corresponding new banks.	Facts
Every named bank shall stand dissolved on such date as the Central Government may by notification in that behalf appoint.	Facts
(5) The Central Government shall give compensation to the named banks determined according to the principles set out in Second Schedule, that is, to say, (a) where the amount of compensation can be fixed by agreement, it shall be determined in accordance with such agreement.	Facts
(b) where no such agreement can be reached, the Central Government shall refer the matter to the Tribunal within a period of three months from the date on which the Central Government and the existing bank fail to reach an agreement regarding the amount of compensation.	Facts
Compensation so determined shall be paid to each named bank in marketable Central Government securities.	None
For the purpose of determining compensation, Tribunals shall be set up by the Central Government with certain powers of a Civil Court.	Facts
(6) The Central Government shall have power to make such orders not inconsistent with the provisions of the Ordinance which may be necessary for the purpose of removing defects.	Facts
8.	None
Under the Ordinance the entire undertaking of every named commercial bank was taken over by the corresponding new bank, and all assets and contractual rights and all obligations to which the named bank was subject stood transferred to the corresponding new bank.	Facts
The Chairman and the Directors of the Banks vacated their respective offices.	Facts
To the named banks survived only the right to receive compensation to be determined in the manner prescribed.	Facts
Compensation, unless settled by agreement, was to be determined by the Tribunal, and was to be given in marketable Government securities.	Facts
The entire business of each named bank was accordingly taken over, its Chief Executive Officer ceased to hold office and assumed the office of Custodian of the corresponding new bank, its directors vacated office and the services of the administrative and other staff stood transferred to the corresponding new bank.	Facts
The named bank had thereafter no assets, no business, and no managerial, administrative or other staff it was incompetent to use the word Bank in its name, because of the provisions contained in Section 7 (1) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, and was liable to be dissolved by a notification of the Central Government.	Facts
9.	None
Petitions challenging the competence of the President to promulgate the Ordinance were lodged in this Court on July 21, 1969.	Facts
But before the petitions could be heard by this Court, a Bill to enact provisions relating to acquisition and transfer of undertakings of the existing banks was introduced in the Parliament, and was enacted on August 9, 1969, as The Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act 22 of 1969.	Facts
The long title of the Act was in terms identical with the long title of the Ordinance.	Facts
By subsection (1) of Sec.	Facts
27 of the Act, Ordinance 8 of 1969 was repealed.	Facts
In the First Schedule were included the names of the 14 banks named in the Ordinance in juxtaposition with the names of the corresponding new banks.	Facts
By subsection (2) of Section 1, the Act came into force on July 19, 1969, and the undertaking of every named bank was deemed, with effect from the date, to have vested in the corresponding new bank.	Facts
By Section 27 (2), (3) and (4) actions taken or things done under the Ordinance inconsistent with the provisions of the Act were not to be of any force or effect, and no right, privilege, obligation or liability was to be deemed to have been acquired, accrued or incurred under the Ordinance.	Facts
10.	None
The general scheme of the Ordinance relating to the transfer to and vesting in the corresponding new bank of the undertaking of each named bank, payment of compensation, and management of the corresponding new bank, remained unaltered.	Facts
The Act departed from the Ordinance in certain matters (1) Under the Act the named banks remain in existence for certain purposes and they are not liable to be dissolved by order of the Government.	Facts
If under the laws in force in any foreign country it is not permissible for a Banking Company, owned or controlled by Government, to carry on the business of banking in that country, the assets, rights, powers, authorities and privileges and property, movable and immovable, cash balances and investments of any named bank operating in that country shall not vest in the corresponding new bank.	Facts
The directors of the named banks shall remain in office and may register transfers or transmission of shares arrive at an agreement about the amount of compensation payable under the Act or appearing before the Tribunal for obtaining a determination as to the amount of compensation distribute to shareholders the amount of compensation received by the Bank under the Act for the acquisition of its undertaking carrying on the business of banking in any country outside India if under the law in force in that country any bank, owned or controlled by Government, is prohibited from carrying on the business of banking there and carry on any business other than the business of banking.	Facts
The Central Government has power to authorise the corresponding new bank to advance the amount required by the named bank in connection with the functions which the directors may perform.	Facts
Reference to any named bank in any law, or in any contract or other instrument shall be construed as a reference to the corresponding new bank in relation to it, but not in cases where the named bank may carry on any business and in relation to that business.	Facts
(2) Principles for determination of compensation and the manner of payment are modified.	Facts
Interim compensation may be paid to a named bank if it agrees to distribute to its shareholders in accordance with their rights and interests.	Facts
A major change is made in the principles for determining compensation set out in Sch.	Facts
II.	Facts
By Explanation I to Cl.	Facts
(e) of Part I of Sch. II, the value of any land or buildings to be taken into account in valuing the assets is to be the market value of the land or buildings, but where such market value exceeds the ascertained value, that ascertained value is to be taken into account, and by Explanation II the ascertained value of any building wholly occupied on the date of the commencement of the Act is to be twelve times the amount of the annual rent or the rent for which the building may reasonably be expected to be let out from year to year, and reduced by onesixth of the amount of the rent on account of maintenance and repairs, annual premium paid to insure the building against risk of damage or destruction, annual charge, if any, on the building, ground rent, interest on any mortgage or other capital charge on the building, interest on borrowed capital if the building has been acquired, constructed, repaired, renewed or reconstructed, with borrowed capital, and the sums paid on account of land revenue or other taxes in respect of such building.	Facts
(3) The Central Government may reconstitute any corresponding new bank into two or more corporations amalgamate any corresponding new bank or with another banking institution transfer the whole or any part of the undertaking of a corresponding new bank to any other banking institution or transfer the whole or any part of the undertaking of any other banking institution to a corresponding new bank.	Facts
The Board of Directors of the corresponding new banks are to consist of representatives of the depositors of the corresponding new bank, employees of such banks, farmers, workers and artisans to be elected in the prescribed manner and of other persons as the Central Government may appoint.	Facts
(4) The profits remaining after making provision for bad and doubtful debts, depreciation in assets, contributions to staff and superannuation funds and all other matters for which provision is necessary under any law, the corresponding new bank shall transfer the balance of profits to the Central Government.	None
(5) Provision of law relating to winding up of corporations do not apply to the corresponding new banks, and a corresponding new bank may be ordered to be liquidated only by the order of the Central Government.	None
11.	None
The petitioner challenges the validity of the Ordinance and the Act on the following principal grounds I.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Ordinance promulgated in exercise of the power under Article 123 of the Constitution was invalid, because the condition precedent to the exercise of the power did not exist II.	Arguments of Petitioner
That in enacting the Act the Parliament encroached upon the State List in the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, and to that extent the Act is outside the legislative competence of the Parliament III.	Arguments of Petitioner
That by enactment of the Act, fundamental rights of the petitioner guaranteed by the Constitution under Articles 14, 19 (1) (f) and (g) and 31 (2) are impaired IV.	Arguments of Petitioner
That by the Act the guarantee of freedom of trade under Article 301 is violated and V.	Arguments of Petitioner
That in any event retrospective operation given to Act 22 of 1969 is ineffective, since there was no valid Ordinance in existence.	Arguments of Petitioner
The provision in the Act retrospectively validating infringement of the fundamental rights of citizens was not within the competence of the Parliament.	Arguments of Petitioner
That subsections (1) and (2) of Section II and Section 26 are invalid.12.	Arguments of Petitioner
The AttorneyGeneral contended that the petitions are not maintainable, because no fundamental right of the petitioner is directly impaired by the enactment of the Ordinance and the Act, or by any action taken thereunder.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the petitioner who claims to be a shareholder, director and holder of deposit and current accounts with the Banks is not the owner of the property of the undertaking taken over by the corresponding new banks and is on that account incompetent to maintain the petitions complaining that the rights guaranteed under Articles 14, 19 and 31 of the Constitution were impaired.	Arguments of Respondent
13.	None
A company registered under the Companies Act is a legal person, separate and distinct from its individual members.	None
Property of the Company is not the property of the shareholders.	None
A shareholders has merely an interest in the Company arising under its Articles of Association, measured by a sum of money for the purpose of liability, and by a share in the profit.	None
Again a director of a Company is merely its agent for the purpose of management.	None
The holder of a deposit account in a Company is its creditor he is not the owner of any specific fund lying with the Company.	None
A shareholder, a depositor or a director may not therefore, be entitled to move a petition for infringement of the rights of the Company, unless by the action impugned by him, his rights are also infringed.	None
14.	None
By a petition praying for a writ against infringement of fundamental rights,except in a case where the petition is for a writ of habeas corpus and probably for infringement of the guarantees under Articles 17, 23 and 24, the petitioner may seek relief to respect of his own rights and not of others.	None
The shareholder of a Company, it is true, is not the owner of its assets he has merely a right to participate in the profits of the Company subject to the contract contained in the Articles of Association.	None
But on that account the petitions will not fail.	None
A measure executive or legislative may impair the rights of the Company alone, and not of its shareholders it may impair the rights of the shareholders and not of the Company it may impair the rights of the shareholders as well as of the Company.	None
Jurisdiction of the Court to grant relief cannot be denied, when by State action the rights of the individual shareholder are impaired, if that action impairs the rights of the Company as well.	None
The test in determining whether the shareholders right is impaired is not formal it is essentially qualitative if the State action impairs the right of the shareholders as well as of the Company, the Court will not, concentrating merely upon the technical operation of the action, deny itself jurisdiction to grant relief.	None
15.	None
The petitioner claims that by the Act and by the Ordinance the rights guaranteed to him under Articles 14, 19 and 31 of the Constitution are impaired.	Arguments of Petitioner
He says that the Act and the Ordinance are without legislative competence in that they interfere with the guarantee of freedom of trade and are not made in the public interest that the Parliament had no legislative competence to enact the Act and the President had no power to promulgate the Ordinance, because the subjectmatter of the Act and the Ordinance is (partially at least) within the State List and that the Act and Ordinance are invalid because they vest the undertaking of the named banks in the new corporations without a public purpose and without setting out principles and the basis for determination and payment of a just equivalent for the property expropriated.	Arguments of Petitioner
He says that in consequence of the hostile discrimination practiced by the State the value of his investment in the shares is substantially reduced, his right to receive dividend from his investment has ceased, and he has suffered great financial loss, he is deprived of the rights as a shareholder to carry on business through the agency of the Company, and that in respect of the deposits the obligations of the corresponding new banks not of his choice are substituted without his consent.16.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Dwarkadas Shrinivas v. The Sholapur Spinning and Weaving Co. Ltd., 1954	None
SCR 674 (AIR 1954 SC 119 ) this Court held that a preference shareholder of a company is competent to maintain a suit challenging the validity of the Sholapur Spinning and Weaving Company (Emergency Provisions) Ordinance 2 of 1950 (which was later replaced by Act 27 of 1950), which deprived the Company of its property without payment of compensation within the meaning of Article 31, Mahajan, J., observed The plaintiff and the other preference shareholders are in imminent danger of sustaining direct injury as a result of the enforcement of this Ordinance, the direct injury being the amount of the call that they are called upon to pay and the consequent forfeiture of their shares.	None
Das, J., in the same case examined the matter in some detail and observed at p. 722 (of SCR)(at pp. 134135 of AIR)	None
The impugned Ordinance directly affects the preference shareholders by imposing on them this liability, or the risk of it, and gives them a sufficient interest to challenge the validity of the Ordinance, Certainly he can show that the Ordinance under which these persons have been appointed was beyond the legislative competence of the authority which made it or that the Ordinance had not been duly promulgated.	None
If he can, with a view to destroy the locus standi of the persons who have made the call raise the question of the invalidity of the Ordinance , I can see no valid reason why, for the selfsame purpose, he should not be permitted to challenge the validity of the Ordinance on the ground of its unconstitutionality for the breach of the fundamental rights of the company or of other persons.	None
A similar view was also taken in Chiranjit Lal Chowduri v. Union of India, 1950 SCR 869 (AIR 1951 SC 41 ) by Mukherjea, J., at p. 899 (of SCR) (at pp. 5253 of AIR), by Fazl Ali, J., at p. 876 (of SCR) (at p. 44 of AIR), by Patanjali Shastri, J., at p. 889 of SCR)(at p.49 of AIR) and by Das, J., at p. 922	None
(of SCR)(at pp.6162 of AIR).	None
17.	None
The judgment of this Court in State Trading Corporation of India Ltd. v. Commercial Tax Officer, Visakhapatnam, (1964) 4 SCR 99 (AIR 1963 SC 1811 ) has no bearing on this question.	Reasoning
In that case in a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution the State Trading Corporation challenged the infringement of its right to hold property and to carry on business under Article 19 (1)(f) and (g) of the Constitution, and this Court opined that the Corporation not being a citizen was incompetent to enforce the rights guaranteed by Article 19.	Reasoning
Nor has the judgment in Tata Engineering and Locomotive Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar, (1964) 6	Reasoning
SCR 885 (AIR 1965 SC 40 ) any bearing on the question arising in these petitions.	Reasoning
In a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution filed by a Company challenging the levy of salestax by the state of Bihar, two shareholders were also impleaded as petitioners.	Reasoning
It was urged on behalf of the shareholders that in substance the interests of the Company and of the shareholders were identical and the shareholders were entitled to maintain the petition.	Reasoning
The Court rejected that contention, observing that what the Company could not achieve directly, it could not relying upon the doctrine of lifting the veil achieve indirectly.	Reasoning
The petitioner seeks in the case to challenge the infringement of his own rights and not of the Banks of which he is a shareholder and a director and with which he as accounts  current and fixed deposit.	Reasoning
18.	None
It was urged that in any event the guarantee of freedom of trade does not occur in Part III of the Constitution, and the petitioner is not entitled to maintain a petition for breach of that guarantee in this Court.	Reasoning
But the petitioner does not seek by these petitions to enforce the guarantee of freedom of trade and commerce in Article 301 he claims that in enacting the Act the Parliament has violated a constitutional restriction imposed by Part XIII on its legislative power and in determining the extent to which his fundamental freedoms are impaired, the statute which the Parliament is incompetent to enact must be ignored.	Reasoning
19.	None
It is not necessary to consider whether Article 31A (1)(d) of the Constitution bars the petitioners claim to enforce his rights as a director.	Reasoning
The Act prima facie does not (though the Ordinance purported to) seek to extinguish or modify the right of the petitioner as a directorit seeks to take away expressly the right of the named Banks to carry on banking business, while reserving their right to carry on business other than banking.	Reasoning
Assuming that he is not entitled to set up his right to enforce his guaranteed rights as a director, the petition will not still fail.	Reasoning
The Preliminary objection raised by the AttorneyGeneral against the maintainability of the petitions must fail.	Reasoning
I. Validity of Ordinance 8 of 1969  20.	None
Power to issue Ordinance is by Article 123 of the Constitution vested in the President.	None
Article 123 provides (1) If at any time, except when both Houses of Parliament are in session, the President is satisfied that circumstances exist which render it necessary for him to take immediate action, he may promulgate such Ordinance as the circumstances appear to him to require.	None
(2) An Ordinance promulgated under this Article shall have the same force and effect as an Act of Parliament, but every such Ordinance  (a) shall be laid before both Houses of Parliament and shall cease to operate at the expiration of six weeks from the reassembly of Parliament, or, if before the expiration of that period resolutions disapproving it are passed by both Houses, upon the passing of the second of those resolutions and (b) may be withdrawn at any time by the President.	None
Explanation.	None
Where the Houses of Parliament are summoned to reassemble on different dates, the period of six weeks shall be reckoned from the later of those dates for the purposes of this clause.	None
(3) If and so far as an Ordinance under this article makes any provision which Parliament would not under this Constitution be competent to enact, it shall be void.	None
21.	None
Under the Constitution, the President being the constitutional head, normally acts in all matters including the promulgation of an Ordinance on the advice of his Council of Ministers.	None
Whether in a given case the President may decline to be guided by the advice of his Council of Ministers is a matter which need not detain us.	None
The Ordinance is promulgated in the name of the President and in a constitutional sense on his satisfaction it is in truth promulgated on the advice of his Council of Ministers and on their satisfaction.	None
The President is under the Constitution not the repository of the legislative power of the Union, but with a view to meet extraordinary situations demanding immediate enactment of laws, provision is made in the Constitution investing the President with power to legislate by promulgating Ordinances.	None
22.Power to promulgate such Ordinance as the circumstances appear to the President to require is exercised  (a) when both Houses of Parliament are not in session (b) the provision intended to be made is within the competence of the Parliament to enact and (c) the President is satisfied that circumstances exist which render it necessary for him to take immediate action.	None
Exercise of the power is strictly conditioned.	None
The clause relating to the satisfaction is composite the satisfaction relates to the existence of circumstances, as well as to the necessity to take immediate action on account of those circumstances.	None
Determination by the President of the existence of circumstances and the necessity to take immediate action on which the satisfaction depends, is not declared final.	None
23.	Arguments of Petitioner
The AttorneyGeneral contended that the condition of satisfaction of the President in both the branches is purely subjective and the Union of India is under no obligation to disclose the existence of, or to justify the circumstances of the necessity to take immediate action.	Arguments of Respondent
He relied upon the decisions of the Judicial Committee in Bhagat Singh v. King Emperor, 58 Ind App 169 (AIR 1931 PC 111 )	Arguments of Respondent
King Emperor v. Benoari Lal Sharma, 72 Ind App 57 (AIR 1945 PC 48 ) and upon a decision of the Federal Court in Lakhi Narayan Das v. Province of Bihar, 1949 FCR 693 (AIR 1950 FC 59) which interpreted the analogous provisions of the Government of India Act, 1935, conferring upon the GovernorGeneral in the first two cases, and upon the Governor of a Province in the last case, power to issue Ordinances.	Arguments of Respondent
He also relied upon the judgment of the Judicial Committee in Hubli Electricity Co. Ltd. v. Province of Bombay, 76 Ind App 57 (AIR 1949 PC 136 ).	Arguments of Respondent
24.	None
The AttorneyGeneral said that investment of legislative power upon the President being an incident of the division of sovereign functions of the Union and a matter of high policy, the expression the President is satisfied that circumstances exist which render it necessary for him to take immediate action is incorporated as a guidance and not as a condition of the exercise of power.	Arguments of Respondent
He invited our attention to the restraints inherent in the Constitution on the exercise of the power to promulgate Ordinance clauses (1) and (2) of Art 74 clauses (3) and (4) of Article 75 and Article 361, and submitted that the rule applicable to the interpretation of Parliamentary Statutes conferring authority upon offices of the State to Act in a prescribed manner on being satisfied about the existence of certain circumstances is inept in determining the true perspective of the power of the head of the State in situations of emergency.	Arguments of Respondent
25.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Mr. Palkhivala contended that the President is not made by Article 123 the final arbiter of the existence of the conditions on which the power to promulgate an Ordinance may be exercised.	Arguments of Petitioner
Power to promulgate an Ordinance being conditional, counsel urged, this Court in the absence of a provision  express or necessarily implicit in the Constitution  to the contrary, is competent to determine whether the power was exercised not for a collateral purpose, but on relevant circumstances which, prima facie, establish the necessity to take immediate action.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel submitted that the rules applicable to the interpretation of statutes conferring power exercisable on satisfaction of the specified circumstances upon the President and upon officers of the State, are not different.	Arguments of Petitioner
The nature of the power to perform an official act where the authority is of a certain opinion, or that in his view certain circumstances exist or that he has reasonable grounds to believe, or that he has reasons to believe, or that he is satisfied springing from a constitutional provision is in no manner different from a similar power under a Parliamentary Statute, and no greater sanctity may attach to the exercise of the power merely because the source of the power is in the Constitution and not in a Parliamentary Statute.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is, it was urged, nothing in the constitution scheme which supports the contention that the clause relating to satisfaction is not a condition of the exercise of power.	Arguments of Petitioner
26.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel relied upon the judgments of this Court in Barium Chemical Ltd. v. Company Law Board, 1966 Supp SCR 311 (AIR 1967 SC 295 ) and Rohtas Industries Ltd. v. S.D. Agarwal, AIR 1969 SC 707 upon the decisions of the House of Lords in Padfield v. Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, (1968) 1	Arguments of Petitioner
All ER 694 and of the Judicial Committee of Duryappah v. Fernando, 1967 AC 337 Nakkuda Ali v. M. F. De S. Jayarathne, 1951 AC 66 RossClunis v. Papadopoullos, 19582 All ER 23 and contended that the decisions of the Judicial Committee in Bhagat Singhs case, 58 Ind App 169 (AIR 1931 PC 111 ) and Benoari Lal Sharmas case, 72 Ind App 57 (AIR 1945 PC 48 ) interpreted a provision which was in substance different from the provision of Article 123, that the decision in Lakhi Narayan Dass case, 1949 FCR 693 (AIR 1950 FC 59) merely followed the two judgments of the Judicial Committee and since the status of the President under the Constitution qua the Parliament is not the same as the constitutional status of the GovernorGeneral under the Government of India Act, 1935 the decisions cited have no bearing on the interpretation of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
123.27.	None
The Ordinance has been repealed by Act 22 of 1969 and the question of its validity is now academic.	Reasoning
It may assume significance only if we hold that Act 22 of 1969 is valid.	Reasoning
Since the Act is in our view invalid for reasons hereinafter stated, we accede to the submission of the AttorneyGeneral that we need express no opinion in this case on the extent of the jurisdiction of the Court to examine whether the condition relating to satisfaction of the President was fulfilled.	Reasoning
II.	Facts
Authority of Parliament to enact Act 22 of 1969 28.	Issue
On behalf of the petitioner it is urged that the Act is not within the legislative power of the Parliament and that, in any event, to the extent to which it vests in the corresponding new banks the assets of business other than banking, it trenches upon the authority of the State Legislature, and is on that account void.	Arguments of Petitioner
The relevant legislative entries in the Seventh Schedule and the constitutional provisions which have a bearing on the question of acquisition and taking over of undertaking of a bank may first be read.	None
29.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Parliament has exclusive legislative power with respect to Banking Entry 45 List I Incorporation, regulation and winding up of trading Corporations including banking, insurance and financial corporations, but not including cooperative societies Entry 43 List I and Incorporation, regulation and winding up of corporations, whether trading or not, with objects not confined to one State, but not including Universities Entry 44 List I. 30.	None
The State have exclusive legislative authority with respect to the following subjects in List II Entry 26  Trade and commerce within the State, subject to the provisions of entry 33 of List III.	None
Entry 30  Moneylending and moneylenders relief of agricultural indebtedness.	None
31.	Reasoning
The Parliament and the States have concurrent legislative authority with respect to the following subjects in List III Entry 33  Trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution of, (a) the products of any industry where the control of such industry by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest, and imported goods of the same kind as such products (b) foodstuffs, including edible oilseeds and oils (c) cattle fodder, including oilcakes and other concentrates (d) raw cotton, whether ginned or unginned, and cotton seed and (e) raw jute.	None
Entry 42 Acquisition and requisition of property.	None
32.	Reasoning
The argument raised by Mr. Setalvad, intervening on behalf of the State of Maharashtra and the State of Jammu and Kashmir, that the Parliament is competent to enact Act 22 of 1969, because the subjectmatter of the Act is with respect to regulation of trading corporations and matters subsidiary and incidental thereto, and on that account is covered in its entirety by Entries 43 and 44 of List I of the Seventh Schedule, cannot be upheld.	Reasoning
Entry 43 deals with incorporation, regulation and winding up of trading corporations including banking companies.	Reasoning
Law regulating the business of a corporation is not a law with respect to regulation of a corporation.	Reasoning
In List I entries expressly relating to trade and commerce are Entries 41 and 42.	Reasoning
Again several entries in List I relate to activities commercial in character.	Reasoning
Entry 45 Banking Entry 46 Bills of exchange, cheques, promissory notes and other like instruments, Entry 47 Insurance Entry 48 Stock exchanges and future markets Entry 49 Patents, inventions and designs.	Reasoning
There are several entries relating to activities commercial as well as noncommercial in List II  Entry 21 Fisheries Entry 24 Industries x x x Entry 25 Gas and Gas works Entry 26 Trade and commerce Entry 30 Moneylending and moneylenders Entry 31 Inns and Innkeeping Entry 33 Theatres and dramatic performances, cinemas etc	Reasoning
We are unable to accede to the argument that the State Legislatures are competent to legislate in respect of the subjectmatter of those entries only when the commercial activities are carried on by individuals and not when they are carried on by Corporations.	Reasoning
32A.	None
The object of Act 22 of 1969 is to transfer the undertaking of each named bank and to vest it in the corresponding new bank set up with authority to carry on banking and other business.	None
Each such corresponding new bank is controlled by the Central Government of which the entire capital is to stand vested in and allotted to the Central Government.	Facts
The principal provisions of the Act which effectuate that object relate to setting up of corresponding new banks as statutory corporations to carry on and transact the business of banking as defined in Section 5 (b) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, and one or more other forms of business specified in Section 6 (1) of that Act, with power to acquire and hold property for the purpose of the business, and to dispose of the same administration of the corresponding new banks as institutions carrying on banking and other business the undertaking of each named bank in its entirety stands transferred to and vested in a new corporation set up for that purpose principles for determination of compensation and method of payment thereof to each named bank for transfer of its undertaking and that the named bank may not carry on banking business, but may carry out business other than banking.	Facts
32B. Mr. Palkhivala submitted that the Parliament may legislate in respect of the business of banking as defined in Section 5 (b) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, and matters incidental thereto, and also for acquisition of that part of the undertaking of each named bank which relates to the business of banking, but not in respect of any other business not incidental to banking in which the named bank was engaged prior to July 19, 1969, for the power to legislate in respect of such other business falls within Entry 26 of List II.	Arguments of Petitioner
As a corollary thereto, counsel submitted that power to legislate in respect of acquisition under Entry 42 of List III may be exercised by the Parliament only for effectuating legislation under a head falling in List I or List III of the Seventh Schedule.32C.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is necessary to determine the true scope of banking in Entry 45 List I, the meaning of the expression property, and the limitations on the power of the Parliament to legislate in respect of acquisition of property in Entry 42, List III.	Reasoning
Matters not in contest may be eliminated.	Reasoning
Power to legislate for setting up corporations to carry on banking and other business and to acquire, hold and dispose of property and to provide for administration of the corporations is conferred upon the Parliament by Entries 43, 44 and 45 of the first list.	Reasoning
Power to enact that the named banks shall not carry on banking business (as defined in Section 5 (b) of the Banking Regulation Act) is incidental to the power to legislate in respect of banking.	Reasoning
Power to legislate for determination of compensation and method of payment of compensation for compulsory acquisition of the assets of the named banks, in so far as it relates to banking business is also within the power of the Parliament.	Reasoning
33.The expression banking is not defined in any Indian statute except the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.	None
It may be recalled that by Section 5 (b) of that Act banking means the accepting for the purpose of lending or investment of deposits of money from the public repayable on demand or otherwise, and withdrawable by cheque, draft or otherwise.	Reasoning
The definition did not include other commercial activities which a banking institution may engage in.	None
34.	None
In support of his contention Mr. Palkhivala relied upon the observation of Lord Porter in Commonwealth of Australia v. Bank of New South Wales, 1950 AC 235 that banking consists of the creation and transfer of credit, the making of loans, purchase and disposal of investments and other kindred transactions and upon the statement in Halsburys Laws of England, 3rd Edn., Vol. 2, Article 270 at pp.	Arguments of Petitioner
150 and 151 that A banker is an individual partnership or corporation, whose sole or predominating business is banking, that is the receipt of money on current or deposit account and the payment of cheques drawn by and the collection of cheques paid by a customer, and in the footnote (g) at p. 151 that Numerous other functions are undertaken at the present day by banks such as the payment of domiciled bills, custody of valuables, discounting bills, executor and trustee business, or acting in relation to stock exchange transactions, and banks have functions under certain financial legislation.	Arguments of Petitioner
X x x. These functions are not strictly banking business.35.	Arguments of Petitioner
The AttorneyGeneral said that the expression banking in Entry 45 List I means all form of business which since the introduction of western methods of banking in India, banking institutions have been carrying on in addition to banking as defined in Section 5 (b) of the Banking Regulation Act, and on that account all forms of business described in Section 6 (1) of the Banking Regulation Act in clauses (a) to (n) are, if carried on in addition to the hardcore of banking, banking and the Parliament is competent to legislate in respect of that business under Entry 45, List I.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of his contention that apart from the business of accepting money from the public for lending or investment, and withdrawable by cheque, draft or otherwise, banking includes many allied business activities which banking institutions engaged in, the AttorneyGeneral invited our attention to clause 21 of the Charter of the Bank of Bengal (Act VI of 1839) Sec.	Arguments of Respondent
27 of Act 4 of 1862 to Sections 36 and 37 of the Presidency Banks Act XI of 1876 to Section 91 (15) of the British North America Act to Pagets Law of Banking, 7th Edn., at p. 5 to the standard form of memorandum of association of a Banking Company in Palmers Company Precedents Form 138 and to the Statement of Objects and Reasons in support of the Bill which was enacted as the Indian Companies (Amendment) Act, 1936.	None
36.	None
The Charter of the Bank of Bengal, the Presidency Banks Act 4 of 1862, Ch. XA of the Indian Companies Act, 1913, as incorporated by the Indian Companies (Amendment) Act, 1936, merely described the business which a banking institution could carry on.	None
It was not intended thereby to include those activities within the expression banking.	None
The Acts exacted after the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, also support that inference.	None
Under Section 33 of the State Bank of India Act, 1955, the State Bank is entitled to carry on diverse business activities beside banking.	None
Similarly the Banks subsidiary to the State Bank were by Section 36 of the Act 38 of 1959 to Act as agents of the State Bank, and also to carry on and transact business of banking as defined in Section 5 (b) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, and were also competent to engage in such one or more other forms of business specified in Section 6 (1) of that Act.	None
These provisions do not aid in construing the Entry Banking in Entry 45 List I. 37.	None
In modern times in India as elsewhere, to attract business, banking establishments render and compete in rendering, a variety of miscellaneous services for their constituents.	None
If the test for determining what banking means in the constitutional entry is any commercial activity which bankers at a given time engage in, great obscurity will be introduced in the content of that expression.	None
The coverage of constitutional entry in a Federal Constitution which carves out a field of legislation must depend upon a more satisfactory basis.	None
38.The legislative entry in List I of the Seventh Schedule is Banking and not Banker or Banks.	None
To include within the connotation of the expression Banking in Entry 45 of List I, power to legislate in respect of all commercial activities which a banker by the custom of bankers or authority of law engages in, would result in rewriting the Constitution.	Reasoning
Investment of power to legislate on a designated topic covers all matters incidental to the topic.	Reasoning
A legislative entry being expressed in a broad designation indicating the contour of plenary power must receive a meaning conducive to the widest amplitude, subject however to limitations inherent in the federal scheme which distributes legislative power between the Union and the constituent units.	Reasoning
But the field of banking cannot be extended to include trading activities which not being incidental to banking encroach upon the substance of the entry trade and commerce in List II.	Reasoning
39.	None
Rejection of the argument of the AttorneyGeneral does not lend any practical support to the argument of Mr. Palkhivala that Act 22 of 1969, to the extent it makes provisions in respect of the undertaking of the named banks relating to nonbanking business, is ultra vires the Parliament.	Reasoning
In the first instance there is no evidence that the named banks were before July 19, 1969, carrying on nonbanking business distinct and independent of the banking business, or that the banks held distinct assets for any nonbanking business, apart from the assets of the banking business.	Reasoning
Again by Act 22 of 1969 the corresponding banks are entitled to engage in business of banking and nonbanking which the named banks were engaged in or competent to engage in prior to July 19, 1969, and the name banks are entitled to engage in business other than banking as defined in Section 5 (b) of the Banking Regulation Act, but not the business of banking.	Reasoning
By enacting that the corresponding new banks may carry on business specified in Section 6 (1) of the Banking Regulation Act and that the named banks shall not carry on banking business as defined in Section 5 (b) of that Act, the impugned Act did not encroach upon any entry in the State List.	Reasoning
By Section 15 (2) (e) of the impugned Act	Reasoning
the named banks are expressly reserved the right to carry on business other than banking, and it is not claimed that thereby there is any encroachment upon the State List.	Reasoning
Exercise of the power to legislate for acquisition of the undertaking of the named banks also does not trespass upon the State List.	Reasoning
40.	None
Before the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, Entry 33, List I invested the Parliament with power to enact laws with respect to acquisition or requisitioning for the purpose of the Union, and Entry 36, List II, conferred upon the State Legislature the power to legislate with respect to acquisition or requisitioning for the remaining purposes.	None
Those entries are now deleted, and a single Entry 42, List III invests the Parliament and the State Legislature with power to legislate with respect to acquisition and requisitioning of property.	None
By Entry 42 in the Concurrent List power conferred upon the Parliament and the State Legislatures to legislate with respect to Principles on which compensation for property acquired or requisitioned for the purpose of the Union or for any other public purpose is to be determined and the form in which such compensation is to be given.	None
Power to legislate for acquisition of property is exercisable only under Entry 42 of List III, and not as an incident of the power to legislate in respect of a specific head of legislation in any of the three lists.	Reasoning
Rajahmundry Electric Supply Corporation Ltd. v. State of Andhra, 1954 SCR 779 at p. 785 (AIR 1954 SC 251 at p. 253).	None
Under that entry property can be compulsorily acquired.	None
In its normal connotation property means the highest right a man can have to anything, being that right which one has to lands or tenements, goods or chattels which does not depend on anothers courtesy it includes ownership, estates and interests in corporeal things, and also rights such as trademarks, copyrights, patents and even rights in personam capable of transfer or transmission, such as debts and signifies a beneficial right to or a thing considered as having a money value, especially with reference to transfer or succession, and to their capacity of being injured.	None
The expression undertaking in Section 4 of Act 22 of 1969 clearly means a going concern with all its rights, liabilities and assets  as distinct from the various rights and assets which compose it.	None
In Halsburys Laws of England, 3rd Edn., Vol. 6, Article 75 at p. 43, it is stated that Although various ingredients go to make up an undertaking the term describes not the ingredients but the completed work from which the earnings arise.	None
41.	None
Transfer of and vesting in the State Corporations of the entire undertaking of a going concern is contemplated in many Indian statutes e.g, Indian Electricity Act, 1910, Sections 6, 7 and 7A Air Corporation Act, 1953, Sections 16 and 17 Imperial Bank of India Act, 1920, Sections 3 and 4, State Bank of India Act, 1955, Section 6(2), (3) and (4) State Bank of India (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959 Banking Regulation Act, 1949, Section 36 AE and Cotton Textile Companies Act, 1967, Ss. 5 (1) and (50 1 (6 (1)?)	Reasoning
Power to legislate for acquisition of property in Entry 42, List III therefore, includes the power to legislate for acquisition of an undertaking.	Reasoning
But, says Mr. Palkhivala, liabilities of the banks which are included in the connotation of the expression undertaking cannot be treated as property.	Reasoning
It is however the assets, rights and obligations of a going concern which constitute the undertaking the obligations and liabilities of the business form an integral part of the undertaking, and for compulsory acquisition cannot be divorced from the assets, rights and privileges.	Reasoning
The expression property in Entry 42, List III has a wide connotation, and it includes not only assets, but the organisation, liabilities and obligations of a going concern as a unit.	Reasoning
A law may therefore, be enacted for compulsory acquisition of an undertaking as defined in Section 5 of Act 22 of 1969.	Reasoning
42.	None
The contention raised by Mr. Palkhivala that the Parliament is incompetent to legislate for acquisition of the named banks in so far as it relates to assets of the nonbanking business fails for two reasons  (i) that there is no evidence that the named banks held any assets for any distinct nonbanking business and (ii) that the acquisition is not shown to fall within an entry in List II of the Seventh Schedule.	Reasoning
III.	Facts
Infringement of the fundamental rights of the petitioner 43.	Issue
Clauses (1) and (2) of Article 31 subordinate the exercise of the power of the State to the basic concept of the rule of law.	None
Deprivation of a person of his property and compulsory acquisition may be effectuated by the authority of law.	None
It is superfluous to add that the law limiting the authority of the State must be within the competence of the Legislature enacting it and not violative of a constitutional prohibition, nor impairing the guarantee of a fundamental right.	None
This Court held in Kavalappara Kottarathil Kochuni v. State of Madras, (1960) 3 SCR 887 (AIR 1960 SC 1080 )	None
Swami Motor Transport Co. (P) Ltd. v. Sri Sankaraswamigal Mutt 1963 Supp 1	None
SCR 282 (AIR 1963 SC 864 ) and Maharana Shri.	None
Jayavantsinghji v. State of Gujarat, 1962 Supp 2 SCR 411 at p. 438 (AIR 1962 SC 821 at p. 833) that a person may be deprived of his property by authority of a statute only if it does not impair the fundamental rights guaranteed to him.	None
It is again not contested on behalf of the Union that the law authorising acquisition of property must be within the competence of the lawmaking authority and must not violate a constitutional prohibition or impair the guarantee of any of the fundamental rights in Part III.	None
But it is claimed that since Article 31 (2) and Article 19 (1) (f) while operating on the same field of the right to property are mutually exclusive, a law directly providing for acquisition of property for a public purpose cannot be tested for its validity on the plea that it imposes limitations on the right to property which are not reasonable.	None
44.	None
By Articles 31 (1) and (2) the right to property of individuals is protected against specific invasions by State action.	None
The function of the two clauses  clauses (1) and (2) of Article 31  is to impose limitations on the power of the State and to declare the corresponding guarantee of the individual to his right to property.	None
Limitation on the power of the State and the guarantee of right are plainly complementary.	None
Protection of the guarantee is ensured by declaring that a person may be deprived of his property by authority of lawArticle 31 (1) and that private property may be compulsorily acquired for a public purpose and by the authority of a law containing provisions fixing or providing for determination and payment of compensation Article 31 (2).	None
Exercise of either power by State action results in abridgement  total or partial  of the right to property of the individual.	None
Article 19 (1) (f) is a positive declaration in the widest terms of the right to acquire, hold and dispose of property, subject to restrictions (which may assume the form of limitations or complete prohibition) imposed by law in the interest of the general public.	Reasoning
The guarantee under Article 19 (1)(f) does not protect merely an abstract right to property It extends to concrete rights to property as well Swami Motor Transport Co. (P)	None
Ltds case, 1963 Supp 1 SCR 282 (AIR 1963 SC 864 ).	None
45.	None
The constitutional scheme declares the right to property of the individual and then delimits it by two different provisionsArticle 19 (5) authorizing the State to make laws imposing reasonable restrictions on the exercise of that right, and clause (1) and (2) of Article 31 recognizing the authority of the State to make laws for taking the property.	Reasoning
Limitations under Article 19 (5) and Article 31 are not generically different, for the law authorizing the exercise of the power to take the property of an individual for a public purpose or to ensure the wellbeing of the community, and the law authorising the imposition of reasonable restrictions under Article 19 (5) are intended to advance the larger public interest.	Reasoning
It is true that the guarantee against deprivation and compulsory acquisition operates in favour of all persons, citizens as well as noncitizens, whereas the positive declaration of the right to property guarantees the right to citizens.	Reasoning
But a wider operation of the guarantee under Article 31 does not alter the true character of the right it protects.	Reasoning
Article 19 (5) and Article 31 (1) and (2), in our judgment, operate to delimit the exercise of the right to hold property.	Reasoning
46.	None
Under the Constitution, protection against impairment of the guarantee of fundamental rights is determined by the nature of the right, the interest of the aggrieved party and the degree of harm resulting from the State action.	Reasoning
Impairment of the right of the individual and not the object of the State in taking the impugned action, is the measure of protection.	Reasoning
To concentrate merely on power of the State and the object of the State action in exercising that power is therefore to ignore the true intent of the Constitution.	Reasoning
In this Court, there is, however, a body of authority that the nature and extent of the protection of the fundamental rights is measured not by the operation of the State action upon the rights of the individual, but by its object.	Reasoning
Thereby the constitutional scheme which makes the guaranteed rights subject to the permissible restrictions within their allotted fields fundamental got blurred and gave impetus to a theory that certain Articles of the Constitution enact a code dealing exclusively with matters dealt with therein,and the protection which an aggrieved person may claim is circumscribed by the object of the State action.	Reasoning
46A.Protection of the right to property or personal freedom is most needed when there is an actual threat.	None
To argue that State action which deprives a person permanently or temporarily of his right to property or personal freedom, operates to extinguish the right or the remedy is to reduce the guarantee to an empty platitude.	Reasoning
Again to hold that the extent of, and the circumstances in which, the guarantee of protection is available depends upon the object of the State action, is to seriously erode its effectiveness.	Reasoning
Examining the problem not merely in semantics but in the broader and more appropriate context of the constitutional scheme which aims at affording the individual the fullest protection of his basic rights and on that foundation to erect a structure of a truly democratic polity,the conclusion, in our judgment, is inevitable that the validity of the state action must be adjudged in the light of its operation upon the rights of the individual and groups of individuals in all their dimensions.	Reasoning
47.	None
But this Court has held in some cases to be presently noticed that Article 19 (1) (f) and Article 31 (2) are mutually exclusive.	None
48.	None
Early in the history of this Court the question of interrelation between the diverse provisions affording the guarantee of fundamental rights in Part III fell to be determined.	None
In A. K. Gopalan v. State of Madras, 1950 SCR 88 (AIR 1950 SC 27 ) a person detained pursuant to an order made in exercise of the power conferred by the Preventive Detention Act 4 of 1950 applied to this Court for a writ of habeas corpus claiming that the Act contravened the guarantee under articles 19, 21 and 22 of the Constitution.	None
The majority of the Court (Kania, C. J., and Patanjali Sastri, Mahajan, Mukherjea and Das, JJ.) held that Article 22 being a complete code relating to preventive detention, the validity of an order of detention must be determined strictly according to the terms and within the four corners of that Article.	None
They held that a person detained may not claim that the freedom guaranteed under Article 19 (1) (d) was infringed by his detention, and that validity of the law providing for making orders of detention will not be tested in the light of the reasonableness of the restrictions imposed thereby on the freedom of movement, nor on the ground that his right to personal liberty is infringed otherwise than according to the procedure established by law.	None
Fazl Ali, J., expressed a contrary view.	None
This case has formed the nucleus of the theory that the protection of the guarantee of a fundamental freedom must be adjudged in the light of the object of State action in relation to the individuals right and not upon its influence upon the guarantee of the fundamental freedom, and as a corollary thereto, that the freedoms under Articles 19, 21, 22 and 31 are exclusive  each article enacting a code relating to protection of distinct rights.	None
49. Kania, C. J., proceeded on the theory that different articles guarantee distinct rights.	None
He observed at p. 100 (of SCR) (at p. 35 of AIR) it (Article 19) means that the legislation to be examined must be directly in respect of one of the rights mentioned in the subclauses.	None
If there is a legislation directly attempting to control a citizens freedom of speech or expression, or his right to assemble peaceably and without arms, etc., the question whether that legislation is saved by the relevant saving clause of Article 19 will arise.	None
If, however, the legislation is not directly in respect of any of these subjects, but as a result of the operation of other legislation, the question of the application of Article 19 does not arise.	None
The true approach is only to consider the directness of the legislation and not what will be the result of the detention otherwise valid, on the mode of the detenus life.	None
The learned Chief Justice also observed that Article 19 (1) (d) had nothing to do with detention, preventive or punitive, and the concept of personal liberty in Article 21 being entirely different from the concept of the right to move freely throughout the territory of India, Article 22 was a complete code dealing with preventive detention.	None
50.	None
Patanjali Sastri, J., observed at p. 191 (of SCR) (at pp. 6970 of AIR) article 19 seems to presuppose that the citizen to whom the possession of these fundamental rights is secured retains the substratum of personal freedom on which alone the enjoyment of these rights necessarily rests.	None
Article 19 guarantees to the citizens the enjoyment of certain civil liberties while they are free, while articles 2022 secure to all personscitizens and noncitizenscertain constitutional guarantees in regard to punishment and prevention of crime.	None
51. Mahajan J., was of the view that Article 22 was selfcontained in respect of laws on the subject of preventive detention.	None
Mukherjea, J., observed (at p. 254) (of SCR) (at p. 93 AIR) that there was no conflict between Article 19 (1) (d) and Article 22, for the former did not contemplate freedom from detention either punitive or preventive, but speaks of a different aspect or phase of civil liberty.	None
In his view Articles 20 to 22 embodied the entire protection guaranteed by the Constitution in relation to deprivation of life and personal liberty with regard to substantive as well as procedural law.	None
He proceeded to observe at p. 261 (of SCR) (at p. 96 of AIR) by reason of preventive detention, a man may be prevented from exercising the right of free movement within the territory in India , but that is merely incidental to or consequential upon loss of liberty resulting from the order of detention.	None
But the learned Judge observed at p. 263 (of SCR) (At p. 97 of AIR)	None
It may not, I think, be unite accurate to state that the operation of Article 19 of the Constitution is limited to free citizens only and that the rights have been described in that article on the presupposition that the citizens are at liberty.	None
The deprivation of personal liberty may entail as a consequence the loss or abridgment of many of the rights described in Article 19, but that is because the nature of these rights is such that free exercise of them is not possible in the absence of personal liberty.	None
52.	None
Das, J., observed at p. 304 (of SCR) (At p. 113 of AIR)	None
Therefore, the conclusion is irresistible that the rights protected by Article 19 (1), in so far as they relate to rights attached to the person i.e., the rights referred to in subclauses (a) to (e) and (g), are rights which only a free citizen, who has the freedom of his person unimpaired, can exercise.	None
The learned Judge further observed a lawful detention, whether punitive or preventive, does not offend against the protection conferred by Article 19 (1) (a) to (e) and (g), for those rights must necessarily cease when the freedom of the person is lawfully taken away.	None
In short, those rights end where the lawful detention begins.	None
So construed, Article 19 and Article 21 may, therefore, easily go together and there is, in reality, no conflict between them.	None
53.	None
Fazl Ali, J., struck a different note he observed at p. 148 (of SCR) (at pp. 5253 of AIR) the scheme of the Chapter dealing with the fundamental rights does not contemplate that each article is a code by itself and is independent of the others.	None
The case of a person who is convicted of an offence will come under Articles 20 and 21 and also under Article 22 so far as his arrest and detention in custody before trial are concerned.	None
Preventive detention, which is dealt with in Article 22, also amounts to deprivation of personal liberty which is referred to in Article 21,.	None
and is a violation of the right of freedom of movement dealt with in Article 19 (1) (d).	None
At p. 149 (of SCR) (at p. 53 of AIR) the learned Judge observed The words used in Article 19 (1) (d) must be construed as they stand, and we have to decide upon the words themselves whether in the case of preventive detention the right under Article 19 (1) (d) is or is not infringed.	None
But, , however, literally we may construe the words used in Article 19 (1) (d) and however restricted may be the meaning we may attribute to those words, there can be no escape from the conclusion that preventive detention is a direct infringement of the right guaranteed in Article 19 (1) (d).	None
At p. 170 (of SCR) (at p. 61 of AIR) he observed this Article (Article 22) does not exclude the operation of Articles 19 and 21, and it must be read subject to those two articles, in the same way as Articles 19 and 21 must be read subject to Article 22.	None
The correct position is that Article 22 must prevail in so far as there are specific provisions therein regarding preventive detention, but, where there are no such provisions in that Article, the operation of Articles 19 and 21 cannot be excluded.	None
The mere fact that different aspects of the same right have been dealt with in three different Articles will not make them mutually exclusive except to the extent I have indicated.	None
The view expressed in A. K. Gopalans case.	None
1950	None
SCR 88 (AIR 1950 SC 27 ) was reaffirmed in Ram Singh v. State of Delhi, 1951 SCR 451 (AIR 1951 SC 270 ).	None
54.	None
The principle underlying the judgment of majority was extended to the protection of the freedom in respect of property, and it was held that Article 19 (1) (f) and Article 31 (2) were mutually exclusive in their operation.	None
In A. K. Gopalans case.	None
1950	None
SCR 88 (AIR 1950 SC 27 ), Das, J., suggested that if the capacity to exercise the right to property was lost because of lawful compulsory acquisition of the subject of that right, the owner ceased to have that right for the duration of the incapacity.	None
In Chiranjit Lal Chowduris case, 1950 SCR 869 (AIR 1951 SC 41 ), Das, J., observed at p. 919 (of SCR) (at p. 60 of AIR) the right to property guaranteed by Article 19 (1) (f) would continue until the owner was under Article 31 deprived of such property by authority of law.	None
In State of West Bengal v. Subodh Gopal 1954 SCR 587 (AIR 1954 SC 92 ) the same learned Judge observed that Article 19 (1) (f) read with Article 19 (5) presupposes that the person to whom the fundamental right is guaranteed retains his property over or with respect to which alone that right may be exercised.	None
The principle so stated was given a more concrete shape in a later decision State of Bombay v. Bhanji Munji, 19551 SCR  777 (AIR 1955 SC 41 ).	None
In Bhanji Munjis case 19551 SCR 777 (AIR 1955 SC 41 ), speaking for a unanimous Court, Bose, J., observed it is enough to say that Article 19 (1) (f) read with clause (5) postulates the existence of property which can be enjoyed, and over which rights can be exercised because otherwise the reasonable restrictions contemplated by Clause (5) could not be brought into play.	None
If there is no property which can be acquired, held or disposed of, no restriction can be placed on the exercise of the right to acquire, hold or dispose it of, and as Clause (5) contemplates the placing of reasonable restrictions on the exercise of those rights it must follow that the Article postulates the existence of property over which the rights are to be exercised.	None
Bhanji Munjis case, 19551 SCR 777 (AIR 1955 SC 41 ) was accepted without any discussion in Babu Barkya v. State of Bombay, (1961) 1	None
SCR 128 (AIR 1960 SC 1203 ) Smt.	Reasoning
Sitabati Debi v. State of West Bengal, 19672	None
SCR 949 and other cases.	None
In these cases it was held that the substantive provisions of a law relating to acquisition of property were not liable to be challenged on the ground that they imposed unreasonable restrictions on the right to hold property.	None
55.	None
Bhanji Munjis case, 19551 SCR 777 (AIR 1955 SC 41 ), it must be remembered, arose under Article 31 before it was amended by the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act.	None
It was held by this Court that Clauses (1) and (2) of Article 31 as they then stood dealt with the same subjectmatter i. e., compulsory acquisition of property see Subodh Gopals case, 1954 SCR 587 (AIR 1954 SC 92 ) and Dwarkadas Shriniwass case, 1954 SCR 674 (AIR 1954 SC 119 ).	None
But since the amendment by the constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act it has been held that Clauses (1) and (2) deal with different subjectmatters.	None
In Kavalappara Kottarrathil Kochunis case, 19603 SCR 887 (AIR 1960 SC 1080 ), Subba Rao, J., delivering the judgment of the majority of the Court observed that Cl.	None
(2) of Article 31 alone deals with compulsory acquisition of property by the State for a public purpose, and not Article 31 (1), and he proceeded to hold that the expression authority of law means authority of a valid law, and on that account validity of the law seeking to deprive a person of his property is open to challenge on the ground that it infringes other fundamental rights, e. g., under Article 19 (1) (f).	None
It was broadly observed that Bhanji Munjis case, 19551 SCR 777 (AIR 1955 SC 41 ) after the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act no longer holds the field.	None
But Kavalappara Kottarathil Kochunis case, 19603 SCR 887 (AIR 1960 SC 1080 ) did not deal with the validity of a law relating to compulsory acquisition.	None
With the decision in Kavalappara Kottarathil Kochunis case, 19603 SCR 887 (AIR 1960 SC 1080 ) there arose two divergent lines of authority (1) authority of law in Art. 31 (1) is liable to be tested on the ground that it violates other fundamental rights and freedoms including the right to hold property guarantee by Article 19 (1) (f) and (20 authority of a law within the meaning of Article 31 (2) is not liable to be tested on the ground that it impairs the guarantee of Article 19 (1) (f) in so far as it imposes substantive restrictions  though it may be tested on the ground of impairment of other guarantees.	None
The expression law in the two clauses had therefore different meanings.	None
It was for the first time (obiter dicta apart) in State of Madhya Pradesh v. Ranojirao Shinde, 19683 SCR 489 (AIR 1968 SC 1053 )	None
this Court opined that the validity of law in Clause (2) of Article 31 may be adjudged in the light of Article 19 (1) (f).	None
But the Court in that case did not consider the previous catena of authorities which related to the interrelation between Article 31 (2) and Article 19 (1) (f).	None
56.	None
We have carefully considered the weighty pronouncements of the eminent Judge who gave shape to the concept that the extent of protection of important guarantees, such as the liberty of person, and right to property, depends upon the form and object of the State action, and not upon its direct operation upon the individuals freedom.	Reasoning
But it is not the object of the authority making the law impairing the right of a citizen, nor the form of action taken that determines the protection he can claim it is the effect of the law and of the action upon the right which attract the jurisdiction of the Court to grant relief.	Reasoning
It this be the true view and we think it is, in determining the impact of State action upon constitutional guarantees which are fundamental, it follows that the extent of protection against impairment of a fundamental right is determined not by the object of Legislature nor by the form of the action, but by its direct operation upon the individuals rights.	Reasoning
57.	None
We are of the view that the theory that the object and form of the State action determine the extent of protection which the aggrieved party may claim is not consistent with the constitutional scheme.	Reasoning
Each freedom has different dimensions.	Reasoning
Article 19 (1) (f) enunciates the right to acquire, hold and dispose of property Clause (5) of Article 19 authorizes imposition of restrictions upon the right.	Reasoning
Article 31 assures the right to property and grants protection against the exercise of the authority of the State.	Reasoning
Clause (5) of Article 19 and Clauses (1) and (2) of Article 31 prescribe restrictions upon State action, subject to which the right to property may be exercised.	Reasoning
Article 19 (5) is a broad generalization dealing with the nature of limitations which may be placed by law on the right to property.	Reasoning
The guarantees under Article 31 (1) and (2) arise out of the limitations imposed on the authority of the State by law to take over the individuals property.	Reasoning
The true character of the limitations under the two provisions is not different.	Reasoning
Clause (5) of Article 19 and columns (1) and (2) of Article 31 are parts of a single pattern.	Reasoning
Article 19 (1) (f) enunciates the basic right to property of the citizens and Article 19 (5) and Clauses (1) (2) Article 31 deal with limitations which may be placed by law subject to which the rights may be exercised.	Reasoning
5860.	None
Limitations prescribed for ensuring due exercise of the authority of the State to deprive a person of his property and of the power to compulsorily acquire his property are, therefore, specific classes of limitations on the rights to property falling within Article 19 (1) (f).	Reasoning
Property may be compulsorily acquired only for a public purpose.	Reasoning
Where the law provides for compulsory acquisition of property for a public purpose it may be presumed that the acquisition or the law relating thereto imposes a reasonable restriction in the interest of the general public.	Reasoning
If there is no public purpose to sustain compulsory acquisition, the law violates Article 31 (2).	Reasoning
If the acquisition is for a public purpose, substantive reasonableness of the restriction which includes deprivation may, unless otherwise established, be presumed, but enquiry into reasonableness of the procedural provisions will not be excluded.	Reasoning
For instance if a tribunal is authorised by an Act to determine compensation for property compulsorily acquired, without hearing the owner of the property, the Act would be liable to be struck down under Article 19 (1) (f).	Reasoning
61.	None
In dealing with the argument that Article 31 (2) is a complete code relating to infringement of the right to property by compulsory acquisition, and the validity of the law is not liable to be tested in the light of the reasonableness of the restrictions imposed thereby it is necessary to bear in mind the enunciation of the guarantee of fundamental rights which has taken different forms.	Reasoning
In some cases it is an express declaration of a guaranteed right Articles 29 (1), 30 (1), 26, 25 and 32 in others to ensure protection of individual rights they take specific forms of restrictions on State action legislative or executiveArticles 14, 15, 16, 20, 21, 22 (1), 27 and 28 in some others, it takes the form of a positive declaration and simultaneously enunciates the restriction thereon Articles 19 (1) and 19 (2) to (6) in some cases, it arises as an implication from the delimitation of the authority of the State, e. g., Articles 31 (1) and 31 (2) in still others, it takes the form of a general prohibition against the State as well as others Articles 17, 23 and 24.	Reasoning
The enunciation of right either express or by implication does not follow a uniform pattern.	Reasoning
But one thread runs through them they seek to protect the rights of the individual or groups of individuals against infringement of those rights within specific limits.	Reasoning
Part III of the Constitution weaves a pattern of guarantees on the texture of basic human rights.	Reasoning
The guarantees delimit the protection of those rights in their allotted fields they do not attempt to enunciate distinct rights.	Reasoning
62.	None
We are therefore unable to hold that the challenge to the validity of the provision for acquisition is liable to be tested only on the ground of noncompliance with Article 31 (2).	Reasoning
Article 31 (2) requires that property must be acquired for a public purpose and that it must be acquired under a law with characteristics set out in that Article.	Reasoning
Formal compliance with the conditions under Art.	Reasoning
31	Reasoning
(2) is not sufficient to negative the protection of the guarantee of the right to property.	Reasoning
Acquisition must be under the authority of a law and the expression law means a law which is within the competence of the Legislature and does not impair the guarantee of the rights in Part III.We are unable, therefore, to agree that Article 19 (1) (f) and 31 (2) are mutually exclusive.	Reasoning
63.	None
The area of protection afforded against State action by the freedom under Article 19 (1) (f) and by the exercise of the power of the State to acquire property of the individual without his consent must still be reconciled.	Reasoning
If property is compulsorily acquired for a public purpose, and the law satisfies the requirements of Articles 31 (2) and 31 (2A), the Court may readily presume that by the acquisition a reasonable restriction on the exercise of the right to hold property is imposed in the interests of the general public.	Reasoning
But that is not because the claim to plead infringement of the fundamental right under Article 19 (1) (f) does not avail the owner it is because the acquisition imposes a permissible restriction on the right of the owner of the property compulsorily acquired.	Reasoning
64.	None
We have found it necessary to examine the rationale of the two lines of authority and determine whether there is anything in the Constitution which justifies this apparently inconsistent development of the law.	Reasoning
In our judgment, the assumption in A. K. Gopalans case 1950 SCR 88 (AIR 1950 SC 27 ) that certain articles in the Constitution exclusively deal with specific matters and determining whether there is infringement of the individuals guaranteed rights, the object and the form of the State action alone need be considered, and effect of the laws on fundamental rights of the individuals in general will be ignored cannot be accepted as correct.	Reasoning
We hold that the validity of law which authorises deprivation of property and a law which authorises compulsory acquisition of property for a public purpose must be adjudged by the application of the same test.	Reasoning
A citizen may claim in an appropriate case that the law authorising compulsory acquisition of property imposes fetters upon his right to hold property which are not reasonable restrictions in the interests of the general public.	Reasoning
It is immaterial that the scope for such challenge may be attenuated because of the nature of the law of acquisition which providing as it does for expropriation of property of the individual for public purpose may be presumed to impose reasonable restrictions in the interests of the general public.	None
65.	None
Whether the provisions of Section 4 and 5 of Act 22 of 1969 and the other related provisions of the Act impair the fundamental freedoms under Articles 19 (1) (f) and (g) now falls to be considered.	Issue
By Section 4 the entire undertaking of each named bank vests in the Union, and the Bank is prohibited from engaging in the business of banking in India and even in a foreign country, except where by the laws of a foreign country banking business owned or controlled by Government cannot be carried on, the named bank will be entitled to continue the business in that country.	Reasoning
The business which the named banks carried on was(1) the business of banking as defined in Section 5 (b) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, and business incidental thereto and (2) other business which by virtue of Section 6 (1) they were not prohibited from carrying on, though not part of or incidental to the business of banking.	Reasoning
It may be recalled that by Act 22 of 1969 the named banks cannot engage in business of banking as defined in Section 5 (b) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, but may engage in other forms of business.	Reasoning
By the Act, however, the entire undertaking of each named bank is vested in the new corporation set up with a name identical with the name of that Bank, and authorised to carry on banking business previously carried on by the named bank, and its managerial and other staff is transferred to the corresponding new bank.	Reasoning
The newly constituted corresponding bank is entitled to engage in business described in Section 6 (1) of the Banking Regulation Act, and for that purpose to utilize the assets, goodwill and business connections of the existing bank.	Reasoning
66.	None
The named banks are declared entitled to engage in business other than banking but they have no assets with which that business may be carried on, and since they are prohibited from carrying on banking business, by virtue of Section 7 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, they cannot use in their title the words Bank or Banking, and even engage in nonbanking business in their old names.	None
A business organization deprived of its entire assets and undertaking, its managerial and other staff, its premises, and its name, even if it has a theoretical right to carry on nonbanking business, would not be able to do so, especially when even the fraction of the value of its undertaking made payable to it as compensation, is not made immediately payable to it.	None
67.	None
Validity of the provisions of the Act which transfer the undertaking of the named banks and prohibit those banks from carrying on business of banking and practically prohibit them from carrying on nonbanking business falls to be considered in the light of Article 19 (1) (f) and Article 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution.	None
By Article 19 (1) (f) right to acquire, hold and dispose of property is guaranteed to the citizens and by Art. 19	None
(1) (g) the right to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business is guaranteed to the citizens.	None
These rights are not absolute they are subject to the restrictions prescribed in the appropriate clauses of Article 19.	None
By Cl.	None
(5) it is provided, inter alia, that nothing in subcl.	None
(f) of Cl.	None
(1) shall affect the operation of any existing law in so far as it imposes, or prevent the State from making any law, imposing in the interests of the general public,reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by that subclause either in the interests of the general public or for the protection of the interests of any Scheduled Tribe.	None
Clause (6) as amended by the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951, reads Nothing in subclause (g) of the said clause shall affect the operation of any existing law in so far as it imposes, or prevent the State from making any law imposing, in the interests of the general public, reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said subclause, and, in particular, nothing in the said subclause, shall affect the operation of any existing law in so far as it relates to, or prevent the State from making law relating to (i) the professional or technical qualifications necessary for practising any profession or carrying on any occupation, trade or business, or (ii) the carrying on by the State, or by a corporationowned or controlled by the State, of any trade, business, industry or service, whether to the exclusion, complete or partial, of citizens or otherwise.	None
Clause (6) of Article 19 consists of two parts (1) the right declared by subcl.	None
(g) is not protected against the operation of any law imposing, in the interests of the general public, reasonable restrictions on exercise of the right conferred by that subclause and (2) in particular subcl.	None
(g) does not affect the operation of any law relating, inter alia, to carrying on by the State or by a corporationowned or controlled by the State, of any trade, business, industry or service whether or not such law provides for the exclusion, complete or partial, of citizens.	None
68.	None
According to Mr. Palkhivala it was intended by the use of the expression in particular to denote a special class of trade, business, industry or service out of the general class referred to in the first part, and on that account a law which relates to the carrying on by the State of any particular business, industry or service, to the exclusioncomplete or partialof citizens or otherwise, is also subject to the enquiry whether it imposes reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right in the interests of the general public.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel urged that the law imposing restrictions upon the exercise of the right to carry on any occupation, trade or business is subject to the test of reasonable restrictions imposed in the interests of the general public, likewise, the particular classes specified in the second part of the Article must also be regarded as liable to be tested in the light of the same limitations.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel strongly relied upon the decision of the House of Lords in Earl Fitzwilliams Wentworth Estates Co. v. Minister of Housing and Local Government, (1952) 1	Arguments of Petitioner
All ER 509.	Arguments of Petitioner
House of Lords in that case did to lay down any general proposition.	Arguments of Petitioner
They were only dealing with the meaning of the words in particular in the context in which they occurred and it was held that the expression in particular was not intended to confer a separate and distinct power wholly independent of that contained in the first limb.	Arguments of Petitioner
It cannot be said that the expression in particular used in Article 19 (1) (g) is intended either to particularise or to illustrate the general law set out in the first limb.69.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was observed in Saghir Ahmed v. State of U. P., 19551	None
SCR 707 (AIR 1954 SC 728 ) by Mukherjea, J., at p. 727 (of SCR) (at p. 739 of AIR)	None
The new clauseArticle 19 (6)has no doubt been introduced with a view to provide that a State can create a monopoly in its own favour in respect of any trade or business but the amendment does not make the establishment of such monopoly a reasonable restriction within the meaning of the first clause of Article 19 (6).	None
The result of the amendment is that the State would not have to justify such action as reasonable at all in a court of law, and no objection could be taken to it on the ground that it is an infringement of the rights guaranteed under article 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution.	None
70.	None
In dealing with the validity of a law creating a State monopoly in Akadasi Padhan v. State of Orissa, 1963 Supp 2 SCR 691 (AIR 1963 SC 1047 ), this Court unanimously held, that the validity of a law creating a State monopoly which indirectly impinges on any other right cannot be challenged on the ground that it imposes restrictions which are not reasonable restrictions in the interests of the general public.	None
But if the law contains other incidental provisions which do not constitute an essential and integral part of the monopoly created by it, the validity of those provisions is liable to be tested under the first part of Article 19 (6).	None
If they directly impair any other fundamental right guaranteed by Article 19 (1), the validity of those provisions will be tested by reference to the corresponding clause of Article 19.	None
The Court also observed that the essential attributes of the law creating a monopoly will vary with the nature of the trade or business in which the monopoly will vary with the nature of the trade or business in which the monopoly is created.	None
They will depend upon the nature of the commodity, the nature of trade in which it is involved and other circumstances.	None
At p. 707 (of SCR) (at p. 1054 of AIR) Gajendragadkar, J., speaking for the Court, observed A law relating to a State monopoly cannot, in the contest, include all the provisions contained in the said law whether they have direct relation with the creation of the monopoly or not.	None
In our opinion, the said expression should be construed to mean the law relating to the monopoly in its absolutely essential features.	None
If a law is passed creating a State monopoly, the Court should enquire what are the provisions of the said law which are basically and essentially necessary for creating the State monopoly.	None
It is only those essential and basic provisions which are protected by the latter part of Article 19 (6).	None
If there are other provisions made by the Act which are subsidiary, incidental or helpful to the operation of the monopoly, they do not fall under the first part of Article 19 (6).	None
He also observed at p. 705 (of SCR) (at p. 1054 of AIR) the amendment (First Amendment) clearly indicates that State monopoly in respect of any trade or business must be presumed to be reasonable and in the interests of general public, so far as Article 19 (1) (g) is concerned.	None
This was reiterated in Rasbihari Panda v. State of Orissa.	None
Civil Appeals Nos. 14721474 of 1968, D  1611969 (reported in AIR 1969 SC 1081 )	None
Vrajlal Manilal and Co. v. State of Madhya Pradesh, Civil Appeal No. 2262 of 1966, D  2541969 (reported in AIR 1970 SC 129 ) and Municipal Committee, Amritsar v. State of Punjab, Writ Petn.	None
No. 295 and other Petns. of 1968, D  3011969 (reported in AIR 1969 SC 1100 ).	None
These cases dealt with the validity of laws creating monopolies in the State.	None
Clause (6) is however not restricted to laws creating State monopolies, and the rule enunciated in Akadasi Padhans case, 1963 Supp (2) SCR 691 (AIR 1963 SC 1047 )applies to all laws relating to the carrying on by the State of any trade, business, industry or service by Art.	None
298	None
the State is authorized to carry on trade which is competitive, or excludes the citizens from that trade completely or partially.	None
The basic and essential provisions of law which are integrally and essentially connected with the carrying on of a trade by the State will not be exposed to the challenge that they impair the guarantee under Article 19 (1) (g), whether the citizens are excluded completely or partially from carrying on that trade, or the trade is competitive.	None
Imposition of restrictions which are incidental or subsidiary to the carrying on of trade by the State whether to the exclusion of the citizens or not must, however, satisfy the test of the main limb.	None
71.	None
The law which prohibits after July 19, 1969, the named banks from carrying on banking business, being a necessary incident of the right assumed by the Union, is not liable to be challenged because of Article 19 (6) (ii) in so far as it affects the right to carry on business.	Reasoning
71A. There is no satisfactory proof in support of the plea that the enactment of Act 22 of 1969 was not in the larger interest of the nation, but to serve political ends, i.e. not with the object to ensure better banking facilities, or to make them available to a wider public, but only to take control over the deposits of the public with the major banks, and to use them as a political lever against industrialists who had built up industries by decades of industrial planing and careful management.	Reasoning
It is true that social control legislation enacted by the Banking Laws (Amendment) Act 58 of 1968 was in operation and the named banks were subject to rigorous control which the Reserve Bank was competent to exercise and did in fact exercise.	Reasoning
Granting that the objectives laid down by the Reserve Bank being carried out, it cannot be said that the Act was enacted in abuse of legislative power.	Reasoning
Our attention was invited to a mass of evidence from the speeches of the Deputy Prime Minister, and of the Governor and the Deputy Governor of the Reserve Bank, and also extracts from the Reserve Bank Bulletins issued from time to time and other statistical information collected from official sources in support of the thesis of the petitioner that the performance of the named banks exceeded the targets laid down by the Reserve Bank on its directives that the named banks had effectively complied with the requirements of the law that they had served the diverse interests including smallscale sector, and had been instrumental in bringing about an increasing tempo of industrial and commercial activity that they had discouraged speculative holding of commodities and had followed essential priorities in the economic development of the nation coupled with a vigorous programme of branch development in the rural sector, brining about a considerable expansion in deposits, and large advances to the smallscale business and industry.	Reasoning
Mr. Palkhivala urged that under the scheme of social control the commercial banks had achieved impressive results comparing favourably with the performance of the State Bank of India and its subsidiaries in the public sector, and that the performance of the named banks could not be belittled by referring to the banking structure and development in highly developed countries like Canada, Japan, France, United States and the United Kingdom.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, the AttorneyGeneral said that the commercial banks followed a conservative policy because they had to look primarily to the interests of the shareholders, and on that account could not adopt bold policies or schemes for financing the needy and worthy causes that if the resources of the banking industry are properly utilised for the weaker sections of the people economic regeneration of the nation may be speedily achieved, that 28 per cent of the towns in India were not served by commercial banks that there had been unequal development of facilities in different parts of the country and deserving sections were deprived of the benefit of important national resources resulting in economic disparities, especially because the major banks catered to the largescale industries.	None
72.	None
This Court is not the forum in which these conflicting claims may be debated.	Reasoning
Whether there is a genuine need for banking facility in the rural areas, whether certain classes of the community are deprived of the benefit of the resources of the banking industry, whether administration by the Government of the commercial banking sector will not prove beneficial to the community and will lead to rigidity in the administration whether the Government administration will eschew the profitmotive,and even if it be eschewed, there will accrue substantial benefits to the public, whether an undue accent on banking as a means of social regeneration, especially in the backward areas, is a doctrinaire approach to a rational order of priorities for attaining the national objectives enshrined in our Constitution, and whether the policy followed by the Government in office or the policy propounded by its opponents may reasonably attain the national objectives are matters which have little relevance in determining the legality of the measure.	Reasoning
It is again not for this Court to consider the relative merits of the different political theories or economic policies.	Reasoning
The Parliament has under Entry 45 List I the power to legislate in respect of banking and other commercial activities of the named banks necessarily incidental thereto it has the power to legislate for acquiring the undertaking of the named banks under Entry 42 List III.	Reasoning
Whether by the exercise of the power vested in the Reserve Bank under the preexisting laws results could be achieved which it is the object of the Act to achieve, is in our judgment, not relevant in considering whether the Act amounts to abuse of legislative power.	Reasoning
This Court has the power to strike down a law on the ground of want of authority, but the Court will not sit in appeal over the policy of the Parliament in enacting a law.	Reasoning
The Court cannot find fault with the Act merely on the ground that it is inadvisable to take over the undertaking of banks which, it is said by the petitioner, by thrift and efficient management had set up an impressive and efficient business organization serving large sectors of industry.	Reasoning
73.	None
By Section 15 (2) (e) of the Act the Banks are entitled to engage in business other than banking.	Reasoning
But by the provisions of the Act they are rendered practically incapable of engaging in any business.	Reasoning
By the provisions of the Act, a named bank cannot even use its name, and the compensation which is to be given will, in the absence of agreement, be determined by the Tribunal, and paid in securities which will mature not before ten years.	Reasoning
A named bank may, if it agrees to distribute among the shareholders the compensation which it may receive, be paid in securities an amount equal to half the paidup share capital, but obviously the fund will not be available to the Bank.	Reasoning
It is true that under Section 15 (3) of the Act the Central Government may authorise the corresponding new banks to make advances to the named banks for any of the purposes mentioned in Section 15 (2).	Reasoning
But that is a matter which rests only upon the will of the Central Government and no right can be founded upon it.	Reasoning
74.	None
Where restrictions imposed upon the carrying on of a business are so stringent that the business cannot in practice be carried on, the Court will regard the imposition of the restrictions as unreasonable.	None
In Mohannad Yasin v. Town Area Committee, Jalalabad, 1952 SCR 572 (AIR 1952 SC 115 )	None
this Court observed that under Article 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution a citizen has the right to carry on any occupation, trade or business and the only restriction on this right is the authority of the State to make a law relating to the carrying on of such occupation, trade or business as mentioned in Clause (6) of that Article as amended by the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951.	None
In Mohammad Yasins case, 1952 SCR 572 (AIR 1952 SC 115 ) by the byelaws of the Municipal Committee, it was provided that no person shall sell or purchase any vegetables or fruit within the limits of the municipal area of Jalalabad, wholesale or by auction, without paying the prescribed fee.	None
It was urged on behalf of a wholesale dealer in vegetables that although there was no prohibition against carrying on business in vegetables by anybody, in effect the byelaws brought about a total stoppage of the wholesalers business in a commercial sense, for he had to pay prescribed fee to the contractor, and under the byelaws the wholesale dealer could not charge a higher rate of commission than the contractor.	None
The wholesale dealer, therefore, could charge the growers of vegetables and fruit only the commission permissible under the bylaws, and he had make over the entire commission to the contractor without retaining any part thereof.	None
The wholesale dealer was thereby converted into mere taxcollector for the contractor or the Town Area Committee without any remuneration.	None
The byelaws in this situation were struck down as impairing the freedom to carry on business.	None
75.	None
In Dwarkadas Shrinivass case, 1954 SCR 674 (AIR 1954 SC 119 ) the Sholapur Spinning and Weaving Company (Emergency Provisions) Ordinance II of 1950 and Act 28 of 1950 passed by the Parliament to replace the Ordinance were challenged.	None
Under the Ordinance the managing agent and the elected directors were dismissed and new directors were appointed by the State.	None
The Company was denuded of possession of its property and all that was left to the Company was bare legal title.	None
In an appeal arising out of a suit challenging the validity of the Ordinance and the Act which replaced it this Court held that the Ordinance and the Act violated the fundamental right of the Company and of the plaintiff a preference shareholder upon whom demand was made for payment of unpaid calls.	None
This Court held that the Ordinance and the Act in effect deprived the Company of its property within the meaning of Article 31 without compensation.	None
It was observed by Mahajan, J., that practically all incidents of ownership were taken over by the State and nothing was left with the Company but the mere husk of title, and on that account the impugned statute had overstepped the limits of legitimate social control legislation.	None
76.If compensation paid is in such a form that it is not immediately available for restarting any business, declaration of the right to carry on business other than banking becomes an empty formality, when the entire undertaking of the named banks is transferred to and vests in the new banks together with the premises and the names of the banks are deprived of the services of its administrative and other staff.	Reasoning
77.The restriction imposed upon the right of the named banks to carry on nonbanking business is, in our judgment, plainly unreasonable.	Reasoning
No attempt is made to support the Act which while theoretically declaring the right of the named banks to carry on nonbanking business makes it impossible in a commercial sense for the banks to carry on any business.	Reasoning
Protection of Article 14 78.	None
By Article 14 of the Constitution the State is enjoined not to deny any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India.	None
The Article forbids class legislation, but not reasonable classification in making laws.	None
The test of permissible classification under an Act lies in two cumulative conditions (i) classification under the Act must be founded on an intelligible differentia distinguishing persons, transactions or things grouped together from others left out of the group and (ii) the differentia has a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Act there must be a nexus between the basis of classification and the object of the Act Chiranjit Lal Chowduris case, 1950 SCR 869 (AIR 1951 SC 41 ) State of Bombay v. F. N. Balsara, (1951)	None
SCR 682 (AIR 1951 SC 318 )State of West Bengal v. Anwar Ali Sarkar, 1952	None
SCR 284 (AIR 1952 SC 75 ) Budhan Choudhry v. State of Bihar, (1955) 1	None
SCR 1045 (AIR 1955 SC 191 ) Ram Krishna Dalmia v. S. R. Tendolkar, 1959 SCR 279 at p. 300 (AIR 1958 SC 538 at p. 542) and State of Rajasthan v. Mukanchand, (1964) 6	None
SCR 903 at p. 910 (AIR 1964 SC 1633 at p. 1635).	None
79.	None
The Courts recognize in the Legislature some degree of elasticity in the matter of making a classification between persons, objects and transactions.	Reasoning
Provided the classification is based on some intelligible ground, the Courts will not strike down that classification, because in the view of the Court it should have proceeded on some other ground or should have included the class selected for special treatment some other persons, objects or transactions which are not included by the Legislature.	Reasoning
The Legislature is free to recognize the degree of harm and to restrict the operation of a law only to those cases where the need is the clearest.	Reasoning
The Legislature need not extend the regulation of a law to all cases it may possibly reach, and may make a classification founded on practical grounds of convenience.	Reasoning
Classification to be valid must, however, disclose a rational nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the law which makes the classification.	Reasoning
Validity of a classification will be upheld only if that test is independently satisfied.	Reasoning
The Court in examining the validity of a statute challenged as infringing the equality clause makes an assumption that there is a reasonable classification and that the classification has a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the statute.	Reasoning
80.	None
By the definition of existing bank in Section 2 (d) of the Act, fourteen named banks in the First Schedule are, out of many commercial banks engaged in the business of banking, selected for special treatment, in that the undertaking of the named banks is taken over, they are prevented from carrying on in India and abroad banking business and the Act operates in practice to prevent those banks engaging in business other than banking.	Reasoning
81.	None
By reason of the transfer of the undertaking of the named banks, the interests of the banks and the shareholders are vitally affected.	None
Investment in bankshares is regarded in India, especially in the shares of larger banks, as a safe investment on attractive terms with a steady return and fluidity of conversion.	None
Mr. Palkhivala has handed in a statement setting out the percentage return of dividend on market rates in 1968.	Reasoning
The rate works out at more than 10 per cent in the case of the shares of Bank of Baroda, Central Bank of India, Dena Bank, Indian Bank, United Bank and United Commercial Bank and at more than 9 per cent in the case of shares of Bank of India, Bank of Maharashtra, Canara Bank, Indian Bank, Indian Overseas Bank and United Bank of India.	Reasoning
In the case of Allahabad Bank it worked out at 5 per cent, and in the case of shares of Punjab National Bank and Syndicate Bank the rates are not available.	Reasoning
This statement is not challenged.	Reasoning
Since the taking over of the undertaking, there has resulted a steep fall in the ruling market quotations of the shares of a majority of the named banks.	Reasoning
The market quotations have slumped to less than 50 per cent in the case of Bank of India, Central Bank, Bank of Baroda and even at the quoted rates probably there are no transactions.	Reasoning
Dividend may no longer be distributed, for the banks have no liquid assets and they are not engaged in any commercial activity.	Reasoning
It may take many years before the compensation payable to the banks may even be finalized, and be available to the named banks for utilising it in any commercial venture open to the banks under the Act.	Reasoning
Under the scheme of determination of compensation, the total amount payable to the banks will be a fraction of the value of their net assets, and that compensation will not be available to the Banks immediately.	Reasoning
82.	None
The ground for selection of the 14 banks is that those banks held deposits, as shown in the return as on the last Friday of June 1969, furnished to the Reserve Bank under Section 27 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, of not less than rupees fifty crores.	Reasoning
83.	None
The object of Act 22 of 1969 is according to the long title to provide for the acquisition and transfer of the undertakings of certain banking companies in order to serve better the needs of development of the economy in conformity with the national policy and objectives and matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.	None
The national policy may reasonably be taken to be policy contained in the directive principles of State policy, especially Articles 38 and 39 of the Constitution.	None
For achieving the needs of a developing economy in conformity with the national policy and objectives, the resources of all the banks  foreign as well as Indian  are inadequate.	None
Of the total deposits with commercial banks 27 per cent are with the State Bank of India and its subsidiaries the named commercial banks of which the undertaking is taken over hold approximately 56 per cent of the deposits.	None
The remaining 17 per cent of the deposits are shared by the foreign banks and the other scheduled and nonscheduled commercial banks.	None
83 per cent of the total resources may obviously not meet wholly or even substantially the needs of development of the economy.	None
84.	None
In support of the plea that there is a reasonable relation between the differentia  ground for making the distinction between the named banks and the other banks  India and foreign  and the object of the Act it is urged that the policy of the Union is to control the concentration of private economic resources to ensure achievement of the directive principles of State policy, and for that purpose, selection has been made with an eye, inter alia, to the magnitude and concentration of the economic resources of such enterprises for inclusion in such law as would be essential or substantially conducive to the achievement of the national objectives and policy.	Reasoning
It is apparently claimed that the object of the Government  not of the statute  is to acquire ultimately all banking institutions, but the 14 named banks are selected for acquisition because they have larger business and wider coverage in comparison with other banks not selected, and had also larger organization, better managerial resources and employees better trained and equipped.	Reasoning
These are primarily grounds for classification and not for explaining the relation between the classification and the object of the Act.	Reasoning
But in the absence of any reliable data, we do not think it necessary to express an opinion on the question whether selection of the undertaking of some out of many banking institutions, for compulsory acquisition, is liable to be struck down as hostile discrimination, on the ground that there is no reasonable relation between the differentia and the object of the Act which cannot be substantially served even by the acquisition of the undertakings of all the banks out of which the selection is made.	Reasoning
85.	None
It is claimed that the depositors with the named banks have also a grievance.	Reasoning
Those depositors who had made longterm deposits, taking into account the confidence they had in the management of the banks and the service they rendered, are now called upon to trust the management of a statutory corporation not selected by them, without an opportunity of being placed in the same position in which they would have been if they were permitted to transfer their deposits elsewhere.	Reasoning
The argument is based on several imponderables and does not require any detailed consideration.	Reasoning
86.	None
But two other grounds in support of the plea of impairment of the guarantee of equality clause require to be noticed.	Reasoning
The fourteen named banks are prohibited from carrying on banking business  a disability for which there is no rational explanation.	Reasoning
Banks other than the named banks may carry on banking business in India and abroad new banks may be floated for carrying on banking business, but the named banks are prohibited from carrying on banking business.	Reasoning
Each named bank had, even as claimed on behalf of the Union, by its superior management established an extensive business organization, and each bank had deposits exceeding Rs. 50 crores.	Reasoning
The undertakings of the banks are taken over and they are prohibited from doing banking business.	Reasoning
In the affidavit filed on behalf of the Union no serious attempt is made to explain why the named banks should be specially selected for being subjected to this disability.	Reasoning
87.	None
The petitioner also contended that the classification is made on a wholly irrational ground, viz., penalizing efficiency and good management, for the major fourteen banks had made a sustained effort and had exceeded the Reserve Bank target and had fully complied with the directives under the social control legislation.	Reasoning
This, it is said, is a reversal of the policy underlying Section 36 AE of the Banking Regulation Act under which inefficient and recalcitrant banks are contemplated to be taken over by the Government.	Reasoning
We need express no opinion on this part of the argument.	Reasoning
But the petitioner is on firm ground in contending that when after acquiring the assets, undertaking, organization, goodwill and the names of the named banks they are prohibited from carrying on banking business, whereas other banks Indian as well as foreign  are permitted to carry on banking business, a flagrantly hostile discrimination is practised.	Reasoning
Section 15 (2) of the Act which by the clearest implication prohibits the named banks from carrying on banking business is, therefore, liable to be struck down.	Reasoning
It is immaterial whether the entire subsection (2) is struck down or as suggested by the AttorneyGeneral that only the words other than the business of banking in Section 15 (2) (e) be struck down.	Reasoning
Again, in considering the validity of Section 15 (2) (e) in its relation to the guarantee of freedom to carry on business other than banking, we have already pointed out that the named banks are also, (though theoretically competent) in substance prohibited from carrying on nonbanking business.	Reasoning
For reasons set out by us for holding that the restriction is unreasonable, it must also be held that the guarantee of equality is impaired by preventing the named banks carrying on the nonbanking business.	Reasoning
Protection of the guarantee under Article 31 (2) 88.	None
The guarantee under Article 31 (2) arises directly out of the restrictions imposed upon the power of the State to acquire private property, without the consent of the owner for a public purpose.	None
Upon the exercise of the power to acquire or requisition property, by clause (2) two restrictions are placed (a) power to acquire shall not be exercised save for a public purpose and (b) that it shall not be exercised save by authority of a law which provides for compensation for the property acquired or requisitioned, and fixes the amount of compensation or specifies the principles on which and the manner in which the compensation is to be determined and given.	None
Subclause (2A) in substance provides a definition of compulsory acquisition or requisitioning of property.	None
Existence of a public purpose and provision for giving compensation for compulsory acquisition of property of an individual are conditions of the exercise of the power.	None
If either condition be absent, the guarantee under Article 31 (2) is impaired, and the law providing for acquisition will be invalid.	None
But jurisdiction of the Court to question the law on the ground that compensation provided thereby is not adequate is, expressly excluded.	None
89.	None
In the case before us we need not express any opinion on the question whether a composite undertaking of two or more distinct lines of business may be acquired where there is a public purpose for acquisition of the assets of one or more lines of business, but not in respect of all the lines of business.	Reasoning
As we have already observed, there is no evidence that the named banks carried on nonbanking business, distinct from banking business, and in respect of such nonbanking business the banks owned distinct assets apart from the assets of the banking business.	Reasoning
90.	None
The law providing for acquisition must again either fix the amount of compensation or specify the principles on which, and the manner in which, the compensation is to be determined and given.	Reasoning
The owner whose property is compulsorily acquired is guaranteed the right to receive compensation and the amount of compensation must either be fixed by the law or be determined according to the principles and in the manner specified by the law.	Reasoning
The law which does not ensure the guarantee will, except where the grievance only is that the compensation provided by the law is inadequate, be declared void.	Reasoning
91.	None
The petitioner says that the expression compensation means a just equivalent in money of the property acquired and that the law providing for compulsory acquisition must aim at a just equivalent to the expropriated owner if the law so aims at, it will not be deemed to impair the guarantee merely on the ground that the compensation paid to the owner is inadequate.	Arguments of Petitioner
The AttorneyGeneral on the other hand says that compensation in Article 31 (2) does not mean a just equivalent, and it is not predicated of the validity of a law relating to compulsory acquisition that it must aim at awarding a just equivalent, for, if the law is not confiscatory, or the principles for determination of compensation are not irrelevant, the Courts cannot go into the property of such principles or adequacy or reasonableness of the compensation.	None
92.	None
Two questions immediately arise for determination.	Issue
What is the true meaning of the expression compensation as used in Article 31 (2), and what is the extent of the jurisdiction of the Court when the validity of a law providing for compulsory acquisition of property for a public purpose is challenged?	Issue
92A.	None
In its dictionary meaning compensation means anything given to make things equal in value anything given as an equivalent, to make amends for loss or damage.	None
In all States where the rule of law prevails, the right to compensation is guaranteed by the Constitution or regarded as inextricably involved in the right to property.	None
93.	None
By the 5th Amendment in the Constitution of the U. S. A. the right of eminent domain is expressly circumscribed by providing Nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.	None
Such a provision is to be found also in every State Constitution in the United States Lewis Eminent Domain, 3rd Edn., (pp. 2850).	None
The Japanese Constitution, 1946, by Article 25 provides a similar guarantee.	None
Under the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution, 1900, the Commonwealth Parliament is invested with the power of acquisition of property on just terms Section (57 XXXI).	None
94.	None
Under the Common Law of England, principles for payment of compensation for acquisition of property by the State are stated by Blackstone in his Commentaries on the Laws of England, 4th Edn., Vol. 1, at p. 109	None
So great moreover is the regard of the law for private property, that it will not authorise the least violation of it no, not even for the general good of the whole community.	None
Besides, the public good is in nothing more essentially interested, than in the protection of every individuals private rights, as modelled by the municipal law.	None
In this and similar cases, the legislature alone can, and indeed frequently does interpose, and compel the individual to acquiesce.	None
But how does it interpose and compel?	None
Not by absolutely stripping the subject of his property in an arbitrary manner but giving him a full indemnification and equivalent for the injury thereby sustained.	None
The public is now considered as an individual, treating with an individual for an exchange.	None
All that the legislature does, is to oblige the owner to alienate his possession for a reasonable price The British Parliament is supreme and its powers are not subject to any constitutional limitations.	None
But the British parliament has rarely, if at all, exercised power to take property without payment of the cash value of the property taken.	None
In AttorneyGeneral v. De Keysers Royal Hotel, 1920 AC 508, the House of Lords held that the Crown is not entitled as of right either by virtue of its prerogative or under any statute, to take possession of the land or building of a subject for administrative purposes in connection with the defence of the realm, without compensation for their use and occupation.	None
95.	None
Under the Government of India Act, 1935, by Section 299 (2) it was enacted that Neither the Federal or a Provincial Legislature shall have power to make any law authorising the compulsory acquisition for public purposes of any land, or any commercial or industrial undertaking, or any interest in, or in any company owning, any commercial or industrial undertaking, unless the law provides for the payment of compensation for the property acquired and either fixes the amount of the compensation, or specifies the principles on which, and the manner in which, it is to be determined.	None
Article 31 (2) before it was amended by the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955, followed substantially the same pattern.	None
96.	None
Prior to the amendment of Article 31 (2) this Court interpreted the expression compensation as meaning full indemnification.	None
Patanjali Sastri, C. J., in State of West Bengal v. Mrs. Bela Banerjee, (1954)	None
SCR 558 (AIR 1954 SC 170 ) in interpreting the guarantee under Article 31 (2), speaking on behalf of the Court observed While it is true that the legislature is given the discretionary powers of laying down the principles which should govern the determination of the amount to be given to the owner for the property appropriated, such principles must ensure that what is determined as payable must be compensation that is, a just equivalent of what the owner has been deprived of.	None
Within the limits of this basic requirement of full indemnification of the expropriated owner, the Constitution allows free play to the legislative judgment as to what principles, should guide the determination of the amount payable.	None
Whether such principles take into account all the elements which make up the true value of the property appropriated and exclude matters which are to be neglected, is a justifiable issue to be adjudicated by the Court.	None
In the view of the learned Chief Justice the expression just equivalent meant full indemnification and the expropriated owner was on that account entitled to the market value of the property on the date of deprivation of the property.	None
This case was decided under a statute enacted before the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act 1955.	None
The principle of that case was approved in N. B. Jeejeebhoy v. Asst.	None
Collector, Thana Prant, Thana, (1965) 1	None
SCR 636 (AIR 1965 SC 1096 )  a case under the Land Acquisition (Bombay Amendment) Act, 1948, and invoking the guarantee under Section 299 (2) of the Government of India Act, 1935 in Union of India v. Kamlabai Harjiwandas, (1968) 1 SCR 463 (AIR 1968 SC 377 ) a case under the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 and in State of Madras v. D. Namasivaya Mudaliar, (1964) 6	None
SCR 936 (AIR 1965 SC 190 )  a case arising under the Madras Lignite Acquisition of Land Act, 1953.	None
97.	None
Article 31 (2) was amended with effect from April 27, 1955, by the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955.	None
By subclause (2A) a definition of acquisition or requisitioning of properties was supplied and certain other formal changes were also made, with the important reservation that no such law shall be called in question in any Court on the ground that the compensation provided by that law is not adequate.	None
In cases arising under statutes enacted after April 27, 1955, this Court held that the expression compensation in Article 31 (2) as amended continued to mean just equivalent as under the unamended clause P. Vajravelu Mudaliar v. Special Deputy Collector, Madras, (1965)	None
1 SCR 614 (AIR 1965 SC 1017 )  under the Land Acquisition (Madras Amendment) Act 23 of 1961 Union of India v. Metal Corporation of India Ltd., (1967) 1	None
SCR 255 (AIR 1967 SC 637 ) under the Metal Corporation of India (Acquisition of Undertakings) Act 44 of 1955 Lachhman Dass v. Municipal Committee, Jalalabad, AIR 1969 SC 1125 under Sec. 20B of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act 1954, as amended by Act 2 of 1960.	None
In Ranojirao Shindes case, (1968) 3 SCR 489 (AIR 1968 SC 1053 ) dealing with a case under the Madhya Pradesh Abolition of Cash Grants Act 16 of 1963 it was observed that the compensation referred to in Article 31 (2) is a just equivalent of the value of the property taken.	None
But this Court in State of Gujarat v. Shantilal Mangaldas, AIR 1969 SC 634 observed that compensation payable for compulsory acquisition of property is not, by the application of any principles, determinable as a precise sum, and by calling it a just or fair equivalent, no definiteness could be attached thereto that valuation of lands, buildings and incorporeal rights has to be made on the application of different principles, e.g., capitalization of net income at appropriate rates, reinstatement, determination of original value reduced by depreciation, breakup value of properties which had outgrown their utility that the rules relating to determination of value of lands, buildings, machinery and other classes of property differ, and the application of several methods or principles lead to widely divergent amounts, and since compensation is not capable of precise determination by the application of recognized rules, by qualifying the expression compensation by the adjective just, the determination was made more controversial.	None
It was observed that the Parliament amended the Constitution by the Fourth Amendment Act declaring that adequacy of compensation fixed by the Legislature as amended according to the principles specified by the Legislature for determination will not be justiciable.	None
It was then observed that The right declared by the Constitution guarantees that compensation shall be given before a person is compulsorily expropriated of his property for a public purpose.	None
What is fixed as compensation by statute, or by the application of principles specified for determination of compensation is guaranteed, it does not mean, however, that something fixed or determined by the application of specified principle which is illusory or can in no sense be regarded as compensation must be upheld by the Courts for, to do so, would be to grant charter of arbitrariness and permit a device to defeat the constitutional guarantee.	None
But compensation fixed or determined on principles specified by the Legislature cannot be permitted to be challenged on the somewhat indefinite plea that it is not a just or fair equivalent.	None
Principles may be challenged on the ground that they are irrelevant to the determination of compensation, but not on the plea that what is awarded as a result of the application of those principles is not just or fair compensation.	None
A challenge to a statute that the principles specified by it do not award a just equivalent will be in clear violation of the constitutional declaration that inadequacy of compensation provided is not justiciable.	None
98.	None
This Court held in Mrs. Bela Banerjees case, 1954 SCR 558 (AIR 1954 SC 170 ) that by the guarantee of the right to compensation for compulsory acquisition under Article 31 (2), before it was amended by the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, the owner was entitled to receive a just equivalent or full indemnification.	None
In P. Vajravelu Mudaliars case, (1965) 1	None
SCR 614 (AIR 1965 SC 1017 )	Reasoning
this Court held that notwithstanding the amendment of Article 31 (2) by the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, and even after the addition of the words and no such law shall be called in question in any Court on the ground that the compensation provided by that law is not adequate, the expression compensation occurring in Article 31 (2) after the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act continued to have the same meaning as it had in Section 299 (2) of the Government of India Act, 1935, and Article 31 (2) before it was amended, viz., just equivalent or full indemnification.	None
99.	None
There was apparently no dispute that Article 31 (2) before and after it was amended guaranteed a right to compensation for compulsory acquisition of property and that by giving to the owner, for compulsory acquisition of his property, compensation which was illusory, or determined by the application of principles which were irrelevant, the constitutional guarantee of compensation was not complied with.	None
There was difference of opinion on one matter between the decisions in P. Vajravelu Mudaliars case, (1965) 1	None
SCR 614 (AIR 1965 SC 1017 ) and Shantilal Mangaldass case, AIR 1969 SC 634 .	None
In the former case it was observed that the constitutional guarantee was satisfied only if a just equivalent of the property was given to the owner in the latter case it was held that compensation being itself incapable of any precise determination, no definite connotation could be attached thereto by calling it just equivalent or full indemnification, and under Acts enacted after the amendment of Article 31 (2) it is not open to the Court to call in question the law providing for compensation on the ground that it is inadequate, whether the amount of compensation is fixed by the law or is be determined according to principles specified therein.	None
It was observed in the judgment in Shantilal Mangaldas case, AIR 1969 SC 634 at p. 651	None
Whatever may have been the meaning of the expression compensation under the unamended Article 31 (2), when the Parliament has expressly enacted under the amended clause that no such law shall be called in question in any Court on the ground that the compensation provided by that law is not adequate, it was intended clearly to exclude from the jurisdiction of the Court an enquiry that what is fixed or determined by the application of the principles specified as compensation does not award to the owner a just equivalent of what he is deprived.	None
In P. Vajravelu Mudaliars case, (1965) 1	None
SCR 614 (AIR 1965 SC 1017 )	Reasoning
again the Court in dealing with the effect of the amendment observed (at p. 627) (of SCR) (At. p.1024 of AIR)	None
Therefore, a more reasonable interpretation is that neither the principles prescribing the just equivalent nor the just equivalent can be questioned by the Court on the ground of the inadequacy of the compensation fixed or arrived at by the working of the principles.	None
To illustrate a law is made to acquire a house its value at the time of acquisition has to be fixed there are many modes of valuation, namely, estimate by an engineer, value reflected by comparable sales, capitalisation of rent and similar others.	None
The application of different principles may lead to different results.	None
The adoption of one principle may give a higher value and the adoption of another principle may give a lesser value.	None
But nonetheless they are principles on which and the manner in which compensation is determined.	None
The Court cannot obviously say that the law should have adopted one principle and not the other for it relates only to the question of adequacy.	None
On the other hand, if a law lays down principles which are not relevant to the property acquired, or to the value of the property at or about the time it is acquired, it may be said that they are not principles contemplated by Article 31 (2) of the Constitution.	None
The Court then applied that principle to the facts of the case and held that the Land Acquisition (Madras Amendment) Act, 1961, which provided that  (i) the owner of land acquired for housing shall get only the value of the land at the date of the notification under Section 4 (1) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, or an amount equivalent to the average market value of the land during the last five years immediately preceding such date, whichever was less (ii) the owner shall get a solatium of only 5 per cent, and not 15 per cent, and (iii) in valuing the land acquired any increase in its suitability or adaptability for any use other than the use to which the land was put at the date of the notification under Section 4 (1) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, shall not be taken into consideration did not impair the right to receive compensation.	None
The Court observed at p. 631 (of SCR) (At p. 1026 of AIR)	None
In awarding compensation if the potential value of the land is excluded, it cannot be said that the compensation awarded is the just equivalent of what the owner has been deprived of.	None
But such an exclusion only pertains to the method of ascertaining the compensation.	None
One of the elements that should properly be taken into account in fixing the compensation is omitted it results in the adequacy of the compensation, We, therefore, hold that the Amending Act does not offend Article 31 (2) of the Constitution.	None
The compensation provided by the Madras Act, according to the principles specified, was not the full market value at the date of acquisition.	None
It did not amount to full indemnification of the owner the Court still held that the law did not offend the guarantee under Article 31 (2) as amended, because the objection was only as to the adequacy of compensation.	None
In Shantilal Mangaldas case, AIR 1969 SC 634 , the Court held that the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, Article 31 (2) guarantees a right to receive compensation for loss of property compulsorily acquired, but compensation does not mean a just equivalent of the property.	None
If compensation is provided by law to be paid and the compensation is not illusory or is not determinable by the application of irrelevant principles, the law is not open to challenge on the ground that compensation fixed or determined to be paid is inadequate.	None
100.	None
Both the lines of thought which converge in the ultimate result, support the view that the principle specified by the law for determination of compensation is beyond the pale of challenge, if it is relevant to the determination of compensation and is a recognised principle applicable in the determination of compensation for property compulsorily acquired and the principle is appropriate in determining the value of the class of property sought to be acquired.	Reasoning
On the application of the view expressed in P. Vajravelu Mudaliars case, (1965) 1 SCR 614 (AIR 1965 SC 1017 ) or in Shantilal Mangaldass case, AIR 1969 SC 634 , the Act, in our judgment, is liable to be struck down as it fails to provide to the expropriated banks compensation determined according to relevant principles.	Reasoning
Section 4 of the Act transfers the undertaking of every named bank to and vests it in the corresponding new bank.	Reasoning
Section 6(1) provides for payment of compensation for acquisition of the undertaking, and the compensation is to be determined in accordance with the principles specified in the Second Schedule.	Reasoning
Section 6 (2) then provides that though separate valuations are made in respect of the several matters specified in Sch.	Reasoning
II of the Act, the amount of compensation shall be deemed to be a single compensation.	Reasoning
Compensation being the equivalent in terms of money of the property compulsorily acquired, the principle for determination of compensation is intended to award to the expropriated owner the value of the property acquired.	Reasoning
The science of valuation of property recognizes several principles or methods for determining the value to be paid as compensation to the owner for loss of his property there are different methods applicable to different classes of property in the determination of the value to be paid as recompense for loss of his property.	Reasoning
A method appropriate to the determination of value of one class of property may be wholly inappropriate in determining the value of another class of property.	Reasoning
If an appropriate method or principle for determination of compensation is applied, the fact that by the application of another principle which is also appropriate, a different value is reached, the Court will not be justified in entertaining the contention that out of the two appropriate methods, one more generous to the owner should have been applied by the Legislature.	Reasoning
101.We are unable to hold that a principle specified by the Parliament for determining compensation of the property to be acquired is conclusive.	None
If that view be accepted, the Parliament will be invested with a charter of arbitrariness and by abuse of legislative process, the constitutional guarantee of the right to compensation may be severely impaired.	Reasoning
The principle specified must be appropriate to the determination of compensation for the particular class of property sought to be acquired.	Reasoning
If several principles are appropriate and one is selected for determination of the value of the property to be acquired, selection of that principle to the exclusion of other principles is not open to challenge, for the selection must be left to the wisdom of the Parliament.	Reasoning
102.	None
The broad object underlying the principle of valuation is to award to the owner the equivalent of his property with its existing advantages and its potentialities.	Reasoning
Where there is an established market for the property acquired the problem of valuation presents little difficulty.	Reasoning
Where there is no established market for the property, the object of the principle of valuation must be to pay to the owner for what he has lost, including the benefit of advantages present as well as future, without taking into account the urgency of acquisition, the disinclination of the owner to part with the property, and the benefit which the acquirer is likely to obtain by the acquisition.	Reasoning
Under the Land Acquisition Acts compensation paid is the value to the owner together with all its potentialities and its special adaptability if the land is peculiarly suitable for a particular use, if it gives an enhanced value at the date of acquisition.	Reasoning
103.The important methods of determination of compensation are  (i) market value determined from sales of comparable properties, proximate in time to the date of acquisition, similarly situate, and possessing the same or similar advantages and subject to the same or similar disadvantages.	None
Market value is the price the property may fetch in the open market if sold by a willing seller unaffected by the special needs of a particular purchase (ii) capitalization of the net annual profit out of the property at a rate equal in normal cases to the return from giltedged securities.	Reasoning
Ordinarily value of the property may be determined by capitalizing the net annual value obtainable in the market at the date of the notice of acquisition, (iii) where the property is a house, expenditure likely to be incurred for constructing a similar house, and reduced by the depreciation for the number of years since it was constructed (iv) principle of reinstatement, where it is satisfactorily established that reinstatement in some other place is bona fide intended, there being no general market for the property for the purpose for which it is devoted (the purpose being a public purpose) and would have continued to be devoted, but for compulsory acquisition.	Reasoning
Here compensation will be assessed on the basis of reasonable cost of reinstatement (v) when the property has outgrown its utility and it is reasonably incapable of economic use, it may be valued as land plus the breakup value of the structure.	Reasoning
But the fact that the acquirer does not intend to use the property for which it is used at the time of acquisition and desires to demolish it or use it for other purpose is irrelevant and (vi) the property to be acquired has ordinarily to be valued as a unit.	Reasoning
Normally an aggregate of the value of different components will not be the value of the unit.	Reasoning
104.	None
These are, however, not the only methods.	Reasoning
The method of determining the value of property by the application of an appropriate multiplier to the net annual income or profit is a satisfactory method of valuation of lands with buildings, only if the land is fully developed, i.e., it has been put to full use legally permissible and economically justifiable, and the income out of the property is the normal commercial and not a controlled return or a return depreciated on account of special circumstances.	Reasoning
If the property is not fully developed, or the return is not commercial the method may yield a misleading result.	Reasoning
105.The expression property in Article 31 (2) as in Entry 42 of List III is wide enough to include an undertaking, and an undertaking subject to obligations may be compulsorily acquired under a law made in exercise of power under Entry 42,	None
List III.The language of the amended clause (2) of Article 31 compared with the language of the clause before it was amended by the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act leaves no room for doubt.	None
Before it was amended, the guarantee covered the acquisition of property movable or immovable including, any interest in, or in any company owing any commercial or industrial undertaking.	None
In the amended clause only the word property is used, deleting the expressions which did not add to its connotation.	None
But when an undertaking is acquired as a unit the principles for determination of compensation must be relevant and also appropriate to the acquisition of the entire undertaking.	None
In determining the appropriate rate of the net profits the return from giltedged securities may, unless it is otherwise found unsuitable, be adopted.	None
106.	None
Compensation to be determined under the Act is for acquisition of the undertaking, but the Act instead of providing for valuing the entire undertaking as a unit provides for determining the value of some only of the components, which constitute the undertaking, and reduced by the liabilities.	Reasoning
It also provides different methods of determining compensation in respect of each such component.	Reasoning
This method for determination of compensation is prima facie not a method relevant to the determination of compensation for acquisition of the undertaking.	Reasoning
Aggregate of the value of components is not necessarily the value of the entirety of a unit of property acquired, especially when the property is a going concern, with an organized business.	Reasoning
On that ground alone, acquisition of the undertaking is liable to be declared invalid, for it impairs the constitutional guarantee for payment of compensation for acquisition of property by law.	Reasoning
Even if it be assumed that the aggregate value of the different components will be equal to the value of the undertaking of the named bank as a going concern the principles specified, in our judgment, do not give a true recompense to the banks for the loss of the undertaking.	Reasoning
Schedule II by clause (1) provides The compensation x	None
x x in respect of the acquisition of the undertaking thereof shall be an amount equal to the sum total of the value of the assets of the existing bank as on the commencement of this Act, calculated in accordance with the provisions of Part I, less the sum total of the liabilities computed and obligations of the existing bank calculated in accordance with the provisions of Part II.	None
For the purpose of Part I assets mean the total of the heads (a) to (h) and the expression liabilities is defined as meaning the total amount of all outside liabilities existing at the commencement of the Act and contingent liabilities which the corresponding new bank may reasonably be expected to be required to meet out of its own resources.	None
Compensation payable to the named banks is accordingly the aggregate of some of the components of the undertaking, reduced by the aggregate of liabilities determined in the manner provided in the Schedule.	None
It appears clear that in determining the compensation for undertaking  (i) certain important classes of assets are omitted from the heads (a) to (h) (ii) the method specified for valuation of lands and buildings is not relevant to determination of compensation, and the value determined thereby in certain circumstances is illusory as compensation and (iii) the principle for determination of the aggregate value of liabilities is also irrelevant.	None
107.	None
The undertaking of a banking company taken over as a going concern would ordinarily include the goodwill and the value of the unexpired period of longterm leases in the prevailing conditions in urban areas.	Reasoning
But goodwill of the banks is not one of the items in the assets in the Schedule, and in Cl.	Reasoning
(f) though provision is made for including a part of the premium paid in respect of leasehold properties proportionate to the unexpired period, no value of the leasehold interest for the unexpired period is given.	Reasoning
108.	None
Goodwill of a business is an intangible asset it is the whole advantage of the reputation and connections formed with the customers together with the circumstances making the connection durable.	None
It is that component of the total value of the undertaking which is attributable to the ability of the concern to earn profits over a course of years or in excess of normal amounts because of its reputation, location and other features Trego v. Hunt, 1896 AC 7.	None
Goodwill of an undertaking therefore is the value of the attraction to customers arising from the name, and reputation for skill, integrity, efficient business management, or efficient service.	None
109.	None
Business of banking thrives on its reputation for probity of its dealings, efficiency of the service it provides, courtesy and promptness of the staff, and above all the confidence it inspires among the customers for the safety of the funds entrusted.	Reasoning
The Reserve Bank, it is true, exercises stringent control over the transactions which banks carry on in India.	Reasoning
Existence of these powers and exercise thereof may and do ensure to a certain extent the safety of the founds entrusted to the Banks,But the business which a bank attracts still depends upon the confidence which the depositor reposes in the management.	Reasoning
A bank is not like a grocers shop a customer does not extend his patronage to a bank merely because it has a branch easily accessible to him.	Reasoning
Outside the public sector, there are 50 Indian scheduled banks, 13 foreign banks, besides 16 nonscheduled banks.	Reasoning
The deposits in the banks not taken over under the Act range between Rs. 400 crores and a few lakhs of rupees.	Reasoning
Deposits attracted by the major private commercial banks are attributable largely to the personal goodwill of the management.	Reasoning
The regulatory provisions of the Banking Companies Act and the control which the Reserve Bank exercises over the banks may to a certain extent reduce the chance of the resources of the bank being misused, but a banking company for its business still largely depends upon the reputation of its management.	Reasoning
We are unable to agree with the contention raised in the Unions affidavit that a banking establishment has no goodwill, nor are we able to accept the plea raised by the Attorney General that the value of the goodwill of bank is insignificant and it may be ignored in valuing the undertaking as a going concern.	Reasoning
110.	None
Under clause (f) of Schedule II provision is made for valuing a proportionate part of the premium paid in respect of all leasehold properties to the unexpired duration of the leases, but there is no provision made for payment of compensation for the unexpired period of the leases.	Reasoning
Having regard to the present day conditions it is clear that with rent control on leases operating in various States the unexpired period of leases has also a substantial value.	None
111.The value determined by excluding important components of the undertaking, such as the goodwill and value of the unexpired period of leases, will not, in our judgment, be compensation for the undertaking.	None
112.	None
The other defects in the method of valuation, it was claimed by Mr. Palkhivala, are the inclusion of certain assets such as cash, choses in action and similar assets, which under the law are not regarded as capable of being acquired as property.	Arguments of Petitioner
This inclusion, it is contended, vitiates the scheme of acquisition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under clause (a) of Part IAssets  the amount of cash in hand and with the Reserve Bank and the State Bank of India (including foreign currency notes which shall be converted at the market rate of exchange) are liable to be included.	None
Cash in hand is not an item which is capable of being compulsorily acquired, not because it is not property,but because taking over the cash and providing for acquisition thereof, compensation payable at some future date amounts to levying a forced loan in the guise of acquisition.	Reasoning
This Court in State of Bihar v. Sir Kameshwar Singh of Darbhanga, 1952 SCR 889 (AIR 1952 SC 252 ) held that cash and choses in action are not capable of compulsory acquisition.	Reasoning
That view was repeated by this Court in Bombay Dyeing and Manufacturing Co., Ltd. v. State of Bombay, 1958 SCR 1122 (AIR 1958 SC 328 ) and Ranojirao Shindes case, (1968) 3	Reasoning
SCR 489 (AIR 1968 SC 1053 )	Reasoning
.We	Reasoning
do not propose to express our opinion on the question whether in adopting the method of determination of compensation, by aggregating the value of assets which constitute the undertaking, the rule that cash and choses in action are incapable of compulsory acquisition may be applied.	Reasoning
113.	None
Under Item (e) the value of any land or buildings is one of the assets.	Reasoning
The first Explanation provides that for the purpose of this clause (clause (e) )	Reasoning
value shall be deemed to be the market value of the land or buildings, but where such market value exceeds the ascertained value determined in the manner specified in Explanation 2, the value shall be deemed to mean such ascertained value.	Reasoning
The value of the land and buildings is therefore the market value or the ascertained value whichever is less.	Reasoning
Under Explanation 2, clause (1) ascertained value in respect of buildings which are wholly occupied on the date of the commencement of the Act is twelve times the amount of the annual rent or the rent for which the building may reasonably be expected to be let from year to year reduced by certain specific items.	Reasoning
This provision, in our judgment, does not lay down a relevant principle of valuation of buildings.	Reasoning
In the first place, making a provision for payment of capitalised annual rental at twelve times the amount of rent cannot reasonably be regarded as payment of compensation having regard to the conditions prevailing in the money market.	Reasoning
Capitalization of annual rental which is generally based on controlled rent under some State Acts at rates pegged down to the rates prevailing in 1940 and on the footing that investment in building yields 8 1/3 per cent.	Reasoning
return furnishes a wholly misleading result which cannot be called compensation.	Reasoning
Value of immovable property has spiralled during the last few years and the rental which is mostly controlled does not bear any reasonable relation to the economic return from property.	Reasoning
If the building is partly occupied by the Bank itself and partly by a tenant, the ascertained value will be twelve times the annual rental received, and the rent for which the remaining part occupied by the Bank may reasonably be expected to be let out.	Reasoning
By the Act the corresponding new banks take over vacant possession of the lands and buildings belonging to the named banks.	Reasoning
There is in the present conditions considerable value attached to vacant business premises in urban areas.	Reasoning
True compensation for vacant premises can be ascertained by finding out the market value of comparable premises at or about the time of the vesting of the undertaking and not by capitalising the rental  actual or estimated.	Reasoning
Vacant premises have a considerably larger value than business premises which are occupied by tenants.	Reasoning
The Act instead of taking into account the value of the premises as vacant premises adopted a method which cannot be regarded as relevant.	Reasoning
Prima facie, this would not give any reliable basis for determining the compensation for the land and buildings.	Reasoning
114.	None
Again in determining the compensation under clause (e), the annual rent is reduced by several outgoings and the balance is capitalized.	Reasoning
The first item of deduction is onesixth of the amount thereof on account of maintenance and repairs.	Reasoning
Whether the building is old or new, whether it requires or does not requires maintenance or repairs 16 2/3 per cent.	Reasoning
of the total amount of rent is liable to be deducted towards maintenance and repairs.	Reasoning
The vice of items (v) and (vi) of clause (1) of Explanation 2 is that they provide for deduction of a capital charge out of the annual rental which according to no rational system of valuing property by capitalization of the rental method is admissible.	Reasoning
Under item (v) where the building is subject to a mortgage or other capital charge, the amount of interest on such mortgage or charge, and under item (vi) where the building has been acquired, constructed, repaired, renewed or reconstructed with borrowed capital, the amount of any interest payable on such capital are liable to be deducted from the annual rental for determining the ascertained value.	Reasoning
These encumbrances are also liable to be deducted under the head liabilities.	Reasoning
A simple illustration may suffice to pinpoint the inequity of the method.	Reasoning
In respect of a building owned by a bank of the value of Rs. 10 lakhs and mortgaged for say Rs. 7,50,000 interest at the rate of 8 per cent (which may be regarded as the current commercial rate) would amount to Rs.	Reasoning
60,000.The estimated annual rental which would ordinarily not exceed Rs. 60,000 has under clause (e) to be reduced in the first instance by other outgoing.	Reasoning
The assets would show a minus figure as value of the building, and on the liabilities side the entire amount of mortgage liability would be debited.	Reasoning
The method provided by the Act permits the annual interest on the amount of the encumbrance to be deducted before capitalization, and the capitalized value is again reduced by the amount of the encumbrance.	Reasoning
In effect, a single debt is, in determining the compensation debited twice, first in computing the value of assets, and again, in computing the liabilities.	Reasoning
115.	None
We are unable to accept the argument raised by the AttorneyGeneral that under the head liabilities in Part II only those mortgages or capital charges in respect of which the amount has fallen due are liable to be included on the liabilities side.	Reasoning
Under the head liabilities the total amount of all outside liabilities existing at the commencement of the Act, and all contingent liabilities which the corresponding new bank may reasonably be expected to be required to meet out of its own resources on or after the date of commencement of the Act will have to be included.	Reasoning
When even contingent liabilities are included in the total amount of all outside liabilities, a mortgage debt or capital charge must be taken into account in determining the liabilities by which the aggregate of the value of the assets is to be reduced even if the period of the mortgage or capital charge has not expired.	Reasoning
The liability under a mortgage or capital charge exists whether the period stipulated under the deed creating the encumbrance has expired of not.	Reasoning
116.	None
Under Cl.	None
(2) of Explain.	None
2, it is provided that in the case of building which are partly occupied, the valuation shall be made on the basis of the plinth area occupied and multiplying it by the proportion which that area bears to the total plinth area of the buildings.	None
The use of the expression plinth area appears to be unfortunate.	None
What was intended is floor area.	None
It the expression plinth area is understood to mean floor area no fault may be found with the principle underlying clause (2) of Explanation 2. 117.	None
Under Clause (3) of Explanation 2, where there is open land which has no building erected thereon, or which is not appurtenant to any building, the value is to be determined with reference to the prices at which sales or purchases of similar or comparable lands have been made during the period of three years immediately preceding the date of the commencement of the Act.	Reasoning
Whereas the value of the open land is to be the market value, the value of the land with building to be taken into account is the value determined by the method of capitalization of annual rent or market value whichever is less.	Reasoning
The Explanation does not take into account whether the construction on the land fully develops the land, and the rental is economic.	Reasoning
118.	None
We are, therefore, unable to hold that item (e) specifies a relevant principle for determination of compensation for lands and buildings.	Reasoning
It is not disputed that the major Banks occupy their own buildings in important towns, and investments in buildings constitute a part of the assets of the Banks which cannot be treated as negligible.	Reasoning
By providing a method of valuation of buildings which is not relevant the amount determined cannot be regarded as compensation.	Reasoning
119.	None
We have already referred to item (f) under which a proportionate part of the premium paid is liable to be included in the assets but not the value for the unexpired period of the leases.	None
Item (h) provides for the inclusion of the market or realizable value, as may be appropriate, of other assets appearing on the books of the bank, no value being allowed for capitalized expenses, such as shareselling commission, organizational expenses and brokerage, losses incurred and similar other items.	None
120.	None
Mr. Palkhivala urged that certain assets which do not appear in the books of account still have substantial value and they are omitted from consideration in computing the aggregate of the value of assets.	Reasoning
Counsel said that every bank is permitted to have secret reserve and those secret reserves may not appear in the books of account of the banks.	Reasoning
We are unable to accept that contention.	Reasoning
A banking company is entitled to withhold from the balancesheet its secret reserve, but there must be some account in respect of these secret reserves.	Reasoning
The expression books of the Bank may not be equated with balancesheets or the books of account only.	Reasoning
121.	None
The expression liabilities existing at the commencement of the Act includes all debts due or to become due.	None
Under the head liabilities contingent liabilities which the corresponding new bank may reasonably be expected to be required to meet out of its own resources on or after the date of commencement of the Act are to be debited.	Reasoning
The clause is body drafted.	None
The present value of the contingent liabilities at the date of the acquisition and not the total contingent liabilities may on any rational system of accounting be debited against the aggregate value of the assets.	None
For instance, if a banking company is liable to pay to its employees gratuity, the present value of the liability to pay gratuity at the date of the acquisition made on actual calculation may alone be debited, and not the total face value of the liability.	None
122.	None
The AttorneyGeneral contended that even if the goodwill of a banking company is of substantial value, and inclusion of the goodwill is not provided for, or the value of buildings and lands is not the market value or that there is a departure from recognized principles for determination of compensation, the deficiencies in the Act result merely in inadequate compensation within the meaning of Article 31 (2) of the Constitution and the Act cannot on that account be challenged as invalid.	Reasoning
We are unable to agree with that contention.	Reasoning
The constitution guarantees a right to compensationan equivalent in money of the property compulsorily acquired.	Reasoning
That is the basic guarantee.	Reasoning
The law must therefore provide compensation, and for determining compensation relevant principles must be specified if the principles are not relevant the ultimate value determined is not compensation.	Reasoning
123.	None
The AttorneyGeneral also contended that if in consequence of the adoption of the method of valuation, an amount determined as compensation is not illusory, the Courts have no jurisdiction to question the validity of the law, unless the law is expropriatory, for, in the ultimate analysis the grievance relates to the adequacy of compensation.	Reasoning
He contended that the exclusion of one of the elements in fixing the compensation, or application of a principle which is not a recognized principle, results in inadequate price, and is not open to challenge, and relied in support upon the observations made in P. Vajravelu Mudaliars case, (1965) 1	Reasoning
SCR (AIR 1965 SC 1017 )	Reasoning
(at p. 631 of SCR) (at p. 1026 of AIR) which we have already quoted in another context in relation to the challenge to the validity of the Land Acquisition (Madras Amendment) Act, 1961, which excluded in determining compensation the potential value of the land.	Reasoning
The Court held that exclusion of potential value amounted to giving inadequate compensation and was not a fraud on power.	Reasoning
The principle of that case has no application when valuation of an undertaking is sought to be made by breaking it up into several heads of assets and important heads are excluded and others valued by the application of irrelevant principles, or principles of which the only claim for acceptance is their novelty.	Reasoning
The Constitution guarantees that the expropriated owner must be given the value of his property, i. e., what may be regarded reasonably as compensation for loss of the property and that such compensation should not be illusory and not reached by the application of irrelevant principles.	Reasoning
In our view, determination of compensation to be paid for the acquisition of an undertaking as a unit after awarding compensation for some items which go to make up the undertaking and omitting important items amounts to adopting an irrelevant principle in the determination of the value of the undertaking, and does not furnish compensation to the expropriated owner.	Reasoning
124.	None
The AttorneyGeneral contended that the total value of the undertaking of the named banks even calculated according to the method provided in Schedule II exceeded the total market value of the shares, and on that account there is no ground for holding that the law providing for compensation denies to the shareholders the guarantee of the right to compensation under Article 31 (2).	Reasoning
But there is no evidence on this part of the case.	None
125.	None
Compensation may be provided under a statute, otherwise than in the form of money it may be given as equivalent of money, e. g., a bond.	None
But in judging whether the law provides for compensation, the money value at the date of expropriation of what is given as compensation, must be considered.	None
If the rate of interest compared with the ruling commercial rate is low, it will reduce the present value of the bond.	None
The Constitution guarantees a right to compensationan equivalent of the property expropriated and the right to compensation cannot be converted into a loan on terms which do not fairly compare with the prevailing commercial terms.	None
If the statute in providing for compensation devises a scheme for payment of compensation by giving it in the form of bonds, and the present value of what is determined to be given is thereby substantially reduced, the statute impairs the guarantee of compensation.	None
126.A scheme for payment of compensation may take many forms.	None
If the present value of what is given reasonably approximates to what is determined as compensation according to the principles provided by the statute, no fault may be found.	Reasoning
But if the law seeks to convert the compensation determined into a forced loan, or to give compensation in the form of a bond of which the market value at the date of expropriation does not approximate the amount determined as compensation, the Court must consider whether what is given is in truth compensation which is inadequate, or that it is not compensation at all.	Reasoning
Since we are of the view that the scheme in Schedule II of the Act suffers from the vice that it does not award compensation according to any recognized principles, we need not dilate upon this matter further.	Reasoning
We need only observe that by giving to the expropriated owner compensation in bonds of the facevalue of the amount determined maturing after many years and carrying a certain rate of interest, the constitutional guarantee is not necessarily complied with.	Reasoning
If the market value of the bond is not approximately equal to the facevalue, the expropriated owner may raise a grievance that the guarantee under Article 31 (2) is impaired.	Reasoning
127.	None
We are of the view that by the method adopted for valuation of the undertaking, important items of assets have been excluded, and principles some of which are irrelevant and some not recognised are adopted.	Reasoning
What is determined by the adoption of the method adopted in Schedule II does not award to the named banks compensation for loss of their undertaking.	Reasoning
The ultimate result substantially impairs the guarantee of compensation, and on that account the Act is liable to be struck down.	Reasoning
IV.	None
Infringement of the guarantee of freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse under Article 301 128.	None
In the view we have taken the provisions relating to determination and payment of compensation for compulsory acquisition of the undertaking of the named banks impair the guarantee under Article 31 (2) of the Constitution, we do not deem it necessary to decide whether Act 22 of 1969 violates the guarantee of freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse in respect of the (1) agency business (2) business of guarantee and indemnity carried on by the named banks.	Reasoning
V. Validity of the retrospective operation given to Act 22 of 1969 by S. 1 (2) and Section 27 129.	None
The argument raised by Mr. Palkhivala that, even if the Act is within the competence of the Parliament and does not impair the fundamental rights under Articles 14, 19(1)(f) and (g), and 31(2) in their prospective operation, Section 1(2) and S. 27(2), (3) and (4) which give retrospective operation as from July 19, 1969, are invalid, need not also be considered.	Reasoning
130.	None
Nor does the argument about the validity of subsection (1) and (2) of Section 11 and Section 26 of the Act survive for consideration.	Reasoning
131.	None
Accordingly we hold that (a) the Act is within the legislative competence of the Parliament but (b) it makes hostile discrimination against the named banks in that it prohibits the named banks from carrying on banking business, whereas other Banks Indian and Foreignare permitted to carry on banking business, and even new Banks may be formed which may engage in banking business (c) it in reality restricts the named banks from carrying on business other than banking as defined in Section 5 (b) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and (d) that the Act violates the guarantee of compensation under Article 31 (2) in that it provides for giving certain amounts determined according to principles which are not relevant in the determination of compensation of the undertaking of the named banks and by the method prescribed the amounts so declared cannot be regarded as compensation.	Reasoning
132.Section 4 of the Act is a kingpin in the mechanism of the Act.	None
Section 4, 5 and 6 read with Schedule II provide for the statutory transfer and vesting of the undertaking of the named banks in the corresponding new banks and prescribe the method of determining compensation for expropriation of the undertaking.	Reasoning
Those provisions are, in our judgment, void as they impair the fundamental guarantee under Article 31 (2).	Reasoning
Sections 4, 5 and 6 and Schedule II are not severable from the rest of the Act.	Reasoning
The Act must, in its entirety, be declared void.	Reasoning
133.	None
Petitions Nos. 300 and 298 of 1969 are therefore allowed, and it is declared that the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act 22 of 1969 is invalid and the action taken or deemed to be taken in exercise of the powers under the Act is declared unathorised.	Decision
Petition No. 222 of 1969 is dismissed.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs in these three petitions.	Decision
134.	None
RAY, J.(Dissenting judgement)	None
There are 89 commercial banks operating in India.	None
Of these 89 banks 73 are Scheduled and 16 are nonScheduled banks.	Facts
The 73 Scheduled banks comprise State Bank with 7 subsidiaries aggregating 8, 15 foreign banks, 14 banks which are the subject matter of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Ordinance	Facts
No. 8 of 1969 (hereinafter referred to for the sake of brevity as the 1969 Ordinance) and the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act No. 22 of 1969 (hereinafter referred to for the sake of brevity as the 1969 Act) and 36 banks which are outside the scope of the 1969 Act.	Facts
The State Banks have 27 per cent of the aggregate deposit of all commercial banks and 32 per cent of the credit of all commercial banks.	Facts
The State Bank and its 7 subsidiaries have Rs. 1,239 crores including current account in the total deposit and the total credit of the State Bank and its subsidiaries is Rs. 1186 crores.	Facts
The 14 Scheduled Banks each of which has over Rs. 500 crores of deposit which are the subject matter of the 1969 Ordinance and the 1969 Act (hereinafter referred to for the sake of brevity as the 14 banks) and have Rs. 2632 crores of deposit and the credit amounts to Rs. 1829 crores.	Facts
In other words, these 14 banks have 56 per cent of the total deposit and little over 50 per cent of the total credit of the commercial banks.	Facts
The 36 scheduled banks which are outside the 1969 Ordinance and the 1969 Act have Rs. 296 crores of deposit, viz.	Facts
6.3 per cent of the aggregate deposit and the credit is Rs. 197 crores, or in other words, 4.5 per cent of the total credit of the commercial banks.	Facts
The 15 foreign banks have 10 per cent of the credit and 10 per cent of the deposit.	Facts
These foreign banks have Rs. 478 crores of deposit and the credit is Rs. 385 crores.	Facts
The 16 nonscheduled banks have Rs. 28 crores of deposit and the credit is about Rs. 16 crores.	Facts
The nonscheduled banks have less than 1 per cent of the total credit and of the deposit.	Facts
The aggregate deposits of the State Bank of India and its 7 subsidiaries and of the 14 banks is 82.8 per cent (26.5 per cent 56.3 per cent) of the total deposits of 89 commercial banks and the aggregate credit of the said banks is 83.4 per cent (32.8 per cent 50.6 per cent) of the total credit of the 89 commercial banks.	Facts
135.	None
Of the 89 commercial banks the State Banks have 2454 branches, namely, 30 per cent of the branch offices.	Facts
The 15 foreign banks have 138 branch offices including branches.	Facts
The 36 scheduled banks which are outside the 1969 Ordinance and the 1969 Act have 1,324 offices.	Facts
The 16 nonscheduled banks have 216 offices.	Facts
The 14 banks have 4,130 offices which represent about little over 50 per cent of the offices.	Facts
The aggregate of the number of offices of the State Bank and its 7 subsidiaries and the 14 banks is 6,584 being 79.8 per cent of the total number of branch offices of the 89 commercial banks.	Facts
136.	None
On 19 July, 1969 Ordinance No. 8 of 1969 called the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Ordinance, 1969 was promulgated by the VicePresident acting as President.	Facts
It was an Ordinance to provide for the acquisition and transfer of the undertakings of certain banking companies in order to serve better the needs of development of the economy in conformity with national policy and objectives and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.	Facts
The Ordinance came into force on 19th July, 1969.	Facts
The Ordinance was repealed on 9th August, 1969 by the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1969 which came into force on 9th August, 1969.	Facts
The object of the Act was similar to that of the Ordinance.	Facts
There are some differences between the Ordinance and the Act but it is not necessary for the purpose of the present matter to refer to the same.	Facts
137.	None
Broadly stated, as a result of the 1969 Act the undertaking of every existing bank was transferred to and vested in the corresponding new bank on the commencement of the Act.	Facts
The existing banks mean the 14 banks.	Facts
The corresponding new banks mean the banks mentioned in the First Schedule to the 1969 Act in which is vested the undertakings of the existing banks.	Facts
Section 5 of the 1969 Act deals with the effect of vesting.	Facts
First, the undertaking shall be deemed to include all assets, rights, powers, authorities and privileges and all property, movable or immovable, cash balances, reserve funds, investments and all other rights and interests arising out of such property as were immediately before the commencement of the Act in the ownership, possession, power or control of the existing banks in relation to the undertaking, whether within or without India, and all books of accounts, registers, records and all other documents of whatever nature relating thereto.	Facts
Secondly, the undertaking shall also be deemed to include all borrowings, liabilities (including contingent liabilities) and obligations of whatever kind then subsisting of the existing bank in relation to the undertaking.	Facts
Thirdly, if according to the laws of any country outside India, the provisions of the 1969 Act by themselves are not effective to transfer or vest any a asset or liability situated in that country which forms part of the undertaking of an existing bank to, or in, the corresponding new bank, the affairs of the existing bank in relation to such asset or liability shall on and from the commencement of this Act, stand entrusted to the chief executive officer for the time being of the corresponding new bank who will take all steps as required by the laws of the foreign country for the purpose of affecting such transfer or vesting.	Facts
Fourthly, all contracts, deeds, bonds, agreements, powers of attorney, grants of legal representation and other instruments of whatever nature, subsisting or having effect immediately before the commencement of the 1969 Act and to which the existing bank is a party and which are in favour of the existing bank shall be of as full force and effect against or in favour of the corresponding new bank and may be enforced or acted upon as fully and effectually as if in the place of the existing bank the corresponding new bank had been a party thereto or as if they had been issued in favour of the corresponding new bank.	Facts
Fifthly there are provisions that suits, appeals or other proceedings pending by or against the existing bank be continued, prosecuted and enforced by or against the corresponding new bank.	Facts
138.	None
Section 6 of the 1969 Act provides for payment of compensation and the second Schedule to the Act sets out the principles of determination of compensation by excluding liabilities from assets.	Facts
Section 11 of the Act enacts that the corresponding new bank shall be guided by such directions in regard to matters of policy involving public interest as the Central Government may, after consultation with the Governor of the Reserve Bank, give, and if any question arises whether a direction relates to a matter of policy involving public interest, it shall be referred to the Central Government and the decision of the Central Government thereon shall be final.	Facts
Section 12 provides for appointment of an Advisory board to advise the custodian of the corresponding new bank.	Facts
The custodian is the chief executive officer of the corresponding new bank.	Facts
The Chairman of the existing bank holding office before the commencement of the Act becomes a custodian of the corresponding new bank.	Facts
The custodian is to hold office during the pleasure of the Central Government.	Facts
Section 13 of the Act provides for the power of the Central Government to make scheme.	Facts
Section 15 is an important provision in the Act.	Facts
Under that section a Chairman, managing or wholetime director of an existing bank shall, on the commencement of the Act, be deemed to have vacated office and every other director of such bank shall until directors are duly elected by such existing bank, be deemed to continue to hold such office.	Facts
The said Board may transact all or any of the various kinds of business mentioned in Section 15.	Facts
The other provision in Section 15 is that the existing bank may carry on any business other than banking.	Facts
139.	None
The Act of 1969 by reason of Section 1 (2) thereof is deemed to have come into force on 19th July, 1969.	Facts
Section 27 of the Act contains four subsection providing for the repeal of the Ordinance and enacting first, that notwithstanding the repeal of the Ordinance, anything done or any action taken including any order made, notification issued or direction given, under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done, taken made, issued or given, as the case may be, under the corresponding provisions of this Act, secondly that no action or thing done under the said Ordinance shall, if it is inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, be of any force or effect and thirdly notwithstanding anything contained in the Ordinance no right, privilege, obligation or liability shall be deemed to have been acquired, accrued or incurred thereunder.	Facts
140.	None
The petitioner Rustom Cavasjee Cooper is a shareholder of the Central Bank of India Ltd., and of 3 other existing banks and has current and fixed deposit accounts with these banks and is also a director of the Central Bank of India.	Facts
The petitioner has challenged the validity of the 1969 Ordinance and the 1969 Act and has contended that his fundamental rights under Article 14, 19 and 31 have been infringed by these measures.	None
141.	None
Mr. Palkhivala, counsel for the petitioner, contended that the Act of 1969 was effective only from 9th August, 1969 and could not have any effect on or from 19th July, 1969 until 9th August, 1969 because there could not be any retrospective effect given to any piece of legislation which affected the fundamental right to property.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was said that the validation would be effective as from the date when the law was actually passed and any retrospective effect would offend Article 31 (2) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was said that acquisition under Article 31 (2) could only be by authority of law and authority of law could only mean a law in force at the date of the taking.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was emphasised that the law must be in existence at the material time and there was no difference between a law under Article 20 (1) and law in relation to Article 31 (1) or Article 31 (2) of the Constitution.142.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Attorney General on the other hand contended that the validity of any law either prospective or retrospective affecting all or any of the fundamental rights by the requirement laid down in Article 19 and the validity of a law either prospective or retrospective acquiring property has to be judged by the requirements laid down in Article 31 (2).	Arguments of Respondent
143.	None
This Court dealt with retrospective legislations in the cases of West Ramnad Electric Distribution Co., Ltd. v. State of Madras, (1963) 2	None
SCR 747 (AIR 1962 SC 1753 ) and State of Mysore v. Achiah Chetty, AIR 1969 SC 477 .	None
In the case of M s. West Ramnad Electric Distribution Co., Ltd., (1963) 2 SCR 747 (AIR 1962 SC 1753 ) (supra) this Court held that there was difference between the provisions contained in Art. 20 (1) and Article 31 (2) of the Constitution.	None
Article 20 (1) refers to law in force at the time of the commission of the act charged as an offence whereas Art. 31	None
(2) does not contain any such words of limitation as to law being in force at the time but speaks only of authority of a law.	None
This vital distinction between Art. 20 (1) and Article 31 (2) is to be kept in the forefront in appreciating the soundness of the proposition that retrospective legislation as to acquisition of property does not violate Article 31 (2).	None
144.	None
In the case of West Ramnad Electric Distribution Co. (1963) 2 SCR 747 (AIR 1962 SC 1753 ) (supra) the 1954 Madras Act incorporated the main provisions of the earlier Madras Act of 1949 in validating actions taken under the earlier 1949 Act.	None
The 1949 Act had been challenged in earlier proceedings when this Court held the 1949 Act to be ultra vires.	None
Section 24 of the 1954 Madras Act was intended to validate a notification of acquisition of undertaking issued on 21st September, 1951 under the 1949 Act by providing that orders made, decisions, or directions given, notifications issued if they would have been validly made under the 1949 Act were declared to have been validly made except the extent to which the order was repugnant to the provisions of the later 1954 Act.	None
In the Madras case it was contended that the notification under the 1949 Act in the year 1951 was not supported by any authority or any preexisting law because there was no valid law.	None
That contention was repelled by Gajendragadkar, J. who spoke for the Court if the Act is retrospective in operation and Section 24 has been enacted for the purpose of retrospectively validating actions taken under the provisions of the earlier Act, it must follow by the very retrospective operation of the relevant provisions that at the time when the impugned notification was issued, these provisions were in existence.	None
That is the plain and obvious effect of the retrospective operation of the statute.	None
Therefore in considering whether Article 31 (1) has been complied with or not, we must assume that before the notification was issued, the relevant provisions of the Act were in existence and so, Article 31 (1) must be held to have been complied with in that sense.	None
145.	None
Article 20 (1) cannot by its own terms have any retrospective operation whereas Article 31 (2) can and that is a vital distinction between the two Articles.	None
That is why there cannot be a retrospective legislation with regard to creation of an offence.	None
If people at the time of the commission of an act did not know that it was an offence, retrospective creation of a new offence in regard to such an act would put people to new peril which was not in existence at the time of the commission of the act.	None
Counsel for the petitioner contended that retrospective validation of acquisition fell within the mischief of the decision of Punjab Province v. Daulat Singh, 73 Ind App 59 (AIR 1946 PC 66 ) where the Judicial Committee dealing with Section 5 of the Punjab Alienation Act which provided for the avoidance of benami transactions as therein specified which were entered into either before or after the commencement of the Act of 1938 held that the same was ultra vires the Provincial Legislature because it would operate as a prohibition to affect the past transactions.	Arguments of Petitioner
The retrospective element however was severed in that case by the deletion of the words either before or in the section and the rest of the provisions were left to operate prospectively and validly.	Arguments of Petitioner
The ratio of the decision is that past transactions which had been closed and title which had been acquired were sought to be reopened or set aside and the same could not be within the legislative competence of Section 298 of the Government of India Act, 1935 which conferred power to prohibit the sale or mortgage of transactions.	Arguments of Petitioner
The words prohibit sale or mortgage in Section 298 of the Government of India Act 1935 were construed to mean prospective or future prohibition as the words used plainly refer to things or transactions in future.146.	Arguments of Petitioner
The decision of this Court in West Ramnad Electric Distribution Co. (1963) 2 SCR 747 (AIR 1962 SC 1753 ) and AIR 1969 SC 477 are ample authorities for the proposition that there can be retrospective legislation affecting acquisition of property and such retrospective operation and validation of actions with regard to acquisition does not offend Art. 31(2) of the Constitution.	None
In AIR 1969 SC 477 (supra) Hidayatullah, C. J., considered the Bangalore Acquisition of Lands Act, 1962 which consisted of two sections whereof the second was in relation to validation of certain acquisition of lands and orders connected therewith.	None
In short that section provided that all acquisitions, proceedings, notifications or orders were validly made, held or issued with the result that the Act validated all past actions notwithstanding any breach of City of Bangalore Improvement Act, 1945.	None
Hidayatullah, C. J. said What the legislation has done is to make retrospectively a single law for the acquisition of these properties.	None
The legislature could always have repealed retrospectively the Improvement Act rendering all acquisitions to be governed by the Mysore Land Acquisition Act alone.	None
This power of the legislature is not denied.	None
The resulting position after the Validating Act is not different.	None
By the non obstante clause the Improvement Act is put out of the way and by the operative part the proceedings for acquisition are wholly brought under the Mysore Land Acquisition Act to be continued only under that Act.	None
The Validating Act removes altogether from consideration any implication arising from Chapter III or Section 52 of the Improvement Act in much the same way as if that Act had been passed.	None
The correct legal position on the authority of these decisions of this Court is that a legislation which has retrospective effect affecting acquisition or requisition of property is not unconstitutional and is valid.	None
The Act of 1969 which is retrospective in operation does not violate Article 31 (2) because it speaks of authority of a law without any words of limitation or restriction as to law being in force at the time.	None
147.	None
Counsel for the petitioner next contended that the expression authority of a law in Article 31 (2) would have the same meaning as the expression authority of law in Article 31 (1) and therefore a law acquiring property would have to satisfy the tests required in Article 19 (1) (f) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Both Articles 31 (2) and 19 (1) (f) relate to property.	Arguments of Petitioner
Both appear in Part III of the Constitution under fundamental rights.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Attorney General contended that Arts.	None
31 (2) and 31 (2A) constituted a selfcontained code relating to acquisition and requisition of property, and once a property had been acquired by a law in compliance with the requirements of Article 31 (2) there would not be any right left under Article 19 (1) (f) and the validity of such a law of acquisition of property for public purpose could not be examined again by the requirements of Article 19 (5) which is a relaxation of Article 19 (1) (f).	None
148.	None
The two requirements of a law relating to acquisition or requisition of property under Article 31 (2) are first, that the acquisition or requisition of property can be made only for a public purpose, and secondly, it can only be by authority of a law which provides for compensation.	Reasoning
Article 31 (2A) further enacts that where a law does not provide for the transfer of the ownership or right to possession of any property to the State or to a corporation owned, controlled by the State it shall not be deemed to provide for the compulsory acquisition or requisitioning of property.	None
149.	None
The question for interpretation of Article 22 of the Constitution in the light of Article 19 came up for consideration in the case of 1950 SCR 88 (AIR 1950 SC 27 ).	None
Kania, C. J., Patanjali Sastri, Mahajan, Mukherjea and Das, JJ, expressed the opinion that Article 19 of the Constitution had no application to a law which related directly to preventive detention even though as a result of an order of detention, the rights referred to in subclauses (a) to (e) and (g) in general and subclause (d) in particular of clause (1) of Article 19 might be restricted or abridged.	None
Fazl Ali, J. however expressed a contrary opinion.	None
The consensus of opinion in Gopalans case 1950 SCR 88 (AIR 1950 SC 27 ) (supra) was that so far as substantive law was concerned, Article 22 of the Constitution gave a clear authority to the legislature to take away fundamental rights relating to arrest and detention which were secured by the first two clauses of that Article.	None
Mukherjea, J. said about preventive detention in relation to right of freedom under Article 19, Any legislation on the subject would only have to conform to the requirements of clauses (4) to (7) and provided that is done, there is nothing in the language employed nor in the context in which it appears which affords any ground for suggestion that such law must be reasonable in its character and that it would be reviewable by the Court on that ground.	None
Both Articles 19 and 22 occur in the same Part of the constitution and both of them purport to lay down the fundamental rights which the Constitution guarantees.	None
It is well settled that the Constitution must be interpreted in a broad and liberal manner giving effect to all its parts and the presumption would be that no conflict or repugnance was intended by its framers.	None
150.	None
I shall now deal with some decisions of this Court as to whether a law acquiring property under Article 31 (2) will have to comply with Article 19 (1) (f) or in other words whether such law of acquisition of property for public purpose must also according to Article 19 (5) be a reasonable restriction on the right to hold property in the interests of the general public.	None
There are decisions of this Court to the effect that acquisition of property under Art. 31.	None
(2) as it stood prior to amendment in 1955 is an instance of deprivation of property mentioned in Article 31 (1) and the two clauses of Article 31 are to be read together with the result that Article 19 (1) (f) has no application where a law amounts to acquisition or requisition of property for a public purpose under Article 31 (2).	None
When Article 31 (2) was amended by the Constitution Fourth Amendment Act, 1955, the decisions of this Court on that Article held that Article 19 (1) (f) applies only to a deprivation of property under Article 31 (1) but not to a law of acquisition of property for public purpose under Article 31 (2).	None
I shall now refer to these decisions.	None
151.	None
In the case of 1954 SCR 587 (AIR 1954 SC 92 )	None
the majority view of this Court was that clauses (1) and (2) of Article 31 as these stood before the Constitution Fourth Amendment Act, 1955 are not mutually exclusive in scope and content but are to be read together and understood as dealing with the same subject, namely, the protection of the right to property by means of limitations on the power of the State and the deprivation contemplated in Clause (1) was held to be no other than the acquisition or taking possession of the property referred to in Clause (2).	None
152.	None
The view in Gopalans case 1950 SCR 88 (AIR 1950 SC 27 ) (supra) was again applied by this Court in 19551 SCR 777 (AIR 1955 SC 41 )  also a pre Amendment case  where it was contended that Article 31 (2) did not exclude the operation of Article 19 (1) (f) in relation to Bombay and Acquisition Act, 1940.	None
In dealing with the contention as to whether the Bombay Act was hit by Article 19 (1) (f) on the ground of unreasonable restriction having been imposed on the right of the respondent to acquire, hold and dispose of property Bose, J. said at page 780 of the Report (19551 SCR) (at pp. 4344 of AIR SC)	None
It is enough to say that Article 19 (1) (f)read with Clause (5) postulates the existence of property which can be enjoyed and over which rights can be exercised because otherwise the reasonable restrictions contemplated by Clause (5) could not be brought into play.	None
If there is no property which can be acquired, held or disposed of, no restriction can be placed on the exercise of the right to acquire, hold or dispose of it, and as Clause (5) contemplates the placing of reasonable restrictions on the exercise of those rights it must follow that the Article postulates the existence of property over which these rights can be exercised.	None
Bose, J. thereafter said that when every form of enjoyment of and interest in property is taken away leaving the mere husk of title Article 19 (1) (f) is not attracted.	None
153.	None
The principle laid down in Bhanji Munjis case, 19551 SCR 777 (AIR 1955 SC 41 ) (supra) was considered in the case 19603 SCR 887 (AIR 1960 SC 1080 ).	None
In that case a question arose whether the Madras Marumakkathayam (Removal of Doubts) Act, 1955 infringed the provisions of the Constitution.	None
The Act was passed after the Privy Council had declared the properties in possession of the Sthanee to be Sthanam properties in which the members of the tarwad had no interest.	None
The Madras Act, 1955 declared that notwithstanding any decision of Court, any sthanam under certain conditions mentioned in the section shall be deemed to be and shall be deemed always to have been a Marumakkathayam tarwad and the properties appertaining to such a Sthanam shall be deemed to be and shall be deemed always to have been properties belonging to the tarwad.	None
Subba Rao, J. speaking for the majority view on the question as to whether Article 31 (1) had to be read along with Article 19 (1) (f) said that legislation in a welfare State could be achieved only within the framework of the Constitution and that is why reasonable restrictions in the interest of the general public on the fundamental rights were recognised in Article 19.	None
In that context this Court held that a law made depriving a citizen of his property shall be void, unless the law so made complied with the provisions of Clause (5) of Article 19 of the Constitution.	None
At pare 916 of the Report (19603 SCR) (At p. 1094 of AIR SC) Subba Rao, J. said that the observations in Gopalans case, 1950 SCR 88 (AIR 1950 SC 27 ) (supra) would have no bearing on Article 31 (1) of the Constitution after Clause (F) of Article 31 had been inserted in that Article by the Constitution Fourth Amendment Act, 1955.	None
Before the Constitution Fourth Amendment Act this Court held that Clauses (1) and (2) of Article 31 were not mutually exclusive in scope and content but were to be read together, namely, that the words acquisition or taking possession referred to in Clause (2) of Article 31 prior to the Amendment in 1955 were to be read as an instance of deprivation of property within the meaning of Article 31 (1) and therefore the same was not subject to Article 19.	None
This is how the decision in Bhanji Munjis case, 19551 SCR 777 (AIR 1955 SC 41 ) (supra) was explained by Subba Rao, J. in Kochunis case, 1960 3 SCR 887 (AIR 1960 SC 1080 )	None
(supra) with the observation that the decision in Bhanji Munjis case, 19551 SCR 777 (AIR 1955 SC 41 ) (supra) no longer holds the field after the Constitution Fourth Amendment Act, 1955.	None
It may be stated here that Kochunis case 19603 SCR 887 (AIR 1960 SC 1080 ) was decided after the amendment of Article 31 and that was emphasised by Subba Rao, J. to establish that Article 31 (1) which dealt with deprivation of property other than by way of acquisition by the State was to be a valid law or in compliance with limitations imposed in Article 19 (1) (f) and (5).	None
154.	None
The question whether Article 19 (1) (f) so to be read along with Article 31 (1) again raised its head in the case of (1967) 2	None
SCR 949.	None
Kochunis case 19603 SCR 887 (AIR 1960 SC 1080 )	None
(supra) was decided on 4 May, 1960 and Smt.	None
Sitabatis case, (1967) 2	None
SCR 949 (supra) was decided on 1 December, 1961 though it was reported much later in the Supreme Court Reports.	None
In Smt.	None
Sitabatis case, (1967) 2	None
SCR 949 (supra) the question for consideration was the validity of the West Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948.	None
The Act provided for requisition and also for acquisition of land by the State Government for maintaining supplies and services essential to the life of the community and for other purposes mentioned therein.	None
The Act also provided for payment of compensation in respect of requisition and acquisition.	None
In Smt.	None
Sitabatis case, (1967) 2	None
SCR 949 (supra) it was contended that the Act offended Article 19 (1) (f) of the Constitution as it put unreasonable restrictions on the right to hold property.	None
The High Court held that the Act providing for acquisition of property by the State could not be attacked for the reason that it offended Article 19 (1) (f) on the authority of the decision in 19551 SCR 777 (AIR 1955 SC 41 ) (supra).	None
The High Court further held that the decision in Kochunis case, (1960) 3 SCR 887 (AIR 1960 SC 1080 )	None
(supra) did not hold that Article 31 (2) of the Constitution did not exclude the applicability of Article 19 (1) (f).	None
Sarkar, J. speaking for the Court said that the High Court was right on both these points.	None
Sarkar, J. pointed out that Kochunis case, (1960) 3 SCR 887 (AIR 1960 SC 1080 ) (supra) dealt with Article 31 (1) and it was not a case of acquisition or requisition of property by the State but was concerned with the law by which deprivation of property was brought about in other ways and there Article 19 of the Constitution had to be complied with.	None
In Smt.	None
Sitabatis case 19672 SCR 949 (supra) it was said that the observation in Kochunis case, (1960) 3 SCR 887 (AIR 1960 SC 1080 ) (supra) that Bhanjui Munjis case.	None
19551	None
SCR 777 (AIR 1955 SC 41 ) (supra) no longer holds the field was to be understood as meaning that it no longer governed the case of deprivation of property by means other than requisition and acquisition by the State.	None
To my mind it appears that the view of this Court in Kochunis case.	None
(1960) 3 SCR 887 (AIR 1960 SC 1080 ) (supra) and Smt.	None
Sitabatis case, 19672 SCR 949 (supra) is that Article 31 (2) after the Constitution Fourth Amendment Act, 1955 relates entirely to acquisition or requisition of property by the State and is totally distinct from the scope and content of Article 31 (1) with the result that Article 19 (1) (f) will not enter the area of acquisition or requisition of property by the State.	None
155.	None
This Court in the recent decision of AIR 1969 SC 634 again considered the applicability of Article 19 (1) (f) in relation to acquisition or requisition of property under the authority of a law mentioned in Article 31 (2).	None
The Bombay Town Planning Act of 1955 was challenged as unreasonable and a violation of Article 19 (1) (f) and (5).	None
Shah, J., speaking for the Court considered Article 31 (2) as it stood after the Constitution Fourth Amendment Act, 1955 and said clause (1) operates as a protection against deprivation of property save by authority of law which it is beyond question, must be a valid law, i.e., it must be within the legislative competence of the State legislature and must not infringe any other fundamental right.	None
Clause (2) guarantees that property shall not be acquired or requisitioned (except in cases provided by clause(5) save by authority of law providing for compulsory acquisition or requisition and further providing for compensation for the property so acquired or requisitioned and either fixes the amount of compensation or specifies the principle on which, and the manner in which the compensation is to be determined or given.	None
Thereafter Shah, J., speaking for the Court said in repelling the contention advanced that the impugned statute was unreasonable.	None
This Court however held in 19692 SCR 949 (supra) that a law made under clause (2) of Article 31 is not liable go be challenged on the ground that it imposes unreasonable restrictions upon the right to hold or dispose of property within the meaning of Article 19 (f) of the Constitution.	None
In Smt.	None
Sitabati Devis case, 19692 SCR 949 (supra) an owner of land whose property was requisitioned under the West Bengal Land (Requisitioned and Acquisition) Act, 1948 questioned the validity of the Act by a writ petition filed in the High Court of Calcutta on the plea that it offended Art. 19 (1) (f) of the Constitution.	None
This Court unanimously held that the validity of the Act relating to acquisition and requisition cannot be questioned on the ground that it offended Article 19 (1) (f) and cannot be decided by the criterion under Article 19 (5).	None
156.In my opinion Article 19 (1) (f) does not have any application to acquisition or requisition of property for a public purpose under authority of a law which provides for compensation as mentioned in Article 31 (2) for these reasons First, the provisions of the Constitution are to be interpreted in a harmonious manner.	None
No provision of the Constitution is superfluous or redundant.	None
(See Gopalans case, 1950 SCR 88 (AIR 1950 SC 27 ) (Supra) at page 252 (of SCR) (At p. 93 of AIR) per Mukherjea, .).	None
It cannot be suggested that acquisition of property for public purpose is not of the same content as acquisition for public interest or in the interest of the public.	None
It will be pedantry to say that acquisition for public purpose is not in the interest of the public.	None
Secondly, the contention on behalf of the petitioner that Article 31 (2) will have to be read along with Article 19 (1) (f) for the purpose of deciding the piece of legislation on the anvil of reasonableness of restrictions in the interest of the general public will mean that acquisition or requisition for a public purpose under Article 31 (2) is embraced within Article 19 (5).	None
That would be not only depriving the provisions of the Constitution of harmony but also making Article 31 (2) otiose and a dead letter.	None
By harmonising is meant that each provision is rendered free to operate, with full vigour in its own legitimate field.	None
If acquisition or requisition of property for a public purpose has to satisfy again the test of reasonable restriction in the interest of the general public then harmony is repelled and Article 31 (2) becomes a mere repetition and meaningless.	None
It could not be said that when Article 31 (2) was specifically enacted to deal with a case of acquisition or requisition of property for a public purpose the framers of the Constitution were not aware that it was a form of public deprivation of property.	None
That is why it is important to notice the distinction between deprivation of property under Article 31 (1) which will relate to all kinds of deprivation of property other than acquisition or requisition by the State and Article 31 (2) which deals only with such acquisition or requisition of property.	None
Thirdly, Articles 31 (2) and 31 (2A) is a selfcontained code because (a) it provides for acquisition or requisition with authority of a law, (b) the acquisition or requisition is to be for a public purpose, (c) the law should provide for compensation by fixing the amount of compensation or specifying the principles on which, and the manner in which, the compensation is to be determined and given and (d) finally, it enacts that adequacy of compensation is not to be questioned.	None
In the case of acquisition or requisition of property for public purpose with the authority of a law providing for compensation there is nothing more to guide and govern the law for acquisition or requisition than those crucial words occurring in Clause (2).	None
Finally, the amendment of Article 31 indicates in bold relief the separate and distinctive field of law for acquisition and requisition by the State of property for public purpose.	None
157.	None
Mahajan, J. in the case of 1952 SCR 889 (AIR 1952 SC 252 ) spoke of public purpose in the background of Article 39 which speaks of the Directive Principles.	None
Article 39 enacts that the State shall in particular direct its policy towards securing that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve common good and that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment.	None
In the Darbhanga case, 1952 SCR 889 (AIR 1952 SC 252 ) (supra) land which was in the hands of few individuals was to be made available to the public.	None
The purpose behind the Bihar Land Reforms Act was to bring general benefit to the community.	None
Mahajan, J. said that legislature is best judge of what is good for the community, by whose suffrage it comes into existence and it is not possible for this Court to say that there was no purpose behind the acquisition contemplated by the impugned statute.	None
The purpose of the statute is in accordance with the letter of the Constitution of India.	None
It is fallacious to contend that the object of the Act is to ruin 51/2 million people in Bihar It is difficult to hold in the present day conditions of the world that the measures adopted for the welfare of the community and sought to be achieved by process of legislation so far as to carry on the policy of nationalization of land can fall on the ground of public purpose.	None
The phrase public purpose has to be construed according to the spirit of times in which particular legislation is enacted and so construed, the acquisition of the estates has to be held to have been made for the public purpose.	None
The meaning of the phrase public purpose.	None
is predominantly a purpose for the welfare of the general public.	None
These 14 banks are acquired for the purpose of developing the national economy.	None
It is intended to confer benefit on weaker sections and sectors.	None
It is not that the legislation will have the effect of denuding the depositors in the 14 banks of their deposits.	None
The deposits will all be there.	None
The object of the Act according to the legislation is to use the deposits in wider public interest.	None
What was true of public purpose when the Constitution was ushered in the midcentury is a greater truth after two decades.	None
One cannot be guided either by passion for property on the one hand or prejudice against deprivation on the other.	None
Public purpose steers clear of both passion and prejudice.	None
158.In regard to property rights the State generally has power to take away property and justify such deprivation on the ground of reasonable restriction in the interest of the general public, but in case of deprivation of property by acquisition or requisition the Constitution has conferred power when the law passed provides compensation for the property acquired by the State.	None
Therefore, the acquisition or requisition for public purpose is a restriction recognised by the Constitution in regard to property rights.	None
In Kochunis case, (1960) 3 SCR 887 (AIR 1960 SC 1080 ) (supra) this Court approved the observation of Harries, C. J. in the case of Iswari Prosad v. N. R. Sen, AIR 1952	None
Cal 273 that the phrase in the interest of the general public means nothing more than in the public interest.	None
A public purpose is a purpose affecting the interest of the general public and therefore the Welfare State is given powers of acquisition or requisition of property for public purpose.	None
159160.	None
Counsel for the petitioner contended that the word banking would have the same meaning as the definition of banking occurring in Section 5 (b) of the Banking Regulation Act of 1949 hereinafter referred to for the sake of brevity as the 1949 Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
This contention was amplified to exclude four types of business from the banking business and therefore the Act of 1969 was said to be not within the legislative competence of Banking under Entry 45 in List I.	Arguments of Petitioner
These four types of business are (1) the receiving of scrips or other valuables on deposit or for safe custody and providing of safe deposit vaults, (2) agency business, (3) business of guarantee, giving of indemnity and underwriting and (4) business of acting as executors and trustees.	Arguments of Petitioner
Banking was defined for the first time in the 1949 Act as meaning the acceptance for the purpose of lending or investments of deposits of money from the public repayable on demand or otherwise and withdrawable by cheque, draft or otherwise.	Arguments of Petitioner
In England there is no statutory definition of banking but the Courts have evolved a meaning and principle as to what the legitimate business of a bank is.161.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the case of Tennant v. Union Bank of Canada 1894 AC 31 a question arose as to whether warehouse receipts taken in security by a bank in the course of business of banking, are matters coming within the class of subjects described in Section 91, subsection (15) of the British North America Act, namely, banking, incorporation of Banks, and the issue of paper money.	None
Lord Watson said that the word banking comprehends an expression which is wide enough to embrace every transaction coming within the legitimate business of a banker.	None
In Palmers Company Precedents, 17th Ed.	None
Page 317 form No. 98 will be found the usual memorandum of objects of a bank.	None
These objects comprise business of banking in all branches including the receiving of money and valuables on deposit or for safe custody, or otherwise, the collecting and transmitting money and securities and transacting all kinds of agency business commonly transacted by bankers.	None
The other objects in the form are to undertake and execute any trusts the undertaking whereof may seem desirable, and also to undertake the office of executor, administrator, receiver, treasurer, registrar or auditor.	None
In Banbury v. Bank of Montreal 1918.	None
AC 626 the House of Lords considered the authority of the bank to give advice as to investments and Lord Finlay, L. C. said that the limits of bankers business cannot be laid down as a matter of law.	None
The nature of business is a question of fact, on which the jury are entitled to have regard to their own knowledge of business and it is in this context that the present case must be considered.	None
It cannot be treated as if it was a matter of pure law.	None
162.	None
In India, the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, Stamp Act, 1899 and Bankers Books Evidence Act, 1891 refer to the expression banking without a definition.	None
In the Indian Companies Act, 1913 for the first time in 1936 provisions were introduced to govern banking companies.	None
Entry 38 in List I of the Government of India Act, 1935 used the words banking that is to say the conduct of banking business of a Corporation carried on only in that State.	None
It must be observed that Entry 45 in List I of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution is only a banking and it does not contain any qualifying words like the conduct of business occurring in Entry 38 of the Government of India Act, 1935.	None
The Indian Companies Act, 1913 in Section 277F however defined banking company but not banking by reference to the principle business and other businesses usually undertaken by reputable bankers.	None
Section 277G of the Indian Companies Act prescribes that the memorandum must be limited to the activities mentioned in Section 277F. Section 277M of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 contained provisions similar to Section 19 of the Act of 1949, namely, that a banking company could not form any subsidiary company except a subsidiary company formed for one or more of the following purposes, namely, the undertaking, and executing of trusts, the undertaking of the administration of estates as executors, trustee or other wise, the providing of safe deposit vaults or, with the previous permission in writing of the Reserve Bank carrying on such other purposes as are incidental to the business of banking.	None
It will appear from the Select Committee Report which was prepared for the introduction of the Indian Companies Amendment Act in 1936 that the list of business mentioned in Section 277F which included the principal business and other business undertaken by reputable bankers was inserted to escape the danger of hampering a company in the performance of any form of business undertaken by reputable bankers.	None
163.	None
It is in this background that the 1949 Banking Regulation Act was enacted.	None
Banking is defined in Section 5 (b) of the 1949 Act as meaning the acceptance for the purpose of lending or investment of deposits of money from the public repayable on demand or otherwise and withdrawable by cheque, draft order or otherwise.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 6 of the 1949 Act contains two subsections.	None
In subsection (1) it is enacted that in addition to the business of banking, a banking company may engage in one or more of the forms of businesses mentioned therein.	Facts
In subsection (1) there are clauses marked (a) to (o).	None
In subsection (2) of Section 6 of the 1949 Act it is enacted that no banking company shall engage in any business other than those referred to in subsection (1).	Facts
Clause (a) of Section 6 (1) enumerates the various forms of business, inter alia, the borrowing, raising, or taking up of money, the lending or advancing of money either upon or without security, the drawing, making, accepting, discounting, buying, selling, collecting and dealing in bills of exchange, hoondees, promissory notes, coupons, drafts, bills of lading, railway receipts, warrants, debentures, certificates scrips and other instruments and securities whether transferable or negotiable or not, the granting and issuing of letters of credit, travellers cheques and circular notes, the buying, selling and dealing in bullion and specie, the receiving of all kinds of bonds, scrips or valuables on deposit or for safe custody or otherwise, the providing of safe deposit vaults, the collecting and transmitting of money and securities.	None
Clause (b) speaks of acting as agents for any Government or local authority or any other person or persons the carrying on of agency business of any description including the clearing and forwarding of goods, giving of receipts and discharges and otherwise acting as an attorney on behalf of the customers, but excluding the business of a company.	None
Clause (h) speaks of undertaking and executing trusts.	None
Clause (i) speaks of undertaking the administration of estates as executor, trustee or otherwise.	None
It will, therefore, appear that under Section 6 (1) of the 1949 Act the four types of business disputed by counsel for the petitioner not to be within the businesses of a bank are recognised by the statute as legitimate forms of business of a banking company.	None
164.	None
Keeping valuables for safe custody, the providing of safe deposit vaults occur in clause (a) of Section 6 (1) along with various types of business like borrowing, raising or taking up of money, or lending or advancing of money.	None
It will appear from clause (n) of Section 6 (1) of the 1949 Act that in addition to the forms of business mentioned in clauses (a) to (m) a banking company may engage in doing all such other things as are incidental or conducive to the promotion or advancement of the business of the company.	None
The words other things appearing in clause (n) after enumeration of the various types of business in clauses (a) to (m) point to one inescapable conclusion that the businesses mentioned in clauses (a) to (m) are all incidental or conductive to the promotion or advancement of the business of the company.	None
Therefore these businesses are not only legitimate businesses of the banks but these also come within the normal business activities of commercial banks of repute.	None
Entry 45 in List I of the 7th Schedule of the Constitution, namely, banking will therefore have the wide meaning to include all legitimate businesses of a banking company referred to in Sec. 5 (b) as well as in Section 6 (1) of the 1949 Act.	None
The contention on behalf of the petitioner that the four disputed businesses are not banking businesses is not supportable either on logic or on principle when businesses mentioned in the subclauses of Section 6 (1) of the 1949 Act are recognised to be legitimate business activities of a banking company by statute and practice and usage fully supports that view.	None
165. Clause (o) of Section 6 (1) of the 1949 Act contemplates that the Central Government might by notification specify any other form of business and therefore the Government could ask a banking company to engage in a form of business which is not a usual type of business done by a banking company.	None
In the first place, it would not be reasonable to think that the Government would ask a bank to do business of that type.	None
Secondly, even if a bank were asked to do so that would not rob the other permissible and legitimate forms of business mentioned in Section 6 (1) of the Act of their true character.	None
Section 6 (2) of the 1949 Act provides that no banking company shall engage in any form of business other than those referred to in subsection (1).	Facts
The restriction contained in subsection (2) establishes that the various types of business mentioned in subs.	None
(1) are normal, recognised legitimate businesses and a banking company is therefore not entitled to participate in any other from of business.	None
166.	None
In the case of Commonwealth of Australia v. Bank of New South Wales, 1950 AC 235 the Judicial Committee in hearing the appeal from the High Court of Australia considered the meaning and content of banking.	None
The question for consideration was the effect of the Australian Banking Act, 1947 and Section 46 thereof.	None
At page 303 of the Report the Judicial Committee said the business of banking, consisting of the creation and transfer of credit, the making of loans, the purchase and disposal of investments and other kindred activities is a part of the trade, commerce and intercourse of a modern society and, in so far as it is carried on by means of interState transactions, is within the ambit of Section 92.	None
The business of a bank will therefore consist not only of the hard core of banking business defined in the 1949 Act but also of the divers kinds of lawful business which have grown to be inextricably bound up in the form of chain or string transactions.	None
The words banker.	None
banking have different shades of meaning at different periods of history and their meaning may not be uniform today in countries of different habits of life and different degrees of civilisation.	None
See Bank of Chettinad v. Income Tax Commr. of Colombo.	None
1948 AC 378 and United Dominions Trust Ltd. v. Kirkwood, 19661 QB 783.	None
167.	None
At this stage reference may be made to various statutes starting from Act 6 of 1839 Bank of Bengals Third Charter and ending with the State Bank of India Act, 1955 to show the meaning and content of the word banking.	None
The Bank of Bengals Third Charter of 1839 empowered the Bank of Bengal in Cls. 25 to 33 to do business as mentioned therein which included receiving deposits of goods and safe keeping of the same.	None
Thereafter the Bank of Bengal Charter was repealed by Act 4 of 1862 which by clause 27 empowered the bank to transact pecuniary business of agency on commission.	None
The Presidency Banks Act, 1876 by Section 36 thereof empowered the Presidency Banks, inter alia, to do business of receiving of deposits, agency business, acceptance of valuables, jewels, Section 37 of the Act of 1876 forbade the bank to do any business or loan or advance on mortgage or in other manner upon the security of any immovable property or the documents of title relating thereto.	None
The Imperial Bank of India Act, 1920 in Schedule 1 as mentioned in Section 8of the Act authorised the bank to carry on several kinds of business including receiving of deposits, keeping cash accounts, the acceptance of the charge and management of plate, jewels, title deeds or other valuable goods on terms, transacting of pecuniary agency business on commission and the entering into of contracts of indemnity, suretyship or guarantee with specific security or otherwise, the administration of estates for any purpose whether as an executor, trustee or otherwise and the acting as agent on commission in the transaction of various kinds of business mentioned therein.	None
168.	None
The Indian Companies Act, 1913 did not define banking company or banking business though various sections namely, 4, 133, 136, 138 and 145 and Schedule Form G referred to banking companies.	None
The Indian Companies Amendment Act in 1936 for the first time defined a banking company in S. 277F as a company which carried on the principal business of accepting of deposits on current account or otherwise, notwithstanding that it engaged in any one or more of the businesses as mentioned in clauses (1) to (17) thereof.	None
It may be stated here that Clause (1) to (17) in section 277F of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 are similar to the various forms of business mentioned in Section 6 (1) of the 1949 Banking Regulation Act.	None
In 1942, the Indian Companies Act, 1913 was amended by Act 21 of 1942 and it will appear from the statement of objects and reasons there that the definition of banking companies in Section 277 of the Indian Companies Act created difficulties in deciding whether a company was a banking company or not.	None
The chief difficulty arose out of the use of the term principal business in Section 277F. With the object of removing these difficulties a proposal was made that any company which used as part of its name the word bank, banker or banking shall be deemed to be a banking company irrespective of whether the business of accepting deposits of money on current account or otherwise subject to withdrawal by cheque, draft or order was its principal business or not.	None
In that context Ordinance No. 4 of 1946 was promulgated under Section 72 of the Government of Indian Act, 1935 empowering the Reserve Bank to cause inspection of any banking company and to do various other things by way of prohibiting a banking company from receiving deposits.	None
Thereafter came the Banking Companies Restriction of Branches Act, 1946.	None
There a banking company was defined as a banking company defined in Section 277 F of the Indian Companies Act, 1913.	None
There was restriction on opening and removal of branches and the Reserve Bank was permitted to cause inspection of banks.	None
It is in this context that Ordinance No. 25 of 1948 was promulgated conferring power on the Reserve Bank to control advances given by the banking companies.	None
In 1948 a confidential note of the banking companies Bill was prepared.	None
The necessity of legislation was felt because there were insufficient paid up capital and reserve and insufficient liquidity of funds, unrestricted loans to directors.	None
In that confidential note it was said that it was difficult to evolve any satisfactory definition of banking and difficulties arose because of the incorporation of the words principal business in relation to banks in Section 277F of the Indian Companies Act, 1913.	None
168A. In this background the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 was enacted.	None
I have already referred to the provisions of Sections 5 and 6 of the 1949 Act and the businesses mentioned in Sec. 6 (1) and the definition of banking business in Section 5 (b).	None
A most noticeable feature with regard to all these types of business of a banking company is that a banking company engages not only in the banking business but other businesses mentioned in Section 6 of the 1949 Act with depositors money.	None
The entire business is one integrated whole.	None
The provisions contained in Section 6 (1) of the 1949 Act are the statutory restatement of the gradual evolution over a century of the various kinds of business of banking companies which are similar to those to be found in the State Bank of India Act, 1955 hereinafter called the State Bank Act.	None
The business with regard to deposit of valuables and safe deposit vaults it to be found in Section 3 (viii) of the State Bank Act, the agency business is mentioned in Section 33 (xii) of the State Bank Act.	None
The business of guarantee, underwriting and indemnity is found in Section 33 (xi) (a) of the State Bank Act and the business of trusteeship and executorship is specifically found in the Banking Regulation Act 1949 and in the previous Acts referred to here in before.	None
169.	None
It was suggested by counsel for the petitioner that by banking business is meant only the hard core of banking, as defined in Section 5 (b) of the 1949 Act.	None
It is unthinkable that the business of banks is only confined to that aspect and not to the various forms of business mentioned in Section 6 (1) of the 1949 Act.	None
Receiving valuables on deposit or for safe custody and providing for safe deposit vaults which are contemplated in Clause (a) of Section 6 (1) of the 1949 Act cannot be dissociated from other forms of unchallenged business of a bank mentioned in that clause because any such severance would be illogical particularly when deposits for safe custody and safe deposit vaults are mentioned in the long catalogue of businesses in Cl.	None
(a).	None
the agency business which is mentioned in Clause (b) of Section 6 (1) is one of the recognised forms of business of commercial banks with regard to mercantile transactions and payment or collection of price.	None
Agency is after all a comprehensive word to describe the relationship of appointment of the bank as the constituents representative.	None
The forms of agency transactions may be varied.	None
It may be acting as collecting agent or disbursing agent or as depository of parties.	None
The categories of agency can be multiplied in terms of transactions.	None
That is why the business of agency mentioned in Clause (b) is first in the general form of acting as an agent for any Government or local authority, secondly carrying on of agency business of any description including the clearing and forwarding of goods and thirdly acting as attorney on behalf of the customers.	None
The business of guarantee in the modern commercial world practically indissoluble connected with a bank and forms a part of the business of the bank.	None
It is almost common place for Courts to insist on bank guarantee in regard to furnishing of security.	None
There may be so many instances of guarantee.	None
As to the business of trusteeship and executorship it may be said that this is the wish of the seller who happens to be a constituent of the bank appointing the bank as executor or trustee because of the utmost faith and confidence that the constituent has in the solvency and stability of the bank and also to preserve the continuity of the trustee or the executor irrespective of any change by reason of death or any other incapacity.	None
It is needless to state that these four disputed forms is business all spring out of the relation between the bank on the one hand and the customer on the other and the bank earns commission on these transactions or charges fees for the services rendered.	None
Although trust accounts may be kept in a separate account all moneys arising out of the trust money go to the general pool of the bank and the moneys may be kept in fixed deposit with the trustee bank and expenses on account of the trust are met out of the general funds of the trustee bank.	None
Payments to beneficiaries are made by crediting the beneficiaries accounts in the trustee bank and if they are not constituents other modes of payment through other banks are adopted.	None
The position of the banks as executor is similar to that of a trustee.	None
Whatever moneys the bank may spend are recouped by the bank out of the accounts of the trust estate.	None
170.	None
After the definition of banking company had been introduced for the first time in 1936 in the Indian Companies Act, 1913 it appeared that the banks were not being managed properly and the definition of a banking company gave rise to administrative difficulties in determining whether a company was a banking company or not.	None
A number of banking and loan companies particularly in Bengal claimed that they were not banking companies within the scope of the definition given in Section 277F of the Companies Act and in some cases their contention was upheld by the Court.	None
The failure of the Travancore National and Quilon Bank Ltd., in 1938 and the subsequent banking crisis in South India posted a big question as to the desirability of better legislation.	None
An attempt was made to prescribe certain minimum capital, the amount of capital depending upon the area of the operation of the bank.	None
The banks were also asked to maintain a percentage of their assets in cash or approved securities.	None
Thereafter the Indian Companies (Amendment) Act was passed in 1942 by which a proviso was added to Section 227F to the effect that any company which used as part of its name the word bank, banker or banking shall be deemed to be a banking company notwithstanding the fact that the acceptance of deposits on current account subject to withdrawal by cheque is not the principal business of the company.	None
In the midforties it became desirable that steps should be taken to safeguard the banking structure against possible repercussion in the postwar period and it was considered necessary that comprehensive banking legislation should be introduced.	None
171.	None
There are various provisions in the 1949 Act to indicate that a banking company cannot carry on business of a managing agent or Secretary and treasurer of a company and that it cannot acquire, construct, maintain, alter any building or works other than those necessary or convenient for the purpose of the company.	None
A banking company cannot acquire or undertake the whole or any portion of any business unless such business is of one of these enumerated in S. 6 (1) of the 1949 Act.	None
A bank cannot deal in buying or selling or bartering of goods except in connection with certain purposes related to some of the businesses enumerated in the aforesaid Section 6 (1).	None
These provisions also establish that businesses mentioned in Section 6 of the 1949 Act are incidental and conducive to banking business.	None
A bank cannot employ any person whose remuneration is in the form of a commission or a share in the profits of the banking company or whose remuneration is in the opinion of the Reserve Bank excessive.	None
One of the most important provisions is Section 35 of the 1949 Act, which states that the Reserve Bank at any time may and on being directed so to do by the Central Government cause an inspection to be made by one or more of its officers of the books of account and to report to the Central Government on any inspection and the Central Government thereafter if it is of opinion after considering the report that the affairs of the banking company are being conducted to the detriment of the interests of its depositors, may prohibit the banking company from receiving fresh deposits or direct the Reserve Bank to apply under Section 38 for the winding up of the banking company.	None
Another important provision in the 1949 Act is found in section 27 which provides for monthly returns in the prescribed form and manner showing assets and liabilities.	None
The power of the Reserve Bank under Sections 27 and 35 of the 1949 Act relates to the affairs of the banking company which comprehend the various forms of business of the bank mentioned in Section 6 of the 1949 Act.	None
Then again Section 29 of the 1949 Act contemplates accounts relating to accounts of all business transacted by the bank.	None
Section 35A of the 1949 Act confers power on the Reserve Bank to give directions with regard to the affairs of a bank.	None
These provisions indicate beyond any measure of doubt that all forms of business mentioned in Sec. 6 (1) of the 1949 Act are lawful, legitimate businesses of a bank as these have grown along with increase of trade and commerce.	None
The word banking has never had any static meaning and the only meaning will be the common understanding of men and the established practice in relation to banking.	None
That is why all these disputed forms of business come within the legitimate business of a bank.	None
172.	None
The next question is the legislative competence in regard to the Act of 1969.	Issue
Counsel for the petitioner contended that the Act was for nationalisation of banks and there was no legislative entry regarding nationalisation and therefore that was incompetent.	None
There is no merit in that contention.	None
The Act is for acquisition of property the undertaking of a banking company is acquired.	None
The legislative competence is under Entry 42 in List III of the 7th Schedule and also under Entry 45 in List I of the 7th Schedule.	None
Entry 42 in List III is acquisition and requisitioning of property.	None
Entry 45 in List I is banking.	None
The Act of 1969 is valid under these entries.	None
A question arose whether the Act of 1969 pertains to Entry 43 in List I which deals with incorporation, regulation and winding up of trading corporation including banks.	None
It is not necessary to deal with that entry because of my conclusion as to Entries No. 42 in List III and No. 45 in List I. Counsel for the petitioner contended that the Act of 1969 trenched upon Entry 26 in List II, namely, trade and commerce within the State.	None
I am unable to accept that contention for the obvious reason that the legislation is for acquisition of undertakings of banking companies.	None
The pith and substance of the legislation is to be found out and meaning is to be given to the entries banking and acquisition of property.	None
In the case of United Provinces v. Mst. Atiqa Begum, 1940 FCR 110 (AIR 1941 FC 16) Gwyer C. J. said that it would be practically impossible to define each item in the provincial legislation as to make it exclusive of every other item in that list and Parliament seems to have been content to take a number of comprehensive categories and to describe each of them by a word of board and general import.	None
The doctrine of pith and substance used in Union Colliery Co. of British Columbia v. Bryden, 1899 AC 580 is nothing but an illustration of the principle that when the legislation is referable to one or more entries the Courts try to find out what the pith and substance of the legislation is.	None
In the present case the Act is beyond any doubt one for acquisition of property and is also in relation to banking.	None
The legislation is valid with reference to the entries, namely Entry 42 (Requisition) in List III, Entry 45 (Banking) in List I. 173.	None
Counsel for the petitioner contended the undertaking of banking companies could not be the subject matter of acquisition and acquisition of all properties in the undertaking must satisfy public purpose as contemplated in Article 31 (2).	Arguments of Petitioner
This contention was amplified to mean that undertaking was not property capable of being acquired and some assets like cash money could not be the subject matter of acquisition.	None
The Attorney General on the other hand contended first that undertaking is property within the meaning of Article 31 (2), secondly, undertaking in its normal meaning refers to a going concern and thirdly it is a complete unit as distinct from the ingredients composing it and therefore it could not be said that acquisition of the undertaking was an infraction of any constitutional provision.	Arguments of Respondent
The term undertaking is explained in Halsburys Laws of England, 3rd Ed.	None
Vol. 6 paragraph 75 at page 43 to mean not the various ingredients which go to make up an undertaking but the completed work from which the earnings arise.	None
As an illustration reference is made to mortgage of the undertaking of a company.	None
174.	None
In Gardner v. London Chatham and Dover Rly. Co., (1867) 2	None
Ch A 201 the undertaking of a railway company which was pledged was held to be a railway which was to be made and maintained by which tolls and profits were to be earned, which was to be worked and managed by a company, according to certain rules of management, and undertaking there will be money for the working of the undertaking and money will be earned thereby.	None
Again in Re Panama, New Zealand and Australian Royal Mail Co., (1870) 5 Ch A 318 the undertaking of a steamship company was explained to have reference not only to all the property of the company which existed at the date of the debenture but which might become the property of the company and further that the word undertaking referred to the application of funds which came into the hands of the company in the usual course of business.	None
Undertaking will therefore relate to the entire business although there may be separate ingredients or items of work or assets in the undertaking.	None
The under taking is a going concern and it cannot be broken up into pieces to create a security over the undertaking (See Re Portsmouth (Kingston, Fratton and Southsea) Tramway Co., (1892)	None
2	None
Ch 362 and H. H. Vivian and Co. Ltd., (1900) 2 Ch 654).	None
175.	None
The word undertaking is used in various statutes of our country, viz., the Indian Electricity Act, 1910 (Sections 6, 7, 7A), Indian Companies Act (Sections 125 (4) (f), 293 and 394), Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (Section 14A), Cotton Textiles Companies (Management of Undertaking, Liquidation and Reconstruction) Act, 1967 (Sections 4 (1), 5 (1) (2)).	None
By the word undertaking is meant the entire organisation.	None
These provisions indicate that the company whether it has a plant or whether it has an organisation is considered as one whole unit and the entire business of the going concern is embraced within the word undertaking.	None
In the case of sale of an undertaking as happened in Doughty v. Lomagunda Reefs, Ltd., (1962) 2 Ch 837 the purchaser was required to pay all debts due by and to perform outstanding contracts comprised in the entire undertaking.	None
The word undertaking is used in the Indian Electricity Act, the Air Corporation Act, 1953, the Imperial Bank of India Act, 1920 (Sections 3, 4 6 and 7), the State Bank of India Act, 1955 (Section 6 (1) (g)), the State Bank Subsidiaries Banks Act, 1959 (Section 10 (1)), the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (Section 36AE (1)) and there have been legislative provisions for acquisition of some of these undertaking.	None
176.	None
Under Section 5 of the Act of 1969 the undertaking of each existing bank shall be deemed to include all assets, rights, powers, authorities and privileges and all property, movable and immovable, cash balances, reserve funds, investments and all other rights and interests arising out of such property as were immediately before the commencement of this Act in the ownership, possession, power or control of the existing bank in relation to the undertaking.	Facts
This Court accepted the meaning of property given by Rich, J. in the Minister for State for the Army v. Dalziel, 68 CLR 261 to be a bundle of rights which the owner has over or in respect of a thing, tangible or intangible or the word property may mean the thing itself over or in respect of which the owner may exercise those rights.	None
In the case of Commr.	None
Hindu Religious Endowments, Madras v. Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt, 1954 SCR 1005 (AIR 1954 SC 282 )	None
this Court again gave wide meaning to the word property and Mukherjea J. said that there is no reason why the word property as used in Article 19 (1) (f) of the Constitution should not be given a liberal and wide connotation and would not be extended to those wellrecognised types of interest which have the insignia or characteristics of proprietary right.	None
In the case of J. K. trust, Bombay v. Commr. of Incometax, Excess Profits Tax, Bombay, 1958 SCR 65 (AIR 1957 SC 846 ) this Court held the managing agency business to be a property.	None
The undertaking of a bank will therefore be the entire integrated organisation consisting of all property, movable or immovable and the totality of undertaking is one concept which is not divisible into components or ingredients.	None
That is why in relation to company the word undertaking is used in various statutes in order to reach every corner of property, right, title and interest therein.	None
The decision in (1968) 3 SCR 489 (AIR 1968 SC 1053 ) is an authority for the proposition that money cannot be acquired under Article 31 (2).	None
The impugned Act in Ranojirao Shindes case, (1968) 3 SCR 489 (AIR 1968 SC 1053 ) (supra) abolished cash grants which the respondents were entitled to receive from the Government of Madhya Pradesh, but provided for the payment of certain compensation to the grantees.	None
Ranojirao Shindes case, (1968) 3	None
SCR 489 (AIR 1968 SC 1053 )	Reasoning
(supra) did not deal with the case of an undertaking and has therefore no application to the present case.	None
The undertaking is an amalgam of all ingredients of property and is not capable of being dismembered.	None
That would destroy the essence and innate character of the undertaking.	None
In reality the undertaking is a complete and complex weft and the various types of business and assets are threads which cannot be taken apart from the weft.	None
I am, therefore, of opinion that undertaking of a banking company is property which can be validly acquired under Article 31 (2) of the Constitution.	None
177.	None
The next question for consideration is whether Article 19 (6) of the Constitution is attracted.	Issue
Counsel for the petitioner contended that as a result of the Constitution.	None
First Amendment Act, 1951 Article 19 (6) was clarified to the effect that the word restrictions would include prohibition or exclusion which was dealt with in the second limb of Article 19 (6).	Arguments of Petitioner
It may be stated here that prior to the amendment of Art. 19 (6) the second limb spoke only of law prescribing qualifications for practising any profession or carrying on any occupation, trade or business.	Arguments of Petitioner
As a result of the amendment of the second limb of Article 19 (6) consisted of two subarticles the first subarticle relating to qualifications for practising profession or carrying on any occupation, trade or business and the second subarticle relating to carrying on by the State of trade, business industry to the exclusion complete or partial of citizens or otherwise.	Arguments of Petitioner
The second subarticle was really an enlargement of Clause (6) of Article 19 as a result of the amendment.	Arguments of Petitioner
The main contention of counsel for the petitioner was that the second limb of Article 19 (6) after the expression in particular must also satisfy the test of reasonable restriction contained in the first limb of Article 19 (6) and emphasis was placed on the word in particular to show that it indicated that the second limb was only an instance of the first limb of the Article.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Constitution First Amendment Act of 1951 was enacted really to enable the State to carry on business to the exclusion, complete or partial of citizens or otherwise as will appear from the amendment of Article 19 (6).	None
178.	None
In the case of (1963) Supp.	None
2 SCR 691 (AIR 1963 SC 1047 )	None
this Court considered the Orissa Tendu Leaves (Control of Trade).	None
Act, 1961 by which the State acquired monopoly in the trade of Kendu leaves and put restrictions on the fundamental rights of the petitioner.	None
In that case, Gajendragadkar, J. speaking for the Court referred to the decision of the Allahabad High Court in Motilal v. Government of the State of Uttar Pradesh, ILR (1951) 1	None
All 269 (AIR 1951 All 257 ) where a monopoly of transport sought to be created by the U. P. Government in favour of the State operated Bus Service known as the Government Roadways was struck down as unconstitutional because such a monopoly totally deprived the citizens of their rights and that is why Article 19 (6) came to be amended.	None
The necessity of the amendment of Article 19 (6) was explained in the case of Akadasi Pradhan, (1963)	None
Supp 2 SCR 691 (AIR 1963 SC 1047 ) (supra), The view expressed by this Court in that case is that the two subarticles of the second limb deal with two different forms of legislation.	None
The first subarticle deals with restrictions on the exercise of the right to practise any profession or to carry on any trade, occupation or business.	None
The second subarticles deals with carrying on by the State of any trade, business or industry to the exclusion, complete or partial of citizens or otherwise.	None
The effect of the amendment was stated by Gajendragadkar, J. to be that a State Monopoly in respect of any trade or business must be presumed to be reasonable and in the interest of the general public so far Article 19 (1) (g) is concerned.	None
The words in particular in that case in Article 19 (6) were held to indicate that restrictions imposed on the fundamental rights guaranteed by Article 19 (1) (g) which are reasonable and which are in the interest of the general public are saved by Article 19 (6) as it originally stood and the validity of the laws covered by the amendment would no longer be left to be tried in Courts.	None
179.	None
Counsel for the petitioner relied on the decision of the House of Lords in the case of 1952 AC 362 in support of the proposition that the words in particular in Article 19 (6) were used to place the accent on reasonable restrictions in that clause as the saving feature of a law affecting Article 19 (1) (g).	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 43 (1) of the town and Country Planning Act, 1947 which was considered was as follows (1) The Central Land Board may, with the approval of the Minister, by agreement acquire land for any purpose connected with the performance of their functions under the following provision of this Act, and in particular may so acquire any land for the purpose of disposing of it for development for which permission has been granted under Part III of this Act on terms inclusive of any development charge payable under those provisions in respect of that development.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was held that subsection conferred a single power on the Central Land Board and not two powers, viz., that the boards have power to acquire land for the purpose connected with the performance of their functions and the words in the second limb of the section were no more than a particular instance of that which the legislature regarded as part of the Boards functions.	Arguments of Petitioner
The purpose referred to in the second part of the subsection there introduced by the words in particular was held to be a purpose connected with the performance of the function within the meaning of the first part of the subsection.	Arguments of Petitioner
The language of the subsection in the case before the House of Lords is entirely different from the language in Article 19 (6).	Arguments of Petitioner
Article 19 (6) in the two limbs and in the two subarticles of the second limb deals with separate matters and in any event State monopoly in respect of trade or business is not open to be reviewed in Courts on the ground of reasonableness.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court in the case of Writ Petn.	Arguments of Petitioner
No. 295 of 1965, D  3011969 (reported in AIR 1969 SC 1100 ) held that so far as monopoly business by the State was concerned under Article 19 (6) it was not open to challenge.	Arguments of Petitioner
180.	Arguments of Petitioner
The four businesses which were disputed by counsel for the petitioner to be within the business of banking were contended to be not only acquisition of property in violation of Article 19 (1) (f) but also not to be reasonable restrictions in the interest of the general public under Article 19 (5) or under Article 19 (6).Emphasis was placed on Section 15 (2) of the Act of 1969 to contend that after the acquisition of the undertaking of the bank the provision permitting the banks to carry on business other than banking would be empty and really amount to prohibition of carrying on of the business because the assets pertaining to the four disputed businesses with which the business could be carried on had been taken away.	Arguments of Petitioner
I have already expressed my opinion that the four disputed businesses are the legitimate businesses of a banking company as mentioned in Section 6 (1) of the 1949 Act and are comprised in the undertaking of the bank and Article 19 (1) (f) is not attracted in case of acquisition or requisition of property dealt with by Article 31 (2).	None
I have also held that Article 19 (6) confers power on the State to have a valid monopoly business.	None
Section 15 (2) of the 1969 Act allows the existing banks to carry on business other than banking.	None
If as a result of acquisition, the bank will complain of lack of immediate resources to carry on these businesses the Act provides compensation and the existing bank will devise ways and means for carrying on the businesses.	None
Constitutionality of the Act cannot be impeached on the ground of lack of immediate resources to carry on business.	None
In the present case, the acquisition is not unconstitutional and the bank is free to carry on all business other than banking.	None
It cannot be suggested that after compensation has been provided for the State will have to provide moneys to enable the existing bank to carry on these businesses.	None
That would be asking for something beyond the limits of the Constitution.	None
If the entire undertaking of a banking company is taken by way of acquisition the assets cannot be separated to distinguish those belonging to banking business from other belonging to non banking business because assets are not in fact divided on any such basis.	None
Furthermore that would be striking at the root of acquisition of the entire undertaking.	None
It would be strange to hold in the teeth of express provisions in the Act of 1969 permitting the banks to carry on business other than banking that the same will amount to a prohibition on the bank to carry on those businesses.	None
I find it difficult to comprehend the contention of the petitioner that a permissive provisions allowing the banks to carry on these businesses other than banking becomes unreasonable.	None
If that provision was not there the businesses could be carried on and the argument would not be available at all.	None
The express making of the provision obviously for greater safety cannot change the position.	None
The petitioners contention on Article 19 (6) therefore fails.	None
181.Counsel for the petitioner contended that Section 11 of the 1969 Act suffered from the vice of excessive delegation and there were no guidelines for reaching the objectives set out in the Preamble of the Act and the decision of Government regarding policy involving public interest was made final and therefore it was unconstitutional.	None
Section 11 of the Act of 1969 is in two subsections.	None
The first subsection enacts that corresponding new bank shall, in the discharge of its functions, be guided by such directions in regard to matters of policy involving public interest as the Central Government may after consultation with the Governor of the Reserve Bank, give.	Facts
The second subsection enacts that if any question arises whether a direction relates to a matter of policy involving public interest, it shall be referred to the Central Government and the decision of the Central Government thereon shall be final.	None
Section 25 (1) (c) of the Act of 1969 provides that the words corresponding new bank constituted under Sec.	None
3 of the 1969 Act on any other banking institution notified by the Central Government shall be substituted for the words or any other banking institution notified by the Central Government in this behalf, in Section 51 of the 1949 Act.	None
Sections 7, 17 (15A) of the Reserve Bank Act of 1934 contain similar powers on the part of the Central Government to give directions to the Reserve Bank in regard to management and exercise of power and functions in performance of duties entrusted to the bank under the Reserve Bank Act.	None
A statute of this nature whereby the controlling interest of the business of banks is acquired renders it not only necessary but also desirable that policy involving public interest should be left to the Government.	None
182.	None
The Act of 1969 contains enough guidance.	None
First the Government may give directions only in regard to policy involving public interest secondly directions can only be given by the Central Government and no one else thirdly, these directions can only be given by the Central Government after consultation with the Governor of the Reserve bank fourthly, directions given by the Government are in regard to matters involving public interest which means that this is objective and subject to judicial scrutiny and both the Central Government and the Governor of Reserve Bank are high authorities.	None
183.	None
As a result of Section 25 (1) (c) of the act of 1969, 14 banks will be subject to the provisions of the 1949 Act enumerated in Sections 15, 17, 19, 20, 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, 34, 35, 35A, 36 and 48.	None
These sections principally deal with restrictions as to payment of dividend, prohibition of floating charge on assets, creation of reserve fund, restrictions on subsidiary company, restrictions on loans and advances, power of the Reserve Bank to control advances by banking companies, restrictions on the opening of new places of business, maintenance of percentage of assets, return of unclaimed deposits, furnishing of returns to the Reserve Bank, publication of information by the Reserve Bank, submission, of accounts and balance sheet to the Reserve Bank, inspection by the Reserve Bank, power of the Reserve Bank to give directions with regard to management, and imposition of penalties for contravention of the provisions of the Act.	None
184.	None
There are other statutes which provide powers of the Central Government to give directions.	None
I have already referred to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.	None
There are similar statutes conferring powers on the Government to give directions, namely, State Bank of India Act, 1955, State Financial Corporation Act, 1951, University Grants Commission Act, 1956, Life Insurance Act, 1956, Deposit Insurance Act, 1961, National Cooperative Development Corporation Act, 1962, Agricultural Refinance Corporation Act, 1963 and State Agricultural Credit Corporations Act, 1968.	None
There are English statutes which contain similar provisions of exercise of power on directions by the Government in regard to the affairs of the undertakings covered by the statutes.	None
These are the Bank of England Act, 1946, Cotton (Centralised Buying) Act, 1947, Coal Industry Nationalisation Act, 1946, Civil Aviation Act, 1946, Electricity Act 1947, Gas Act, 1948, Iron and Steel Act, 1949 and Air Corporations Act, 1949.	None
It is explicable that where the Government acquires undertakings of industries, the matters of policy involving public interest or national interest should be left to be decided by the Government.	None
There is nothing unconstitutional in such provisions.	None
185.	None
The Preamble to the Act of 1969 states that the object of the Act is to serve better the needs of the development of the economy in conformity with notional policy and objectives.	None
National policy and objectives are in accordance with the Directive Principles in Part IV of the Constitution.	None
It is stated by the respondents in their affidavits that there are needs of the development of the economy in conformity with the Directive Principle and these are to be achieved by a mobilisation of the savings of the community and employing the large resources of the 14 banks to develop national economy in several spheres of activity by a more equitable distribution of economic resources, particularly, where there are large credit gaps.	None
In the case of Harishankar Bagla v. State of Madhya Pradesh, 19551 SCR 380 (AIR 1954 SC 465 ) Mahajan, C. J. at pages 38889 of the report said The Preamble and the body of the sections sufficiently formulate the legislative policy and the ambit and character of the Act is such that the details of that policy can only be worked out by delegating them to a subordinate authority within the framework of that policy.	None
It is manifest that in working the Act of 1969 directions from the Central Government are necessary to deal with policy and other matters to serve the needs of national economy.	None
186.	None
Counsel on behalf of the petitioner next contended that acquisition of the 14 banks and the prohibition of banking business by the existing banks violated Article 301 and was not saved by Article 302 because it is not required in the public interest.	Arguments of Petitioner
As to the four disputed businesses which the exiting banks can under the Act carry on, it was said that the same was an infraction of Article 301.	Arguments of Petitioner
Article 305 to my mind directly applies to a law relating to banking and all businesses necessarily incidental to it carried on by the State to the complete or partial exclusion of 14 banks.	None
Article 302 can have no application in such a case.	None
An individual cannot complain of violation of Article 301. 187.	None
Article 305 applies in the present case and therefore neither Article 301 nor Article 302 will apply.	None
Article 302 is an enabling provisions and it has to be read in relation to Article 301.	None
Acquisition of property by itself cannot violate Article 301 which relates to free trade, commerce throughout India.	None
The object of acquisition is that the State shall carry on business to the exclusion, complete or partial, of the 14 banks.	None
188.	None
Counsel for the petitioner contended that the 1969 Act violated the provisions of Article 14 on these grounds First, the Act discriminated against 14 banks as against other Indian scheduled banks, secondly, the selection of 14 banks has no reasonable connection to the objects of the Act thirdly, banks which may be described to be inefficient and which are liable to the acquire under Section 36AE of the 1949 Act are not acquired whereas 14 banks who have carried on their affairs with efficiency are acquired fourthly under Section 15 (2) (d) (e) of the 1969 Act the 14 banks cannot do any banking business whereas other Indian scheduled banks or any other new banking company can do banking business.189.	Arguments of Petitioner
In order to appreciate these contentions it is necessary to remember the background of growth of Indian banks.	None
At the beginning I referred to the position that State Bank of India and its several subsidiaries and the 14 banks occupy today in contrast with foreign banks and other scheduled or nonscheduled Indian banks.	None
These 14 banks are not in the same class as other scheduled banks.	None
The classification is one the basis of the 14 banks having deposit of Rs. 50 crores and over.	None
The object of the Act is to control the deposit resources for developing national economy and as such the selection of 14 banks having regard to their larger resources, their greater coverage, their managerial and personnel resources and the administrative and organisational factors involved in the expansion is both intelligible and related to the object of the Act.	None
There is no evidence to show that the 14 banks are more efficient than the others as counsel for the petitioner contended.	None
Section 15 (2) (d) (e) of the 1969 Act states that these 14 banks after acquisition, are not to carry on any banking business for the obvious reason that these 14 banks are not in the same class as the other Indian banks.	None
Besides, it is also reasonable that the 14 banks should not be permitted to carry on banking business as the corresponding new banks.	None
Therefore the classification of the 14 banks is also a rational and intelligible classification for the purposes of the Act.	None
The object of the 1969 Act was to meet credit gaps and to have a wider distribution of economic resources among the weaker sections of the economy, namely, agriculture, small scale industry and retail trade.	None
190.	None
The Act of 1969 is for development of national economy with the aid of banks.	None
There are needs of various sectors.	None
The legislature is the best judge of what should subserve public interest.	None
The relative need is a matter of legislative judgment.	None
The legislature found 14 banks to have special features namely, large resources and credit structure and good administration.	None
The categorisation of Rs. 50 crores and over visavis other banks with less than Rs. 50 crores is not only intelligible but is also a sound classification.	None
From the point of view of resources these 14 banks are better suited than others and therefore speed and efficiency which are necessary for implementing the objectives of the Act can be ensured by such classification.	None
191.	None
In the case of 1959 SCR 279 (AIR 1958 SC 538 )	None
it was said that the Court would taken into consideration the history of the times and could also assume the state of facts existing at the time of legislation.	None
A presumption also arises in regard to constitutionality of a piece of legislation.	None
In the case of P. V. Sivarajan v. Union of India, (1959) Supp (1) SCR 779 (AIR 1959 SC 556 ) the Coir Industry Act was considered in relation to registration of dealers for export.	None
The Act provided minimum quantity of export preceding12 months the commencement of the Act as one of the qualifying terms of registration.	None
This quantitative test was held good.	None
The legislative policy as to the necessity is a matter of legislative judgment and the Court will not examine the propriety of it.	None
The legislation need not be all embracing and it is for the legislature to determine what categories will be embraced.	None
In Dalmias case (1959) SCR 279 (AIR 1958 SC 538 ) (supra) it was said that the two tests of classification were first that there should be an intelligible differentia which distinguished persons or things grouped from others left out and secondly the differentia must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the statute.	None
There has to be a line of demarcation somewhere and it is reasonable that these 14 banks which are in a class by themselves because of their special features in regard to deposit, credit, administration, organisation should be prohibited from carrying on banking business.	None
These special circumstances are the reasons for classification.	None
This distinction between the 14 banks and others reasonably justified different treatment.	None
An absolute symmetry or an accurate classification is not possible to be achieved in the task of acquisition of under takings of banking companies.	None
It cannot, therefore, be said that companies whose deposits were in the range of Rs. 45 of Rs. 50 crores should have been taken.	None
192.	None
In Kathi Raning Rawat v. State of Saurashtra, (1952) 3	None
SCR 435 (AIR 1952 SC 123 )	None
this Court said that the necessity for judicial enquiries would arise when there was an abuse of power and the differences would have no relation to the object.	None
In the case of Board of Trustees, Ayurvedic and Unani Tibia College, Delhi v. State of Delhi, (1962) Supp (1) SCR 156	None
(AIR 1962 SC 458 ) the Court supported legislation on a reasonable ground that the case of Tibia College, 1962 Supp (1) SCR 156 (AIR 1962 SC 458 ) (supra) had exceptional features which were not found in others.	None
In Dalmias case, 1959 SCR 279 (AIR 1958 SC 538 ) (supra) the legislature was said to be free to recognise the degrees of harm and to confine its restriction to those cases where the need was deemed to be the greatest.	None
It is in this sense that usefulness to society was found to form a basis of classification in the case of Mohd.	None
Hanif Quareshi v. State of Bihar, 1959 SCR 629 (AIR 1958 SC 731 ).	None
In the case of Harnam Singh v. Regional Transport Authority, Calcutta, 1954 SCR 371 (AIR 1954 SC 190 ) Mahajan, J. said that in considering Article 14 the Court should not adopt an attitude which might well choke all beneficial legislation and legislation which was based on a rational classification was permissible.	None
It will not be sound to suggest that there are other banks which can be acquired and these 14 banks should be spared.	None
There is always possibility of discerning some kind of inequality and therefore grouping has to be made.	None
Where the legislature finds that public need is great and these 14 banks will be able to supply that need for the development of national economy classification is reasonable and not arbitrary and is based on practical grounds and consideration supported by the large resources of over Rs. 50 crores of each of these 14 banks and their administration and management, I am, therefore, of opinion that the acquisition of the undertakings does not offend Art. 14 because of intelligible differentia and their rational relation to the object to be achieved by the Act of 1969 and it follows that these banks cannot therefore be allowed to carry on banking business to nullify the very object of the Act.	None
193.	None
Counsel for the petitioner contended that the Act of 1969 infringed Article 31 (2) because there was no just compensation.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was said that compensation in Article 31 (2) meant just compensation and if the 1969 Act did not aim at just compensation, it would be unconstitutional.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that cash could not be taken and further that the four disputed businesses could not be acquired.	Arguments of Petitioner
I have already expressed my view that the Act acquired the entire undertaking of the banks, and, therefore, there is no question of taking of cash.	None
I have also expressed my view that the four disputed businesses are all within the business of bank, and, therefore, the Act is valid.	None
194.	None
It was said by counsel for the petitioner that the word compensation in Article 31 (2) was given the meaning of just equivalent in earlier decisions of this Court and since the word compensation was retained in Article 31 (2) after the Constitution Fourth Amendment Act, 1955 there was no change in the meaning of the expression compensation and it would have the same meaning of just equivalent.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the fact that after the Constitution Fourth Amendment Act the question of adequacy of compensation is not justiciable it was said by counsel for the petitioner that the only question for Courts is whether the law aimed at just equivalent.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel for the petitioner relied on the decision of this Court in (1965) 1	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 614 (AIR 1965 SC 1017 ) and submitted that the decision in AIR 1969 SC 634 was a wrong interpretation of Article 31 (2).195.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Attorney General on the other hand contended first that after the Constitution Fourth Amendment Act Article 31 (2) enacted that no law shall be called in question on the ground that the compensation provided by that law is not adequate and therefore compensation in that Article could not mean just equivalent.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also said that Article 31 (2) refers to a law which provides for compensation and not to a law which aims at just equivalent.	Arguments of Respondent
Secondly, it was said that the whole of Article 31 (2) had to be read and the meaning of the word compensation in the first limb was to be understood by reference to the second limb and if the petitioners arguments were accepted the Constitution would read that unless law provided for a just equivalent it shall be called in question.	Arguments of Respondent
It was, therefore, said by the Attorney General that if just equivalent was to be aimed at the second limb of Article 31 (2), namely, that inadequacy would not be questioned would become redundant and meaningless.	Arguments of Respondent
If the law enjoined that there was to be compensation and either principle for determination of compensation or amount of compensation was fixed the Court could not go into the question of adequacy or reasonableness of compensation and the Court could not also go into the question of result of application, propriety of principle or reasonableness of compensation.	Arguments of Respondent
196.	None
In Vajravelu Mudaliars case, (1965) 1	None
SCR 614 (AIR 1965 SC 1017 )	Reasoning
(supra) this Court referred to the decision of Bela Banerjees case, 1954 SCR 558 (AIR 1954 SC 170 ) where it was held that compensation in Article 31 (2) meant just equivalent or full indemnification.	None
In Vajravelu Mudaliars case, (1965) 1	None
SCR 614 (AIR 1965 SC 1017 )	Reasoning
(supra) it was contended that the Land Acquisition Madras Amendment Act, 1961 had provided for acquisition of land for housing schemes and laid down principles for compensation different from those prescribed in the Land Acquisition Act 1894 and thereby Art. 31 (2) was infringed because the Act did not provide for payment of compensation within the meaning of Art. 31 (2), Subba Rao, J. speaking for the Court said that if the term compensation had received judicial interpretation it must be assumed that the term was used in the sense in which it had been judicially interpreted unless a contrary intention appeared.	None
That is how reference was made to the decision of this Court in Bela Banerjees case, 1954 SCR 558 (AIR 1954 SC 170 ) to emphasise that a law for requisition or acquisition should provide for a just equivalent of what the owner has been deprived of.	None
Subbea Rao, J. then dealt with the clause excluding the jurisdiction of the Court where the word compensation was used and said at page 627 of the Report 19651	None
SCR (at page 1024 of AIR).	None
The argument that the word compensation means just equivalent for the property acquired, and, therefore the Court can ascertain whether it is just equivalent or not makes the amendment of the Constitution nugatory.	None
It will be arguing in a circle.	None
Therefore, a more reasonable interpretation is that neither the principles prescribing the just equivalent nor the just equivalent can be questioned by the Court on the ground of inadequacy of compensation fixed or arrived at by the working of the principles.	None
197.	None
This Court then said that when value of a house at the time of acquisition had to be fixed there could be several methods of valuation, namely, estimate by engineer or value reflected by comparable sales or capitalisation of rent and similar others with the result that the adoption of one principle might give a higher value but they would nevertheless be principles of the manner in which the compensation has to be determined and the Court could not say that the Act should have adopted one principle and not the other because it would relate to the question of adequacy.	None
In that case it was said that if a law lays down principles for determining compensation which are not relevant to the property acquired or to the value of the property at or about the time it is acquired it might be said that these are not principles contemplated by Article 31 (2).	None
This was illustrated by saying that if a law says that though a house is acquired it would be valued as an agricultural land or though it is acquired in 1950 its value in 1930 should be given and though 100 acres are acquired only 50 acres will be paid for, these would not enter the question of area or adequacy of compensation.	None
Another rule which was laid down in Vajravelu Mudaliars case, 19651 SCR 614 (AIR 1965 SC 1017 ) (supra) is that the law may prescribe compensation which is illusory.	None
To illustrate a property worth a lakh of rupees might be paid for at the sum of Rs. 100 and the question in that context would not relate to the adequacy of compensation because there was no compensation at all.	None
198.	None
Two broad propositions which were laid down in Vajravelu Mudaliars case, 19651 SCR 614 (AIR 1965 SC 1017 ) (supra) are these.	None
First if principles are not relevant to the property acquired or not relevant to the value of the property at or about the time it is acquired, these are not relevant principles.	None
The second proposition is that if a law prescribes a compensation which is illusory the Court could question it on the ground that it is not compensation at all.	None
199.	None
In the case of Shantilal Mangaldas, AIR 1969 SC 634 (supra) the Bombay Town Planning Act of 1950 which was repealed by the Bombay Town Planning Act of 1955 came up for consideration.	None
There was a challenge to the Bombay Act of 1955 on the ground of infringement of Article 31 (2) of the Constitution.	None
Section 53 of the Bombay Act contemplated transfer of ownership by law from private owners, to the local authority.	None
It was argued that under Section 53 of the Bombay Act when a plot was reconstituted and out of that plot a smaller area was given to the owner and the remaining area was utilised for public purpose the area so utilised for vested in the local authority for a public purpose, but the Act did not provide for giving compensation which was a just equivalent of the land expropriated at the date of extinction of interest and therefore Article 31 (2) was infringed.	None
It was also argued that when the final scheme was framed in lieu of the ownership of the original plot and compensation in money was determined in respect of the land appropriated to public purpose such a scheme for compensation violated Article 31 (2) because compensation for the entire land was not provided and secondly payment of compensation in money was not provided in respect of the land appropriated to public use.	None
200.	None
Shah, J., speaking for the Court in the case of Shantilal Mangaldas, AIR 1969 SC 634 (supra) said that the decision of this Court in the cases of Bela Banerjee, 1954 SCR 558 (AIR 1954 SC 170 ) and Subodh Gopal Bose, 1954	None
SCR 587 (AIR 1954 SC 92 ) (supra) raised more problems than they solved, because the Court did not indicate the meaning of just equivalent and it was easier to state what was not just equivalent than to define what a just equivalent was.	None
In this state of law Article 31 was amended by Constitution Fourth Amendment Act, 1955.	None
Shah, J., said first that adequacy of compensation fixed by the legislature or awarded according to principles specified by the legislature is not justifiable and secondly if the amount of compensation is fixed it cannot be challenged apart from a plea of abuse of legislative power because otherwise it would be a challenge to the adequacy of compensation.	None
In Shantilal Mangaldass case, AIR 1969 SC 634 (supra) Shah, J., also said that the compensation fixed or determined on principles specified by the legislature cannot be challenged on the indefinite plea that it is not a just or fair equivalent.	None
Shah, J., further said that principles of compensation could not be challenged on the plea that what was awarded as a result of the application of those principles was not just or fair compensation.	None
201.If the quantum of compensation fixed by the legislature is not liable to be challenged before the Court on the ground that it is not a just equivalent the principles specified for determination of compensation will also not be open to challenge on the plea that the compensation determined by the application of these principles is not a just equivalent.	None
The right declared by the Constitution guarantees compensation before a person is compulsorily expropriated of the property for public purpose.	Reasoning
Principles may be challenged on the ground that they are not relevant to the property acquired or the time of acquisition of the property but not on the plea that the principles are not relevant to the determination of a fair or just equivalent of the property acquired.	None
A challenge to the statute that a principle specified by it does not provide or award a just equivalent will be a clear violation of the constitutional declaration that inadequacy of compensation provided for is not justifiable.	None
202.	None
Shah, J., referred to the decision of this Court in (1967) 1	None
SCR 255 (AIR 1967 SC 637 ) and expressed disagreement with the following view expressed in the Metal Corporation case, 19671 SCR 255 (AIR 1967 SC 637 ) the law to justify itself has to provide a payment of just equivalent to the land acquired or lay down principles which will lead to that result.	None
If the principles laid down are relevant to the fixation of compensation and are not arbitrary the adequacy of the resultant product cannot be questioned in the Court of law.	None
The validity of the principles judged by the above tests falls within judicial scrutiny and if they stand he test the adequacy of the product falls outside justification.	None
In Metal Corporation case, 19671 SCR 255 (AIR 19678 SC 637) (supra), compensation was to be equated to the cost price in the case of unused machinery in good condition and written down value as understood in incometax law was to be the value of the used machinery and both were said to be irrelevant to the fixation of the value of machinery as on the date of acquisition.	None
Shah, J., speaking for the Court expressed inability to agree with that part of the judgment and then said the Parliament has specified the principles for determining compensation of undertaking of the company.	None
The principles expressly related to the determination of compensation payable in respect of unused machinery in good condition and used machinery.	None
The principles were not irrelevant to the determination of compensation and the compensation was not illusory.	None
If what is specified is a principle for determination of compensation the challenge to that principle on the ground that a just equivalent is not reached is barred by the plain words of Article 31 (2) of the Constitution.	None
203.	None
These two decisions have one feature in common, namely, that if compensation is illusory the Court will be able to go into it.	None
By the word illusory is meant something which is obvious, patent and shocking.	None
If for a property worth Rs. 1 lakh compensation is fixed at Rs. 100 that would be illusory.	None
One need not be astute to find out as to what would be at sight illusory.	None
Furthermore, illusoriness must be in respect of the whole property and there cannot be illusoriness as to part in regard to the amount fixed or the result of application of principles laid down.	None
204.When principles are laid down in a statute for determination of compensation all that the Court will see is whether those principles are relevant for determination of compensation.	None
The relevancy is to compensation and not to adequacy.	None
I am unable to hold that when the relevant principle set out is ascertained value the petitioner could yet contend that market value should be the principle.	None
It would really be going into adequacy of compensation by preferring the merits of the principle to those of the other for the oblique purpose of arriving at what is suggested to be just equivalent.	None
To my mind it is unthinkable that the legislature after the Constitution Fourth Amendment Act intended that the word compensation would mean just equivalent when the legislature put a bar on challenge to the adequacy of compensation.	None
Just compensation cannot be inadequate any anything which is impeached as unjust or unfair is impinging on adequacy.	None
Therefore, just equivalent cannot be the criterion in finding out whether the principles are relevant to compensation or whether compensation is illusory.	None
In Vajravelu Mudaliars case, 19652 SCR 614 (AIR 1965 SC 1017 ) (supra) the Court noticed continuous rise in land price but accepted an average price of 5 years a principle.	None
An average price over 5 years in the teeth of a continued rise in price would not aim at just equivalent according to the petitioners contention there.	None
Again potential value of land which was excluded in the Act in Vajravelu Mudaliars case, (1965) 1	None
SCR 614 (AIR 1965 SC 1017 )	Reasoning
(supra) was said there to pertain to the method of ascertaining comensation and its exclusion resulting in inadequacy of compensation.	None
I am, therefore, of opinion that if the amount fixed is not obviously and shockingly illusory or the principles are relevant to determination of compensation, namely, they are principles in relation to property acquire or are principles relevant to the time of acquisition of property there is no infraction of Article 31 (2) and the owner cannot impeach it on the ground of just equivalent of the property acquired.	None
205.	None
Counsel on behalf of the petitioner contended that Section 6 of the 1969 Act was an infraction of Article 31 (2) on these grounds.	Arguments of Petitioner
First, no time limit was mentioned with regard to payment of compensation in Section 6 (1) secondly, Section 6 (6) was an unreasonable restriction thirdly, the four disputed businesses are not subjectmatter of acquisition for public purpose fourthly, debentures cannot be subjectmatter of acquisition fifthly, currency notes, cash, coins cannot be subject matter of acquisition.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was said that securities and cash which are maintained under Section 42 of the Reserve Bank Act, 1934 and Section 24 of the 1949 Act can be taken but reserves and investments and shareholders accumulated past profits cannot be subjectmatter of acquisition and finally undertaking is not property and each asset is to be paid for.206.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 6 (1) of the Act provides for payment of compensation if it can be fixed by agreement and if agreement cannot be reached there shall be reference to a tribunal.	None
There is no question of time within which agreement is to be reached or determination is to be made by a tribunal.	None
207.	None
Section 6 (6) relates to interim payment of one half of the amount of paidup share capital and any existing bank may apply to the Central Government for such payment before the expiry of 3 months or within such further time not exceeding 3 months as the Central Government may by notification specify.	None
If the bank will apply the Government will pay the money only if the bank agrees to pay to shareholders.	None
Section 6 (6) is a provision for the benefit of the bank and the shareholders.	None
There is no unreasonableness in it.	None
208.	None
I have already held that the four disputed businesses come within the legitimate business of banks and therefore they are valid subjectmatter of acquisition.	None
No acquisition or requisition of the undertaking of the banking company is complete or comprehensive without all businesses which are incidental and conducive to the entire business of the bank.	None
209.	None
The entire undertaking is the subjectmatter of acquisition and compensation is to be paid for the undertaking and not for each of the assets of the undertaking.	None
There is no uniform established principle for valuing an undertaking as a going concern but the usual principle is assets minus liabilities.	None
If it be suggested that no compensation has been provided for any particular asset that will be questioning adequacy of compensation because compensation has been provided for the entire undertaking.	None
The compensation provided for the undertaking cannot be called illusory because in the present case principles have been laid down.	None
The Second Schedule of the Act of 1969 deals with the principles of compensation for the undertaking.	None
The second Schedule is in two parts.	None
Part I relates to assets and Part II relates to liabilities.	None
The compensation to be paid shall be equal to the sum total of the value of assets calculated in accordance with the provisions of Part I less the sum total of liabilities computed and obligations of existing banks calculated in accordance with the provisions of Part II.	None
In Part I assets are enumerated.	None
210.	None
Counsel for the petitioner contended that with regard to assets either there was no principle or the principle was irrelevant or the compensation was illusory or it was not just equivalent.	Arguments of Petitioner
As to securities, shares, debentures Part 1 (c) explanation (iv) was criticised on the ground that there was no principle because period was not fixed and was left to be determined by some other authority.	Arguments of Petitioner
Explanations (iv) and (v) to Part I (c) will be operative only when market value of shares, debentures is not considered reasonable by reason of its having been affected by abnormal factors or when market value of shares, debentures is not ascertainable.	None
In the former case the basis of average market value over any reasonable period and in the latter case the dividend paid during 5 years and other relevant factors will be considered.	None
In both cases principles have been laid down, namely, how valuation will be made taking into account various factors and these principles are relevant to determination of compensation for the property.	None
211.	None
Part I (c) Explanation I was criticised by counsel for the petitioner to be an instance of value being brought down from just equivalent.	None
Part I (c) Explanation I states that value shall be deemed to be market value of land or buildings, but where such market value exceeds the ascertained values determined in the manner specified in Explanation 2, it shall be deemed to mean such ascertained value.	Reasoning
This criticism suggests that compensation should be just equivalent meaning thereby that what is given is not just and therefore, indirectly it is challenging the adequacy.	None
In Vajravelu Mudaliars case, 19651 SCR 614 (AIR 1965 SC 1017 ) (supra) there was a provision for compensation on the basis of the market value on the date of the notification or on the basis of average market value during past 5 years whichever was less.	None
That principle was not held to be bad.	None
The owner of the property is not entitled to just equivalent.	None
Explanation I lays down the principle.	None
Market value is not the only principle.	None
That is why the Constitution has left the laying down of the principles to the legislature.	None
Ascertained value is a relevant and sound principle based on capitalisation method which is accepted for valuation of land and properties.	None
212.	None
It was next said by counsel for the petitioner that Explanation 2 (1) in Part I was an irrelevant principle because it was a concept borrowed from Incometax Act for calculating income and not capital value.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was said that 12 times the annual rent was not a relevant principle and was not an absolute rule and compensation might be illusory.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also said that Explanation 2 (1) would be irrelevant where 2 plots were side by side, one with building and the other vacant land because the latter would get more than the former and in the former standard rent was applied and the value of land was ignored and therefore it was an irrelevant principle.	None
That, will not be illusoriness.	None
Standard rent necessarily takes into account value of land on which the building is situated because no rent can be thought of without a building situated on a plot of land.	None
Article 31 (2) does not enjoin the payment of full or just equivalent or the payment of market value of land and buildings.	None
There should be a relevant principle for determining compensation for the property acquired.	Reasoning
Capitalisation method is not available for land because land is not generally let out.	None
If rental method be applied to land the value may be little.	None
In any event, it is a principle relevant to determination of compensation.	None
Furthermore, there was no case in the petition that there was land with building side by side with vacant land.	None
213.	None
Another criticism with regard to Explanation 2 (1) (i) was that amount required for repairs which was to be deducted in finding out ascertained value should not be deducted against capital value.	None
I am unable to accept the contention because this deduction on account of maintenance and repairs is essential in the capitalisation method.	None
It was next said by counsel for the petitioner that Explanation 2 (1) (ii) which speaks of deduction of insurance premium would reduce the value.	None
Insurance would also be an essential deduction in the capitalisation method and it could not be assumed that the bank would insure for a value higher than what was necessary.	None
Annul rent would also vary in different buildings.	None
Amounts mentioned in Explanations 2 (1) (iii) and (iv) were said on behalf of the petitioner not to be deductible against capital value because annual charge or ground rent would be paid from income.	None
These relate to Municipal tax and ground rent which are also taken into consideration in capitalisation method.	None
Payment of tax or ground have to be provided for in ascertaining value of the building under the capitalisation method.	None
214.	None
Explanation 2 (1) (vi) which speaks of deduction of interest on borrowed capital with which any building was constructed was said to be included twice, namely under Explanation 2 (1) (vi) and also under liabilities in Part II.	None
Explanation 2 in Part I which relates to finding our ascertained value of building enacts that where building is wholly occupied 12 times the annual rent or the rent at which the building may be expected to let out less deductions mentioned therein would be the ascertained value.	Reasoning
These deductions are made to arrive at the value of the building under the capitalisation method to find out how much will be paid in the shape of interest on mortgage or borrowed capital.	None
Interest on mortgage or borrowed capital will be one of the deductions in calculating outgoing under capitalisation method.	None
In Part II, the liabilities are those existing at the commencement of the Act and contingent liabilities which the corresponding new bank may reasonably be expected to be required to meet out of its own resources on or after the commencement of the Act.	None
Interest payable on mortgage or borrowed capital at or after the commencement of the Act will not be taken into account was outgoings deducted under capitalisation method.	None
215.	None
Explanation 2 (2) was criticised by counsel for the petitioner on the ground that plinth area related to the floor area and if a floor was not occupied the plinth area thereof was not taken into account.	None
Explanation 2 (1) relates to determination of compensation by finding out ascertained value in the case of building which is wholly occupied.	None
Explanation 2 (2) relates to the case of a building which is partially occupied.	None
Explanation 2 (3) refers to land on which no building is erected or which is not appurtenant to any building.	None
In the case of partial occupation Explanation 2 (2) sets out the principle of compensation of partially occupied building.	None
Again in Explanation 2 (3) the criticism on behalf of the petitioner that if there is a garage or one storeyed structure the principle will not apply is explained on the ground that the expression appurtenant means land belonging to the premises.	None
If there is a small garage or a one storeyed building the land will not be appurtenant to the garage or building.	None
216.	None
Counsel for the petitioner contended that Part 1 (h) which spoke of market or realisable value of other assets did not include goodwill, benefit of contract, agencies, claims in litigation, and, therefore, there was no compensation for these.	None
Part 1 (h) is a residuary provision.	None
Whatever appears on books would be included.	None
Goodwill does not appear in the books.	None
Goodwill may arise when an undertaking is sold as a going concern.	None
The contention as to exclusion of goodwill go does to the question of adequacy and will not vitiate the principle of valuation which has been laid down.	None
Reference may be made to Schedule VI of the Companies Act which refers to goodwill under Fixed Assets but the Banking Regulation Act 1949 does not contain goodwill under property and assets.	None
217.	None
Goodwill in the words of Lord Elden in Cruttwell v. Lye, (1810) 17 Ves 335 means the probability that the old customers will resort to the old place.	None
The term goodwill is generally used to denote the benefit arising from connection and reputation.	None
Whether or not the goodwill has a saleable value the question of fact is to be determined in each case.	None
Upon sale of a business there may be restriction as to user of the name of the business sold.	None
That is another aspect of sale of goodwill of a business.	None
The 14 banks carried on business under licence by reason of Section 22 of the Act of 1949.	None
The concept of sale in such a situation is unreal.	None
Furthermore, the possibility of nationalisation of undertakings like banks cannot be ruled out.	None
Possibility of nationalisation will affect the value of goodwill.	None
In the case of compulsory acquisition it is of grave doubt whether goodwill passes to the acquiring authority.	None
No facts have been pleaded in the petition to show as to what goodwill the bank has.	None
Goodwill is not shown in assets.	None
In the present case the names of the 14 banks and the corresponding new banks are not the same and is cannot therefore be said that any goodwill has been transferred.	None
The 14 banks will be able to carry on business other than banking in their names.	None
Again under the Act compensation is being paid for the assets and secret reserves which are provided for by depreciating the value of assets will also be taken into account.	None
Any challenge as to compensation for goodwill falls within the area of adequacy., 218.	None
As to Part II of the Schedule counsel for the petitioner said that liabilities not appearing in the books would be deducted but in the case of assets only those appearing in the books will be taken into account.	None
Nothing has been shown in the petition that there are assets apart from those appearing in the books.	None
It would not be appropriate to speak of liabilities like current incometax liability, gratuity, bonus claims as liabilities appearing in the books.	None
219.	None
It was said on behalf of the petitioner that interest from the date of acquisition was not provided for.	None
That would again appertain to the adequacy of compensation.	None
Furthermore, interest has been provided for under Section 6 (3) (a) (b) of the 1969 Act.	None
It was also said that if there was a large scale sale of promissory notes or stock certificates the value would depreciate.	None
Possibility of depreciation does not vitiate the principle or constitutionality of a measure.	None
220.	None
The principles which have been set out in 1969 Act are relevant to the determination of compensation.	None
When it is said that principles will have to be relevant to the compensation, the relevancy will not be as to adequacy of compensation but to the property acquired and the time of acquisition.	None
It may be that adoption of one principle may confer lesser sum of money than another but that will not be a ground for saying that the principle is not relevant.	None
The criticism on behalf of the petitioner that compensation was illusory is utterly unmeritorious.	None
221.	None
The AttorneyGeneral contended that even if Article 19 (1) (f) or 19 (1) (g) applied the 1969 Act would be upheld as a reasonable restriction in the interest of the general public.	Arguments of Respondent
It is said that social control scheme is a constitutional way of fulfilling the Directive Principles of State Policy.	None
The 14 banks paid a total of 4.35 crores of rupees as dividend in 1968.	None
This amount is said in the affidavit of the respondent not to be of great significance and that the bank should expand and attract more deposits.	None
The comparative position of India along with other countries is focussed in the study group Report referred to in the affidavit in opposition.	None
Commercial bank deposits and credit as proportion of national income form hardly 14 per cent and 10 per cent respectively in India as against 84 per cent and 19 per cent in Japan, 56 per cent and 36 per cent in U. S. A., 49 per cent and 29 per cent in Canada whereas the average population served in India by banks is as high as 73000 as against 4000 in U. S. A. and Canada and 15,000 in Japan.	None
Then it is said that more than 4/5th of the credit goes to industry and commerce, retail has about 2 per cent and agriculture less than 1 per cent.	None
Small borrowers it is said have no facilities.	None
It is said that institutional credit is virtually nonexistent in relation to small borrowers.	None
The suggestion is that there is flow of resources from smaller to larger population and from rural to urban centres.	None
There are many places which have no banks.	None
In different States there is uneven spread of banking offices.	None
There is greater expansion in urban banking.	None
5 major cities are said to have 46 per cent deposit but 65 per cent credit.	None
Banks are more developed in States which are economically and socially advanced but even in such developed States banks are sparsely located.	None
222.	None
India is a predominantly agricultural country and one half of national income, viz., 53.2 per cent is from agriculture.	None
Out of 5,64,000 villages only 5,000 are served by banks.	None
Not even 1 per cent have bank facilities.	None
Credit requirements for agriculture are of great importance.	None
Agriculturists have 34 per cent credit from Cooperatives, 5 per cent from banks and the rest from money lenders.	None
The requirements are said to be Rs. 2,000 crores for agriculturists.	None
The small scale industries are said to employ onethird of the total industrial population and 40 per cent of the industrial workers are in small scale industries.	None
Banks will have to meet their needs.	None
Small artisans and retail trade have all need for credit.	None
It is said that barely 1.8 per cent of the total bank advances goes to small scale industries.	None
It is said in the affidavit that the policy of the Government is to take up direct management of credit resources for massive expansion of branches, vigorous principles for mobilisation of deposits and wide range programme to fill the credit gaps of agriculture, small scale industries, small artisans, retail trade and consumer credit.	None
This policy can be achieved only by direct management by State and not merely by social control.	None
Almost all the banks are in favour of large scale industry.	None
This direct control and expansion of bank credit is intended to make available deposit resources and expand the same to serve the country in the light to Directive Principles.	None
These are the various reasons which are rightly said by the AttorneyGeneral to be reasonable restrictions in the interest of the general public.	None
I wish to make it clear that in my opinion Articles 19 (1) (f) and (g) do not at all enter the domain of Article 31 (2) because a legislation for acquisition and requisition of property for public purpose is not required to be tested again on the touchstone of reasonableness of restriction.	None
Such reasonable restriction is inherent and implicit in public purpose.	None
That is why public purpose is dealt with separately in Article 31 (2).	None
223.	None
The validity of the Ordinance of 1969 was challenged by contending that the satisfaction of the President under Article 123 was open to challenge in a court of law.	None
It was said that the satisfaction of the President was objective and not subjective.	None
The power of the President under Article 123 of the Constitution to promulgate Ordinances is when both the Houses of Parliament are not in session and this power is coextensive with that of the legislature and the President exercises this power when he is satisfied that circumstances exist which render it necessary for him to take immediate action.	None
The power of promulgating Ordinance is of historical antiquity and it has undergone change from time to time.	None
In the East India Company Act, 1773 under Section 36 the GovernorGeneral could promulgate Ordinance.	None
The Indian Councils Act, 1861 by Section 23 thereof provided that the GovernorGeneral in case of emergency may promulgate an Ordinance for the peace and good government of the territories.	None
The Government of India Act, 1915 provided in Section 72 that the GovernorGeneral could promulgate Ordinances for the peace and good government.	None
The Government of India Act 1935 by Sections 42, 43 and 45 conferred power on the GovernorGeneral to promulagate Ordinances and Sections 88 and 89 conferred a similar power on the Governor.	None
Article 123 of the Constitution is really based on Section 42 of the Government of India Act, 1935 and Article 213 which relates to the power of the Governor in the States is based on Section 88 of the Government of India Act, 1935.	None
224.	None
It has been held in several decisions like Bhagat Singhs case, 58 Ind App 169 (AIR 1931 PC 111 ) and Sibnath Banerjees case, 72 Ind App 241 (AIR 1945 PC 156 ) that the GovernorGeneral is the sole judge as to whether an emergency exists or not.	None
The Federal Court in Lakhi Narain Singhs case, 1949 FCR 693 (AIR 1949 FC 59) took a similar view that the GovernorGeneral was the sole judge of the state of emergency for promulgating Ordinances.	None
225.	None
The sole question is whether the power of the President in Article 123 is open to judicial scrutiny.	Issue
It was said by counsel for the petitioner that the Court would go into the question as to whether the President was satisfied that circumstances existed which rendered it necessary for the President to promulgate an Ordinance.	None
Liversidges case, 1942 AC 206 was relied upon by counsel for the petitioner.	Arguments of Petitioner
That case interpreted the words reasonable cause to believe.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is obvious that when the words used are reasonable cause to believe it is to be found out whether the cause itself has reason to support it and the Court goes into the question of ascertaining reasons.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Liversidges case 1942 AC 206 it was said that the words has reasons to believe meant an objective belief whereas the words if it appears or if satisfied would be a subjective satisfaction.226.	Arguments of Petitioner
The words if it appears came up for consideration in two English cases of Ayr Collieries, 19482 All ER 546 and the Carltona 19432 All ER 560 and the decision was that it was not within the province of the Court to enquire into the reasonableness of the policy.	None
227.The interpretation of Article 123 is to be made first on the language of the Article and secondly the context in which that power is reposed in the President.	None
When power is conferred on the President to promulgate Ordinances the satisfaction of the President is subjective for these reasons.	None
The power in Article 123 is vested in the President who is the executive head and the circumstances contemplated in Article 123 are a guide to the President for exercise of such power.	None
Parliament is not in session throughout the year and during the gaps between sessions the legislative power of promulgating Ordinance is reposed in the President in cases of urgency and emergency.	None
The President is the sole judge whether he will make the Ordinance.	None
The President under Article 75 (1) of the Constitution acts on the advice of Ministers.	None
Under Article 74 (2) the advice of the Ministers is not to be enquired into by any Court.	None
The Ministers under Article 75 (3) are responsible to Parliament.	None
Under Article 123 the Ordinance are limited in life and the Ordinance must be laid before Parliament and the life of the Ordinance may be further shortened.	None
The President under Article 361 (1) is not answerable to any Court for acts done in the performance of his duties.	None
The Ministers are under oath of secrecy under Article 74 (4).	None
Under Article 75 (3) the Ministers are collectively responsible to the House of the People.	None
Under Article 78 it shall be the duty of the Prime Minister to furnish information to the President.	None
The Power under Article 123 relates to policy and to an emergency when immediate action is considered necessary and if an objective test is applied the satisfaction of the President contemplated in Article 123 will be shorn of the power of the President himself and as the President will be acting on the advice of Ministers it may lead to disclosure of facts which under Article 75 (4) are not to be disclosed.	None
For these reasons it must be held that the satisfaction of the President is subjective.	None
228.	None
Counsel for the petitioner relied on the decisions of this Court in the cases of Barium Chemicals, (1966)	Arguments of Petitioner
Supp SCR 311 (AIR 1967 SC 295 ) and Rohtas Industries, AIR 1969 SC 707 .	Arguments of Petitioner
In both the cases the words used in the Companies Act, 1956 Section 237 (b) which came up for consideration before this Court are to the effect that the Central Government may, if in the opinion of the Central Government there are circumstances suggesting, that the business of the company is not properly conducted, appoint competent persons to investigate the affairs of the company.	Arguments of Petitioner
The opinion which is to be formed by the Central Government under the Companies Act in that section is in relation to various facts and circumstances about the business of a company and that is why this Court same to the conclusion that the existence of circumstances but not the opinion was open to judicial scrutiny.	Arguments of Petitioner
This was the view of this Court in the cases of Barium Chemicals, (1966)	Arguments of Petitioner
Supp SCR 311 (AIR 1967 SC 295 ) and Rohtas Industries, AIR 1969 SC 707 (supra).	Arguments of Petitioner
229.	None
The decisions in Barium Chemicals, (1966) Supp SCR 311 (AIR 1967 SC 295 ) and Rohtas Industries, AIR 1969 SC 707 (supra) turned on the interpretation of Section 237 of the Companies Act and executive acts thereunder.	None
The language used in that section is in the opinion of.	None
The Judicial Committee in the Hubli Electricity case, 76 Ind App 57 (AIR 1949 PC 136 ) interpreted the words the Provincial Government may, if in its opinion the public interest so requires, revoke a licence in any of the following cases to mean that the relevant matter was the opinion and not the ground on which the opinion was based.	None
This Court in the Barium Chemicals case, (1966) Supp SCR 311 (AIR 1967 SC 295 ) (supra) however found that there were no materials upon which the authority could form the requisite opinion.	None
That is the ratio of the decision in Barium Chemicals case, (1966) Supp SCR 311 (AIR 1967 SC 295 ) (supra).	None
230.	None
In order to entitle the Central Government to take action under Section 237 of the Companies Act, 1956 there is to the requisite opinion of the Central Government and the circumstances should exist to suggest that the companys business was being conducted as laid down in subclause (1) or that the persons mentioned, in subclause (2) were guilty of fraud, misfeasance or misconduct.	None
The opinion of the Central Government was subjective but it was said that the condition precedent to the formation of such opinion was that there should be circumstances in existence and the recitals of the existence of those circumstances did not preclude the Court from going behind those recitals and determining whether in fact the circumstances existed and whether the Central Government in making the order had taken into consideration any extraneous consideration.	None
231.	None
In the case of Rohtas Industries AIR 1969 SC 707 (supra) reference was made to English Canadian and New Zealand decisions.	None
The Canadian decision related to power of the Liquor Commission to cancel the liquor licence and it was held to be an exercise of discretion.	None
The New Zealand decision related to the power of the Governor General under the Education Act to make Regulations as he thinks necessary to secure the due administration.	None
It was held that the opinion of the Governor General as to the necessity for such regulation was not reasonably tenable.	None
These decisions do not deal with question as to whether the satisfaction is subjective or objective.	None
Of the two England decisions one related to the power of the Commissioner to make regulations providing for any matter for which provisions appear to them to be necessary for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of the Act.	None
The nature of legislation was taxation of subjects.	None
It was held that the authority was not the sole judge of what it powers, were nor of the way in which that power was exercised.	None
The words reasonable cause to believe, reasonable cause to believe occurring in the case of Liversidge 1942 AC 206 (supra) were relied on to illustrate the power of the Court to find out as to whether the regulation was intra vires in the England case.	None
232.	None
The decision of the House of Lords in Padfield v. Minister of Agriculture Fisheries and Food, 19681 All ER 694 on which counsel for the petitioner relied turned on interpretation of Section 19 (3) of the Agricultural Marketing Act which contemplated a committee of investigation if the Minister so directed, to consider and report to the Minister on any report made by the consumer committee and any complaint made to the Minister as to the operation of any scheme which in the opinion of the Minister could not be considered by a consumers committee under one of the subsections in that section.	None
The House of Lords held that the Minister had full or unfettered discretion but he was bound to exercise it lawfully that is to say not to misdirect himself in law, nor to take into account irrelevant matters nor to omit relevant matters from consideration.	None
That was an instance of a writ of mandamus directing exercising of discretion to act on the ground that it was a power coupled with duty.	None
233.The only way in which the exercise of power by the President can be challenged is by establishing bad faith or mala fide and corrupt motive.	None
Bad faith will destroy any action.	None
Such bad faith will be a matter to be established by a party propounding bad faith.	None
He should affirm the state of facts.	None
He is not only to allege the same but also to prove it.	None
In the present case there is no allegation of mala fide.	None
234.It was said on behalf of the petitioner that the fact that Parliament would be in session on 21st July 1969 and that the Ordinance was promulgated on Saturday, 19th July, 1969 was indicative of the fact that the Ordinance was not promulgated legitimately but in a hasty manner and the President should have waited.	None
If the President has power when the House is not in session he can exercise that power when he is satisfied that there is an emergency to take immediate action.	None
That emergency may take place even a short time before Parliament goes into session.	None
It will depend upon the circumstances which were before the President.	None
The fact that the Ordinance was passed shortly before the Parliament session began does not show any mala fide.	None
It was said that circumstances were not set out in the affidavit and therefore the Court was deprived of examining the same.	None
The Attorney General rightly contended that it was not for the Union to furnish facts and information which were before President because first such information might be a State Secret, secondly, it was for the party who alleged nonexistence of circumstances to prove the same and thirdly the respondent was not called upon to meet any case of mala fide.	None
235.	None
It was said that no reason was shown as to what mischief could have happened if the Ordinance would not have been promulgated on the date in question but no reason was required to be shown.	None
The Statement of Objects and Reasons shows that there was considerable speculation in the country regarding Governments intention with regard to nationalisation of banks during few days immediately before the Ordinance.	None
In the case of Barium Chemicals, (1966) Supp SCR 311 (AIR 1967 SC 295 ) (supra) it was said by this Court that if circumstances lead to tentative conclusion, that the Court would not have drawn a similar inference would be irrelevant.	None
The reason is obvious that in matter of policy just as Parliament is the master of its province similarly the President is the supreme and sole judge of his satisfaction on such policy matters on the advice of the Government.	None
236.	None
The locus standi of the petitioners was challenged by the AttorneyGeneral.	None
The petitions were heard on merits.	None
I have dealt with all the arguments advanced.	None
It is, therefore, not at all necessary to deal with this objection.	None
237.	None
For the reasons mentioned above, the petitions fail and are dismissed.	None
There will be no order as to costs.	None
ORDER 238.	None
In accordance with the opinion of the majority Petitions Nos. 300 and 298 are allowed, and it is declared that the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act 22 of 1969 is invalid and the action taken or deemed to be taken in exercise of the powers under the Act is declared unauthorised.	Decision
Petition no.	Decision
222 is dismissed.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs in these three petitions.	Decision
239.	None
Petitions allowed.	Decision
