 F. Nariman, J. Leave granted.	None
On 20.11.2014, the Commissioner of Transport, Government of Gujarat, floated a tender seeking bids for services inter alia of supervisors, computer programmers, data entry operators, and electrician staff at 11 RTO checkposts.	None
A few material clauses of the tender are set out hereinbelow 2.5.5 CommercialsThe Commercial Bids should strictly conform to the formats provided in Annexure 2 of this tender document.2.5.6 Fixed PricePrices quoted by the Bidder shall be fixed and no variation will be allowed under any circumstances during the entire period of the project.	None
No openended Bid shall be entertained and the same is liable to be rejected straightaway.2.8.3 Rejection of BidThe hardbound copy of Technical Bid Document shall be submitted in the form of printed document.	Facts
Bids submitted by Telex, fax or email shall not be entertained.	Facts
Any bid not secured in accordance with Clause 2.8 mentioned above, shall be rejected by COT without any further correspondence, as nonresponsive.	None
A bid that does not meet all prequalification criteria or is not responsive or not fulfilling technical evaluation shall be rejected by COT, and may not subsequently be made responsive by correction or withdrawal of the nonconforming deviation or reservation by the Bidder.3.4.5It shall be the responsibility of the Bidder to abide by the provisions of the labour welfare legislations, like The Payment of Wages Act, 1936, The Payment of Bonus Act, 1965, The Minimum Wages Act, 1948, The Equal Remuneration Act, 1976, The Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972, The Employees State Insurance Act, 1948, Contract Labor Act, 1970, The Workmens Compensation Act, 1923 and other similar legislations, rules, and orders as issued from time to time.	Facts
Annexure 2 (Financial Bid)Format for Financial BidPrice Bid (Financial Commercial Bid submitted in physical form shall be liable for rejection.	None
It should be submitted online only at https www.nprocure.com)Please provide price bid for supply of Man Power to be deployed at different Checkposts CMC.Sr.	None
No.	None
ParticularsQtyCost per person per month without taxTotal cost for 24 months without tax1Data Entry operator1202Computer Engineer023Electrician124Supervisor12TotalAdditional Service TaxGrand Total1.	None
Salary paid to the deployed manpower should not be less than the minimum wages published as per the notification issued by state govt.	Facts
labour department or other statutory benefits applicable.	Facts
In case of revision of minimum wages DA by the labour department, agency would be entitled to get the revised rates from Commissioner of transport.2.	Facts
Breakup of salary for each category of employee should be provided indicating clearly the wages, DA, other mandatory statutory benefits the service charges.3.	None
If the component of salary quoted is less than the minimum wages prescribed or the components of mandatory statutory benefits are not included in the breakup, the bid is liable to be rejected.4.	None
The quantity of manpower required may vary and the supplier may be asked to supply upto 25 extra manpower at the rate quoted above.5.	Facts
L1 will be decided on grand total.	None
Signature DateDesignation Seal The financial bids were opened on 10.12.2014.	None
9 bidders gave financial bids of which only three were qualified.	Facts
The Appellant bid for a total amount of Rs.2,92,93,944/ Respondent No.1 bid for Rs.2,77,68,000/, and	None
one Airan Consultants Pvt. Ltd. made a bid for Rs.3,03,83,184/. On 26.2.2015, the Technical Evaluation Committee, after taking into account the opinion of the Labour Department, arrived at a minimum wage figure of Rs.3,00,92,346/.	None
Inasmuch as both the Appellant as well as Respondent No.1 gave bids which were below this figure, (which would, therefore, be less than the amount required as minimum wages, in accordance with the tender conditions read with the Annexure 2 thereof), both the Appellant as well as Respondent No.1 were held to be ineligible.	Facts
A decision was, therefore, taken to award the tender to the third bidder, namely, M s Airan Consultants Pvt.	Facts
Ltd.	Facts
Respondent No.1 approached the Gujarat High Court in a writ petition challenging the aforesaid decision.	Facts
By its judgment dated 11.8.2015, the High Court ultimately came to the conclusion that the tender in favour of M s Airan Consultants Pvt. Ltd. ought to be quashed and set aside with the further direction that the Government of Gujarat shall give an opportunity to all three tenderers to resubmit their bids after being appraised of the minimum wage figure given by the Labour Department.	Facts
This was done as the High Court was of the opinion that all the bidders ought to have been given an opportunity to revise their bills subsequent to the minimum wage calculated by the Labour Department.	Facts
In pursuance of the aforesaid judgment, the Transport Department of the Government of Gujarat furnished to all the competing bidders the Labour Departments calculation that minimum wages plus bonus payable for the contract was Rs.3,00,92,346/.	None
In response to the above, the Appellant wrote a letter dated 2.11.2015 sticking to the original bid figure of Rs.2,92,93,944/. On 3.9.2015, Respondent No.1, in response to the minimum wage figure disclosed, wrote to the Government of Gujarat, as follows (6.3)	None
Thus, it can be seen that according to the calculation, Minimum Wages and other statutory benefits payable to the employees for 730 days 2 years of contract comes to Rs.3,00,92,346 without service tax.	None
The price at which I am ready to work is Rs.2,77,68,000 without service tax.	Facts
Thus, against payment of wages and all statutory benefits of Rs.3,00,92,346/ and service tax thereon, am ready and willing to accept Rs.2,77,68,000 plus service tax from the Government.	Facts
This would enable the Government to save Rs.23,24,346.00 and service tax thereon, and the ultimate beneficiary would be public exchequer.(6.4)	None
I have undertaken in past in writing that I am ready to incur loss as well.	None
The price I have offered shall have no impediment on wages and statutory benefits to be paid to the employees as calculated by the Technical Evaluation Committee based on the report opinion of the Labour Commissioner.	Facts
The tender document itself binds the contractor to abide by all labour welfare legislation, and therefore, there is no question of resiling from performing that part of contract from my end.(6.5) Even in my previous letters also, I have undertaken that I shall conform to all labour welfare legislations even after accepting Rs.2,77,68,000 Service Tax from the Government.	Facts
I have also undertaken that I shall bear the burden of loss incurred on account of the margin between my bid and the amount of minimum wages and statutory benefits payable to my employees.	Facts
The margin between the two shall not be hindrance in quality of services I would offer through my employees on these checkposts.(6.6) Without prejudice to above, I am to state that I am ready to accept even Rs.3,00,92,346.00 Service Tax, being the bare minimum wages payable to the employees during the life of the contract from the Government as calculated by the Technical Evaluation Committee based on the report of the Labour Commissioner, such offer will result into No Profit No Loss business for me, but at the same time, it would create a burden of Rs.23,24,346.00 on the State Funds.	Facts
On 12.10.2015, the Labour Department gave a second opinion that though Data Entry Operators are ordinarily to be treated as skilled workers, for the purpose of the present tender they should be treated as semi skilled workers.	None
In view of this decision, the Government, on 30.10.2015, arrived at a decision that the actual minimum wage plus bonus worked out to Rs.2,91,00,000/, and thus revised their earlier figure of Rs.3,00,92,346/.	None
In the judgment under appeal, the High Court has stated, and it is not controverted before us, that this figure was not disclosed to either party.	Facts
On 2.11.2015, Respondent No.1 again knocked at the doors of the High Court in a second writ petition filed by it.	Facts
By the impugned judgment dated 22.2.2016, the High Court allowed Respondent no.1s petition in the following terms Under the circumstances, the decision of the authorities to shortlist respondent No.3 for awarding the contract is set aside.	Facts
The offer of the petitioner shall be treated as matching with the revised minimum wage calculation.	Issue
The petitioner shall give such offer in clear writing and undertaking to the authorities latest by 25.2.2016.	Issue
The respondent authorities, unless there is any other disqualification of the petitioner to carry out the contract, being the lower, shall accept the same.9.	Facts
Petition is disposed of.	Facts
Being aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment, the Appellant is before us.	Facts
Shri Harin Raval, learned senior advocate appearing on behalf of the Appellant, has pointedly referred to the tender conditions and has argued before us that Respondent No.1s writ petition was not at all maintainable in view of the fact that Respondent No.1 stuck to its earlier offer of Rs.2,77,68,000/ which was lower than the figure of Rs.3,00,92,346/ as well as the figure of Rs.2,91,00,000/ fixed by the Government upon advice given by the Labour Department, of minimum wage plus bonus.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, the without prejudice offer of Rs.3,00,92,346/ flew in the face of the tender conditions and, therefore, the writ petition being not maintainable, ought to have been dismissed both on the ground that the figure quoted by Respondent No.1 was below the minimum wage fixed as also on the ground that no open ended bid is liable to be entertained.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further argued that the Court cannot make a contract between the parties by treating the offer of the Respondent No.1 as matched with the revised minimum wage calculation.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further argued that a Mandamus cannot be issued to straightaway award the tender to a person who does not conform to the essential conditions of the tender.11.	Arguments of Petitioner
Countering these submissions, Shri Shyam Divan, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of Respondent No.1, has argued that it is an admitted fact that the revised figure of minimum wage was never disclosed to either of the parties and this being so, the judgment under appeal is correct.	Arguments of Respondent
He also stated that though the High Court did not find malafides, yet it went out of its way to comment on the secret manner in which the Labour Department refixed the minimum wage at Rs.2,91,00,000/, which is only one lakh above the Appellants figure of Rs.2,92,00,000/ and that, therefore, the said nontransparent process rendered the decision of the Government to award the tender to the Appellant as bad in law.	Arguments of Respondent
He further argued that if the offer of the Respondent No.1 was treated as matching with the revised minimum wage calculation, the State will benefit by an amount of Rs.1 lakh and that this was well within the discretion of the High Court while exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution.12.	Arguments of Respondent
Having heard learned counsel for the parties, we agree with Shri Ravals contention that Respondent No.1s bid was contrary to the terms of the tender.	None
First and foremost, under tender condition 2.5.5, commercial bids have to strictly conform to the format provided in Annexure 2 of the tender document.	Reasoning
Annexure 2 which contains the format for the price bid makes it clear that the salary paid to deployed manpower should not be less than the minimum wage.	Reasoning
It further goes on to state in paragraph 3 thereof that if the component of salary quoted is less than the minimum wage prescribed, the bid is liable to be rejected.	Reasoning
On this ground alone, Respondent No.1s bid is liable to be rejected inasmuch as, vide its letter dated 3.9.2015, Respondent No.1 stuck to its original figure of Rs.2,77,68,000/ which is way below the minimum wage fixed by the Government.	Reasoning
Secondly, Shri Raval is also right in stating that the without prejudice offer of Rs.3,00,92,346/ is an offer which is not fixed, but open ended.	Reasoning
This is clear from the fact that it was up to the Government then to pick up either figure by way of acceptance.	Reasoning
This is clearly interdicted by clause 2.5.6 of the tender which states that prices quoted by the bidder have to be fixed, and no open ended bid can be entertained, the same being liable to be rejected straightaway.	Reasoning
Such condition is obviously an essential condition of the tender which goes to the eligibility of persons who make offers under the tender.14.	Reasoning
Unfortunately, even though the High Court noticed the open ended nature of Respondent No.1s bid, it went on to add that the offer of Respondent No.1 shall be treated as matching with the revised minimum wage calculation and that it is nowhere envisaged by the tender conditions that rejection of an offer which may have the potential of causing loss to the tenderer is present.	Reasoning
It is not for the High Court to revisit a condition contained in Annexure 2 read with 2.5.5 of the tender in the manner aforesaid.	Reasoning
Once the tender condition states that the tender must strictly conform to the format provided in Annexure 2, and Annexure 2 in turn clearly states that if the component of salary quoted is less than the minimum wage prescribed, the bid is liable to be rejected, and the High Court cannot hold otherwise.	Reasoning
The High Courts further finding that Respondent No.1s offer was clear is wholly incorrect.	None
It was a without prejudice offer which muddied the waters and rendered the price quoted by the bidder as variable and not fixed.	Reasoning
The law is settled that an essential condition of a tender has to be strictly complied with.	None
In Poddar Steel Corpn.	None
v. Ganesh Engineering Works, (1991) 3 SCC 273 , this Court held as under The requirements in a tender notice can be classified into two categories those which lay down the essential conditions of eligibility and the others which are merely ancillary or subsidiary with the main object to be achieved by the condition.	None
In the first case the authority issuing the tender may be required to enforce them rigidly.	None
In the other cases it must be open to the authority to deviate from and not to insist upon the strict literal compliance of the condition in appropriate cases.	None
para 6 Similarly in B.S.N. Joshi Sons Ltd. v. Nair Coal Services Ltd., (2006) 11 SCC 548 , this Court held as under if there are essential conditions, the same must be adhered to(ii) if there is no power of general relaxation, ordinarily the same shall not be exercised and the principle of strict compliance would be applied where it is possible for all the parties to comply with all such conditions fully(iii) if, however, a deviation is made in relation to all the parties in regard to any of such conditions, ordinarily again a power of relaxation may be held to be existing(iv) the parties who have taken the benefit of such relaxation should not ordinarily be allowed to take a different stand in relation to compliance with another part of tender contract, particularly when the was also not in a position to comply with all the conditions of tender fully, unless the court otherwise finds relaxation of a condition which being essential in nature could not be relaxed and thus the same was wholly illegal and without jurisdiction(v) when a decision is taken by the appropriate authority upon due consideration of the tender document submitted by all the tenderers on their own merits and if it is ultimately found that successful bidders had in fact substantially complied with the purport and object for which essential conditions were laid down, the same may not ordinarily be interfered with para 66 We also agree with the contention of Shri Raval that the writ jurisdiction cannot be utilized to make a fresh bargain between parties.	None
In General Assurance Society Ltd. V. Chandmull Jain, (1996) 3	None
SCR 500 , this Court, in a slightly different context, stated In other respects there is no difference between a contract of insurance and any other contract except that in a contract of insurance there is a requirement of uberrima fides i.e. good faith on the part of the assured and the contract is likely to be construed contra proferentem that is against the company in case of ambiguity or doubt.	None
A contract is formed when there is an unqualified acceptance of the proposal.	None
Acceptance may be expressed in writing or it may even be implied if the insurer accepts the premium and retains it.	None
In the case of the assured, a positive act on his part by which he recognises or seeks to enforce the policy amounts to an affirmation of it.	None
This position was clearly recognised by the assured himself, because he wrote, close upon the expiry of the time of the cover notes that either a policy should be issued to him before that period had expired or the cover note extended in time.	None
In interpreting documents relating to a contract of insurance, the duty of the court is to interpret the words in which the contract is expressed by the parties, because it is not for the court to make a new contract, however reasonable, if the parties have not made it themselves.	None
Looking at the proposal, the letter of acceptance and the cover notes, it is clear that a contract of insurance under the standard policy for fire and extended to cover flood, cyclone etc. had come into being.	None
In the light of the aforesaid judgment, the High Court was not correct in treating Respondent No.1s offer as matching with the revised minimum wage calculation, as that would make a new contract between the parties that the parties have not made themselves.	Reasoning
It is also well to remember the admonition given by this Court in Michigan Rubber (India) Limited v. State of Karnataka and Others, (2012) 8 SCC 216 in cases like the present, as under In Jagdish Mandal v. State of Orissa, (2007) 14 SCC 517 , the following conclusion is relevant22.	None
Judicial review of administrative action is intended to prevent arbitrariness, irrationality, unreasonableness, bias and mala fides.	None
Its purpose is to check whether choice or decision is made lawfully and not to check whether choice or decision is sound.	None
When the power of judicial review is invoked in matters relating to tenders or award of contracts, certain special features should be borne in mind.	None
A contract is a commercial transaction.	None
Evaluating tenders and awarding contracts are essentially commercial functions.	None
Principles of equity and natural justice stay at a distance.	None
If the decision relating to award of contract is bona fide and is in public interest, courts will not, in exercise of power of judicial review, interfere even if a procedural aberration or error in assessment or prejudice to a tenderer, is made out.	None
The power of judicial review will not be permitted to be invoked to protect private interest at the cost of public interest, or to decide contractual disputes.	None
The tenderer or contractor with a grievance can always seek damages in a civil court.	None
Attempts by unsuccessful tenderers with imaginary grievances, wounded pride and business rivalry, to make mountains out of molehills of some technical procedural violation or some prejudice to self, and persuade courts to interfere by exercising power of judicial review, should be resisted.	None
Such interferences, either interim or final, may hold up public works for years, or delay relief and succour to thousands and millions and may increase the project cost manifold.	None
Therefore, a court before interfering in tender or contractual matters in exercise of power of judicial review, should pose to itself the following questions(i) Whether the process adopted or decision made by the authority is mala fide or intended to favour someoneORWhether the process adopted or decision made is so arbitrary and irrational that the court can say the decision is such that no responsible authority acting reasonably and in accordance with relevant law could have reached(ii) Whether public interest is affected.	None
If the answers are in the negative, there should be no interference under Article 226.	None
Cases involving blacklisting or imposition of penal consequences on a tenderer contractor or distribution of State largesse (allotment of sites shops, grant of licences, dealerships and franchises) stand on a different footing as they may require a higher degree of fairness in action.	None
Para 21	None
We have seen that the present tender has not gotten off the ground since May 2015, and one years precious time has been wasted due to litigation between the parties.	Decision
We must hasten to add that the Government of Gujarat is partly to blame for this inasmuch as it arrived at a minimum wage figure and did not disclose the same to the tendering parties twice.	Decision
Even in the second round of litigation, the Government did not disclose the newly arrived at minimum wage figure of Rs.2,91,00,000/ to the two persons in the fray before us.	Decision
Ordinarily, therefore, we would have asked the Government to disclose the second figure of minimum wage and restart the tendering process.	Decision
However, we do not think that the justice of the case requires us to do so, for two reasons.	Decision
First and foremost, Respondent No.1 before us has clearly violated the strict terms of the tender condition on every occasion and hence cannot be given relief.	None
And, secondly, we already find that due to litigation the present tender has not taken off for over one year.	Decision
In the absence of malafides, and indeed the High Court judgment has found that malafides did not vitiate the calculation of minimum wage by the Labour Department, we cannot accept Shri Divans submission that the figure of Rs.2,91,00,000/ was tailor made to suit the bid offered by the Appellant herein.	Decision
We, therefore, set aside the decision of the Gujarat High Court and allow the Government to proceed further in finalizing the tender in favour of the Appellant herein.	Decision
The appeal is, accordingly, allowed with no order as to costs.	Decision
