 Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, J Leave granted.	None
This appeal arises from a judgment and order of a Division Bench of the High Court at Calcutta dated 14 November 2018.	Issue
Allowing the first appeal filed by the respondent against a decree for possession, the Division Bench directed, in consequence, that the suit filed by the appellant shall stand dismissed.	Issue
The subject matter of the dispute is a plot of land situated at Second Mile, Sevoke Road, Siliguri, West Bengal admeasuring 4 bighas, 18 Cottahs, 9 Chittacks and 18 sq.ft.	Facts
On 22 March 1975, a deed of settlement was executed by Mohan Lal Khemka, by which a private trust was created for the benefit of his grandson.	Facts
By the said deed, Mahabir Prasad Bhartia and Sunita Bhartia were appointed as trustees.	Facts
On 5 November 1979, a deed of settlement resulted in the creation of a private trust.	Facts
At this stage, it would be material to note that the property in dispute has by subsequent devolutions vested in the appellant.	Facts
On 25 May 1981, an indenture of lease was entered into between the appellant and the respondent.	Facts
The term of the lease was fifteen years.	Facts
Under the terms of the lease, the respondent took possession of the land.	Facts
The rent was paid until 19 April 1984.	Facts
The State of West Bengal initiated proceedings for requisitioning of the land under the West Bengal Lands (Requisition and Acquisition) Act 1948.	Facts
The appellant challenged the validity of the requisitioning in a Writ Petition before the High Court.	Facts
The petition was allowed by a judgment dated 25 September 1998 and the order of requisitioning was set aside.	Facts
The judgment of the Single Judge was questioned in appeal by the respondent.	Facts
The appeal was dismissed on 16 November 2000.	Facts
Eventually, a suit for eviction was instituted before the Court of the Civil Judge (Senior Division), Jalpaiguri .	Facts
The respondent filed its written statement.	Facts
The learned trial judge decreed the suit by a judgment and order dated 30 November 2005.	Facts
The trial court passed a decree for vacant and peaceful possession.	Facts
A preliminary decree for mesne profits was passed.	Facts
The respondent filed an appeal before the High Court.	Facts
By an interim order dated 18 May 2006, the Division Bench of the High Court directed that proceedings before the trial Court for ascertainment of mesne profits in terms of Order XX Rule 12 of the Code of Civil Procedure 1908 shall continue, but no final decree shall be drawn up without the leave of the Court.	Facts
The execution proceedings were stayed, subject to deposit of the arrears of rent.	Facts
Following the order of the High Court, the valuer submitted a report in regard to the valuation of the property.	Facts
The trial Court accepted the valuation on 7 September 2016.	Facts
The order of the trial court was challenged by the respondent before the High Court .	Facts
The petition was dismissed on 1 May 2018 by a learned Single Judge.	Facts
By a judgment and order dated 14 November 2018, the High Court has set aside the decree for possession and, in consequence, directed that the suit instituted by the respondent shall stand dismissed.	Facts
The High Court has held that A lease of immovable property for a term exceeding one year can only be made by a registered instrument Since the indenture of lease was unregistered, it was governed by the first paragraph of Section 107 of the Transfer of Property Act 1882 The relationship between the parties would, in consequence, be governed by the second paragraph of Section 107	Facts
The tenancy shall, therefore, be deemed to be from month to month terminable by fifteen days notice under Section 106 and In the absence of a notice under Section 106 determining the relationship of lessor and lessee between the parties, the suit was not maintainable.	None
Mr C	Arguments of Petitioner
A Sundaram, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant urged three submissions (i) The purpose of a notice under Section 106 is relatable to the necessity of effecting termination of the lease.	Arguments of Petitioner
No specific form is provded by the TP Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The purpose of the notice is to furnish an intimation to the tenant of the termination of the lease and to provide a period of fifteen days to quit and vacate the ipremises.	Arguments of Petitioner
The substantive purpose of such a notice is in effect fulfilled in the form of the suit for possession, so long as an eviction follows beyond a period of fifteen days.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that event, the requirement of Section 106 stands satisfied (ii) Since the indenture of lease is an unregistered document, as a consequence of the provisions of Sections 35 and 36 of the Indian Stamp Act 1899 and Sections 17 and 49 of the Registration Act 1908, the contents of the document are inadmissible in evidence to prove the terms of the contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
As a consequence, the presumption under Section 106 would come into operation and the relationship between the parties would be in the nature of a monthly tenancy.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent in its written statement categorically admitted that it was in occupation for a period of fifteen years which ended on 24 May 1996.	Arguments of Petitioner
Once this is the position, the position of the respondent would be as a tenant at sufferance, in which event, no notice under Section 106 was necessary and (iii) After the respondent entered upon the property on 25 May 1981, it was requisitioned by the State Government in pursuance of a request made by the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent stopped paying the rent after 1984.	Arguments of Petitioner
After the Writ Petition was allowed by the learned Single Judge and the order of requisitioning was quashed, the respondent filed an appeal before the Division Bench.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this view of the matter, the respondent must be treated to have elected or opted out of the lease.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Mr Yasobant Das, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent, urged that Since the document of lease has not been registered, the contents of the lease cannot be looked into for any purpose whatsoever.	Arguments of Respondent
The status of the respondent would be of a monthly tenant Consequently, a notice of termination under Section 106 was mandatory and The failure of the appellant to issue a notice of termination under Section 106 was fatal to the maintainability of the suit.	None
In this regard, reliance was placed on a decision of a two judge Bench of this Court in Satish Chand Makhan v Govardhan Das Byas (1984) 1 SCC 369 .	Arguments of Respondent
Section 107 of the TP Act reads thus Leases how made.	None
A lease of immovable property from year to year, or for any term exceeding one year, or reserving a yearly rent, can be made only by a registered instrument.	Reasoning
All other leases of immovable property may be made either by a registered instrument or by oral agreement accompanied by delivery of possession.	None
Where a lease of immovable property is made by a registered instrument, such instrument or, where there are more instruments than one, each such instrument shall be executed by both the lessor and the lessee Provided that the State Government may, from time to time, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that leases of immovable property, other than leases from year to year, or for any term exceeding one year, or reserving a yearly rent, or any class of such leases, may be made by unregistered instrument or by oral agreement without delivery of possession.	None
In terms of the provisions of Section 107, a lease of immovable property for a term exceeding one year can only be made by a registered instrument.	Reasoning
Admittedly, in the present case, the indenture of lease has not been registered.	Reasoning
In consequence, the contents of the indenture would be inadmissible in evidence for the purpose of determining the terms of the contract between the parties.	Reasoning
This is the plain consequence of the provisions of Sections 17 and 49 of the Registration Act 1908 6 .	Reasoning
The only purpose for which the lease can be looked at is for assessing the nature and character of the possession of the respondent.	None
The essence of the dispute in the present case is as to whether a notice of termination under Section 106 was necessary.	Issue
In the judgment of this Court in Satish Chand Makhan (supra), the father of the plaintiff had leased open land to the defendant for a period of five years under a registered deed of lease.	None
After the expiry of the initial term, there was a draft agreement for renewal for a further period of nine years, which, however, was not registered under Section 17(1)(d) of the Registration Act 1908.	Reasoning
The plaintiff served a notice for the determination of the tenancy on the ground of forfeiture under Section 111(g) and brought a suit for ejectment.	Reasoning
The High Court held that the lease had been determined by efflux of time under Section 111(a) upon the expiry of the term of nine years and hence, no notice under Section 106 was required for the determination of the lease.	Reasoning
While determining the correctness of the judgment of the High Court, this Court observed that the defendants have nowhere admitted that the lease was for a specific term of nine years .	Reasoning
On the contrary, the defendants had pleaded that they were tenants holding over under Section 116 of the TP Act.	Reasoning
This Court held that the unregistered draft lease agreement was inadmissible in evidence under Section 49 of the Registration Act except for a collateral purpose of proving the nature and character of the possession of the defendants.	Reasoning
The terms of the lease did not constitute a collateral purpose.	Reasoning
Consequently, the unregistered draft lease was held to be inadmissible to create a valid lease for a renewed term of nine years.	Reasoning
In this background, this Court held that the defendants were tenants holding over under Section 116 in which event it was necessary for the plaintiff to serve a notice under Section 106.	Reasoning
In the absence of such a notice, the suit, it was held, would not be maintainable.	Reasoning
Mr Sundaram has sought to distinguish this decision, since in that case this Court found that the defendant was a tenant holding over within the meaning of Section 116.	Reasoning
We find merit in the submission which has been urged by Mr Sundaram.	Reasoning
In the case before this Court noted above, the defendants had not admitted that the term of the lease was for a period of nine years.	Reasoning
This was noted by the Court, as we have extracted earlier.	Reasoning
On the contrary, we find that in the present case, there is an express admission on the part of the defendants that they were in occupation under the lease agreement for a period of fifteen years with effect from 1981 and that the period of lease expired on 24 May 1996.	Reasoning
Such a specific admission on the part of the defendants is contained in paragraph 22 of the written statement.	Reasoning
Under Section 111(a), a lease of immovable property determines by efflux of time limited thereby.	Reasoning
Once this be the position, there can be no manner of doubt that the position of the respondent on the expiration of the lease was of a tenant at sufferance.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, there was no necessity of a notice for the termination of the lease under the provisions of Section 106.	Reasoning
The respondent having squarely admitted in its written statement that it was in occupation for a term of fifteen years, that term having expired, the lease stood determined by efflux of time.	Reasoning
Once the lease stood determined by efflux of time, there was no necessity for a notice of termination under Section 106.	Reasoning
In coming to this conclusion, we are fortified by the decision of this Court in R V Bhupal Prasad v State of A P (1995) 5 SCC 698 , where this Court held Tenant at sufferance is one who comes into possession of land by lawful title, but who holds it by wrong after the termination of the term or expiry of the lease by efflux of time.	None
The tenant at sufferance is, therefore, one who wrongfully continues in possession after the extinction of a lawful title.	None
There is little difference between him and a trespasser.	None
In Mullas Transfer of Property Act (7th Edn.) at page 633, the position of tenancy at sufferance has been stated thus A tenancy at sufferance is merely a fiction to avoid continuance in possession operating as a trespass.	None
It has been described as the least and lowest interest which can subsist in reality.	None
It, therefore, cannot be created by contract and arises only by implication of law when a person who has been in possession under a lawful title continues in possession after that title has been determined, without the consent of the person entitled.	None
A tenancy at sufferance does not create the relationship of landlord and tenant.	None
At page 769, it is stated regarding the right of a tenant holding over thus The act of holding over after the expiration of the term does not necessarily create a tenancy of any kind.	None
If the lessee remains in possession after the determination of the term, the common law rule is that he is a tenant on sufferance.	None
The expression holding over is used in the sense of retaining possession In Park Street Properties Private Limited v Dipak Kumar Singh (2016) 9 SCC 268 , the appellant to whom premises had been let out with a right to sublet them entered into a subtenancy in favour of the respondent.	None
The agreement by which the subtenancy was created was unregistered.	None
The appellant issued a notice under Section 106 of the TP Act terminating the monthly subtenancy and then instituted a suit for recovery of possession.	None
The trial court held that since the sublease was unregistered, it was inadmissible in evidence and none of its terms, including clause 6 which empowered the landlord to serve a notice upon default in the payment of rent could be looked into.	None
Hence the notice under Section 106 was held to be valid.	None
The High Court allowed the appeal and remanded the proceedings to the trial court.	None
In appeal, this Court held that clause 6 of the agreement was contrary to Section 106.	None
While Section 106 contains the phrase in the absence of a contract to the contrary, this must refer to a valid contract.	None
This Court held that in the absence of a registered agreement, the court is not precluded from determining the factum of tenancy from other evidence on the record including the conduct of parties.	None
However, in the absence of registration, Section 106 created a fiction of tenancy from month to month, the termination of which was governed by Section 106.	None
Consequently, the judgment of the High Court was set aside and the judgment of the trial court was restored.	None
The above judgment is clearly distinguishable.	None
Since the agreement of sub lease in Park Street Properties (supra) was unregistered, clause 6 which governed the sublease could not be looked into.	Reasoning
In the present case, the indenture of lease being unregistered, the contents of the instrument are inadmissible in evidence.	Reasoning
However, it is evident from the clear admission in the written statement that the appellant accepted and proceeded on the basis that the period of lease expired on 24 May 1996.	Reasoning
Thereafter, the position of the appellant is of a tenant at sufferance.	Reasoning
In Nopany Investments (P) Ltd v Santokh Singh (HUF) (2008) 2 SCC 728 , a two judge Bench of this Court has held 22In any view of the matter, it is well settled that filing of an eviction suit under the general law itself is a notice to quit on the tenant.	None
Therefore, we have no hesitation to hold that no notice to quit was necessary under Section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act in order to enable the respondent to get a decree of eviction against the appellant.	None
For the above reasons, we have come to the conclusion that the judgment of the High Court was in error.	Decision
We accordingly allow the appeal and set aside the impugned judgment and order of the High Court and restore the judgment of the trial court dated 30 November 2005.	Decision
In view of the pendency of the proceedings before this Court and having due regard to the interim order that was passed by the High Court during the pendency of the appeal, the respondent should be given the liberty of assailing the judgment dated 1 May 2018 of the learned Single Judge of the High Court accepting the report of the Commissioner in regard to the determination of mesne profits.	Decision
We grant a period of three months to the respondent to initiate appropriate proceedings in accordance with law for assailing the judgment of the learned Single Judge dated 1 May 2018.	Decision
Mr Yasobant Das requested for the grant of a year to vacate since the respondent has a store in the land and arrangements for shifting have to be made.	Decision
We direct that the respondent shall have one years time to vacate the suit premises from the date of the judgment, subject to the filing of the usual undertaking within four weeks from today.	Decision
We have granted one years time since the Court was apprised of the fact that a store which provides services to the entire North Bengal area is situated on the land.	Decision
The bank guarantee furnished by the appellant as a condition for withdrawal of the occupation charges deposited by the respondent shall stand discharged.	Decision
However, the amount which has been withdrawn by the appellant shall abide by the final determination of mesne profits.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
