 ASHOK BHUSHAN, J.1.	None
The Jaipur Municipal Corporation has filed this appeal challenging the Division Bench judgment of Rajasthan High Court, Bench at Jaipur dated 12.01.2018 by which the Special Appeal filed by the respondents questioning the judgment of learned Single Judge has been allowed and the appellants have been directed to refund the conversion charges deposited by the respondents along with six percent interest.2.	Issue
Brief facts of case giving rise to this appeal are Lt. Col. Late Harnath Singh, the predecessorin interest of the respondents by registered sale deed dated 16.04.1959 had purchased the property in question known as Lal Niwas?	None
from His Highness Sawai Man Singh of Jaipur.	Facts
Lt.Col. Late Harnath Singh died on 08.01.1997 after which the respondents became owner of the property.	Facts
The respondents, with intent to develop by constructing a multistoreyed building, commercialcumresidential complex in the area of 8080.14 square meter, made an application to Corporation for conversion of land use as condition precedent for sanction of building plan for constructing commercialcumresidential complex.	Facts
The Corporation issued an order dated 22.02.2003 directing the respondents to deposit an amount of Rs.1,01,04,672/ towards the conversion charges.	Facts
The respondents reserving their rights deposited the amount through pay order dated 20.03.2003.	Facts
An order dated 06.05.2003 was passed by the Corporation allowing the conversion of the land use of the aforesaid land.	Facts
The building plan was thereafter approved by the Corporation on 08.01.2004.	Facts
The respondents issued notice dated 28.04.2004 to the Corporation calling upon the appellants to pay a sum of Rs.1,13,86,703/ along with interest.	Facts
The respondents filed a Writ Petition No.4783 of 2004 in the High Court of Rajasthan at Jaipur Bench praying for following reliefs ?(i) By an appropriate writ, order and direction impugned orders dated 22.02.2003 (Annexure.2), order dated 01.04.1003 (Annexure.4), 19.11.2003 20.12.2003 (Annexure.7) passed by the respondents No.2 3 may kindly be quashed and set aside.(ii) By an appropriate writ, order or direction the respondents may be directed to refund the amount of Rupees 1,01,04,672/ charged extracted by the respondents towards conversion charges of the land in question and an amount of Rupees 6,31,542/ and Rupees 6,59,961/ charged by the respondents towards Shahari Jama Bandi interest thereon, thus totalling Rs.	Facts
1,13,96,175/ from the petitioners along with interest 18 p.a. thereon as damages for unnecessarily withholding the aforesaid amount w.e.f. date of deposit to the date of payment.	Facts
The respondents may further be directed to refund the total amount as prayed hereinabove to the petitioners in the proportion viz.	Facts
30 to Thakur Shiv Raj Singh (Petitioner No.1) and 1/3rd of the remaining to each of the Petitioners No.2 to 4.(iii) Cost of litigation be awarded to the petitioners.(iv)	Facts
Any other order(s) as this Hon?ble High Court may deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances of the present writ petition be also passed in favour of the humble petitioners and against the respondents.?	None
In the writ petition, the Corporation filed its reply.	Facts
The Corporation resisted the writ petition.	Facts
A learned Single Judge of the High Court vide its judgment dated 04.07.2006 dismissed the writ petition.	Facts
Aggrieved against the judgment of learned Single Judge, Special Appeal was filed by the respondent before the Division Bench.	Facts
The Division Bench of the High Court vide its impugned judgment dated 12.01.2018 allowed the Special Appeal and directed for refund of the amount of Rs.1,01,04,672/ with interest.	Facts
The Corporation aggrieved by the judgment of the Division Bench has come up in this appeal.4.	Facts
We have heard learned counsel for the appellants as well as learned counsel appearing for the respondents.5.	None
Learned counsel for the appellants submits that it is the respondents who had submitted an application for paying conversion charges to enable sanction of building plan of commercialcum residential complex in the premises in question.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Corporation had directed for deposit of conversion charges which were deposited by the respondents.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents are not entitled to claim any refund.	Arguments of Petitioner
They have themselves deposited the conversion charges.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that in view of the land use of plot in the Master Plan, which was in force at the time when the application was moved by the respondents, i.e., residential?, it was obligatory for the respondents to seek permission for using the land for commercial purpose as required by Section 173A of Rajasthan Municipalities Act, 1959 as amended by Act 19 of 1999.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the respondents?	Arguments of Petitioner
map for sanction of building plan forcommercialcumresidential plot could not have been sanctioned unless the conversion of land use was permitted and the amount demanded by the Corporation from respondents was the amount of conversion charges of land use.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the Division Bench without considering the relevant issues and provisions of Section 173A allowed the appeal.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Division Bench erred in directing for refund of the amount deposited by the respondents.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondents refuting the submissions of the learned counsel for the appellants contends that the respondents were forced to deposit the amount of Rs.1,01,04,672/ by the Corporation.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondents deposited the amount under protest.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that from the date property was purchased in the year 1959, the property is being used for commercial purposes.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that a Company M s. Hindustan Salts Limited was using the premises for commercial purpose till M s. Hindustan Salts Limited handed over the premises in the year 1996 to Lt. Col. Late Harnath Singh.	Arguments of Respondent
When the premises was being used for commercial purpose since before the date when building plan for constructing commercialcumresidential complex was made, there was no occasion for payment of any conversion charges.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that in Master Plan the land use of plot in question as on date as well as at the relevant time was commercial.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the respondents were not liable to pay any conversion charges and the Corporation, having realised the conversion charges illegally and arbitrary from the respondents, is obliged to refund the amount.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the learned Single Judge also has returned a finding that the land in question is being used for commercial purposes.7.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the submissions of the learned counsel for the parties and have perused the records.8.	None
Before we enter into the submissions made by the learned counsel for the appellants, it is relevant to notice the relevant provisions of Rajasthan Municipalities Act, 1959 pertaining to land user.	None
Section 173A is provision dealing with the power of the State Government to allow the change of use of land.	None
Section 173A was amended by Rajasthan Municipalities (Amendment) Act, 1999.	None
It is useful to notice the provisions of Section 173A before the amendment and after the amendment which are as follows ?	None
Section 173A of the Act, prior to its amendment, reads as follows?173A. Power of the State Government to allow change in the use of land.	None
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, where any land has been allotted or sold to any person by a municipality or the State Government subject to the condition of restraining its use for a particular purpose, the State Government may, if it is satisfied so to do in public interest, allow the owner or holder of such land to use it for any other purpose other than the purpose for which it was originally allotted or sold, on payment of such conversion charges as may be prescribedProvided that the rates of conversion charges may be different for different areas and for different purposes.(2)	None
The conversion charges so realized shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund of the State or to the fund of the Municipality as may be determined by the State Government.(3)	None
Such charges shall be the first charge on the interest of the person liable in the land the use of which has been changed and shall be recoverable as arrears of land revenue.?Section 173A of the Act as amended by the Amending Act No. 19 of 1999 reads as follows?Section 173A  Restriction on change of use of land and power of the State Government to allow change of use of land.(1)	None
No person shall use or permit the use of any land situated in any municipal area, for the purpose other than that for which such land was originally allotted or sold to any person by the State Government, any municipality, and other local authority or any other body or authority in accordance with any law for the time being in force or, otherwise than as specified under a Master Plan, wherever it is in operation.(2)	Reasoning
In the case of any land not allotted or sold as aforesaid and not covered under subsection (1), no person shall use or permit the use of any such land situated in a municipal area for the purpose other than that for which such land use was or is permissible, in accordance with the Master Plan, wherever it is in operation, or under any law for the time being in force.(3)	Reasoning
Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1) or sub section (2), the State Government or any authority authorised by it by notification in the Official Gazette, may allow the owner or holder of any such land to have change of use thereof, if it is satisfied so to do in public interest, on payment of conversion charges at such rates and in such manner as may be prescribed with respect to the following changes in use(i) from residential to commercial or any other purpose or(ii) from commercial to any other purpose or(iii) from industrial to commercial or any other purpose or(iv) from cinema to commercial or any other purposeProvided that rates of conversion charges may be different for different areas and for different purposes.(4)	None
Any person who has already changed the use of land in violation of the provisions of this Act in force at the time of change of use, shall apply to the State Government or any authority authorised by it under subsection (3), within six months from the date of commencement of the Rajasthan Municipalities (Amendment) Act, 1999 (19 of 1999) for regularisation on said use and upon regularisation of the change of use of land he shall deposit the amount contemplated under subsection (3).(5) Where the State Government or the authority authorised by it under subsection (3) is satisfied that a person who ought to have applied for permission or regularisation under this Section, has not applied and that such permission can be granted or the use of land can be regularised, it may proceed to determine the conversion charges after due notice and hearing the party parties and the charges so determined shall become due to the municipality and be recoverable under subsection (7).(6)	None
The conversion charges so realised shall be credited to the fund of the municipality.(7) Charges under this section shall be the first charge on the interest of the person liable to pay such charges with respect to the land, the use of which has been changed and shall be recoverable as arrears of land revenue.??	None
Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Amendment Act of 1999 is also relevant to notice, which is to the following effect ?	None
The existing provisions contained in Section 173A of the Rajasthan Municipalities Act, 1959 provide that where any land has been allotted or sold subject to the condition of restraining its use for a particular purpose, to any person by a Municipality or the State Government, the State Government may, if it is satisfied so to do in public interest, allow the owner or holder of the land, to use it for any other purpose other than the purpose for which it was originally allotted or sold, on payment of such conversion charge as may be prescribed.	None
With a view to ensure planned and regulated development of the urban areas it is necessary to restrict and bar the change of use in certain circumstances of those lands also which were not sold or allotted by Municipality or the State Government.	None
However, the power of the State Government or any other authority authorised by it, to allow change of use of land, on payment of conversion charges is sought to be retained.	None
With a view to achieve the aforesaid objective, the existing Section 173A of the Rajasthan Municipalities Act, 1959 is proposed to be substituted.?	None
The demand for conversion charges having been raised in the present case in the year 2002, the provisions of Section 173A as amended by Act 19 of 1999 are applicable in the present case.	Reasoning
A perusal of unamended and amended Section 173A indicates that there is substantial change in the statutory provision of Rajasthan Municipalities Act, 1959.	Reasoning
Prior to amendment, the power of the State Government to allow the change in the use of land was confined to a land allotted or sold by Municipality or the State Government.	Reasoning
The amended Section 173A has not only changed heading of the Section but contents also.	Reasoning
Section 173A as amended contains restriction on use of land.	Reasoning
Both subsection (1) and subsection (2) of Section 173A now contain a restriction on both the categories of land, i.e., (i) originally allotted or sold by the State Government, any Municipality and other local authority or any other body or legal authority (ii) in the case of any land not allotted or sold and not covered under sub section (1).	Reasoning
The restriction is that no person shall use or permit the use of any such land situated in a municipal area other than that for which such land use was or is permissible, in accordance with the Master Plan, wherever it is in operation.	Reasoning
The amended provision of Section 173Ahas been brought on the Statute book to ensure planned development of a municipal area.	Reasoning
Master Plans are to be prepared according to the statutory Scheme keeping in view the future developments of the city and the municipal area.	Reasoning
A clear distinction between the statutory Scheme under Section 173A, unamended and amended, is visible.	Reasoning
Earlier the restriction was there only with regard to land, which has been allotted or sold to any person by a Municipality or the State that too restriction for land use for any other purpose other than the purpose for which it was originally allotted or sold.	Reasoning
After the amendment restriction is with regard to the land use as provided in Master Plan.	Reasoning
Even if prior to amendment in Section 173A, a person holding the land which was neither allotted nor sold to it by Municipality or State could have used the land for any purpose, the restriction has now been placed by amended Section 173A.	Reasoning
In the facts of the present case, even though prior to amendment of Section 173A the respondents were using the land for commercial purposes that user is prohibited by virtue of restriction brought by amended Section 173A(2) for using the land for a purpose other than one which is permitted under Master Plan, permission of State or any authority authorised by it, is required as provided by subsection (3) of Section 173A.11.	Reasoning
We need to notice the land use as permissible in the Master Plan, which was in operation at therelevant time when respondents submitted an application for sanction of building plan for commercialcumresidential complex.12.	None
The appellants have filed a rejoinderaffidavit dated 26.07.2019 wherein Jaipur Development Authority Land Use Plan2011 has been brought on record as AnnexureR/1, which indicates that Master Development Plan was prepared and approved, which Plan for Jaipur Region came into force with effect from 01.09.1998.	Arguments of Petitioner
In paragraph 6(c) of the rejoinderaffidavit, it has been pleaded that the Master Plan 2011 has been notified on 01.09.1998.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further pleaded that with a view to ensure planned and regulated development, the Master Plan 2011 for Jaipur Region was notified in which the present area where the property in question is situated was declared a residential?	Arguments of Petitioner
area.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the Land Use Plan 2011 of Master Plan 2011 as per AnnexureR/1 Plot No.21, Lal Niwas is mentioned as residential as submitted by the learned counsel for the appellants.13.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel appearing for the respondents has submitted that AnnexureR/1 filed by the appellants along with the rejoinderaffidavit is only a map which cannot be read to mean that land use of Plot No.21, Lal Niwas, has been shown as residential except that it has been marked as residential by officials of the Corporation.	Arguments of Respondent
It has further been pleaded in the rejoinderaffidavit that in Master Plan 2025, which was brought into force on 01.09.2011, the property in question has now been earmarked as commercial.14.	Arguments of Respondent
In event, the appellants claim that land use of Plot No.21 in the Master Plan 2011 enforced w.e.f. 01.09.1998 is accepted as residential, the restriction as imposed by subsection 2 of Section 173A as amended by Act, 1999 shall come into force and for change of land use as given in Master Plan 2011, the respondents were obliged to seek permission under subsection (3) of Section 173A and without payment of conversion charges, they could not have obtained sanction map for commercial use of the land.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court in Municipal Corporation, Rajasthan vs. Sanjeev Sachdeva and others, (2013) 12 SCC 562 , had occasion to consider Section 173A as amended by Act 19 of 1999.15.	None
In the above case also, the respondents therein had purchased a plot of land with a house on 09.09.2002, situated in a residential area by way of a registered sale deed.	None
On an application submitted for conversion of land use from residential to commercial, certain amount was deposited by the respondents.	None
The respondents filed a writ petition challenging the vires of the amended Section 173Aas well as the demand notice.	None
The writ petition after some litigation was allowed by the learned Single Judge and demand notice was quashed.	None
The Division Bench dismissed the appeal of the Corporation against which judgment the Municipal Corporation had come to this Court.	None
This Court while interpreting Section 173A laid down following in paragraph Nos.11, 12 and 13 ?11.	None
A bare reading of unamended Section 173A(1) of the Act would indicate that the conversion for change of land use charges could only be realised if the land was allotted by the Municipality or the State Government and there was a condition for restraining use for a particular purpose only.	None
Therefore, in the absence of land being allotted by the State Government Municipality and in absence of any specific stipulation regarding use of land, the conversion charges could not be claimed.	None
This was the ratio laid down in Pareshar Soni case, (2007) 14 SCC 144 , interpreting the unamended Section 173A of the Act.	None
The Legislature, with a view to ensure planned and regulated development of the urban area felt it necessary to charge for the change of use in certain circumstances of those lands which were not sold or allotted by municipality or by the State Government, Further, it is also felt that such a change of user be permitted only in public interest.	None
In this connection, we may refer to the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Amendment Act, 1999, which reads as under?The existing provisions contained in Section 173A of the Rajasthan Municipalities Act, 1959 provide that where any land has been allotted or sold subject to the condition of restraining its use for a particular purpose, to any person by a Municipality or the State Government, the State Government may, if it is satisfied so to do in public interest, allow the owner or holder of the land, to use it for any other purpose other than the purpose for which it was originally allotted or sold, on payment of such conversion charge as may be prescribed.	None
With a view to ensure planned and regulated development of the urban areas it is necessary to restrict and bar the change of use in certain circumstances of those lands also which were not sold or allotted by Municipality or the State Government.	None
However, the power of the State Government or any other authority authorized by it, to allow change of use of land, on payment of conversion charges is sought to be retained.	None
With a view to achieve the aforesaid objective, the existing Section 173A of the Rajasthan Municipalities Act, 1959 is proposed to be substituted.?12.	None
Amended Section 173A not only restricts the change of use of land, as the same has been allotted by the municipality or the State Government, but also put restrictions if the land has been allotted by any other local authority.	Reasoning
Section 173 A(2) covers the cases which are not even covered by Section 173A(1) and brings in its fold even the change of use of land which is not in consonance with the Master Plan.	None
Further Sections 173A(1)(2) and (3) also contemplate a situation wherein the State Government is entitled to levy conversion charges if the change in use from one purpose to other purpose.	None
The amendment was necessitated since the State Legislature thought the provision of Section 173A (unamended) stood as an impediment for proper planning of urban areas.	None
In other words, with a view to ensure planned and regulated development of urban areas, it was felt that some restrictions have to be imposed and it was for that purpose that Section 173A was amended.13.	None
We may, in this respect, also indicate that, in exercise of powers conferred under Section 297 read with Section 173A of the 1959 Act, 2000 Rules were promulgated.	None
It is under the abovementioned Rules that the Respondents filed an application on 16.7.2003 for change of land use from residential to commercial.	None
Following those Rules, the Corporation issued public notice inviting objections.	None
Later, the Land Use Committee met and approved the conversion for which a demand notice of Rs. 5,70,300/ was raised by the Corporation on 2.4.2004.	None
We are of the view that the demand is legal and valid and in accordance with the provisions of Section 173A, as inserted by Amendment Act 19 of 1999 read with the 2000 Rules.	None
We are also of the view that the Rajasthan High Court has committed an error in applying the judgment of this Court in Pareshar Soni case which was dealing with the unamended provision of Section 173A.?	None
The law laid down by this Court in the above case is fully applicable in the facts of the present case.	None
The present case is also where subsection (2) of Section 173A covers the case.17.	None
We may also notice one of the submissions vehemently raised by the learned counsel for the respondents that the respondents were forced to deposit the conversion charges, which they deposited under the protest.	Reasoning
The copy of the writ petition filed by the respondents has been brought on record as AnnexureP/12.	Reasoning
In paragraph Nos. 5,6 and 7, following has been pleaded by the respondents ?	None
5.	None
That the petitioners intended to get the aforesaid plot of land admeasuring 10067.14 sq.yards which is equivalent to 8420.56 sq. meters, developed by constructing a multistoreyed commercialcumresidential complex.	Reasoning
In this connection, on having been asked to apply with them for land use conversion as a condition precedent so that maps of building plans can be approved for constructing commercial cumresidential complex.6.	Reasoning
That the respondents No 2 3 vide order bearing No.F.13/At.	Reasoning
Mu.N.Niyo.	Reasoning
dated 22.02.2003 directed to deposit an amount of 1,01,04,672/ towards conversion charges.	Reasoning
The copy of the aforesaid order dated 22.02.2003 is being enclosed herewith and marked as Annexure.2.7.	None
That in pursuance of the aforesaid order passed by the respondents No.2 3, the humble petitioners reserving their rights deposited the amount so demanded i.e. a sum of Rs.1,01,04,672/ through pay order dated 20.03.2003 drawn on City Bank, M.I.Road, Jaipur vide duly filled challan dated 16.1.2003/20.3.2003 under Covering Letter dated 20.3.2003.	Reasoning
Consequently, receipt dated 20.3.2003 was issued from office of respondents No.2 3 in proof of said amount having been duly deposited.	Reasoning
The photocopy of the Covering letter dated 20.3.2003 along with receipt dated 20.3.2003 and challan dated 16.1.2003/20.3.2003 are being enclosed herewith and collectively marked as Annexure3.?	None
The above pleading of the respondents only indicates that when they intended to construct multi storeyed building for commercialcumresidential complex they were told to deposit conversion charges as a condition precedent for sanction map.	None
Learned Single Judge in its judgment had noted that the respondents intended to deposit conversion charges for the land use as commercialcumresidential complex.	Reasoning
The submission of the learned counsel for the respondents that they were forced to apply for conversion of land use from residential to commercial does not commend us.	Reasoning
Whether the respondents were liable to deposit the conversion charges is to be determined in accordance with the statutory Scheme and statutory requirement.	Reasoning
In the event, under the Statute they were obliged to obtain conversion of land use from residential to commercial, they were bound to do the same and the fact that they were asked by the Corporation to do the same is inconsequential.19.	Reasoning
The Division Bench in the impugned judgment has been unduly led by the fact that land which was purchased in the year 1959 is being used for commercial purpose.	Reasoning
The Division Bench did not advert to subsection (2) of Section 173A as amended by Act 19 of 1999 and its consequences.	Reasoning
The total consideration of the Division Bench on the entire case is in paragraph Nos.7, 8 and 9 which are to the following effect ?	None
7.	None
We have gone through the property document which shows that the land was purchased in the year 1959 and the same property was used by the company for commercial purposes.	None
In our considered opinion, with a view to avoid any delay in their construction activities, the appellants have paid the amount under protest to the respondents.8.	Reasoning
In that view of the matter, respondents are not entitled for conversion charges and the amount deposited by the appellants is required to be refunded with immediate effect.9.	Reasoning
The respondents are directed to refund the said amount alongwith interest 6 within a period of three months from today.	Reasoning
If the payment is not made within a period of three months, the appellants will be entitled for interest 9 and difference of 3 will be recovered from the officer who has made delay in making payment.?	Reasoning
We are of the view that the Division Bench did not consider the issues raised in the appeal in the correct perspective and has not adverted to the effect and operation of the statutory Scheme as delineated by subsection (2) of Section 173A as amended by Act 19 of 1999.	Reasoning
The judgment of the Division Bench, thus, cannot be upheld.21.	Reasoning
We may also notice that this Court in Municipal Corporation, Rajasthan (supra)although had allowed the appeal but gave liberty to the respondents to take up the issue before the Corporation regarding land use in the Master Plan which was in operation at the relevant time.	None
In paragraph No.14 of the judgment, following has been observed ?	None
14.	None
The learned Counsel appearing for the respondents, however, submitted that the area in question is notified as commercial area under the Master Plan and, therefore, there is no question of any conversion of the residential property to commercial.	None
We notice that this point was not raised before the High Court and we are, therefore, not called upon to decide that question.	None
However, the Respondents, if so advised, may take up this issue before the Corporation and it is for the Corporation to consider that issue in accordance with law.	None
Appeals are accordingly allowed and the judgments of the High Court are set aside.	None
However, there will be no order as to costs.?	None
In the present case, learned Single Judge has made following observation ?	None
It is also not disputed that in the Master Plan area in question is ear marked for commercial use and it is also not disputed the earlier the area in question is used for commercial purpose.	Reasoning
Therefore, the petitioner moved application for conversion for approval of map for constructing a commercial building.?	Reasoning
Although learned Single Judge made the above observation, but the judgment does not indicate that said observations were made after looking into the Master Plan which was in force at the time of submission of application by the respondents.24.	Reasoning
The Division Bench did not advert to either sub section (2) of Section 173A or to the land use in the Master Plan at the relevant time, i.e., in the year 2002 when the respondents made an application for sanction of building plan.	Reasoning
The appellants although have brought on record the Land Use Plan 2011, which is in force	Reasoning
w.e.f. 01.09.1998 along with their rejoinderaffidavit	Reasoning
but since during the submission learned counsel for the respondents has contended that the said Land Use Plan 2011 does not conclusively establish that land use of Plot No.21 was residential, we are, thus, of the view that ends of justice shall be served in giving liberty to the respondents to submit a representation before the Corporation, if there are any materials and grounds that in the Master Plan which was in operation in the year 2002, when respondents submitted an application that land use of Plot No.21, Lal Niwas was not residential but commercial.	Reasoning
Subject to the above liberty, the appeal is allowed and the impugned judgment is set aside.	Decision
Parties shall bear their own costs.	Decision
