 VENKATASWAMI, J. This appeal by special leave is directed against the Division Bench judgment of the Gujarat High Court dated 721985.	Issue
Brief facts concerning the case are given below.	None
The first respondentCompany is engaged in the manufacture of steel tubes through its Ambica Tubes Division.	Facts
For the purpose of manufacture of steel tubes, hot rolled strips in coils are required as raw material.	Facts
These hot rolled strips were being supplied at the relevant time to the manufacturers of steel tubes like Ambica Tubes (hereinafter referred to as the importer) through the appellant subject to certain conditions.	Facts
The manufacturers who are given raw materials must possess the import licence and have to carry out certain export obligations.	Facts
The obligations concerning this for the period in question, namely, April 1983 to March 1984 were given in the import and export policy for that period.	Facts
Previously a public notice in respect of the Scheme for supply of raw material by Steel Authority of India Ltd. (hereinafter called SAIL) against advance import licencewas issued on 11121982.	Facts
For the period 198384, it was announced, the Scheme published on 11121982 would be continued.	Facts
According to that, the importer becomes eligible for supply of goods on compliance of the conditions fixed in the Scheme in particular, the conditions of producing advance licences, duty exemption entitlement certificate, legal undertaking execution of export bond and furnishing of irrevocable letter of credit.	Facts
The appellant as an indigenous supplier under the aforesaid import and export policy for 198384 made an announcement of the prices at which the raw material will be supplied.	Facts
That announcement was published in The Economic Times on 1061983 under the caption Scheme for Supply of Certain Categories of Indigenously Produced Steel Materials at Competitive Prices against Valid Import Licences.	None
Pursuant to the abovesaid announcement, the importer submitted licences requiring supply of about 3768 tonnes of hot rolled strips in coils.	None
It was found that the licence submitted by the importer (Ambica Tubes) did not mention that it was an advance import licence nor was it accompanied by Duty Exemption Entitlement Certificate and the bond.	Facts
In addition to the submission of licences, the said Ambica Tubes however submitted Letter of Credit dated 1981983 on the same date, namely, 2081983.	Facts
In the Letter of Credit also there were certain infirmities and when the same was pointed out, it was rectified and submitted before 2581983.	None
On receipt of the licence and the Letter of Credit, the appellant by a telex message dated 2381983 pointed out the defects in the licence release order and also stated that in view of the defects, the appellant is not taking any action on the Letter of Credit for the present.	None
In reply to the telex message, Ambica Tubes sent a letter on the same date (2381983) informing the appellant that the original release order in duplicate and the Duty Exemption Entitlement Certificate booklet had been submitted to the Joint Controller at Ahmedabad and would be sent to the Bombay SAIL office on receipt of the same.	Facts
The relevant documents after carrying out the corrections were factually furnished to the appellant by Ambica Tubes only on 2681983.	Facts
In the meanwhile the appellant enhanced revised the price of their supplies (steel materials) from Rs. 2460 to 2750 per MT on and from 2581983.	Facts
Since the relevant documents after carrying out the corrections with necessary enclosures were received by the appellant only on 2681983, the importer (Ambica Tubes) was required to pay the price for the release of steel materials at the revised rate, namely, Rs. 2750 per MT.	Facts
Ambica Tubes made representations that they having submitted Letter of Credit and the necessary documents, though defective, well before 2581983, the revised charges should not have been applied.	Facts
The appellant gave a detailed reply to the representation of the importer.	Facts
The importer moved the Gujarat High Court on 1861984 for quashing the announcement made by SAIL revising the price and for direction that the supplies must have been made at the prerevised price and for consequential refund of difference between the prerevised and revised prices.	Facts
The appellant resisted the writ petition by filing a detailed reply to the affidavit filed in support of the writ petition.	None
The High Court proceeding on a wrong premise, namely, that SAIL (appellant) was a department of the Union of India but its administration is run separately in the interest of efficiency held that the importer (Ambica Tubes) was not responsible for the defects painted out in the licence release order and it was the office of Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports alone responsible for the defects for which the importer should not be punished.	Facts
In other words, the High Court was of the view that the licence though defective must be deemed to have been presented on 2081983 long before the revised price was announced.	Facts
Therefore, the appellant was not entitled to charge for the supply of raw materials at the revised rate.	Facts
The High Court also directed the refund of the difference between the prerevised and the revised rates.	Facts
The High Court further observed that the action of the appellant in not registering the petitioners Indent No. 7 of 1983 dated 1981983 latest on 2481983 was an action bad at law, arbitrary and unreasonable.	None
We are not concerned with the other relief granted against Union of India in this appeal.	None
Though the main relief in the writ petition was the challenge to the right of SAIL to fix the price from time to time, the High Court left open that issue without deciding the same.	None
The entire reasoning of the High Court is found in paragraph 16 of its judgment which reads as follows.	Facts
We have analysed the facts above very clearly and held that the petitioners had done whatever was required to be done by them.	None
They had procured the release order in time.	Facts
One hand of the Government acting in the Joint Controllers office committed some blunders because of the lackadaisical fashion in which the things are handled there.	Facts
It forgot to mention about the Duty Exemption Entitlement Certificate.	Facts
It forgot to mention that it is an advance release order, though the covering letter did mention it.	Facts
The petitioners no doubt got these things rectified, but because of communication difficulties, there was a delay of a day or two.	Facts
How can that fortuitous circumstance be exploited by SAIL by seeking a pound of flesh ?	Facts
They should have seen reason and should not have chastised this petitionerCompany for the faults of the employees of the very Union of India, their masters.	Facts
Such amendments required to be made later on because of the negligence and carelessness of the employees of the Union of India are to be legitimately treated as having been effected retroactively.	Facts
This is the only reasonable and rational way of looking at the things.	Facts
Negligence of one branch of the Union of India cannot be capitalized by another branch of the very Union of India.	Facts
This action is per se arbitrary, capricious and whimsical.	Facts
Such an illegal action was taken by the Ahmedabad office or Bombay office.	Facts
Another regional office of this very SAIL say at Madras or Bangalore would not do such things and citizens like the petitioners would be favourably treated there.	Facts
In this sense of the term, it could he said that possibly inconsistent stand, and therefore, discriminatory stand, can be there in the action of Respondent 1.	Facts
On this short ground, the petition of the petitioners can be allowed, because we hold that this executive power has been exercised by the SAIL absolutely unreasonably and capriciously.	Facts
There was not an iota of justification for them to sit tight on that date 2481983 and all that was required to be done was done by these petitioners.	Facts
If such things are allowed to go, it would set a very bad example in the working of the rule of law in practical and final analysis.	Facts
It is because of this necessity of striking out the action of the public authority, namely, the SAIL, that we are inclined to entertain this petition and decide it and if for that purpose we have to strike a departure from the normal rule of not entertaining even the money claims, we would very willingly do so, so that such actions would not be repeated in future.	Facts
We, however, add that here essentially the challenge was to the right of fixation of price at any capricious time and that was the subjectmatter of the petition, but we are not required to go into it and, therefore, we do not go into it.	Facts
Otherwise, much could be said in favour of the petitioners when they contend that the prices are required to be fixed quarterly.	Facts
The term quarterly would mean every three months and the SAIL has fixed the price on 11121982, 1431983, 761983, 2531983 and had we been required to decide this question, we would have in all probability interpreted clause 6 read with clause 10 to mean that the prices are to be fixed for the period of three months and they are to remain operative for that period, but we are not to be understood to have expressed any final opinion on that point because the ultimate relief of the petitioners can be granted without deciding the point.	Facts
Aggrieved by the judgment of the High Court, the present appeal is filed by the SAIL.	Facts
Mr. Dhruv Mehta, learned counsel appearing for the appellants, submitted that the High Court erred in assuming that the appellant was a department of the Union of India forgetting totally that it is a company incorporated under the Companies Act and it is a separate entity, notwithstanding the fact that the company is entirely owned by the Government of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
It will not be a wing department of the Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his contention, he placed reliance on the judgments of this Court in S. L. Agarwal (Dr) v. G. M., Hindustan Steel Ltd., Western Coalfields Ltd. v. Special Area Development Authority.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also submitted that in the absence of a decision regarding the power of SAIL to revise the price list from time to time, the relief given by the High Court would amount to refund of money by exercising the jurisdiction under Article 226 which is against the ruling of this Court in Suganmal v. State of M. P.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also submitted that the importer being a party to the contract and having paid the price as revised and taken delivery of the goods cannot now turn around and challenge the action of the SAIL by invoking the writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this submission, he placed reliance on a judgment of this Court in Har Shankar v. Dy.	Arguments of Petitioner
Excise Taxation Commr He also placed reliance on other judgments of this Court in Radhakrishna Agarwal v. State of Bihar, State of Orissa v. Narain Prasad and Asstt.	None
Excise Commr.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Issac Peter.	None
On facts, Shri Dhruv Mehta, learned counsel for appellant, submitted that on the admitted position that the documents, namely, licence release order after rectification having been furnished only on 2681483, the importer cannot claim the application of prerevised price on the ground that the mistake, if at all, was on the part of the Office of the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports and, therefore, it should not be penalised.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, the conditions of the Scheme published enable the appellant to insist upon all the documents to be furnished before release of the raw material.	Arguments of Petitioner
The SAIL was not concerned with the party responsible for the defect in the document.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the High Court was not justified in making certain observations against the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Dhruv Mehta, the appeal should be allowed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Parekh, learned counsel appearing for the first respondents, placing reliance on para 2.3 of the Scheme announced on 1061983 submitted that the Letter of Credit having been furnished after rectifying the defects before 2581983, the importer is entitled to get the supplies at the prerevised rate notwithstanding the defects in the licence release order as the importer was not responsible for the defects.	Arguments of Respondent
He also submitted that the High Court was well within its jurisdiction in entertaining the writ petition and granting the relief.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned counsel, the judgment under appeal does not call for any interference by this Court.	None
Before considering the rival submissions, it is necessary to set out the relevant paragraphs of the Scheme announced on 1061983 2.2 When a valid and eligible import licence is surrendered by an import licenceholder to the office concerned of SAIL for supply of materials under this Scheme, the approximate quantity of the material which can be supplied against the import licence will first be determined keeping in view (a) the utilised value available on the licence, (b) the price of the item concerned as announced by SAIL for supply under this Scheme.	None
Thereafter, the import licenceholder will be requested by the office concerned of SAIL to make appropriate financial arrangements taking into account, besides (a) and (b) mentioned above, the approximate amount of duties taxes levies, etc. chargeable on such supplies.	None
The actual supply will be restricted to the quantity which can be supplied against the surrendered import licence provided the amount for which financial arrangements are made permits the same.	None
Para 2.3 reads as follows 2.3 The price as announced for supply of materials under this Scheme shall be subject to periodic revisions.	None
The prices chargeable shall be the prices ruling on the date of delivery which shall be the date of the Railway Receipt in the case of direct dispatches by rail and the date of the Delivery Challan of SAILs stockyard in the case of exyard delivery, except in the following cases where the chargeable prices shall be the prices ruling on the date on which acceptable and operative financial arrangements are made in favour of SAIL by import licenceholders eligible to get supplies under this scheme(a) Where the financial arrangement made in favour of SAIL is such that it enables SAIL to effect dispatches on a continuing basis without any restrictions about delivery schedule this will also include an irrevocable confirmed automatic revolving Letter of Credit (L C) without recourse to the drawer which would enable SAIL to effect dispatches on a continuing basis without quantitative or other restrictions(b) Where the financial arrangement made in favour of SAIL, is such that dispatches have to be completed within a period of 3 months from the date on which the financial arrangement became operative but is for a quantity less than the tonnage covered by the import licence, the dispatches shall be restricted to the quantity covered by the financial arrangement(c)	None
In all cases, the interpretation and decisions of SAIL as to the acceptability, adequacy, effectiveness and operativeness of the financial arrangement made by eligible import licenceholders in favour of SAIL for supply of materials under this Scheme shall be final and binding.	None
Coming to the merits of the case, we accept the contention of the learned counsel for the appellant that the High Court went wrong in holding that SAIL was a department of the Union of India.	Reasoning
In Agarwal case a Constitution Bench of this Court while considering a similar question held as follows (SCC p. 181, para 10).	None
We must, therefore, hold that the corporation which is Hindustan Steel Limited in this case is not a department of the Government nor are the servants of it holding posts under the State.	None
It has its independent existence and by law relating to corporations, it is distinct even from its members.	None
In Western Coalfields case this Court held as follows (SCC p. 136, 7 para 21)	None
It is contended by the Attorney General that since the appellant Companies are wholly owned by the Government of India, the lands and buildings owned by the Companies cannot be subjected to property tax.	Reasoning
The short answer to this contention is that even though the entire share capital of the appellant Companies has been subscribed by the Government of India, it cannot be predicated that the Companies themselves are owned by the Government of India.	Reasoning
The Companies which are incorporated under the Companies Act have a corporate personality of their own, distinct from that of the Government of India.	Reasoning
The lands and buildings are vested in and owned by the Companies, the Government of India only owns the share capital.	Reasoning
In view of the above decisions of this Court, we have no hesitation to hold that the High Court erred in thinking that SAIL was a department of the Union of India and most of the reasons given in the judgment are based on this wrong premise.	Reasoning
The importer in this case, it is an admitted fact, is a registered exporter of steel pipes entitled to priority allotment of steel either through imports or from indigenous plants like the appellant.	None
The allotment of steel was for manufacture of steel pipes for export against advance licence granted to the importer from time to time.	None
During the relevant period, hot rolled strips in coils manufactured by plants under SAIL were available in sufficient quantity and hence the direct imports of the raw materials were banned and the manufacturers were required to obtain the supplies of the raw materials from the appellant against the import licences with them and or release orders issued by the licensing authority, namely, the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports.	None
Various categories of licences are granted for the purpose of imports to the manufacturers.	None
One such licence was advance licence.	None
Para 149 of the import policy provided for grant of advance licence imprest licences and the relevant part of para 149 reads.	None
the term advance licence refers to cases where the import is allowed under the Duty Exemption Scheme whereas the term imprest licence will be used where the import is allowed outside the Duty Exemption Scheme.	None
The advance licences, it is stated, which include release orders are intended to supply import input or inputs in short supply for export production.	None
It is also stated that the licensing authority issuing the advance licences will simultaneously issue the collected Duty Exemption Entitlement Certificate.	None
The policy does not provide for issuance of advance licence without duty exemption Bearing the abovesaid facts in mind, let us now consider the issue raised before us.	None
Admittedly when the importer wanted to register the indent for supply of hot rolled strips in coils, the licences release orders produced lacked in material particulars and relevant enclosures.	None
In other words, the licence did not mention that it was an advance licence and no Duty Exemption Entitlement Certificate was enclosed and legal undertaking exemption of export bond was also not enclosed.	None
It was on this admitted position, the appellant declined to register the indent of the importer.	None
No doubt, the mistake was committed by the licensing authority.	None
Does that mean that the appellant can ignore the lacuna in the documents and register the indent placed by the importer in contravention of the requirements of the Scheme ?	None
The High Court held that the licensing authority and the appellant being two different wings departments of the Union of India, the appellant on receipt of rectified documents on 2681983 must register the indent as if it was presented on 2081983.	None
We are afraid, we cannot accept the above reasoning of the High Court as we have pointed out that the basic error committed by the High Court was in assuming that the appellant was a department of the Union of India.	None
We have already noticed that there are number of judgments of this Court taking the view that a company though fully owned by the Union of India when incorporated takes its own entity identity and cannot be considered as department of the Union of India.	Reasoning
Further, it is seen from the records that the importer in this case is not a new entrant to plead ignorance though that may not be an excuse.	Reasoning
He has presented applications for registration before and after the application in question and, therefore, it must be taken that the importer knew fully well about the requirements for registering the indent.	Reasoning
It is also relevant to note that the appellant on receipt of the application for registration expressly and in writing replied not only pointing out the defects but also stated that they are not taking any action on the Letter of Credit enclosed along with the licence.	Reasoning
It is also an admitted fact that the indent was registered only on 2681983 when all the relevant documents after curing the defects was presented on that date.	Reasoning
Under these circumstances and in the light of the Scheme published by the appellant, we hold that the importer (Ambica Tubes) cannot claim as of right that its order must be deemed to have been registered for supply of raw materials on 2081983 when the documents with all defects were presented.	Reasoning
We cannot agree with the contention of Mr. Parekh that mere presentation of an irrevocable Letter of Credit covering the value of requirement of raw materials is sufficient for registering the indent.	None
We have already set out para 2.3.	Reasoning
Para 2.3 of the Scheme announced an 1061983 decides the price to be paid for the indent.	None
Mr. Parekh placed reliance on the last part of para 2.3 to contend that the date of presentation of irrevocable Letter of Credit will be relevant for fixing the price.	None
We have seen that it says price chargeable shall be the price ruling on the date on which acceptable and operative financial arrangements are made in favour of SAIL by import licenceholders eligible to get supplies under this Scheme.	None
Mr. Parekh wants us to ignore the portion italicised above.	None
Mere production of Letter of Credit will not be sufficient to determine the price ruling on the date.	None
It must be given by an import licenceholder eligible to get the supplies under the Scheme.	Reasoning
In this case, we have seen that the importer will not fall under the category of import licenceholder eligible to get supplies under the Scheme as on the date when the Letter of Credit was presented, the licence release order was defective.	Reasoning
Therefore, we cannot agree with Mr. Parekh that the importer having produced the Letter of Credit well before 2581983, the price payable for the supplies must be a prerevised one.	Reasoning
In view of our above conclusion, it is not necessary for us to consider and decide the other points raised by learned counsel for the appellant.	None
We have seen that the High Court has not decided but left open the question relating to the right of the appellant to fix the price from time to time even though that was the main issue raised in the writ petition before the High Court.	Decision
As we are not in agreement with the view expressed by the High Court on other issues, it is now necessary for the High Court to consider the issue relating to the right of the appellant to fix the price from time to time.	Decision
It is open to the appellant to raise the question of unjust enrichment when the matter is taken up by the High Court pursuant to this remit order.	None
The parties can place before the High Court necessary material in support of their respective contentions on the issue of unjust enrichment.	None
Before parting with the case, we would like to observe that the observations of the High Court in the judgment condemning the appellant for not registering the order placed by the importer on the date when the relevant documents were presented with defects were totally uncalled for and, therefore, we expunge all those observations from the judgment.	None
In the result, the appeal is allowed and the judgment of the High Court is set aside and the matter is remitted to the High Court to decide the right of the appellant to fix the price from time to time and also the question of unjust enrichment.	None
No costs.	Decision
