 S. Sirpurkar, J.	None
In this Appeal, the judgment of the High Court, allowing the appeal of the respondent herein and acquitting him of the offence punishable under Section 13 (1) (d) read with Section 13 (2) and Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act (hereinafter called the Act for short) is in challenge, at the instance of the State.	Issue
The respondent, at the relevant time, was working as a Senior Engineer in MIDHANI at Hyderabad during the year 1998.	Facts
One Preetpal Singh Sodhi of M s Hardeep Industries was awarded a contract for the construction of Structural Steel Sheds for VSSC stores at MIDHANI.	Facts
He was accordingly informed to contact the respondentaccused for preparation of detailed programme of work schedule, as also for signing the original agreement.	Facts
Accordingly, he met the respondentaccused and requested him to prepare a detailed programme of work schedule for enabling him to sign the agreement.	Facts
This was in the last week of May, 1998.	Facts
The respondentaccused demanded a bribe of Rs.50,000/ or at least to pay Rs.5,000/ as first installment by 27.5.1998, failing which the respondentaccused showed his reluctance to prepare the detailed programme of work.	Facts
Being aggrieved by this illegal demand, the said Preetpal Singh Sodhi (hereinafter called PW1) lodged a complaint against G.Prem Raj (respondentaccused) with SP, CBI, Hyderabad.	Facts
It was alleged that there was a telephonic conversation between Preetpal Singh Sodhi (complainant  PW1) and the respondentaccused, according to which the complainant was called at the Taj Mahal Hotel, Narayanguda, Hyderabad on 27.5.1998 for signing the agreement, as well as, for the demand of bribery.	Facts
After the complaint was registered, a trap was led by one R.M. Khan, Inspector, CBI (PW7), wherein two witnesses were called and the usual demonstration of the use of phenolphthalein powder was shown.	Facts
The notes were soiled with the phenolphthalein powder.	Facts
They were handed over to Preetpal Singh Sodhi (complainant) with the usual instructions that he would go to Taj Mahal Hotel along with M.N. Sampath Kumar (PW2) while the other Panch, H. Ramakrishna Murthy (PW4) would be reaching with the trap party.	Facts
Specific instruction was given that unless the bribe was demanded by the respondentaccused, Preetpal Singh Sodhi (complainant) would not touch the notes kept in his pocket.	Facts
Accordingly, Preetpal Singh Sodhi (complainant) along with the trap party reached the hotel, where at about 6 Oclock the respondentaccused also arrived on a scooter and parked the scooter in the parking area.	Facts
Then Preetpal Singh Sodhi (complainantPW1) and the respondentaccused went inside the hotel followed by M.N. Sampath Kumar (PW2).	Facts
Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) and the respondentaccused occupied one table in the hotel and the next table was occupied by M.N. Sampath Kumar (PW2).	Facts
The agreements (Exhibits P5 to P8) were signed in Taj Mahal Hotel but the respondentaccused did not hand over the agreements to Preetpal Singh Sodhi (complainant).	Facts
The complainant and the respondentaccused came out of the hotel, who were followed by M.N. Sampath Kumar (PW2).	Facts
Preetpal Singh Sodhi (complainant) and the respondentaccused reached near the scooter of the respondentaccused where the respondent accused demanded the bribe money for handing over the copy of the agreement.	Facts
Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) gave money which the respondentaccused accepted and kept the same in the scooters bag.	Facts
The respondentaccused handed over the copy of the agreement to Preetpal Singh Sodhi (complainant).	Facts
In the meanwhile, M.N. Sampath Kumar (PW2), who was watching the whole scenario, gave a signal to the trap party.	Facts
The trap party reached immediately and apprehended the hands of the respondentaccused.	Facts
The usual demonstrations were done in Taj Mahal Hotel itself, which showed that the fingers of the respondentaccused were soiled and they were dipped in the Sodium Carbonate solution.	Facts
The said solution turned pink.	Facts
The respondentaccused removed the currency notes from the bag and the same were seized.	Facts
The Panchnama was executed there and a search was conducted in the house of the respondentaccused, but nothing incriminating was found.	Facts
On this basis, the sanction was obtained for the prosecution which was granted vide Exhibit P15 by Shri A.K. Taneja, the Sanctioning Authority (PW8), and on that basis, the chargesheet came to be filed.	Facts
In support of its claim, the prosecution examined Preetpal Singh (PW1), M.N. Sampath Kumar (PW2) and other seven witnesses including R.M. Khan (PW7), the Investigating Officer, as also, PW8, Sanctioning Authority.	Facts
The documents were also presented and were proved and on that basis, the trial proceeded.	Facts
The defence of the respondentaccused was that of denial.	Facts
He examined himself as DW1 and contended that he was framed, more particularly, by his superior officers.	Facts
He particularly pleaded that there were many discrepancies including the discrepancy in the timing of the First Information Report (FIR).	Facts
He also pleaded that there was no question of his preparing the detailed programme and in fact, the said programme was to be prepared by Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1), the contractor himself and there was no question of his obliging the complainant by preparing the said programme.	Facts
He pointed out that there was no question of obliging by signing the contract because the contract was already awarded in favour of Preetpal Singh Sodhi (complainant).	Facts
He, therefore, described the whole prosecution case as false.	Facts
The learned Trial Judge, however, found the respondent herein guilty and he was convicted for the offence charged.	Facts
The respondentaccused, therefore, filed an appeal before the High Court and the High Court acquitted the respondentaccused.	Facts
It is this acquittal which is challenged before us in the present case.	Facts
Shri Naresh Kaushik, Learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant urged that the High Court has erred in allowing the appeal even when it was proved that the amount of bribe has passed from Preetpal Singh Sodhi (complainant) to the respondentaccused and the respondentaccused had accepted the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Learned Counsel pointed that the High Court would have raised the presumption under Section 20 of the Act and it should have been further noted by the High Court that the respondentaccused had not explained as to why he had accepted the amount, which was not his lawful deliberation.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further argued by the Learned Counsel that while allowing the appeal, the High Court had nowhere shown as to how the Trial Court had gone wrong.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Learned Counsel further urged that the respondentaccused had no business to go to Taj Mahal Hotel for doing an official work of getting the signatures of the complainant (PW1) and that it was strange that the official work should have been done at Taj Mahal Hotel.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Learned Counsel further urged that it was clinchingly proved by the prosecution that the bribe was demanded by the respondentaccused, who was a public servant and in pursuance of the demand, he also accepted the bribe of Rs.5,000/.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was pointed out that the witnesses had absolutely no reason to speak against the respondentaccused and their disinterested testimony was bound to be accepted and was rightly accepted by the Sessions Judge and yet even without finding any fault with the evidence, the High Court chose to acquit the respondentaccused on imaginary grounds.	Arguments of Petitioner
As against this, Shri G. Prakash Rao, Learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the defence supported the judgment of the High Court and pointed out that the story of the prosecution was extremely unnatural.	Arguments of Respondent
He also pointed out that L.N. Das (PW5) was inimical towards the respondentaccused, therefore, he was framed.	Arguments of Respondent
He further pointed out that there was absolutely no reason for the respondentaccused to demand bribe, as the contract was already awarded in favour of Preetpal Singh Sodhi (complainant) and the only remaining formality was the preparation of the programme, which had to be done by Preetpal Singh Sodhi (complainant) himself.	Arguments of Respondent
In such circumstances, there was no occasion for demanding any bribe as the respondentaccused was not in a position to oblige Preetpal Singh Sodhi (complainant) in any manner.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Counsel urged that there was no question of raising the presumption under Section 20 of the Act, as such, presumption could not be raised where the respondentaccused was charged with the offence punishable under Section 13 (1) (d) of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Lastly, the Learned Counsel urged that where two views are possible, the Court should be slow in upsetting the judgment of acquittal.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court proceeded initially on the basis of the story that the agreement had to be got signed by Preetpal Singh Sodhi (complainantPW1), the Contractor within 19 days and, therefore, L.N. Das (PW5) had asked the respondentaccused to take the signatures of Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) on the agreement before that date.	None
The High Court further noted that initially the respondentaccused was hesitant to approach Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1), but later on, he agreed to do so.	None
According to the High Court, L.N. Das (PW5) had admitted in his crossexamination that since the time of contract was likely to expire, he requested the respondentaccused to get it signed and as such, there was pressure on the part of the management to get the agreement signed within time.	None
In our opinion, this theory of pressure was of no consequence and could not be viewed as helpful to the defence.	None
Even if the contract was to be got signed by Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1), the fact remains that for the purpose of contract, ultimately, the respondentaccused had to give the detailed programme of work.	None
The signatures of Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) could have been obtained on the agreement and at that time, it was necessary that the work schedule was ready, which was to be prepared by the respondentaccused and it was for that purpose that the respondentaccused demanded the money.	None
It must be noted here that after putting the signatures of Preetpal Singh Sodhi (complainant) on the agreement and after preparation of the work schedule, the contract would be complete and the complainant would get the benefit of huge contract worth about Rs.35 lakhs.	None
The bribe was for this purpose.	None
The signing of the contract, preparation of the work schedule were mere formalities.	None
The High Court has not properly viewed at this position that the bribe was demanded for completing the contract, worth about Rs.35 lakhs.	None
The High Court further committed an error in presuming that the amount of Rs.5,000/, which was the first installment of Rs.50,000/ was to be paid for signing the agreement and it was to be paid at Taj Mahal Hotel, Narayanguda, Hyderabad.	None
It has clearly come in the evidence of Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) that he did not want to part with the amount of Rs.5,000/ and it was, therefore, he made a complaint (Exhibit P3) on 27.5.1998.	None
The evidence of Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) clearly suggests that question of payment of Rs.50,000/ as bribe money arose only after the letter dated 3.4.1998 (Exhibit P1) was written, informing him that he was awarded the contract.	None
Admittedly, the respondentaccused was working as a Senior Engineer (Civil) and was in charge of the work mentioned in letter dated 3.4.1998 (Exhibit P1).	None
This was followed by letter dated 18.5.1998 (Exhibit P2), wherein the value of the work was mentioned.	None
It was only after this that Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) met the respondentaccused and at that time, the respondentaccused suggested that the site where the work was to be executed was not available, yet he asked the complainant to cooperate with him and demanded Rs.50,000/ as bribe.	None
The signing was to be done by Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) and if the amount was demanded only for purposes of signing, there was no question because Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) would have been keen to get the contract.	None
However, at the time of signing, the detailed schedule of programme was also to be prepared by or with the cooperation of the complainant and the respondentaccused.	None
It was, therefore, that the amount was demanded.	None
Even the place that was fixed for payment of amount was Taj Mahal Hotel.	None
Now, one wonders as to why the responsible senior officer like the respondentaccused would chose to go to Taj Mahal Hotel for doing official work of getting the contract signed.	None
He could have easily called Preetpal Singh Sodhi (complainant) to his office and got the agreement signed.	None
However, that did not happen and they mutually agreed to meet at Taj Mahal Hotel in its dining room.	None
This is the first circumstance that the respondentaccused had failed to explain and has also remained to be considered by the High Court.	None
The movement of the respondentaccused out of his office and going to Taj Mahal Hotel after office hours at 6O clock raises accusing finger towards the intentions of the respondentaccused.	None
When Preetpal Singh Sodhi (complainant) was waiting for the respondentaccused at Taj Mahal Hotel and when the respondentaccused came to the Hotel, the respondentaccused asked as to whether the complainant had got the money.	None
This could not be said to be a demand, but was merely an assurance that the money was available.	None
It must be noted here that it took almost 34 hours for them to prepare the agreement and work schedule and to get the signatures.	None
What has to be noted is that even after the signatures, the agreement was not handed over to Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1), and instead, the respondentaccused took it near the scooter and it was there that the demand for money was made.	None
There is undoubtedly some mixup as to where the demand was made because it has not come specifically in the ExaminationinChief of Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) that the respondentaccused demanded the money near the scooter.	None
The Learned Counsel for the respondentaccused tried to take advantage of this situation.	None
However, we are not impressed by this at all, as the respondentaccused had already demanded the money and even this witness mentioned about the demand of money as soon as he met the respondentaccused.	None
The High Court, without going into the details of the evidence, has merely come to the conclusion that no demand was made.	None
Now, if no demand was made, there was no reason for the respondentaccused to accept the money offered by the complainant.	None
The respondentaccused cannot deny that the money was actually touched by him.	None
There is absolutely no crossexamination on the fact that when he dipped his finger in the solution of Sodium Carbonate, same turned pink, which was clear indication that he touched the money and handled it.	None
There is no explanation, whatsoever, of this second fact as to how the fingers of the respondentaccused were soiled with phenolphthalein.	None
This is the second circumstance, which was a very major circumstance, that the High Court has failed to note and explain, which shows that the High Court has taken a very casual attitude.	None
We have scanned the judgment of the High Court very carefully and find that the High Court has not, in any manner, considered the factum of solution of Sodium Carbonate turning pink when the fingers of the respondentaccused were dipped.	None
In fact, that was a major circumstance and the most important incriminating circumstance, which was bound to be explained by the respondentaccused.	None
At this juncture, we must also express as to how the presumption was completely ignored by the High Court.	None
Section 20 of the Act provides Presumption where public servant accepts gratification other than legal remuneration Where in any trial of an offence punishable under Section 7 or Section 11 or clause (a) or clause (b) of subSection (1) of Section 13, it is proved that an accused person has accepted or obtained or has agreed to accept or attempted to obtain for himself, or for any other person, any gratification (other than legal remuneration) or any valuable thing from any person, it shall be presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that he accepted or obtained or agreed to accept or attempted to obtain that gratification or that valuable thing, as the case may be, as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in Section 7 or, as the case may be, without consideration or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate.	None
(2) Not relevant.	None
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in subSections (1) and (2), the Court may decline to draw the presumption referred to in either of the said subSections, if the gratification or thing aforesaid is, in its opinion, so trivial that no inference of corruption may fairly be drawn.	None
It was argued, though feebly, that the presumption could not be drawn as the charge in this case was under Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(d) of the Act.	None
It was pointed out by the Learned Counsel for the respondentaccused that Section 13(1)(d) did not attract the presumption under Section 20 of the Act.	None
What is being ignored by the Learned Counsel for the respondentaccused is that the charge was not only under Section 13(1)(d), but also under Section 7 of the Act.	None
Section 7 of the Act is as under Public Servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act Whoever, being or expecting to be a public servant, accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from any person, for himself or for any other person, any gratification whatever, other than legal remuneration, as a motive or reward for doing or forbearing to do any official act or for showing or forbearing to show, in the exercise of his official functions, favour or disfavour to any person or for rendering or attempting to render any service or disservice to any person, with the Central Government or any State Government or Parliament or the Legislature of any State or with any local authority, corporation or Government company referred to in clause (c) of Section 2, or with any public servant, whether named or otherwise, shall be punishable with imprisonment which shall be not less than six months, but which may extend to five years and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Now, there can be no dispute that prosecution in this case was alleging that the respondentaccused had accepted or obtained from Preetpal Singh Sodhi (complainant), gratification, which was other than the legal remuneration as a motive or reward for signing the contract or, as the case may be, for providing the schedule of work, so as to complete that contract.	None
Therefore, there was no question of the presumption not being there, once it was proved that the respondentaccused had accepted the illegal gratification.	None
Now, the evidence is very clear that firstly, the fingers of the respondentaccused were found to be soiled, which could not have been so soiled had he not touched the currency notes offered by the complainant and secondly, it was found that those very currency notes were kept in the bag attached to the scooter.	None
Lot of criticism was made that the scooter and or the bag were not seized, ultimately from where the money was recovered.	None
Now, in this behalf, the evidence of Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) is clear.	None
He specifically deposed As agreed, I paid M.O. 1 to the accused.	None
Now, the words as agreed in the deposition of the PW1 (complainant) are extremely important, as the same signify that there was an agreement between the respondentaccused and the complainant that the complainant had agreed to pay Rs.5,000/ as bribe for the contract, its signing and for providing the schedule of work.	None
The complainant further goes on to say that the accused kept the money in the front bag of the scooter.	None
Now, when we see the crossexamination of Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1), it is clear that nothing has been asked in respect of this version.	None
It was feebly suggested to Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) that no amount was paid before executing Exhibits P5 to P8 or that it was not paid inside the hotel soon after the agreement.	None
The witness had clarified on this situation that the amount was paid in the parking area.	None
He very specifically mentioned in his crossexamination that he gave Rs.5,000/ with his right hand and the respondentaccused accepted the money with his right hand.	None
It has also come out in the evidence that the amount of Rs.5,000/ was taken out of the front bag of the scooter only after the hand wash test was completed.	None
Some minor insignificant omissions have been brought, which were of no consequence.	None
In the whole crossexamination, the story of demand of the respondentaccused prior to the contract and the acceptance by the respondentaccused near the scooter stand, has not at all been demolished.	None
This, the High Court has completely ignored.	None
Once this story becomes acceptable, there is no other go, but to raise a presumption under Section 20 of the Act.	None
This important provision of Section 20 was also ignored by the High Court.	None
This was again not a case falling under Section 20(3) of the illegal gratification from being trivial, so as not to raise presumption  inference of corruption.	None
It was a substantial amount.	None
Therefore, Section 20 of the Act could not have been ignored.	None
The High Court has committed an error in ignoring this provision and ignoring the fact that the presumption had to be raised, and on that basis, it was up to the respondentaccused to explain as to how the amount came in his possession.	None
In our opinion, this amounts to a perverse appreciation of evidence.	None
This is the third aspect, on which the High Court has faltered.	None
The evidence of Preetpal Singh Sodhi (complainant) was fully corroborated by the evidence of M.N. Sampath Kumar (PW2), who was a Panch witness and who was to accompany the complainant.	None
Even this witness specifically says that after the signatures were obtained on Exhibits P5 to P8, the respondentaccused collected the books and came to the parking place, where his scooter was parked and he was followed by the complainant and that when Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) asked for a copy of the agreement book already signed, the respondentaccused demanded money from Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) and Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) removed M.O. 1, i.e., money from his left hand pocket.	None
The respondentaccused collected the money and handed over the copy of the agreement through his right hand.	None
The respondentaccused placed the money in the scooter bag and the complainant (PW1) gave prearranged signal.	None
It can be said that there is some discrepancy about the hand, by which the respondentaccused accepted the amount, but that goes into the backdrop on account of the clear evidence of R.M. Khan (PW7), the Investigating Officer.	None
R.M. Khan (PW7), in his evidence, has referred to the earlier demonstration, going of Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) and M.N. Sampath Kumar (PW2) to the Taj Mahal Hotel, the instructions given to the complainant (PW1) and the witness and the coming of the respondentaccused at about 6O clock.	None
This officer was all through watching the happenings.	None
He also then proceeds to say that Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) removed the currency notes from his pant pocket and the same were given to the respondentaccused, who took the same and kept it in the scooter bag and then the respondentaccused gave a copy of the agreement to Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1).	None
On the signal being received from M.N. Sampath Kumar (PW2), the respondentaccused was caught and the money was recovered after the demonstration of the Sodium Carbonate solution.	None
The crossexamination of this witness, though lengthy, is perfunctory and serves no purpose.	None
His basic story has remained unshaken.	None
Some insignificant contradictions as to who gave the signal were brought in the evidence of this witness, but those would not affect the otherwise credible evidence of this witness.	None
Therefore, this was a case where the evidence of Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) was totally corroborated by the evidence of M.N. Sampath Kumar (PW2) and R.M. Khan (PW7).	None
All this has been totally lost sight of by the High Court.	None
Much was said about the scooter or the scooter bag not being seized.	None
We do not see as to how that would have helped, once it was proved that the respondentaccused had accepted the money.	None
Merely because it was kept in the scooter by the respondentaccused, in our opinion, was an insignificant circumstance.	None
The fact of the matter is that the money was recovered from the scooter bag.	None
It would have certainly been better had the scooter and scooter bag been seized, however, in our opinion, the nonseizure of the bag and scooter will not affect the prosecution case.	None
Much was made of the evidence of L.N. Das (PW5).	None
The High Court has gone to the extent of saying that it was at the instance of L.N. Das (PW5) that the respondentaccused was falsely implicated.	None
We have scanned the evidence of L.N. Das (PW5) very carefully, but we find nothing in the evidence of this witness to suggest the inference drawn by the High Court.	None
The witness merely gave the background, in which the respondentaccused was asked to get the signatures and he also undoubtedly has said that one B. Ashok Kumar was kept for this work, however, since the respondentaccused was made in charge of the work, the respondentaccused was asked to collect the signatures, so as to get the contract completed.	None
We do not find anything in the evidence or the crossexamination of this witness to suggest that it was at the instance of this witness that the respondentaccused was falsely implicated.	None
The inference drawn by the High Court has absolutely no basis and only suggests that the High Court has read something in his evidence, which was not there at all.	None
Evidence of A.K. Taneja (PW8) is merely formal and nothing has been addressed to us as regards his evidence.	None
He had given the sanction for prosecution.	None
In fact, no arguments were addressed on the question of sanction.	None
The evidence of the respondentaccused is also perused by us, as much was made by the High Court of that evidence.	None
The High Court, without even discussing the evidence in details, has gone to the extent of saying that the evidence of G. Premraj (respondentaccused DW1) has the effect of establishing the defence of the respondentaccused by preponderance of probabilities.	None
The respondentaccused admits here in his evidence that on 27.5.1998, Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) telephoned him at about 1O clock, asking him to come to Taj Mahal Hotel for signing the agreement.	None
One wonders as to why the respondentaccused chose to accept this suggestion on the part of the Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) even if it is held to be true.	None
Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1), however, disowns telephoning the respondentaccused.	None
The respondentaccused has raised a theory that when he returned to his scooter for proceeding after the signatures were obtained, Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) approached him and forcibly thrust the amount in his hands.	None
Now, we fail to follow as to what could prompt Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1) to thrust the money into the hands of the respondentaccused.	None
In our opinion, his evidence was nothing, but a poor attempt to explain the change of colour of the Sodium Carbonate solution after his fingers were dipped in it.	None
Such theory of thrusting the notes cannot be believed at all.	None
The Sessions Judge in this case, after discussing the evidence, has given cogent findings.	None
In Para 17 of his judgment, he asked a right question as to whether the amount was accepted by the respondentaccused or was thrust in the hands of the respondentaccused.	None
He has also addressed himself about the other contentions.	None
He has, after the discussion, chosen to believe the evidence of Preetpal Singh Sodhi (PW1), M.N. Sampath Kumar (PW2) and R.M. Khan (PW7) and has come to the conclusion that the amount was accepted.	None
He has rightly stated that there was a meeting of minds between the respondentaccused and complainant to meet at Taj Mahal Hotel.	None
The Sessions Judge has rightly held that there was no question of anybody having any enmity with the respondentaccused, much less on the part of the complainant and, therefore, there was no reason for these persons to falsely implicate the respondentaccused.	None
As regards the discrepancy in the First Information Report (FIR), the Sessions Judge has rightly attributed this to the failure of memory, as the witness has deposed after 3 years.	None
The Sessions Judge has also noted that the respondentaccused had, at no point of time, complained to anybody that the amount was thrust in his hand.	None
We find that the judgment of the Trial Court was quite reasonable and even without raising the presumption under Section 20 of the Act, the Trial Court had inferred that the respondentaccused had committed offence under Sections 7, 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(d) of the Act.	None
We do not find, in comparison, any reasons, much less, good reasons, having been given by the High Court for its disagreeing with the judgment of the Trial Court.	Reasoning
We are quite alive to the fact that unless the judgment of acquittal tends to be perverse or unless the inferences drawn in the acquitting judgment were not at all reasonable, possibly the acquittal should not be upset.	Reasoning
However, in this case, as we have already pointed out, there was no scope for recording of finding of acquittal.	Reasoning
For all these reasons, we are unable to agree with the impugned judgment of the High Court.	Decision
We would, therefore, choose to set aside the same and restore the judgment of the Trial Court.	Decision
Last, but not the least, we are extremely surprised to read the last portion of the judgment of the High Court, wherein, the High Court has honourably acquitted the accused and directed his reinstatement as senior most Civil Engineer, Civil Department, MIDHANI with all usual retiral monetary benefits inclusive of restoration of seniority etc. with immediate retrospective effect.	Decision
We wonder as to under what powers, the High Court has acted.	Decision
This was certainly not the jurisdiction on the part of the High Court, which had only to find whether the respondentaccused was guilty or not of the offence alleged against him.	Decision
It has come in evidence that a fullfledged departmental enquiry was conducted against the accused, wherein he was found guilty.	Decision
We are shocked to see the step taken by the High Court in straightaway writing off the findings in departmental enquiry without any justification.	Decision
This aberration on the part of the High Court speaks of its wholly incorrect approach.	Decision
