Arijit Pasayat, J. Leave granted in SLP(Crl.)	None
Nos. 308890/97.	None
These six appeals are interlinked are relate to a Division Bench judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court whereby the respondents were acquitted.	Issue
Criminal Appeal Nos. 232234/1997 is by Gorle Suryanarayana Naidu (PW4), the father of the Kurmi Naidu who along with Meesala Jogulu (both of them hereinafter referred to as deceased No.1 and deceased No.2 by their respective names) lost lives on 10.4.1991 purportedly on the basis of assaults made by respondentsaccused persons.3.	Facts
In all 39 persons faced trial on the accusations of being responsible for the death of aforesaid two persons.	Facts
It is to be noted that the trial Court acquitted Gorle Ramarao (A5), Gorle Laxmanarao (A6), Gorle Satyam (A12), Meesala Narayanarao (A14), Gorle Asirinaidu Kasavayya (A15), Relli Ramachandra (A19), Gorle Ramaswamy, Gorle Chinnarao, Gorle Ramamurthy O Dihbadu, Gorle Satyam, Gorle Surappalanaidu, Gorle Papinaidus, Gorle Haribabu, Gorle Venunaidu (A23 to A30 respectively), Datti Appayya (A32), Gorle Sreeramulu, Relli Sanyasapudu, Gorle Sanasappadu, Pisini Satyam, Gorle Bodinadu, Buri Papudu (A34 to A39 respectively), Gorle Raminaidu (A16) and Potnuru Raminaidu (A22) were convicted for offence punishable under Section 341 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short the IPC) and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year with a fine of Rs.	Facts
500/. Meesala Chandramouli (A3), Gorle Ramaswamy (A4), Gorle Harinarayana (A7), Muntha Prasadarao (A9), Pyla Venkatasuri (A10), Gorle Sanyasappadu (A11), Gorle Ramakrishna (A13), Gorle Raminaidu (A16), Muntha Banoji (A17), Relli Paoinaidu (A18), Muntha Pardhasaradh (A20), Gorle Ramana (A21) and Potnuru Raminaidu (A22) were convicted for offence punishable under Section 324 IPC and sentenced to undergo RI for two years and also to pay a fine of Rs.	Facts
500/ each.	Facts
Gorle Asirinaidu (A1), Gorle Vasudevarao (A2) and Gorle Mohanarao (A8) were convicted for the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC and each was sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life.	Facts
The sentences of imprisonment imposed on A16 and A22 were directed to run concurrently.4.	Facts
Three appeals were filed before the Andhra Pradesh High Court, two by the convicted accused persons, and one by the State against acquittal of the accused persons as noted above.	Facts
Sans unnecessary details the prosecution version as unfolded during trial is as follows The deceased persons Kurmi Naidu and Meesala Jogulu were residents of Patharlapalle village.	None
The deceased Kurmi Naidu was the second son of the first wife of Gorle Suryanarayana Naidu (PW4).	Facts
Kurmi Naidu was a student of Bachelor of Engineering at the relevant time.	Facts
There was a fire accident in their village i.e. Patharlapalle wherein more than four hundred houses were burnt.	Facts
The Government and the insurance company sanctioned Rs. 500/ and Rs. 1,000/ respectively to owner of the each of the houses which was burnt.	Facts
A group of persons headed by Hari Babu (A29) started saying that they had got sanctioned the amount and asked the recipients to pay Rs.	Facts
100/ each.	Facts
The persons, who did not pay the amount so demanded came and complained to PW4.	Facts
On that score a group rivalry started.	Facts
One group was headed by A29 and the other group by PW4.	Facts
In the year 1989, G. Ramarao (A5) started Indira Priyadarsini Yuvajana Sangam.	Facts
The said Sangam started collecting Rs. 50/ from each of the members.	Facts
Whenever any village refused to join the Sangam, the members of that Sangam used to damage their agricultural implements like carts etc., and also the crops.	Facts
The said Sangam entertained a grouse against PW4 thinking that he was causing obstruction to their activities.	Facts
About one year prior to the death of the deceased (on 10.4.1991) all the accused and some others attacked the house of PW4 by hurling bombs.	Facts
As there was no safety in the village, and threat to his life, PW4 started living in the house which is situated in his land at Nakkalacheruvu.	Facts
Three months prior to the present incident the deceased Kurmi Naidu came down to Patharlapalle from Madras.	Facts
All the household supply cards which were taken away by the group of A29 in his village were kept in the house of A15.	Facts
So some residents of Patharlapalle sent a petition to the Mandal Revenue Officer who came to the house of A15 (Gorle A. Kasavayya) and seized 375 cards.	Facts
This led to further grouse against PW4 as he was considered responsible for such seizure of the household supply cards.	Facts
Thereafter, all the accused decided to do away the life of PW4.	Facts
Gorle Ramarao (A5) is the President of Yuvajana Sangam.	Facts
Some of the accused and other villagers are members of the Sangam.	Facts
On 23.12.1990 PW5 accompanied the deceased to Visakhapatnam.	Facts
On return from Visakkhapatnam, at Ranasthalam one Komati Satyam informed the deceased and PW5 that Har Haribabu and his group were lying in wait for Kurmi Naidu on the road leading to Patharlapalle, and thereafter they changed their route and proceeded to Nakkalacheruvu via Theppalavalasa.	Facts
Due to fear of the Sangam headed by A5 some persons joined in that Sangam, A5 asked the members to commit thefts of coconuts or carts.	Facts
Some amounts were collected in the name of Yuvajana Sangam and spent away by A5 for consumption of alcohol.	Facts
The members of the Sangam used to beat the followers of PW4 and also took away household supply cards from their houses and kept them with A15.6.	Facts
Three weeks prior to the death of deceased when PW4 was present in his house, he heard A2, A3, A9, A10, A17 and A37 and some others were talking in the Sangam, and it was decided to do away with the life of PW4 and his son (deceased Kurmi Naidu).	Facts
One day prior to death of deceased, when PW9 went to the bank at 12 noon, he found A1, A2, A3, A5, A10, A18, A19, A26 and A37 and some others and at that time A37 was telling others that Kurmi Naidu had gone to Srikakulam and while returning to the village he should be done to death near Haribabus garden, which was suitable for the purpose.	Facts
One day prior to the death of deceased, G. Ramana (PW10) was proceeding to the village at about 11 p.m. and when he peeped through beneath the eves of cattle shed of P. Ramamurthy (PW2) he found all the accused persons.	Facts
He heard telling A29 to other accused that the deceased Kurmi Naidu and his father were coming in their way and therefore they have to be killed.	Facts
He found liquor bottles with glasses.	Facts
On the next day PW10 informed PW4 all that he had heard.	Facts
But PW4 did not heed to his words.	Facts
On the date of occurrence at about 2 p.m. while he was returning from his land, he saw A3 armed with crowbar like spear, A1 armed with wooden plank and the remaining accused persons armed with stout sticks proceeding towards Kosta side from Peddagudibadi.7.	Facts
On the date of occurrence i.e. 10.4.1991 at about 9 p.m. PW1 left for Srikakulam, where he collected some amount from S.M. Pyarijan (PW17) and after purchasing a dhoti he came to Kasta Junction.	Facts
At that time both the deceased (Kurmi Naidu and Jogulu) were coming on a motorcycle.	Facts
When PW1 made a request to them for a lift, they agreed and all three were proceeding towards Patharlapalle village on the motorcycle.	Facts
Similarly, vs. Sreeramulu (PW2) was returning to Surampeta village after handing over the cycle which which he had hired from P. Jagannadham (PW18) at Kosta junction D. Anakamma (PW3) after collecting cashew nuts and mangoes was on way to her house at Patharlapalle in the afternoon.	Facts
When deceased 1 and 2 reached about one kilometer after Derasam near the mango grove of A29, A1 armed with a wooden plank beat deceased (Kurmi Naidu) on his head.	Facts
Thereafter, the motorcycle proceeded further to a distance to 50 yards and at that place there is a culvert.	Facts
At that time A4, A12 and A25 placed a cart across the road.	Facts
Therefore, the deceased persons and PW1 stopped the motorcycle.	Facts
A5 and A6 beat deceased (Kurmi Naidu) with stout sticks on the head.	Facts
When the deceased (Jogulu) questioned the accused about such highhandedness, A2 beat him with a stout stick on his head and as a result of such assaults, deceased Jogulu fell down.	Facts
Thereafter A4, A7, A9, A10, A11, A13, A26 beat deceased Kurmi Naidu indiscriminately.	Facts
When deceased Kurmi Naidu fell down, A3 pocked on his throat with a spear.	Facts
Then A1, A4, A7 and A9 tied the deceased Kurmi Naidu with a rope and carried him towards eastern side, A23, A24, A27 and A28 tied deceased Jogulu with a rope and also carried him towards eastern side.	Facts
When some of the accused were saying that PW1 should not be allowed to live and thought of throwing him into a well, he ran towards eastern side.	Facts
But fell down at Lankalacheruvu tank bund.	Facts
Then some of the accused beat him and tied him in the cattle shed.	Facts
At about 7 p.m., some of the accused came there and untied him and threatened him that he should not reveal the incident to anybody and if he revealed the same, he would be killed.	Facts
Thereafter PW1 went to his house and informed about the incident to his elder brother Silla Arjuna.8.	Facts
The SubInspector of Police, Jagannadharajapuram N. Rama Rao (PW24) received a phone message about the kidnapping of Kurmi Naidu on 10.4.1991at about 5.30 p.m.	Facts
Then he immediately proceeded to Patharalapalle and he was told by the police personnel present in the picket that persons were talking about kidnap of deceased Kurmi Naidu.	Facts
At about 9 p.m., the Inspector of Police namely, Kamalanadha Rao came to Pathalapalle.	Facts
Then they received a vague information that PW1 who is resident of Sillapeta had sustained injuries.	Facts
Thereafter, the SubInspector and the Inspector of Police proceeded to Silapeta and found PW1 with injuries.	Facts
On the basis of PW1s narration, PW24 scribed a report.	Facts
Then the SubInspector went to the police station and registered a case.	Facts
He sent the original first information report to the Court.	Facts
When the Inspector of Police tried to send PW1 to the hospital, he refused.	Facts
Then PW25 examined PW1 and recorded his statement and seized M.Os. 6 to 8 in the presence of mediators under mediators report.	Facts
Then the Inspector of Police, the SubInspector and other police personnel formed a special party and combed the area in search of the dead bodies of the deceased in the nearby thrashing floors.	Facts
On 11.4.1991, early morning at about 5.45 a.m. they noticed two dead bodies in the mango grove of A25, and the motorcycle was also found nearby.	Facts
Thereafter they noticed the place of occurrence which is at a distance of about one furlong from the place where two dead bodies were found.9.	Facts
On the basis of information lodged, investigation was done and on completion thereof charge sheet was filed for the alleged commission of offences punishable under Sections 147, 148, 201, 307, 323, 326, 341, 342, 397, 302 read with Section 149 and Section 120B and 109 IPC.	Facts
During trial, Gorle Lottayyagari Satyam (A31) died and case against Muntha Pentadu Barrodu (A33) was separated as he had absconded.	Facts
PW4 who is the father of deceased Kurmi Naidu was stated to be the intended target.	Facts
Reliance was placed by the trial Court on the evidence of PWs 1, 2 and 3 to conclude that accusations against some have been established, though against others it was not credible and therefore benefit of doubt was extended to them.	Facts
The High Court by the impugned judgment found that the prosecution version was full of holes, did not appear credible and the socalled eyewitnesses evidence does not inspire confidence.	Facts
The evidence of PW1 was held to be unreliable, as the same appeared to be the outcome of careful planning and deliberation.	Facts
Though he claimed to have sustained several serious injuries, he did not go to the hospital for treatment for nearly three days.	Facts
He did not indicate the names of all the assailants who allegedly had beaten him.	Facts
According to him, after the incident, he went to his house and told his brother that person of Peddagudibadi and Thatigudibedi had beaten him and the deceased.	Facts
Though he knew the names of the accused persons prior to giving the information, he did not name them specifically.	Facts
There was delay in lodging the report and no explanation was offered for it.	Facts
There was also considerable delay in sending the FIR to the Court.	Facts
There was no reason as to why PW3 did not lodge the report to the police though the police outpost was situated just in front of his house, if he was really informed by PW1 and PW3 as claimed by them.	Facts
It was noticed that the prosecution version was also incredible in the sense that if the accused persons who were 39 in number had the motive of killing PW4, they could have done so in the village instead of going to the mango grove of A29 and waiting for coming of deceased Kurmi Naidu and then attack him without any motive for doing so.	Facts
Neither of the deceased was their target, and they did not have any motive for killing them.	Facts
In a factionridden village when two rival groups were craving for the blood of each other, the prosecution version lacks credibility and is full of inconsistencies.	Facts
The trial Court was of the view that entire evidence was not to be discarded, and even taking note of the improvements, discrepancies, the evidence was sufficient for conviction of some of the accused persons.	Facts
Accordingly, as noted earlier, some of the accused were convicted and others were acquitted.	Facts
Judgment of the trial Court was assailed by the convicted accused questioning their conviction and by State challenging the acquittals.	Facts
By a common judgment, three appeals (two by the accused and one by the State) were disposed of.	Facts
the High Court noticed that there was considerable delay in lodging the complaint, recording statement of the witnesses and there was no cogent material for statements.	Facts
The correct yardstick to the applied for evaluation of evidence was not done by the trial Court and vague conclusions were arrived at.	Facts
The trial Court failed to notice that the prosecution tried to improve its case from stage of stage and from one witness to another.	Facts
That being so, the prosecution version collapsed on account of incredibility in it.	Facts
Consequentially, the High Court felt that the accused persons were entitled to acquittal and accordingly directed.	Facts
The States appeal was consequentially dismissed.	Facts
In the present appeals, learned counsel for PW4, father of the deceased No.1 and State contended that the approach of the High Court is fallacious.	Arguments of Respondent
Considering the large number of accused persons, minor discrepancies in evidence should not have found favour with the High Court to direct acquittal.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that PW1 was afraid apprehending danger to his own life after seeing the manner in which the accused persons assaulted and killed two innocent persons.	Arguments of Respondent
Merely because he did not go for medical examination immediately, though asked by the police, that cannot be a ground sufficient to discard his credible evidence.	Arguments of Respondent
Merely because PWs 1, 2 and 3 were in some way related with the accused persons, that cannot be a ground for discarding their evidence.	Arguments of Respondent
PW1 was an injured person and, therefore, his evidence should have been acted upon, as he has sufficiently explained his presence at the spot and has also indicated why he happened to be at the spot of occurrence.	Arguments of Respondent
Similarly, the nonlodging of information for long cannot be a suspicious circumstance when one considers the mental condition of PW4 the father.	Arguments of Respondent
He immediately went out to search for the dead bodies, and was told on the next day morning about finding of the dead bodies.	Arguments of Respondent
Thereafter, the information was lodged around 11.30 a.m.11.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted that the High Court did not analyse the evidence in detail and in a cryptic manner accepted the submissions of the accused persons and directed acquittal.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the accused on the other hand submitted that the High Court has analysed the evidence after considering the findings recorded by the trial Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has highlighted as to how the prosecution version does not inspire confidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is to be noted that originally there were 39 persons.	Arguments of Petitioner
A31 died during trial and so far as A33 is concerned the trial was separated.	Arguments of Petitioner
The trial Court acquitted 21 persons on the same evidence and convicted 16.	Arguments of Petitioner
The evidence is so full of contradictions, that the benefit extended to 21 acquitted persons should have also been applied logically to the persons who were convicted by the trial Court, and the High Court corrected the legal infirmities which the trial Court did not notice and came to the right conclusion about innocence of the accused persons.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any event, it was pointed out that PW1 does not speak of any attack on the deceased by A2.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him deceased Jogulu (D2) has received a single blow which caused his death and the same was inflicted by A10 who was acquitted by the trial Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW1 categorically involved A10 as the assailant of D2.	Arguments of Petitioner
Though PWs 2 and 3 named A2 as the assailant, that itself improbabilises the prosecution version.	Arguments of Petitioner
Only one blow was held to be a fatal blow and it could not have been inflicted by A2 and A10 separately.	Arguments of Petitioner
As there is inconsistency as regards who is the assailant of D2, the benefit of doubt was clearly available and the High Court has held this to be a factor for acquitting A2.	Arguments of Petitioner
The evidence of PW2 and PW3 show that during investigation they did not name the accused persons categorically.	Arguments of Petitioner
In a vague way, it was stated that supporters of A7 had hit the deceased.	Arguments of Petitioner
To a similar effect was the evidence of PWs 1 and 3.	Arguments of Petitioner
PWs 2 and 3 have also accepted about nonmentioning specifically names of the accused persons to be the assailants.	Arguments of Petitioner
So far as PW3 is concerned, she stated before the Magistrate in her statement recorded under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short the Code) that the occurrence took place at 10.00 a.m.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is at great variance with the prosecution version as unfolded during trial.	Arguments of Petitioner
Additionally, she was not available for a period of 3 days and her statement was not recorded.	Arguments of Petitioner
No explanation was offered for her absence.	Arguments of Petitioner
Accordingly, it was submitted that the High Courts judgment does not suffer from any infirmity to warrant interference at our hands.	Arguments of Petitioner
Though mere acquittal of large number of coaccused persons does not per se entitle others to acquittal, the Court has a duty in such cases to separate the grain from the chaff.	None
If after sieving the untruth or unacceptable portion of the evidence residue is sufficient to prove the guilt of the accused, there is no legal bar in convicting a person on the evidence which has been primarily disbelieved visavis others.	None
But where they are so inseparable that any attempt to separate them would destroy the substratum on which the prosecution version is founded, then the Court would be within its legal limits to discard the evidence is toto.	None
In the aforesaid background, the evidence of PWs 1, 2 and 3 who are stated to be eyewitnesses is to be analysed.	None
The High Court has doubted the truthfulness of the PW1 who claimed that he did not get medically examined being afraid of the accused persons.	None
That is clearly unacceptable.	None
He claimed to have stated before the police officers about the incident and on the basis of that the first information report was recorded.	None
Thereafter, there was no reason for him to be apprehensive as claimed not to go for medical treatment.	None
If really he was so terrified it is not understood as to how after two days the fear vanished and he went for treatment.	None
The conduct of PW4, the father of deceased No.1 is equally shrouded in mystery.	None
Though the Police post was just in front of his house, he did not choose to inform the police and the FIR was lodged after considerable length of time.	None
Though in all case delay in lodging the FIR does not attract suspicion, yet on the facts of a particular case the same is certainly a factor to be considered.	None
In the case at hand, in the absence of any plausible explanation for the delay, it certainly was a suspicious circumstance making the prosecution version vulnerable.	None
In this case the occurrence allegedly took place at about 4.00 p.m. on 10.4.1991.	None
FIR was lodged at about 11.30 p.m. and reached Court at about 10.00 a.m. on 11.4.1991.	None
The delay, considering the fact that there was police outpost just in front of PW4s house and Court was at a very short distance, has not been explained.	None
Additionally, as rightly submitted by learned counsel for the accusedrespondents, A2 was not indicated to be the author of the assaults so far as deceased Jogulu is concerned there is clear contradictions between the version of PW1 on the one hand and PWs 2 and 3 on the other as regards the assailants of deceased No.2 (Jogulu).	None
The evidence of PW3 who claimed to have informed PW4 is equally baffling.	None
She has accepted before the Magistrate in her statement recorded under Section 164 of the Code that the occurrence took place at 10.00 a.m.	None
One more thing which needs to be noticed to cast doubt on the evidence of PW1 is that he claimed to have received the money from PW17, at about 2.00 p.m. and then to have returned.	None
Thereafter he had left for returning home.	None
On the contrary PW17 states that money was paid at 11.00 a.m. That itself throws doubt regarding the possibility of his presence at the alleged time of occurrence.	None
Several other factors which throw considerable light on vulnerability of the prosecution version are the alleged search by PW4 and others for the dead bodies.	None
According to the prosecution version, the dead bodies were found 15 to 20 yard from the culvert near which the alleged occurrence took place.	None
It is highly improbable that when PW4 went for searching the dead bodies on allegedly getting information about the assaults, they could not trace the bodies.	None
The plea that he could not lodge the FIR and had to wait for searching by police which purportedly got the dead bodies early in the morning is equally implausible.	None
Even if that is accepted for the sake of argument it is absolutely not explained in any manner why the FIR could not be registered immediately thereafter and several hours had to pass by.	None
Though the FIR is not supposed to an encyclopedia of the factors concerning the crime, yet there must be some definite information visavis the crime.	None
That does not appear to be the case at hand.	None
Similarly, PWs2 and 3 accepted that they did not specifically name any accused person during investigation, and only said that followers of A7 were the assailants.	None
That is not sufficient when definite names were stated in Court.	None
This is not an elaboration of a statement already made, and on the contrary is a vital omission.	None
Certain other factors, which otherwise would not have been of much relevance, have assumed importance in the present case.	None
If PW1 had stated before the police, the details as contained in the FIR, there was really no necessity of calling a dog squad on 11.4.1991.	None
This to a great extent shows that the police were not sure who the assailants were.	None
Admittedly, dog squad was taken to the place of occurrence at about 1.00 p.m. on 11.4.1991, and dogs were taken to various houses in the village to know about the assailants.	None
PW24s statement that dogs are taken when assailants are not know is very significant.	None
It cannot be said that view taken by the High Court is not a possible view.	None
The respective stands need careful consideration.	None
There is no embargo on the appellate Court reviewing the evidence upon which an order of acquittal is based.	Reasoning
Generally, the order of acquittal shall not be interfered with because the presumption of innocence of the accused is further strengthened by acquittal.	Reasoning
The golden thread which runs through the web of administration of justice in criminal cases is that if two views are possible on the evidence adduced in the case, one pointing to the guilt of the accused and the other to his innocence, the view which is favourable to the accused should be adopted.	Reasoning
The paramount consideration of the Court is to ensure that miscarriage of justice is prevented.	Reasoning
A miscarriage of justice which may arise from acquittal of the guilty is no less than from the conviction of an innocent.	Reasoning
In a case where admissible evidence is ignored, a duty is cast upon the appellate Court to reappreciate the evidence where the accused has been acquitted, for the purpose of ascertaining as to whether any of the accused really committed any offence or not.	Reasoning
(See Bhagwan Singh and others vs. State of Madhya Pradesh (2002 (2) Supreme Court 567).	Reasoning
The principle to be followed by appellate Court considering the appeal against the judgment of acquittal is to interfere only when there are compelling and substantial reasons for doing so.	Reasoning
If the impugned judgment is clearly unreasonable and relevant and convincing materials have been unjustifiably eliminated in the process, it is a compelling reason for interference.	Reasoning
These aspects were highlighted by this Court in Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade and Anr.	None
vs. State of Maharashtra (AIR 1973 SC 2622 ).	None
Ramesh Babulal Doshi vs. State of Gujarat, (1996 (4) Supreme 167), Jaswant Singh vs. State of Haryana (2000 (3) Supreme 320), Raj Kishore Jha vs. State of Bihar and others, (2003) (7) Supreme 152), State of Punjab vs. Karnail Singh (2003 (5) Supreme 508 and State of Punjab vs. Pohla Singh and Anr.	None
(2003 (7) Supreme 17) and Suchand Pal vs. Phani Pal and Anr.	None
(JT 2003 (9) SC 17 ).	None
That being so, it would not be appropriate in the circumstances of the case to interfere with the elaborately discussed and wellreasoned judgment of the High Court.	Decision
The appeals fail and are dismissed.	Decision
