 Ray, J. 1.	None
These three appeals are by special leave Civil Appeal No. 1533 (N) of 1971 is by special leave against the judgment dated 18 September, 1971 of the Arbitrator setting aside the election of the Management Committee of the Cooperative Cane Development Union, Shamli in an election petition filed under R. 229 (2) of the Cooperative Societies Rules, 1967 framed under the Uttar Pradesh Cooperative Societies Act, 1965.	Facts
Civil Appeal No. 1797 of 1971 is by special leave against the order of the District Magistrate and Registrar, Cooperative Societies Sharanpur dismissing an appeal filed under Section 98 (i) (h) of the U. P. Cooperative Societies Act, 1965 against an order of the Arbitrator under Sections 70 and 71 of the U. P. Cooperative Societies Act, 1965 setting aside the election of the Sahkari Ganna Vikas Samiti Ltd., Iqbalpur, District, Saharanpur, Civil Appeal No. 1798 of 1971 is against the order and judgment dated 16 September, 1971 of the District Magistrate, Saharanpur dismissing an appeal under Section 98 (I) (h) of the U. P. Cooperative Societies Act, 1965 against the order of the Arbitrator under Sections 70 and 71 of the U. P. Cooperative Societies Act, 1965 setting aside the election of the Shakari Ganna Vikas Samiti Ltd., Lhaksar, District Saharanpur, Special Leave Petition (Civil) No,.	Facts
3254 of 1971 is for leave to appeal against the order of the Registrar, Cooperative Societies in appeal under Section 98 (I) (h) against the order of the Arbitrator under Sections 70 and 71 of the U. P. Cooperative Societies Act, 1965 setting aside the election of Sahkari Ganna Vikas Samiti, Sarsawa, Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. 3268 of 1971 is for leave to appeal against the order of the District Authority, Bulandshahr setting aside the election of the Committee of Management of the Cooperative Cane Development Union Ltd. on an application under Rule 229 of the U. P. Cooperative Societies Rules, 1968.	Facts
2. These matters raise a common question.	Issue
These Cooperative Societies held their annual general meetings under the provisions of Section 32 of the Uttar Pradesh Cooperative Societies Act, 1965 (hereinafter called the Act).	Issue
At the general meetings the members of the Committee of Management of the Society were elected by members of the Society.	Issue
The Registrar of the U. P. Cooperative Societies issued a circular dated 5 November, 1969 interpreting Rule 409 of the U. P. Cooperative Societies Rule, 1968 (hereinafter called the Rules) and laid down the principle that all the members of the general body of the Cooperative Society would exercise their right of vote in filling all the seats of elected Directors.	Issue
The question in the present appeals is whether the Registrar had power to issue the circular interpreting Rule 409 and secondly whether that interpretation is correct in terms of the Act and the Rules.	Issue
3.	None
The Act deals with Cooperative Societies and inter alia their members and their Committee of Management.	Facts
The Committee of Management.	Facts
The relevant sections for the purpose of the present appeals and special leave petitions are Sections 20, 20 and 32 of the Act.	Facts
Section 20 of the Act speaks of vote of members.	Facts
Under the sections, a member of Cooperative Society shall notwithstanding the quantum of his interest in the capital of the Society have one vote in the affairs of the Society.	Facts
There are four provisos to Section 20.	Facts
Proviso (a) deals with nominal or associate member who have no right of vote.	Facts
Proviso (b) deals with a cooperative society, the State Warehousing Corporation or a body corporate being a member of such society in which case each delegate of such Cooperative society, State Warehousing Corporation or body corporate shall have one vote.	Facts
Proviso (c) deals with the State Government or the Central Government being a member of such society in which case a nominee of the State Government or the Central Government shall have one vote.	Facts
Proviso (d) deals with a group of members or any class of members partaking in the affairs of the society through a delegate or delegates each delegate having one vote.	Facts
4. Section 29 of the Act deals with the Committee of Management.	None
The management of every cooperative society shall vest in a committee of management.	None
The term of the election of embers of the committee of management shall be such as may be provided in the rules and the byelaws of the society.	None
After the expiry of the term the cooperative society shall at the annual general meeting elect members for the committee of management as provided in Sec. 32 (1) (b) of the Act.	None
If a society fails to elect members for the committee of management the Registrar shall call upon the society by order in writing to elect such members within three months from the date of the communication of the order.	None
If the society still fails to elect the members for the committee of management, the Registrar may himself nominate such persons as under the rules and the byelaws are qualified for being elected as members of the committee of management.	None
Within six months from the date of nomination made by the Registrar, the Registrar shall call a general meeting for electing members of the committee of management.	None
5. Section 32 of the Act speaks of annual general meeting which shall be held once in a cooperative year.	None
A cooperative year means the year, commencing the first day of July and ending on the 30th June of next following.	None
One of the purposes of the annual general meeting is election of the members of the committee of management in accordance with the provisions of the rules and of the byelaws of the society.	None
6.	None
Rule 409 is as follows For the purposes of election to the membership of the committee of management a cooperative society may, with the previous sanction of the Registrar  (a) divide its membership into different groups on territorial or any other rational basis, and (b) also specify the number or proportion of the members of the committee of management in such a manner that different areas or interests, as the case may be, in the society may, as far as may be, get suitable representation on the committee of management.	None
7.	None
In order to appreciate as to how Rule 409 comes up for consideration in the present case it is necessary to refer to facts in Civil Appeal no. 1533	None
(N) of 1971 as a typical case.	None
8.	None
The ShamilCane Development Union Ltd., Shamli, U. P. was registered under the Cooperative Societies Act, 1912.	None
It was deemed to be registered under the Act.	None
The society had its byelaws with regard to the formation of the committee of management and its election including the election of the Chairman and the ViceChairman.	None
The byelaws provided for a committee of management consisting of 14 members.	None
The committee of management elects Chairman and a ViceChairman	None
The delegates constituting the general body of the society are divided into 14 constituencies.	None
Each constituency elects one Director.	None
The delegates of the members of the society in a constituency elect a members of each single member constituency.	None
The 14 members of the committee are elected on that basis where by each delegate on that constituency exercised one vote for electing a member of that constituency.	None
9.	None
The Secretary of the Society fixed 13 October, 1970 as the date for filing the nomination for the office of the committee of management.	Arguments of Petitioner
17 October, 1970 was the date for scrutiny of nomination papers, 19 October, 1970 was the date for withdrawal of nomination papers.	Arguments of Petitioner
28 October, 1970 was the date of poll.	Arguments of Petitioner
By a letter dated 14 October, 1970 the Registrar, Cooperative Societies directed that the election of the members of the managing committee shall be done by all the representatives of the area of the society and not by the representatives of the related constituencies alone.	Arguments of Petitioner
This means that every representative shall have as many votes as the members are to be elected.	Arguments of Petitioner
In short, the Registrars interpretation of Rule 409 as well as the letter stated that each delegate would vote for 14 members of the committee of management and thus each delegate would exercise 14 votes.10.	Arguments of Petitioner
The rival contentions which fall for determination are whether the right of vote for election of a member of the committee of management is confined to the delegates of the members of that particular constituency or whether a delegate would have the right to vote for all the constituencies constituting the committee of management.	Arguments of Respondent
11.	None
As to the power of the Registrar to interpret Rule 409 it will appear that the rule does not confer any power on the Registrar to interpret or to express views to guide the rights of members to vote at the annual general meeting for the purposes of election of the committee of management.	None
On the contrary, under Rule 409 the Cooperative Society may with the previous sanction of the Registrar (I) divide its membership into different groups on territorial or any other rational basis and (ii) also specify the number of proportion of the members of the committee of management in such a manner that different areas or interests, as the case may be, in the society may, as far as may be, get suitable representation on the committee of management.	None
Therefore, under Rule 409 a cooperative society can divide its membership into different groups on territorial or any other rational basis for the purposes of election of the members of the committee.	None
The rule also empowers the society to apportion the membership of the committee of management amongst different groups into which the membership is divided.	None
The number or proportion of members of the committee of management will have to be apportioned in such a manner that the different areas or interests into which the membership of the society are divided may obtain suitable representation on the committee of management.	None
The entire purpose of division of membership into different groups and specifying suitable representation of such group on the committee of management is to emphasise the right of the particular group to send its representative to the committee.	None
To illustrate if a society is divided into 14 separate groups on a territorial basis and one member of the committee of management is allotted to each group and if delegates of one group have the right to case 14 votes two consequences will follow.	None
First, the right of choosing a representative of the constituency will not be confined to that constituency but will be enlarged to outsiders in other constituencies.	None
Secondly, a member of the committee from one constituency may be elected by a majority of votes from delegates of other constituencies.	None
If delegates residing outside a territorial constituency take part at the election for member of a committee from territorial constituency within which he is not a resident it will not only amount to enlarging the right of representation beyond ones territorial basis but also deny the delegates within the constituency the right of electing their own representative.	None
12.	None
It was said on behalf of the appellants that Section 20 of the Act speaks of a member of the cooperative society having one vote in the affairs of the society with the result that each member is entitled to exercise as many votes as the members of the committee of management.	Arguments of Petitioner
Accent was placed on the words affairs of the society and it was said that the constitution of the committee of management was one of the principal affairs of the society and therefore each member would be entitled to cast as many votes as the strength of the committee of management.	Arguments of Petitioner
The fallacy lies in overlooking the significant words in Section 20 of the Act that a members shall have one vote.	Arguments of Petitioner
It may also be noticed that if each member exercises by way of illustration 14 votes in regard to 14 members of the committee each members shall be exercising 14 votes in the affairs of the society.	Arguments of Petitioner
13.	None
Under Rule 409 the principal matters to be kept in the forefront are these.	None
First, the society will divide the constituencies on territorial basis or any other rational basis.	None
By territorial basis is meant territory where the member will reside.	None
Residence is therefore the relative requirement of territorial basis.	None
If any other rational basis like occupation or vocation is determined to be the basis of a constituency the persons falling within the constituency will satisfy that test.	None
Secondly, the society will specify the proportion of members of the committee in such a manner that different areas or interests may get suitable representation.	None
The inherent idea is that such areas or interests will obtain representation.	None
If membership is on territorial basis the different areas will get representation according to the interest of such territories.	None
Again, if occupational or vocational or professional tests are created for dividing groups such interests will have to be given suitable representation.	None
Representation is therefore with reference to areas or interests.	None
Judged by these principles the impeached circular of the Registrar suffers from the vice of giving the members the right of casting vote in constituencies to which they do not belong.	None
This strikes at the basic root of right of representation.	None
This also rends asunder the principle of one member one vote which is made into a rule of law in the Act.	None
14.	None
The words affairs of the society cannot be equated with the constituencies to give each member a right to vote for each constituency.	Reasoning
That would defeat the purpose of Section 20 and Rule 409.The basic idea of a representative for each constituency depends on the mandate of the respective constituency and not of other constituencies.	Reasoning
That is why Section 20 of the Act speaks of one member having one vote irrespective of shareholding.	Reasoning
It means equality of votes of members.	Reasoning
15.	None
The constitution of the committee of management is indisputably one of the affairs of the society, If each member exercises franchise with respect to the representation from his constituency he is not in any manner prevented from having a right to partake in the affairs of the society through a member elected from the constituency.	Reasoning
16.	None
Some reliance was placed by counsel for the appellants on R. 105 in support of the contention that every member would have one vote for each member of the committee of management.	Reasoning
Rule 105 occurs in Chapter VII relating to meetings and speaks of matters before a committee being decided by a majority of votes of the members present.	Reasoning
That rule obviously has no reference to election but only to passing of resolution by majority at meetings.	Reasoning
It is obvious that members of the committee of management will have the right to vote at all matters at the meeting and matters will be decided by a majority of votes.	Reasoning
17.	None
The impeached circular of the Registrar is illegal and unwarranted.	Reasoning
The Registrar has no power to interpret rule 409.	Reasoning
The Registrar has equally no power to express view with regard to conduct of the election and regulate the voting rights by giving the members more than one vote.	Reasoning
The society is to frame rules for elections.	Reasoning
Rules require the sanction of the Registrar.	Reasoning
The rules and the byelaws cannot be in derogation of the statute and statutory rules.	Reasoning
At an election of members of the committee of management one member will have only one vote for the constituency to which he belongs.	Reasoning
18.	None
The result is that the elections which were held following the circular of the Registrar are bad.	Decision
19.	None
For these reasons the three appeals fail and are dismissed.	Decision
The two special leave petitions are also dismissed.	Decision
Parties will pay and bear their own costs.	None
20.	None
Appeals and petitions dismissed.	None
