 Mohan, J. All these appeals can be dealt with under a common judgment.	Facts
The civil appeal Nos. 25512552/93 are by the first plaintiff while Civil appeal No. 2553/93 by the second plaintiff2.	Facts
The plaintiffs filed three suits on the file of the High Court of Madras(i)	Facts
C.S. No. 343 of 1992 complaining of infringement of the copyright of the first plaintiff (Power Control Appliances Company)(ii)	Facts
C.S. No. 431 of 1992 alleging the violation of the registered trade mark Sumeet No. 263836 in PartA in Class 7 for machines (electric) for kitchen use(iii)	None
C.S. No. 432 of 1992 claiming the design registration in the Whipper Blade of the power operated mixies3.	Facts
Pending these suits, four applications No. 226, 227, 271 and 272 of 1992 were taken out, two in C.S. No. 343 of 1992 and one each in C.S. Nos.	Facts
431 and 432 of 1992, respectively4.	Facts
The facts are common to all the suits and the applications.	Facts
In C.S. No. 343 of 1992 in the applications No. 226 227/1992, the plainitiffs prayed for an interim injunction to restrain the respondents (defendants) from using, distributing, printing or causing to be printed the work as contained in Documents No.	Facts
(1) recipe book and instruction manual, (2) guarantee card and (3) outer carton and the work as found in Document, No. 4, 5 and 65.	Facts
In C.S. No. 431 of 1992 in application No. 271/92 an interim in junction was sought to restrain the respondent from using the registered trade mark6.	Facts
In C.S. No. 432 of 1992 in application No. 272/92 the injunction was sought to restrain the respondents from using the design registration in manufacturing the mixies7.	Facts
Admittedly, Mrs. Madhuri Mathur is the sole proprietrix of M s. Power Control and Appliances Company.	Facts
She started manufacturing power operated kitchen mixces, for domestic use since 1963.	Facts
They are marketed since 1964 under the brand name of Sumeet.	Facts
The mixy was packed in a cardboard box and at the top the pictorial and photograph display of the appliance in different colours showing the different purposes for which the mixy could be used was shown.	Facts
A booklet was enclosed bearing the title Sumeet Domestic MixerOperating Instructions and Recipe Book.	None
That consisted of 80 pages bound spirally in hard art paper cover.	Facts
A guarantee card was also issued.	Facts
All these were devised, conceived and made by the 1st plaintiff in 1982 with the assistance of artists, photographers, printers and executives employed by the 1st plaintiff for valuable considerations fully paid.	Facts
As such the 1st plaintiff is the owner copyright in respect of all the above items interims of Section 17 of the Copyright Act, 1957.	Facts
Sumeet mixy came to be in great demand in India and abroad.	Facts
The business expanded.	Facts
To cope, up with the demand, the 1st plaintiff had to float three more concerns for the manufacturing of the same appliances.	Facts
The companies are(i) Power Control and Appliances (Bombay) Ltd(ii) Mathur Micro Motors and Appliances Ltd(iii) Power Control Appliances (Kandla)8.	Facts
All these concerns except Power Control and Appliances (Bombay) Limited buy electric motors for their mixies from the second plaintiff Sumeet Research and Holdings Limited.	Facts
That is deemed to be a public limited company.	Facts
Mrs. Madhuri Mathur is the Chairman and Director.	Facts
She holds 59.25 shares9.	Facts
The artistic manner in which the word Sumeet is written was conceived and published by the first plaintiff.	Facts
It was registered as a trade mark with effect from 18.4.1970.	Facts
This trade mark was assigned to the second plaintiff on 1.1.1981.	Facts
The second appellant is the owner of the copyright10.	Facts
The first defendant was incorporated in 1984.	Facts
It has been manufacturing and selling mainly washing machines and vacuum clearners from Septemper October 1991.	Facts
It has started manufacturing domestic mixies exactly similar to plaintiffs mixer with identical specifications excepts for power rating.	Facts
The package and the pictorial display are identical.	Facts
Even the booklet is pagewise reproduction including an error with respect to Design No. 146781, a design number not belonging to the plaintiffs.	Facts
The contents of the guarantee card are also identical.	Facts
The first defendant is affixing on each of the appliances the registered trade mark Sumeet belonging to the second plaintiff in the same artistic manner in which it is registered.	Facts
On these allegations, it was urged that the first defendant had committed infringement of the exclusive copyright of the first plaintiff in the artistic material and trade literature displayed on the cardboard box.	Facts
Similarly, the operating instructions and recipe book and the guarantee card issued by them11.	Facts
With regard to the components of the mixer.	Facts
Mrs. Madhuri Mathur had obtained registration of their design under Part II of the Designs Act, 1911.	Facts
Those components are(i) Dry grinding blade(ii) Whipper blade(iii) Polycarbonate dome(iv) Stainless steel jar with rim12.	Facts
Each one of them has a specific registration number.	Facts
Though the statutory period of 15 years or the validity of the copyright had elapsed on 2351992 concerning items (i), (ii) and (iv), as regards whipper blade the validity of registration is up to 5.4.1994.	Facts
Therefore it is not open to any one, to infringe the same.	Facts
Thus, the applications on the grounds came to be preferred13.	Facts
The first defendant did not file the written statement.	Facts
However, he filed his counteraffidavit.	None
The stand taken by him is that he (Ajay Parkash Mathur) is the eldest son of Mrs. Madhuri Mathur.	Facts
On his return from United States, the family business, mainly kitchen appliances and mixer machines under the trade name of Sumeet had picked up by the innovative ideas and dynamic marketing strategies evolved by him.	Facts
The family of Mathurs included the plaintiffs, the first defendant and others.	Facts
The family was selling Sumeet Mixies since 1963.	Facts
It is true that three other companies were floated.	Facts
In fact, he was the director of Power Control and Appliances (Bombay) Limited until recently.	Facts
Because of inter se disputes, he was obliged to leave the said company14.	Facts
The first defendant company was incorporated in 1984 as Sumeet Machines Private Limited for the purpose of manufacture of market kitchen appliances under the trade name of Sumeet and other products such as washing machines.	Facts
The said company itself was incorporated with the knowledge and approval of the plaintiffsapplicants.	None
When Sumeet Machines Private Limited was sought to be registered before the Registrar of Companies, Maharashtra, a letter of no objection from the owners of the trade mark Sumeet had to be produced.	Facts
The first defendant obtained letters both from the first and second plaintiff on 7.5.1984.	Facts
It was only on this the company came to be registered on 5.9.1984.	Facts
As a matter of fact, Mrs. Madhuri Mathur is a shareholder in first defendant, she having been allotted 5000 shares.	Facts
Likewise the father of first defendant also owns 5000 shares15.	Facts
Since 1986, the first defendant has been manufacturing and marketing mixies under the trade name of Sumeet.	Facts
This was done with the knowledge and consent of the plaintiffs openly and concurrently.	Facts
Further, Mrs. Madhuri Mathur and the father of first defendant have signed and given personal guarantees to the State bank of Hyderabad on behalf of the first defendant.	Facts
The loans were secured on that basis in short, the reply of the first defendant is that the copyright trade mark and the copyright design is that of the first defendant who was conceived as a family concern.	Facts
The word Sumeet was given with the blessings and consent of Madhuri Mathur and S. P. Mathur.	Facts
Therefore, he has been an honest and concurrent user.	Facts
In any event, the plaintiffs applications were not entitled to the reliefs on the ground of acquiescence16.	Facts
The learned Single Judge as seen from the report of decision in Power Control and Appliances Co. and another v. Sumeer Machines Private Ltd. and another, held that the copyright with respect to operative instructions and recipe book, guarantee card and the outer carton of the Sumeet Kitchen Mixies vested in Power Control Appliances Company represented by the Sole Proprietrix Mrs. Madhuri Mathur, Equally, the copyright in the design registration No. 148246 in relation to whipper blade was also accepted as belonging to the plaintiff.	Facts
The trade mark in the name of Sumeet with the particular artistic design registered in the name of Sumeet Research and Holdings Limited was accepted as claimed by the plaintiffs.	Facts
Notwithstanding all these, the relief of injunction was not granted in view of acquiescence by the plaintiffs in the honest and concurrent user of the first defendant.	Facts
Against this judgment, O.S.A. No. 144146/1992 came to be preferred17.	None
The Division Bench by the impugned judgment dated 2621993 held that the learned Single Judge was not wrong in holding that the plaintiffs have acquiesced in the use of the trade literature and the trade mark by the first defendant.	Facts
The relief in equity of injunction, if granted, will affect the interest of not only Ajay Mathur but also other members of the family who are shareholders of the first defendants company.	Facts
Accordingly the appeals were dismissed.	Facts
It is under these circumstances, these civil appeals have been preferred.	Facts
Civil Appeal No. 2551/1993 against applications No. 226 and 227/1992 in C.S. No. 343/1992, Civil Appeal No. 2552/1993 against application No. 271/1992 in C.S. No. 432/1992 and Civil Appeal No. 2553/93 against application No. 272/1992 in C.S. No. 431/92	Facts
Mr. P. Chidambaram, learned counsel for the appellants submits that both the courts below having held in favour of the appellants herein that there is an infringement of the trade mark, the copyright and the design should not have dismissed the application for injunction solely on the ground of honest and concurrent user and on the plea of acquiescence.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the contrary the evidence in this case discloses that the first defendant was only marketing (but never manufacturing) from 1986.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, merely because he was marketing, that cannot amount to honest and concurrent user.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was only in SeptemberOctober, 1991 he started infringing the trade mark, copyright and the design.	None
Therefore, when the suit came to be filed immediately, no question of acquiescence would ever arise.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is only on 28th of October, 1991 the first defendant invited applications for distribution The conclusions of the High Court lead to strange results.	None
Notwithstanding the finding of the court that the appellants copyrights, registered trade mark and registered design having been occupied totally consciously and deliberately without any alteration and thereby infringed by the defendant, to deny injunction in equity cannot be supported.	None
After all the plaintiff Mrs. Madhur Mathur as an individual has 3.3 per cent of the shareholding in the first defendant company To hold that the defendant was using the registered trade mark from 1984 is wrong when admittedly the first defendant company came into existence only in 1984 Under Sections 19 and 54 of the Copyright Act reproduction of the copyright itself is infringement unless there is specific assignments in writting by the proprietor.	None
In this case, there is not even a plea that Mrs. Madhuri Mathuri assigned the copyright in the outer carton, handbook and guarantee card.	Reasoning
The concept of honest and concurrent user found in Section 12(3) of the 1958 Act for securing concurrent registration is totally irrelevant as defence in a suit for infringement and copyright arising out of a different Act namely, 1957 Act.	Reasoning
Therefore, there can be no honest and concurrent user of ones copyright by another.	Reasoning
After 1958 Act, the plea of acquiescence is not available at all.	Reasoning
Even assuming that the first defendant was manufacturing between June, 1989 and October, 1991 he cannot have the benefit of Section 30(1)(b) of the 1958 Act.	None
This Act creates offences for such infringement under Sections 78 and 79.	None
Section 96 also speaks of implied warranty.	None
These provisions were not found in the 1940 Act.	None
In Ruston Hornsby Ltd. v. The Zamindra Engineering Co. at page 224 this court had occasion to point out the distinction between the infringement and passing off.	None
On this basis it is submitted that all that has to be proved by the plaintiff is that she is the registered owner of the trade mark.	None
If there is an infringement, injunction must follow, Section 12(3) of the 1958 Act talks of special circumstances in relation to honest and concurrent user.	None
In such a case the defences available are as laid down in Sections 30, 34 and 35 of that Act.	None
Such defences are not available in the instant case.	None
In this case, factually there is no acquiescence In support of these submission learned counsel relies on Amritdhara Pharmacy v. Satyadeo Gupta and particularly the passage occurring at page 497 to show in what case the plea of acquiescence could ever be made.	Arguments of Petitioner
Equally, in Aktiebolaget Manus v. J. Fullwood and Bland, Ltd. (1948 RPC Vol.	Arguments of Petitioner
LXV 329 at 338), it was held that the court is bound to grant an injunction if the legal right is established.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the case on hand it has been so established.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Electrolux LD.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Electrix LD.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1954 RPC Vol.	Arguments of Petitioner
LXXI 23), as to when the plea of acquiescence could be upheld, is stated.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Bostitch Trade Mark (1963 RPC 183 at 202) the plea of acquiescence has been dealt with.	Arguments of Petitioner
Judged in the light of these rulings, the finding relating to acquiescence cannot at all be upheld Mr. Soli, J. Sorabjee, learned senior counsel for the respondent submits that it is a clear case in which there are various acts, collectively pointing out to implied consent to the use of plaintiffs trade mark.	None
They establish, at least prima facie, the acquiescence on the part of the appellant.	Arguments of Respondent
They would disentitle it to the interim relief of injunction.	Arguments of Respondent
The acts are as under(1)	Arguments of Respondent
The letter dated 7.5.1984 to the Registrar of Companies regarding the allocation of the name Sumeet(2)	Arguments of Respondent
The encouragement of production of new electronic food preparation machine(3)	Arguments of Respondent
No objection whatsoever by the plaintiff or any other related companies or even by Mr. or Mrs. Madhuri Mathur to the manufacture and sale by this respondent till the issue of notice dated 18.11.1991.	Arguments of Respondent
There is also evidence in this case to show that the first respondent has been manufacturing mixing machines from July 1987.	Arguments of Respondent
There is also a clear admission on the part of the plaintiff that the first respondent was manufacturing his products under the trade name of Sumeet at least since June 1989.	Arguments of Respondent
This is evident from the following(i) Criminal complaint dated 6.4.1992 mentions the manufacture of washing machines, vacuum cleaners and industrial mixies from 1984 and the manufacture of kitchen machines from 198990 The affidavit filed on behalf of the appellants mentions about the manufacture since June 1989.	Arguments of Respondent
There is a similar admission in paragraph 11 of the plaint.	Arguments of Respondent
The export of these domestic mixies as Sumeet 842 INT is done by the first respondent.	Arguments of Respondent
All these point out to acquiescence which would be a good ground for denying the interim relief of injunction The appellant has disentitled itself from the grant of equitable relief of injunction by reason of unexplained delay and suppression of material facts.	Arguments of Respondent
The balance of convenience is also overwhelmingly in favour of this respondent in view of the facts stated above that the first respondent has been manufacturing and marketing productions with trade name of Sumeet since 1989 It is not correct to contend that once the trade mark is infringed the plaintiff would be entitled to injunction.	None
Section 30(b) is still applicable and it is open to this respondent to show that there had been an implied consent to the use of the trade mark.	None
In support of this submission learned counsel places reliance on Messrs. Devidoss and Co. v. Alathur Abboyee Chetty 1941 AIR(Madras) 31) As regards the principles in relation to the grant of interim injunction the law has been laid down in K. E. Mohammed Aboobacker v. Nanikram Muherchand (1957 (II) Madras Law Journal (Vol. 113) 573).	None
Similar principles are stated in American Cyanamid Co. v. Ethicon Ltd.	None
In dealing with this case we would like to keep this in the back of our mind that we are concerned with an interim application for injunction in relation to the violation of copyright, trade mark and the design.	None
The Division Bench observed in paragraph 8 as follows The learned Single Judge, while disposing of the applications, has in the impugned judgment, accepted the copyright with respect to operating instructions and recipe book, guarantee card and the outer carton of the Sumeet Kitchen mixies in the Power Control and Appliances Company represented by the Sole Proprietrix Mrs. Madhuri Mathur, as well as the copyright in the Design Registration No. 148246 for whipper blade for which there is validity till 5.4.1994.	Facts
He has also accepted the plaintiffs, case that the trade mark in the name Sumeet with the particular artistic design is registered in the name of Sumeet Research and Holding Limited.	Facts
He has, however, declined to grant any injunction, for in his opinion the doctrine of acquiescence and honest and concurrent user will be attracted.	None
If there is an infringement of the same whether the appellant would be entitled to interim injunction at this stage is the important question for determination.	Issue
For such a determination, we refrain from going into the details relating to evidence as that will prejudice the parties in the suits.	None
Section 30(1)(b) of the 1958 Act says Acts not constituting infringement.  	None
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the following acts do not constitute an infringement of the right to the use of a registered trade mark (b) the use by a person of a trade mark in relation to goods connected in the course of trade with the proprietor or a registered user of the trade mark if, as to those goods or a bulk of which they form part, the registered proprietor or the registered user conforming to the permitted use has applied the trade mark and has not subsequently removed or obliterated it, or has at any time expressly or impliedly consented to the use of the trade mark.	None
Therefore, acquiescence is one of the defences still available to the first respondent.	None
Of course, it is a different issue whether the plea of acquiescence has been made out in this case.	None
That will be examined for a limited purpose after setting out the law on this aspect Acquiescence is sitting by, when another is invading the rights and spending money on it.	None
It is a course of conduct inconsistent with the claim for exclusive rights in a trade mark, trade name etc.	None
It implies positive acts not merely silence or inaction such as is involved in laches.	None
In Harcourt v. White (28 Beav 303).	None
Sr. John Romilly said It is important to distinguish mere negligence and acquiescence.	None
Therefore, acquiescence is one fact of delay.	None
If the plaintiffs stood by knowingly and let the defendants build up an important trade until it had become necessary to crush it, then the plaintiffs would be stopped by their acquiescence.	None
If the acquiescence in the infringement amounts to consent, it will be a complete defence as was laid down in Mouson Co. v. Bochin 1884 (26) Ch(D) 406).	None
The acquiescence must be such as to lead to the inference of a licence sufficient to create a new right in the defendant as was laid down in Rodgers v. Nowill (1847 2 De GM G 614 22 LJ Kch 404)	None
The law of acquiescence is stated by Cotton, L.J. in Protor v. Bannis 1887 (36) Ch(D) 740).	None
as under It is necessary that the person who alleges this lying by should have been acting in ignorance of the title of the other man, and the other man should have known that ignorance and not mentioned his own title.	None
In the same case Bowen, L.J. said In order to make out such acquiescence it is necessary to establish that the plaintiff stood by and knowingly allowed the defendants to proceed and to expend money in ignorance of the fact that he had right and means to assert such rights.	None
In Messr.	None
Devidoss and Co. (supra) at pages 33 and 34 the law is stated thus To support a plea of acquiescence in a trademark case it must be shown that the plaintiff has stood by for a substantial period and thus encouraged the defendant to expend money in building up a business associated With the mark.	None
In Rowland v. Michell (1896 13 R.P.C. 464), Romer J. observed If the plaintiff really does stand by and allow a man to carry on business in the manner complained of to acquire a reputation and to expend money he cannot then after a long lapse of time turn round and say that the business ought to be stopped In the same case, but on appeal Lord Russel C.J. said 1897 14 RPC 37 at p. 43	None
Is the plaintiff disentitled to relief under that head by injunction because of acquiescence ?	None
Of course it is involved in the consideration of that the plaintiff has a right against the defendant and that the defendant has done him a wrong and the question is whether the plaintiff has so acted as to disentitle him from asserting his right and from seeking redress from the wrong which has been done to him.	None
Cases may occasionally lay down principles and so forth which are a guide to the court, but each case depends upon its own circumstances Dealing with the question of standing by in Code v. Addis and Son(1923 40 RPC 130) at p. 142, Eve.	None
J. said For the purpose of determining this issue I must assume that the plaintiffs are traders who have started in this more or less small way in this country, and have been continuously carrying on this business.	None
But I must assume also that they have not, during that period, been adopting a sort of Rip Van Winkle policy of going to sleep and not watching what their rivals and competitors in the same line of business were doing.	None
I accept the evidence of any gentleman who comes into the box and gives his evidence in a way which satisfies me that he is speaking the truth when he says that he individually did not know of the existence of a particular element or a particular factor in the goods marketed by his opponents.	None
But the question is a wider question than that ought not he to have known is he entitled to shut his eyes to everything that is going on around him, and then when his rivals have perhaps built a very important trade by the user of indicia which he might have prevented their using had he moved in time, come to the court and say Now stop them from doing it further, because moment of time has arrived when I have awakened to the fact that this is calculated to infringe my rights.	None
Certainly not.	None
He is bound, like everybody else who wishes to stop that which he says is an invasion of his rights, to adopt a position of aggression at once, and insist, as soon as the matter is brought to court, it ought to have come to his attension, to take steps to prevent its continuance it would be an insufferable injustice were the court to allow a man to lie by while his competitors are building up an important industry and then to come forward, so soon as the importance of the industry has been brought home to his mind, and endeavour to take from them that of which they had legitimately made use every day when they used it satisfying them more and more that there was no one who either could or would complain of their so doing.	None
The position might be altogether altered had the user of the factor or the element in question been of a secretive or surreptitious nature but when a man is openly using, as part of his business, name and phrases, or other elements, which persons in the same trade would be entitled if, they took steps, to stop him from using, he gets in time a right to sue them which prevents those who could have stopped him at one time from asserting at a later stage their right to an injunctionIn Mc.	None
Caw Stevenson and other Ltd. v. Lee Bros. (1960 23 RPC 1), acquiescence for four years was held to be sufficient to preclude the plaintiff from succeeding.	None
In 1897 the plaintiffs in that case registered the word glacier as a trade mark in respect of transparent paper as a substitute for stained glass.	None
As the result of user the word had become identified with the plaintiffs goods.	None
In 1900 the defendants commenced to sell similar goods under the name glazine.	None
In 1905 the plaintiffs commenced an action for infringement.	None
The defendants denied that the use of the word glazine was calculated to deceive and also pleaded acquiescence.	None
A director of the plaintiff company admitted that he had known of the use of the word glazine by the defendants for four years he would not say it was not five years.	None
It was held that the plaintiffs failed on the merits and by reason of their delay in bringing the action Delay simplicitor may be no defence to a suit for infringement of a trade mark, but the decisions to which I have referred to clearly indicate that where a trader allows a rival trader to expend money over a considerable period in the building up of a business with the aid of a mark similar to his own he will not be allowed to stop his rival business.	None
If he were permitted to do so great loss would be caused not only to the rival trader but to those who depend on his business for their livelihood.	None
A village may develop into a large town as the result of the building up of a business and most of the inhabitants may be dependent on the business.	None
No hard and fast rule can be laid down for deciding when a person has, as the result of inaction, lost the right of stopping another using his mark.	None
As pointed out in Rowland v. Michell (1897 14 RPC 37 at p. 43), each case must depend on its own circumstances, but obviously a person cannot be allowed to stand by indefinite without suffering the consequence.	None
This is the legal position.	None
Again in Halsburys Laws of England Fourth Edition) 24 at paragraph 943 it is stated thus 943, Acquiescence.	None
An injunction may be refused on the ground of the plaintiffs acquiescence in the defendants infringement of his right.	None
The principles on which the court will refuse interlocutory or final relief on this ground are the same, but a stronger case is required to support a refusal to grant final relief at the hearing.	None
(Patching v. Subbins, 1843 Kay I Child v. Douglas 1854 5 De GM G 739 Johnson v. Wyatt (1863 2 De GJ Sm 18	None
Turner v. Mirfiled 1854 5 De GM G 739 Johnson v. Wyatt (supra) Turner v. Mirfiled 1865 34 Beac 390 Hogg v. Scott 1874 L.R.	None
Eq. 444 Price v. Bala and Festiniog Rly. Co. 1884 50 LT 787.	None
The reason is that at the hearing of the cause it is the courts duty to decide upon the rights of the parties, and the dismissal of the action on the ground of acquiescence amounts to a decision that a right which once existed is absolutely and for ever lost Johnson v. Wyuatt, (supra) at 25 and see Gordon v. Cheltenham and Great Western Union Rly. Co. per Lord Langdale MR).	None
In Aktiebolaget Manus v. R.J. Fullwood and Bland, LD, (supra) it was held thus Apart from this point the case of Fullwood v. Fullwood 9 Ch(D) 176) shows that the injunction in a passingoff case is an injunction sought in aid of a legal right, and that the court is bound to grant it if the legal right be established unless the delay be such that the Statute of Limitations would be a bar.	None
That case apparently concerned some predecessors of the Defendants.	None
The delay was one of rather under two years and the relief sought was an injunction to restrain the use by the defendants of cards and wrappers calculated to induce the belief that his business was connected with the plaintiff.	None
Frv.	None
J., in the course of his judgment said this Now assuming, as I will, for the purpose of my decision, that in the early part of 1875 the Plaintiff knew of all the material facts which have been brought before me to day, he commenced his action in November, 1876.	None
In my opinion that delay, and it is simply delay, is not sufficient to deprive the plaintiff of (66) his rights.	None
The right asserted by the Plaintiff in this action is a legal right.	None
He is, in effect, asserting that the Defendants are liable to an action for deceit.	None
It is not suggested in the defence that the delay here involves a question under or analogous to the period under the Statute.	None
The Defendants did suggest that there had been something more than mere delay on the part of the Plaintiffs, and that the Plaintiffs had lain by and allowed the goodwill which the Plaintiffs now propose to acquire, but this point was not seriously pressed.	None
It was suggested that Mr. Evans Bajker, the Plaintiffs Solicitor, knew from 1941 onwards what the Defendants were doing but it is impossible to impute to a busy solicitor a knowledge which he could only acquire by seeing advertisements in local or farming papers advertising the Defendants activities.	None
No direct information was afforded him on the contrary it will be remembered that when in 1942 he made enquiries on behalf of his clients information was studiously withheld from him.	None
I conclude therefore that there has been no acquiescence to disentitled the Plaintiff to relief.	None
In Electrolux LD.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Electrix (supra)	None
it was held thus I now pass to the second question, that of acquiescence, and I confess at once that upon this matter I have felt no little sympathy for the Defendants and have been not a little envious of the good fortune which has attended the Plaintiffs, though no doubt they may justly attribute it to the astuteness of their advisers but, as has already been said the Defendants have traded openly and (as the Judge found) honestly, beyond any question, in the ordinary course and substantially under this name Electrix for a very long period of time, since early 1930s.	None
During that time, they have built up (I doubt not) a valuable goodwill associated with that name.	None
If the possibility that the mark Electrolux was infringed is out of the way, and if I disregard for the moment (as I do) the point taken by Mr. Kenneth Johnstone that in any event the use of Electrolux was a sufficient use for the purpose of Section 26(1) of Electux (seeking that the two marks were associated).	None
I have no doubt that if the Plaintiff had challenged in the courts the right of the Defendants to use Electrux before they have effect to their decision to apply the word Electrux to their cheaper model in lieu of Electrolux, they would in all probability have failed, because the Defendants motion to strike the word Electrux off the Register would have succeeded but the fact is that when the battle was joined, Electrux was no longer vulnerable on that account, unless the Defendants can establish that the use was no bona fide, a matter to which I shall come presently.	None
It is, however, said by the Defendants that the plaintiffs have deprived themselves of their legal right or, at least, of any right to the equitable remedy of injunctionUpon this matter, a great deal of learning has been referred to, and we have also had our attention drawn to a number of cases.	None
The latter include the wellknown statement in Wilmott v. Barber 1880 (15) Ch(D) 96, by Fry, J. (as he then was) at p. 105.	None
He said this It has been said that the acquiescence which will deprive a man of his legal rights must amount to fraud, and in my view that is an abbreviated statement of a very true proposition.	None
A man is not to be deprived of his legal rights unless he has acted in such a way as would make it fraudulent for him to set up those rights.	None
Let me pause here to say that I do not understand that by the word fraudulent, the learned Judge was thereby indicating conduct which would amount to a common law tort of deceit.	None
What, then, are the elements or requisites necessary to constitute fraud of that description ?	None
In the first place the Plaintiff must have made a mistake as to his legal rights.	None
Secondly, the plaintiff must have expended some money or must have done some act (not necessarily upon the defendants land) on the faith of is mistaken belief.	None
Thirdly, the defendant, the possessor of the legal right, must, know of the existence of his own right which is inconsistent with the right claimed by the plaintiff.	None
If he does not know of it he is in the same position as the plaintiff, and the doctrine of acquiescence is founded upon conduct with a knowledge of your legal rights.	None
Fourthly, the defendant, the possessor of the legal right, must know of the plaintiffs mistaken belief of his right.	None
If he does not there is nothing which calls upon him to assert his own rights.	None
Lastly, the defendant, the possessor of the legal right, must have encouraged the plaintiff in his expenditure of money or in the other acts which he has done, either directly or by abstaining from asserting his legal right .	None
In reading that passage, it is perhaps necessary to note (because it makes it at first sight a little more difficult to follow) that the positions of plaintiff and defendant as they are usually met with are there transposed and that one of the parties who is there spoken of as the plaintiff corresponds with the present case with the Defendants, and vice versa.	None
Amerithdara Pharmacy v. Satyadeo Gupta (supra) is a case where Halsbury was quoted with approval.	None
However, on the facts of that case it was held that the plea of acquiescence had not been made out Now, we come to the principles in relation to the grant of interim injunction.	None
The case in K. E. Mohammed Aboobaker v. Nanikram Maherchand and another (supra) makes a reference to the case law and holds at page 57475 as under The principles which should govern the court in granting or withholding a temporary injunction in trade mark infringement actions are well settled See recent decision Henry Hemmings Ltd. v. George Hemmings Ltd., 1951 68 R.P.C. 47.	None
As a temporary injunction is merely of a provisional nature and does not conclude the rights of the parties in any way, the court will exercise its discretion in favour of the applicant only in strong cases.	None
The plaintiff must make out a prima facie case in support of his application for the ad interim injunction and must satisfy the court that his legal right has been infringed and in all probability he will succeed ultimately in the action.	None
This does not mean, however, that the court should examine in detail the facts of the case and anticipate or prejudice the verdict which might be pronounced after the hearing of the suit or that the plaintiff should make out a case which would entitled him at all events to relief at the hearing Colman v. Farrow Co., 1898 15 R.P.C. 198.	None
Hoover, Ltd. v. AirWay Ltd., 1936 53 R.P.C. 399.	None
The Upper Assam Tea Company v. Herbert Co., 1890 7 R.P.C. 183, Star Cycle Company Ltd. v. Frankenbargs, 1906 23 R.P.C. 337.	None
In fact the court will not ordinarily grant an interlocutory injunction if a large amount of evidence is necessary to support the plaintiffs case.	None
The proper course in such a case is to ask for the trial of the action.	None
The injury must be actual or imminent.	None
Pinel Cie v. Maison Pinet Ltd., 1895 14 R.P.C. 933.	None
Where the defendant disputes the plaintiffs title to the mark or contends that the plaintiff is not entitled to a relief by a reason of the acquiescence or delay or other estoppel or of the defendants concurrent rights, the court will be guided by the balance of inconvenience which may arise from granting or withholding the injunction as well as the justice of the cause after considering all the circumstances in the suit.	None
In other words, where the plaintiffs title is disputed or the fact of infringement or misrepresentation amounting to a bar to the action or some other defence is plausibly alleged upon the interlocutory motion, the court in granting or refusing the interim injunction is guided principally by the balance of convenience that is by the relative amount of damage which seems likely to result if the injunction is granted and plaintiff ultimately fails or if it is refused and he ultimately succeeds Read Brothers v. Richardson and Co., 1881 45 L.T. 54,	None
Hommel v. Bauer Co. 1903	None
20 RPC 801It is necessary that an application for interlocutory injunction should made immediately after the plaintiff becomes aware of the infringement of the mark.	None
Improper and unexplained delay is fatal to an application for interlocutory injunction.	None
The interim injunction will not be granted if the plaintiff has delayed interfering until the defendant has built up a large trade in which he has notoriously used the mark.	None
North British Rubber Company Ltd. v. Gormully Jeffery Manufacturing Company, 1894 12 R.P.C. 17.	None
Army and Navy Cooperative Society Ltd. v. Army Navy Civil Service Cooperative Society of South Africa Ltd., 1902 19 R.P.C. 574.	None
Hayward Bros. Ltd. v. Peakall, 1909 26 R.P.C. 89, Yost Typewriter Exchange Ltd. v. Typewriter Exchange Company, 1902 19 R.P.C. 122.	None
Royal Warrant Holders Association v. Slade Co. Ltd., 1908 25 R.P.C. 245.	None
In American Cyanamid Co. (supra) it is held at page 511 as under Where other factors appear to the evenly balanced it is a counsel of producence to take such measures as are calculated to preserve the status quo.	None
If the defendant is enjoined temporarily from doing something that he has not done before, the only effect of the interlocutory injunction in the event of his succeeding at the trial is to postpone the date at which he is able to embark on a course of action which he has not previously found it necessary to undertake whereas to interrupt him in the conduct of an established enterprise would cause much greater inconvenience to him since he would have to start again to establish it in the event of his succeeding at the trial The factors which he took into consideration, and in my view properly, were that Ethicons sutures XLG were not yet on the market so that had no business which would be brought to a stop by the injunction no factories would be closed and no work people would be thrown out of work.	None
They held a dominant position in the United Kingdom market for absorbable surgical sutures and adopted an aggressive sales policy.	None
Again in Rampal Singh v. Rias Ahmad Ansari(1990 Supp.	None
726 at page 731), to which decision one of us (M. N. Venkatachaliah, J., as he then was) was a party it was stated thus Usually, the prayer for grant of an interlocutory injunction is at a stage when the existence of the legal right asserted by the plaintiff and its alleged violation are both contested and uncertain and remain uncertain till they are established at the trial on evidence.	None
The court, at this stage, acts on certain well settled principles of administration of this form of interlocutory remedy which is both temporary and discretionary.	None
The object of the interlocutory injunction, it is stated is to protect the plaitiff against injury by violation of his rights for which he could not adequately be compensated in damages recoverable in the action if the uncertainty were resolved in his favour at the trail.	None
The need for such protection must be weighed against the corresponding need of the defendant to be protected against injury resulting from his having been prevented from exercising his own legal rights for which he could not be adequately compensated.	None
The court must weigh one need against another and determine where the balance of convenience lies The interlocutory remedy is intended to preserve in status quo, the rights of parties which may appear on a prima facie case.	None
The court also, in restraining a defendant from exercising what he considers his legal right	None
but what the plaintiff would like to be prevented puts into the scales, as a relevant consideration whether the defendant has yet to commence his enterprise or whether he has already been doing so in which later case considerations somewhat different from those that apply to a case where the defendant is yet to commence his enterprise, are attracted.	None
In this case we will briefly analyse the materials on record as they now exist to decide the plea of honest and concurrent user or acquiescence.	None
The learned Single Judge in paragraph 18 of his judgment reported in observes A careful perusal of the abovereferred documents in particular along with other voluminous documents, clinch the fact that Smt.	None
Maduri Mathur, mother of the deponents in the affidavits filed in support of the applications, as well as the counter affidavit, got the trade mark SUMEET registered long back as early as 1964 and that by the very strenuous efforts, hard work, skill, exertion, devised so many designs improved the appliances on par with the modem technology and along with other members of the family, viz., husband, sons and daughters was able to start different business concerns as specifically pleaded in the affidavit and reply affidavits and by entering into various agreements among themselves and by remaining as shareholders and directors in the companies engaged in manufacturing the various domestic power operated machines like mixies, washing machines and so on by using the trade name marketed SUMEET mixies in various categories and numbers.	None
It has to be seen that during the said sojourn.	None
Thiru Ajay Prakash Mathur, the present Managing Director of the first respondent was also the director of the plaintiffs company previously and still continuing as shareholder and that during 1984, the first defendant company was incorporated as private limited company under the Companies Act and in adopting the name SUMEET, his mother Smt.	None
Madhuri Mathur as well as his father gave written consent to the authority constituted under the Companies Act and that the several number of documents produced on behalf of the applicant as well as the respondents, clearly demonstrate the fact that Smt.	None
Madhuri Mathurs family including her husband, daughter, two sons and other family members were directly concerned and involved in all of their sister concerns including the first respondent company and have been engaged in manufacturing the various types of Sumeet home appliances and power operation machines and being marketed through as common distributor, viz., M s. Reprographers and Engineers, Madras and all of their accounts were being audited by one and the same auditors consumed and that even to provide the working capital of the first respondent company being run by Thiru Ajay Prakash Mathur it appears that in the company of the first respondent, both the mother and the father stood guarantee for a sum of Rs. 2, 00, 00, 000/ in the Bank of Hyderabad.	None
All virtually go to show that each and everyone in the family of Smt.	None
Madhuri Mathur having involved in almost all the companies incorporated under the Companies Act by entering into agreement or otherwise and having the directorship and shares in almost all the companies and deeply involved in manufacturing either the components, motors and other accessories for their companies products under the registered trade name and mark, SUMEET and that accordingly, they are being marketed through the company distributor.	None
In paragraphs 19 20 of the impugned judgment the learned Judge refers to the documents filed by the Respondent.	None
None of these documents throw any light as to the manufacture.	None
It might be that the first respondent was marketing, having regard to the close relationship as mother and son between the plaintiff and the first defendant.	None
This was why the Division Bench remarked There is some evidence showing that the first defendant has been at least marketing domestic mixers allegedly manufactured by Power Control and Appliances (Bombay), Limited since its incorporation.	None
Whether it actually manufeatured before September 1991, however, is not possible to answer without proper evidence as to the actual manufacturing of the kitchen mixers by the first defendant.	None
So, as such there is no evidence of manufacture.	Reasoning
As rightly contended by Mr. Chidambaram, learned counsel, marketing may not advance the case of the first defendantrespondent.	None
We do not think, as is urged by Mr. Soli J. Sorabjee, learned counsel, either the criminal complaint or the averment in the plaint would amount to implied consent, more so, when no oral evidence has been let in, the parties having chosen to proceeding on affidavit and counter affidavit In 1984 the first defendantcompany came to be incorporated.	None
This was for the purpose of diversifying the industrial activity of the family group for manufacturing other technical appliances like washing machines, vacuum cleaners etc.	None
But there is nothing on record to show that the first defendant was manufacturing earlier than the alleged violation of trade mark, copyright and design, as stated in the plaint We find considerable difficulty in appreciating the conclusion of the Division Bench which had failed to note that the proprietor of the trade mark is Sumeet Research and Holdings Ltd.	None
Again, the complaint of infringement of trade mark is not against Ajay Mathur but against Sumeet Machines Private Limited and M s. Sekar and Sagar44.	Reasoning
It is a settled principle of law relating to trade mark that there can be only one mark, one source and one proprietor.	Reasoning
It cannot have two origins.	Reasoning
Where, therefore, the first defendantrespondent has proclaimed himself as a rival of the plaintiffs his claim as joint owner is impermissible in law.	Reasoning
Even then, the joint proprietors must use the trade mark jointly for the benefit of all.	Reasoning
It cannot be used in rivalry and in competition with each other45.	Reasoning
The plea of quasipartnership was never urged in the pleading.	None
As regards copyright there is no plea of assignment.	Reasoning
The High Court had failed to note that the plea of honest and concurrent user as stated in Section 12(3) of 1958 Act for securing the concurrent registration is not a valid defence for the infringement of copyright.	Reasoning
For all these reasons we are unable to support the judgments of the High Court under appeal.	Reasoning
We reiterate that on the material on record as is available at present the denial of injunction, once the infringement of trade mark copyright and design is established, cannot be supported.	Reasoning
Pending suit, there will be an injunction in favour of the appellants (the plaintiffs).	Decision
All the civil appeals will stand allowed.	Decision
No cost46.	Decision
We request the High Court to try the suits with utmost expedition47.	Decision
We make it clear that whatever we have observed herein will have absolutely no being in the trial of the suits which have to be decided independently on their respective merits.	Decision
