 Gajendragadkar, CJ.1.	None
The principal point of law which arises in this appeal is whether the Sanad issued in favour of the appellant, Rajkumar Narsingh Pratap Singh Deo, by his elder brother, the Ruler of Dhenkanal State, on March 1, 1931, is existing law within the meaning of Art.	Issue
372 of the Constitution read with Cl. 4(b) of Order No. 31 of 1948 issued by the respondent State of Orissa on January 1, 1948.	Issue
This question arises in this way.	None
The State of Dhenkanal which was an independent State prior to 1947 merged with the Province of Orissa in pursuance of a Merger Agreement entered into between the Ruler of Dhenkanal and the Dominion of India of December 15, 1947.	Facts
This Agreement came into force as from January 1, 1948.	Facts
In consequence of this Agreement, the entire administration of the State of Dhenkanal was taken over by the State of Orissa pursuant to the authority conferred on it by the Central Government under S. 3 (2) of the Foreign Jurisdiction Act 1947 (No. 47 of 1947).	Facts
After the Sanad in question was issued in favour of the appellant, he was getting a monthly allowance of Rs.	Facts
500/ from the Dhenkanal District Treasury on the authority of a permanent Pay Order which had been issued in his favour by the Ruler of Dhenkanal on the basis of the said Sanad.	Facts
This payment was discontinued by the respondent from 1st May, 1949 and the several representations made by the appellant to the various authorities of the respondent to reconsider the matter failed.	Facts
That is why he filed the present suit on September 26, 1951 in the Court of the Subordinate Judge, Dhenkanal, alleging that the act of discontinuing the appellants pension was illegal, and asking for appropriate reliefs in that behalf.	Facts
It is from this suit that the present appeal arises.2.	Facts
The appellants case is that in the family of the appellant, it has been recognised as a customary right of the junior members of the family to receive adequate maintenance consistently with the status of the family.	Arguments of Petitioner
Indeed, the appellants allegation is that this custom was recognised in Dhenkanal and enforced as customary law in the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
The grants made to the members of the Royal Family for their maintenance consisted of lands and cash allowances.	Arguments of Petitioner
These latter were described as Kharpost allowances and they were charged and paid out of the revenue of the former State of Dhenkanal.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was in accordance with this customary law that the Sanad in question was issued by the Ruler of Dhenkanal in favour of the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
By this Sanad, certain lands were granted to the appellant and a cash allowance of Rs.	Arguments of Petitioner
500/ per month was directed to be paid to him for life.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants grievance is that this grant of Rs.	Arguments of Petitioner
500/ allowance has been discontinued by the respondent and that, according to the appellant, is an illegal and unconstitutional act.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his plea that the respondent was bound to continue the payment of the cash allowance, the appellant urged in his suit that the grant was a law within the meaning of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
372 and as such, it had to be continued.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also alleged that after the merger of Dhenkanal with Orissa, his right to receive the grant was recognised by the respondent and acted upon and that is another reason why he claimed an appropriate relief in the form of an injunction against the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
Several other pleas were also taken by the appellant in support of his claim, but it is not necessary to refer to them for the purpose of the present appeal.3.	None
The respondent denied the appellants claim and urged that having regard to the nature of the grant on which the appellant has rested his case, it was competent to the respondent to discontinue the grant.	Arguments of Respondent
The grant in question is not law under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
372 and just as it could be made by the Ruler in 1931 by an executive act, it can be discontinued by the respondent by a similar executive act since the respondent is the successor of the Ruler.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also urged by the respondent that the appellants allegation that the respondent had recognised and agreed to the act upon the grant of cash allowance, was not wellfounded.	Arguments of Respondent
Both the learned trial Judge who tried the appellants case, and the High Court of Orissa before which the appellant took his case in appeal have, in the main rejected the appellants contention, with the result that the appellants suit has been dismissed.	None
The appellant then applied for and obtained a certificate from the High Court and it is with the certificate thus granted to him that he has come to this Court in appeal.4.	None
The first and the main point which Mr. Setalvad for the appellant has urged before us is that the Sanad on which the appellants claim is founded, is law.	Arguments of Petitioner
At the time when the Sanad was granted, the Ruler of Dhenkanal was an absolute monarch and in him vested full sovereignty as such absolute sovereign, he was endowed with legislative, judicial and executive powers and authority and whatever order he passed amounted to law.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the case of an absolute monarch whose words is literally law, it would be idle, says Mr. Setalvad, to distinguish between binding orders issued by him which are legislative from other binding orders which are executive or administrative.	Arguments of Petitioner
All binding orders issued by such a Ruler are, on the ultimate analysis, law, and the Sanad in question falls under the category of such law.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this argument, Mr. Setalvad has referred us to the definition of the words existing law prescribed by Art. 366(10) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Art. 366(10) provides that existing law means any law, Ordinance, Order, byelaw, rule or regulation passed or made before the commencement of this Constitution by any Legislature, authority, or person having power to make such a law, Ordinance, Order, byelaw, rule or regulation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Basing himself on this definition, Mr. Setalvad also relies on the provisions of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
372(1) which provides for the continuance in force of existing laws this continuance is, of course, subject to the other provisions of the Constitution and it applies to such laws as were in force in the territory of India immediately before the commencement of the Constitution, until they are altered, repealed or amended by a competent Legislature or other competent authority.6.	None
These provisions are invoked by Mr. Setalvad primarily by virtue of Cl. 4 (b) of Order 31 of 1948 issued by the respondent on the 1st of January, 1948.	None
It is wellknown that by S. 3 (1) of the Extra Foreign Jurisdiction Act, the Central Government was given very wide powers to exercise extra provincial jurisdiction in such manner as it thought fit.	None
Section 3 (2) provided that the Central Government may delegate any such jurisdiction as aforesaid to any officer or authority in such manner and to such extent as it thinks fit.	None
The width of the powers conferred on the Central Government can be properly appreciated if the provisions of S. 4 are taken into account.	None
Under S. 4 (1), the Central Government was authorised by notification in the Official Gazette to make such orders as may seem to it expedient for the effective exercise of the extraforeign jurisdiction of the Central Government.	None
Section 4 (2) indicates by cls.	None
(a) to (d) the categories of order which can be passed by the Central Government in exercise of its jurisdiction.	None
The sweep of these powers is very wide and they had to be exercised in the interests of the proper governance of the areas to which the said Act applied.	None
Under S. 3 (2), the Central Government had delegated its powers to the Province of Orissa in respect of States which had merged with it, and it was in exercise of its powers as such delegate that Order 31 of 1948 was issued by the Province of Orissa (now the respondent).	None
Clause 4 of the Order dealt with the question of the laws to be applied to the merging areas.	None
Clause 4 (a) referred to the enactments specified in the first column of the Schedule annexed to the Order and made them applicable as indicated in it.	None
Clause 4(b) provided that as respects those matters which are not covered by the enactments applied to the Orissa States, under subparagraph (a), all laws in force in any of the Orissa States prior to the commencement of this Order, whether substantive or procedural and whether based on custom and usage, or statutes, shall, subject to the provisions of this Order, continue to remain in force until altered or amended by an Order under the Extra Provincial Jurisdiction Act, 1947.	None
There is a proviso to this subclause to which it is necessary to refer.	None
The argument is that by virtue of Cl. 4(b) of this Order, the customary law prevailing in the State of Dhenkanal prior to its merger continued to operate as law in the territory of Dhenkanal and that is how it is operative even now, because it has not been repealed or amended.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since the Sanad issued in favour of the appellant is, according to the appellants case, law, there would be no authority in the respondent to cancel the payment of cash allowance to the appellant merely by an executive order.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the respondent wants to terminate the payment of the cash allowance to the appellants, the only way which the respondent can legitimately adopt is to make a law in that behalf, or issue an order under Cl. 4(b) of the Order.	Arguments of Petitioner
That, broadly stated, is the argument which has been pressed before us by Mr. Setalvad.7.	None
We do not think that the basic assumption made by Mr. Setalvad in presenting this argument is sound.	Reasoning
It would be noticed that the basic assumption on which the argument is based is that in the case of an absolute monarch, there can be no distinction between executive and legislative order.	Reasoning
In other words, it is assumed that all orders which are passed by an absolute monarch, (are) binding, and it is idle to enquire whether they are executive or legislative in character, because no such distinction can be made in regard to orders issued by an absolute monarch.	Reasoning
It is true that the legislative, executive and judicial powers are all vested in an absolute monarch he is the source or fountain of all these powers and any order made by him would he binding within the territory under his Rule without examining the question as to whether it is legislative, executive or judicial but though all the three powers are vested in the same individual, that does not obliterate the difference in the character of those powers.	Reasoning
The jurisprudential distinction between the legislative and the executive powers still remains, though for practical purposes, an examination about the character of these orders may serve no useful purpose.	Reasoning
It is not as if where absolute monarchs have sway in their kingdoms, the basic principles of jurisprudence which distinguish between the three categories of powers are inapplicable.	Reasoning
A careful examination of the orders passed by an absolute monarch would disclose to a jurist whether the power exercised in a given case by issuing a given order is judicial, legislative, or executive, and the conclusion reached on jurisprudential grounds about the nature of the order and the source of power on which it is based would be nevertheless be true and correct.	Reasoning
That, indeed, is the approach which must be adopted in considering the question as to whether the grant in the present case is law within the meaning of Art.	Reasoning
372 as well as Cl. 4 (b) of Order 31 of 1948 and so, prima facie, it does not seem sound to suggest that in the case of an absolute monarch, that branch of jurisprudence which makes a distinction between three kinds of power is entirely inapplicable.8.	Reasoning
In dealing with this aspect of the matter, it is hardly necessary to examine and decide what distinguishes a law from an executive order.	None
A theoretical or academic discussion of this problem would not be necessary for our present purpose, because all that we are considering at this stage is whether or not it would be possible to consider by reference to the character of the order, its provisions, its context and its general setting whether it is a legislative order or an executive order.	None
Though theorists may not find it easy to define a law as distinguished from executive orders, the main features and characteristics of law are well recognised.	None
Stated broadly, a law generally is a body of rules which have been laid down for determining legal rights and legal obligations which are recognised by courts.	None
In that sense, a law can be distinguished from a grant, because in the case of a grant, the grantor and the grantee both agree about the making and the acceptance of the grant not so in the case of law.	None
Law in the case of an absolute monarch is his command which has to be obeyed by the citizens whether they agree with it or not.	None
Therefore, we are inclined to hold that Mr. Setalvad is not right in making the unqualified contention that while we are dealing with a grant made by an absolute monarch, it is irrelevant to enquire whether the grant is the result of an executive action, or a legislative action.	None
On Mr. Setalvads contention, every act of the absolute monarch and every order passed by him would become law though the act or order may have relation exclusively to his personal matters and may have no impact on the public at large.	None
That is why it is unsound to suggest that the jurisprudential distinction between orders which are judicial, executive or legislative or in relation to purely individual and personal matters should be treated as irrelevant in dealing with Acts or orders passed even by an absolute monarch.9.	None
Realising the difficulty in his way, Mr. Setalvad has strongly relied on certain decisions of this Court which, according to him support the broad point which he has raised before us.	None
It is, therefore, necessary to examine these decisions.	None
The first case on which Mr. Setalvad relies is that of AmeerunNissa Begum v. Mehboob Begum, AIR 1955	None
SC 352 .	None
In that case, this Court was called upon to consider the validity of the Firman issued by the Nizam of Hyderabad on the 19th February, 1939 by which a Special Commission had been constituted to investigate and submit a report to him in the case of succession to a deceased Nowab which was transferred to the commission from the file of Darul Quaza Court.	None
Dealing with the question as to whether the Firman in question was passed by the Nizam in exercise of his legislative power or judicial power, Mukherjea, C. J., speaking for the Court, observed that the Nizam was the supreme legislative, the supreme judiciary and the supreme head of the executive and there were no constitutional limitations upon his authority to act in any of these capacities.	None
He also observed that the Firmans were expressions of the sovereign will of the Nizam and they were binding in the same way as any other law therefore, so long as a particular Firman held the field, that alone would govern or regulate the rights of the parties concerned, though it could be annulled or modified by a later Firman at any time that the Nizam willed.	None
It appears, however, that the learned counsel appearing in that case did not argue this point, and so, the question as to whether it would be possible or useful to draw a line of demarcation between a Firman which is legislative and that which is executive, was neither debated before the Court, nor has it been examined and decided as a general proposition of law.10.	None
In Director of Endowments Government of Hyderabad v. Akram Ali, (S) AIR 1956 SC 60 similar observations were repeated by Bose, J., who spoke for the Court on that occasion.	None
Dealing with the Firman issued by the Nizam on the 30th December, 1920, which directed the Department to supervise the Dargah until the rights of the parties were enquired into and decided by a Civil Court, it was observed that the Nizam was an absolute sovereign regarding all domestic matter at the time when the Firman was issued and his word was law.	None
That is how the validity of the Firman was not questioned and it was held that its effect was to deprive the respondent before the Court and all other claimants of all rights to possession pending enquiry of the case.	None
In this case again, as in the case of AmeerunNissa Begum, AIR 1955 SC 352 the point does not appear to have been argued and the observations are, therefore, not intended to lay down a broad or general proposition as contended by Mr. Setalvad.11.	None
That takes us to the decision in the case of Madhaorao Phalke v. State of Madhya Bharat, (1961) 1	None
SCR 957 (AIR 1961 SC 298 ).	None
On this occasion, this Court was called upon to consider the question as to whether the relevant Kalambandis issued by the Ruler of Gwalior constituted law, or amounted merely to executive orders.	None
In the course of the judgment, the passages in the two cases to which we have just referred were, no doubt, quoted but the ultimate decision was based not so much on any general ground as suggested by Mr. Setalvad as on the examination of the character of the Kalambandis themselves and other relevant factors.	None
If Mr. Setalvads argument be wellfounded and the Kalambandis had to be treated as law on the broad ground that they were orders issued by an absolute monarch, it would have been hardly necessary to consider the scope and effect of the Kalambandis the manner in which they were passed, and the object and effect of their scheme.	None
In fact, these matters were considered in the judgment and it was ultimately held that having regard to the contents of the two orders and the character of the provisions made by them in such a detailed manner, it is difficult to distinguish them from statutes or laws in any event, they must be treated as rules or regulations having the force of law.	None
That was the finding made by the High Court and the said finding was affirmed by this Court.	None
Therefore, though this judgment repeated the general observations made by this Court on two earlier occasions, it would be noticed that the decision was based not as much on the said observations, as on a careful examination of the provisions contained in the Kalambandis themselves.12.	None
In Promod Chandra Deb v. State of Orissa, (1962) Supp (1) SCR 405 (AIR 1962 SC 1288 )	None
this Court has held that the grant with which the Court was concerned, read in the light of Order 31 of the Rules, Regulations and Privileges of Khanjadars, and Khorposhdars, was law (vide p. 410).	None
In discussing the question, Sinha, C. J., has referred to Order 31 of the Rules and Regulations and has observed that like the Kalimbandis in the case of Phalke, (1961) 1	None
SCR 957 (AIR 1961 SC 298 )	None
the said Rules had the force of law and would be existing law within the meaning of Art.	None
372 of the Constitution.	None
This case does not carry the position any further except that the same general observations are reproduced.13.	None
In the case of Govindlalji Maharaj v. State of Rajasthan, AIR 1963 SC 1638 while dealing with the question as to whether the Firman issued by Udaipur Darbar in 1934 was law or not, this Court examined the scheme of the said Firman, considered its provisions, their scope and effect and came to the conclusion that it was law.	None
Having thus reached the conclusion that the Firman, considered as a whole, was law, the general observations on which Mr. Setalvad relies were reproduced.	None
But as in the case of Phalke, (1961) 1	None
SCR 957 (AIR 1961 SC 298 ) so in this case, the decision does not appear to be based on any general or a priori consideration, but it is based more particularly on the examination of the scheme of the Firman and its provisions.14.	None
In the case of Umaid Mills Ltd. v. Union of India, AIR 1963 SC 953 a similar question arose for the decision of this Court in regard to an agreement made on the 17th of April, 1941.	None
The point urged before the Court was that the said agreement was law, and reliance was placed on the several general observations to which we have already referred.	None
S. K. Das, J., who spoke for the Court examined the said observations and the context in which they were made and rejected the plea that the said observations were intended to lay down a general proposition that in the case of an absolute monarch, no distinction can be made between his legislative and his executive act.	None
In the result, the agreement in question was held to be no more than a contract which was an executive act and not a law within the meaning of Art.	None
372.15.	None
The same view has been recently expressed by Hidayatullah, Shah and Ayyangar, JJ., in the judgments respectively delivered by them in State of Gujarat v. Vora Fiddali Badruddin Mithibarwala, Civil Appeals Nos. 182 to 186 of 1963, D  3011964 (reported in AIR 1964 SC 1043 ).	None
Therefore, a close examination of the decisions on which Mr. Setalvad relies does not support his argument that this Court has laid down a general proposition about the irrelevance or inapplicability of the wellrecognised distinction between legislative and executive acts in regard to the orders issued by absolute monarchs like the Raja of Dhenkanal in the present case.	None
The true legal position is that whenever a dispute arises as to whether an order passed by an absolute monarch represents a legislative act and continues to remain operative by virtue of cl.	None
4(b) of the Order, all relevant factors must be considered before the question is answered the nature of the order, the scope and effect of its provisions, its general setting and context, the method adopted by the Ruler in promulgating legislative as distinguished from executive orders, these and other allied matters will have to be examined before the character of the order is judicially determined, and so, we are satisfied that Mr. Setalvad is not right in placing his argument as high as to say that the Sanad issued in favour of the appellant by the Raja of Dhenkanal must be held to be law without considering the nature of the grant contained in it and other relevant circumstances and facts.	None
We must, therefore, proceed to examine these relevant facts.16.	None
Let us then examine the Sanad.	None
It consists of three clauses.	None
The first clause refers to the practice in the State of Dhenkanal under which the Raja made grants in hereditary rights to their relatives, and it adds that there exists a patent necessity for making an adequate provisions for the grantee, the appellant, to enable him to maintain his dignity as a Rajkumar of the State and to maintain himself, his family, his heirs and descendants in a manner befitting his and their position.	None
That is why out of love and affection for him, the grantor made the Khanja grant in the shape of a monthly cash allowance of Rs. 500/ for his lifetime and also an assignment of land measuring 6942715 acres specified in the Schedule attached to the Sanad.	None
The grant of the said land has been made heritable and the grantee has been authorised to enjoy it from generation to generation.	None
The extent of the grant is also clarified by additional clauses which it is unnecessary to mention.	None
Clause 2 of the Sanad imposes the condition of loyalty on the grantee and his heirs and by clause 3 the State undertook to bear all costs for reclaiming the land covered by the grant with a view to render it fit for cultivation.17.	None
Now, it is plain that there is no legislative element in any of the provisions of this grant.	Reasoning
It does not contain any command which has to be obeyed by the citizens of the State it is a gift pure and simple made by the Ruler in recognition of the fact that under the custom of the family and the customary law of the State, he was bound to maintain his junior brother.	Reasoning
The grant, therefore, represents purely an executive act on the part of the Ruler intended to discharge his obligations to his junior brother under the personal law of the family and the customary law of the State.	Reasoning
It would, we think, be idle to suggest that such a grant amounts to law.	Reasoning
It is true that partly it is based on the requirement of personal and customary law but no action taken by the Ruler in discharging his obligations under such personal or customary law can be assimilated to an order issued by him in exercise of his legislative authority.	Reasoning
Therefore, we have no difficulty in holding that the Sanad in question is a purely executive act and cannot be regarded as law as contented by Mr. Setalvad.18.	Reasoning
It was then faintly argued by Mr. Setalvad that the obligation undertaken by the Ruler was recognised by the respondent, and so, it could not be cancelled by the respondent merely by an executive act.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion, there is no substance in this argument.	None
If the act by which the grant was made was purely executive act on the part of the then Ruler of the State of Dhenkanal, we do not see how it can be legitimately urged that the terms of the grant cannot either be modified, or the grant cannot be cancelled altogether by an executive act of the respondent which is the successor of the Ruler.	Reasoning
As we have just indicated, the customary law which required the Ruler to provide maintenance for his junior brother, can be said to have been continued by clause 4 (b) of the Order of 1948 and Art.	Reasoning
372 of the Constitution but to say that the customary law in that behalf is continued is very different from saying that the amount of maintenance fixed by the grant cannot be varied or altered.	Reasoning
What the respondent has done is to stop the payment of cash allowance of Rs. 500/ per month and that does not mean alteration of the law.	Reasoning
It is common ground that the grant of the land covered by the Sanad has not been disturbed, and so, all that the impugned action of the respondent amounts to is to reduce the total maintenance allowance granted to the appellant by the Ruler in 1931.	Reasoning
It is plain that though the customary law requiring provision to be made for the maintenance of the appellant is in force, the respondent has the right to determine what would be adequate and appropriate maintenance, and this part of the right is purely executive in character.	Reasoning
It would, we think, be unreasonable to suggest that though the Sanad is not law, the amount granted by the Sanad cannot be modified by an executive act of the respondent, and that the respondent must file a suit for that purpose.	Reasoning
All that the customary law requires is the making of a suitable provision for the maintenance of the junior members of the family.	Reasoning
But what is adequate provision in that behalf will always be a question of fact which has to be determined in the light of several relevant factors the number of persons entitled to receive maintenance, the requirements of the status of the members of the family, the total income derived by the family, and other commitments, may all have to be weighed in deciding the quantum of maintenance which should be awarded to anyone of the junior members.	Reasoning
In fact, both the Courts below have agreed in holding that having regard to the relevant facts, the grant of the land made by the Sanad would be adequate and appropriate for the maintenance of the appellant.19.	Reasoning
But apart form this aspect of the matter, we do not see how the appellant can seriously quarrel with the validity of the respondents action in discontinuing the payment of cash allowance to him.	Reasoning
The plea that payment was made for some time after the merger can hardly avail the appellant in contending that the discontinuance is invalid.	Reasoning
In the very nature of things, the respondent could not have decided whether the cash allowance should be continued to the appellant or not without examining the merits of the case, and since a large number of such cases had to be examined after merger, if the payment continued to be made in the meantime, that cannot give any valid ground to the appellant to challenge the legality of the ultimate decision of the respondent to discontinue the payment of the said allowance.20.	Reasoning
The result is, we confirm the decision of the High Court, though on somewhat different grounds.	Decision
The appeal accordingly fails and is dismissed.	Decision
There would be no order as to costs.21.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
