 AHMADI, J. Special leave granted in SLP(C)	None
No. 339 of 1991.	None
These two appeals though arising out of different circumstances and concerning different parties, relate to the scope of our constitutional policy of freedom if speech and expression guaranteed by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.	Facts
The importance of the constitutional question prompted this Court to grant special leave to appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution.	Facts
We may properly begin the discussion of this judgment by stating the factual background of the two cases in the light of which we are required to examine the scope of the constitutional liberty of speech and expression.	None
Civil Appeal No.1254/80 arises out of the decision of the Guja rat High Court in Special Civil Application No. 2711 of 1979 decided by a Division Bench on 17th June, 1980.	None
The respondent, the executive trustee of the Consumer Education Research Center (CERC), Ahmedabad, after undertaking research into the working of the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) published on 10th July, 1978 a study paper titled A fraud on policy holder  a shocking story.	Facts
This study paper portrayed the discriminatory practice adopted by the LIC which adversely affected the interest of a large number of policy holder.	Facts
This study paper was widely circulated by the respondent.	Facts
Mr. N.C. Krishnan, a member of the LIC prepared a counter of the respondents study paper and published the same as an article in the Hindu, a daily newspaper, challenging the conclusions reached by the respondent in his study paper.	Facts
The respondent prepared a rejoinder which was published in the same newspaper.	Facts
The LIC publishes a magazine called the Yogakshema for informing its members, staff and agents about its activities.	Facts
It is contention of the LIC that this magazine is an inhouse magazine and is not put in the market for sale to the general public.	Facts
Mr. Krishnans article which was in the nature of a counter to the respondents study paper was published in this magazine.	Facts
The respondent thereupon requested the LIC to publish his rejoinder to the said article in the said magazine but his request was spurned.	Facts
The respondent thereafter met the Chairman of the LIC and requested him to revise the decision and to publish the article in the magazine but to no avail.	Facts
Thereupon he filed the petition contending that the refusal to publish his rejoinder in the magazine violated his fundamental right under Article 14 and 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.	Facts
The High Court came to the conclusion that the LICs stand that the magazine was an inhouse magazine was untenable for two reasons, namely (1) it was available to any one on payment of subscription and (2) in invited articles for publication therein from members of the public.	Facts
The High Court took the view that merely because the magazine finds it circulation among officers, employees and agents of the Corporation , it does not acquire the character of an inhouse magazine since the same can be purchased by any member of the public on payment of subscription and members of the public are invited to contribute articles for publication in the said magazine.	Facts
It further held that assuming that the magazine was an inhouse magazine as contended by the LIC, the Corporation cannot under the guise to publication of an inhouse magazine violate the fundamental right of the respondent.	Facts
Taking note of the fact that the LIC was a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution and the inhouse magazine was published with the aid of public funds and public money, the High Court held that in the interest of democracy and free society the magazine should be available to both, an admirer and a critic, for dissemination of information.	Facts
In this view of the matter the High Court concluded that the LIC had violated the respondents fundamental right under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution by refusing to publish his rejoinder to Mr. Krishnans counter to his study paper.	Facts
It also concluded that the refusal of the LIC was arbitrary and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution as well.	Facts
The High Court, therefore, directed the LIC to publish in the immediate next issue of Yogakshema the respondents rejoinder to Mr. krishnans reply to his study paper of 10th July, 1978.	Facts
This view of the Gujarat High Court is assailed by the LIC in the first appeal.	None
In the other appeal the facts reveal that Shri Tapan Bose, Managing Trustee of the respondent trust, had produced a documentary film on the Bhopal Gas Disaster title Beyond Genocide.	Facts
This film was awarded the Golden Lotus, being the best nonfeature film of 1987.	Facts
The respondent contended that at the time of the presentation of awards the Central Minister for Information Broadcasting had made a declaration that the award winning short films will be telecast on Doordarshan.	Facts
The respondent submitted for telecast his film to Doordarshan but Doordarshan refused to telecast the same on the ground the contents being updated do not have relevance now for the telecast.	Facts
The respondent represented to the Minister for Information broadcasting, but to no avail.	Facts
He, therefore, filed the writ petition, being Civil Writ No. 212 of 1989, challenging the refusal on the ground of violation of his fundamental right under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and for a mandamus to Doordarshan to telecast the same.	Facts
In the counter filed to the writ petition it was contended that although a decision was taken to arrange a fixed fortnightly telecast of award winning documentaries.	Facts
It was emphasied that the parameters applied for selection of a film for national award winning documentaries.	Facts
It was emphasised that the parameters applied for selection of a film for national award were not the same as applied by the Film Selection Committee of Doordarshan for selection of a film for telecast.	Facts
Emphasis was laid by Doordarshan on socially relevant films which were fair and balanced and the respondents film which was previewed by a duly constituted Screening Committee was not found to meet that requirement for telecast on Doordarshan.	Facts
The Ministry of Information Broadcasting had reconsidered the matter in the light of the respondents representation but did not see any reason to depart from the view taken by the Screening Committee.	Facts
The Screening Committee had founded its decision on the accepted norms for display of the documentary films on Doordarshan and since the respondents film did not satisfy the norms for the reason that it lacked moderation and restraint in judging things and expressing opinions, it was found not suitable for telecast.	Facts
It also took into consideration the fact that while most of the claims for compensation for the victims of Bhopal Disaster were sub Judaic and political parties were raising certain issue, it was inexpedient and unwise to telecast the film.	Facts
It was also feared that it would only end in further vitiating the atmosphere and will serve no social purpose.	Facts
The High Court came to the conclusion that the respondent s right under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution obligated Doordarshan to telecast the film since the guidelines or norms on which the refusal was based were purely executive in character and not law within the meaning of Article 19(2) of the Constitution.	Facts
It, therefore, came to the conclusion that no restriction could be placed on the fundamental right guaranteed by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution save and except by law permitted by Article 19(2) and not by executive or non statutory guidelines on the basis of which Doordarshan had refused to telecast the film .	Facts
It took the view that these norms were for internal guidance and cannot interfere with the fundamental right guaranteed by Article 19(1)(a) of the constitution.	Facts
It, therefore, directed Doordarshan to telecast the film Beyond Genocide at a time and date convenient to it keeping in view the public interest and on such terms and conditions as it would like to impose in accordance with law.	Facts
It is against this direction of the High Court that the second the second appeal is preferred.	Facts
Speech is Gods gift to mankind.	None
Through speech a human being conveys his thoughts, sentiments and feelings to others.	None
Freedom of speech and expression is thus a natural right which a human being acquires on birth.	None
It is, thereof ore, a basic human right.	None
Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression the right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek and receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers proclaims the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948).	None
The People of India declared in the Preamble of the Constitution which they gave into themselves their resolve to secure to all citizens liberty of thought and expression.	None
This resolve is reflected in Article 19(1)(a) which is one of the articles found in Part III of the Constitution which enumerates the Fundamental Rights.	None
That article reads as under 19(1).	None
All citizens shall have the right (a) to freedom of speech and expression Article 19(2) which has relevance may also be reproduced 19(2).	None
Nothing subclause (a) of clause (1) shall affect the operation of any existing law, or prevent the State from making any law, insofar as such law impose reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said sub clause in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order, decency or morality or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement to an offence.	None
A constitutional provision is never static, it is over evolving and ever changing and, therefore, does not admit of a narrow, pedantic or syllogistic approach.	None
If such an approach had been adopted by the American Courts, the First Amendment(1791)	None
Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press  would have been restricted in its application to the situation then obtaining and would not have catered to the changed situation arising on account of the transformation of the print media.	None
It was the broad approach adopted by the court which enabled them to chart out the contours of ever expanding notions of press freedom.	None
In Dennis v. United States, 341 US 494, Justice Frankfurter observed The language of the First Amendment is to be read not as barren words found in a dictionary but as symbols of historic experience illuminated by the presuppositions of those who employed them.	None
Adopting this approach in Joseph Burstyn. Inc. v. Wilson 343 US 495 the Court rejected its earlier determination to the contrary in Mutual Film Corporation v. Industrial Commission of Ohio, 236 US 230 and concluded that expression through motion pictures is included within the protection of the First Amendment.	None
The Court thus expanded the reach of the First Amendment by placing a liberal construction on the language of that provision.	None
It will thus be seen that the American Supreme Court has always placed a broad interpretation on the constitutional provisions for the obvious reason that the constitution has to serve the needs of an ever changing society.	None
The same trend is discernible from the decisions of the Indian Courts also.	None
It must be appreciated that the Indian Constitution has separately enshrined the fundamental rights in Part III of the Constitution since they represent the basic values which the People of India cherished when they gave unto themselves the constitution for free India.	None
That was with a view to ensuring that their honour, dignity and self respect will be protected in free India.	None
They had learnt a bitter lesson from the behaviour of those in authority during the colonial rule.	None
They were, therefore, not prepared to leave anything to chance.	None
They, therefore, considered it of importance to protect specific basic human rights by incorporating a Bill of Rights in the Constitution in the form of Fundamental Rights.	None
These fundamental rights were intended to serve generation after generation.	None
They had to be stated in broad terms leaving scope for expansion by courts.	None
Such an intention must be ascribed to the Constitution makers since they had themselves made provisions in the Constitution to bring about a socioeconomic transformation.	None
That being so, it is reasonable to infer that the Constitution makers employed a broad phraseology while drafting the fundamental rights so that they may be able to cater to the needs of a changing society.	None
It, therefore, does not need any elaborate argument to uphold t	None
he contention that constitutional provisions in general and fundamental rights in particular must be broadly construed unless the context otherwise requires.	None
It seems well settled from the decisions referred to at the Bar that constitutional provisions must receive a broad interpretation and the scope and ambit of such provisions in particular the fundamental rights, should not be cut down by too astute or too restricted an approach.	None
See Sakal Papers (P) Ltd. v. Union of India, 1962 (3) SCR 842 1962 AIR(SC) 305.	None
The words freedom of speech and expression must, therefore, be broadly construed to include the freedom to circulate ones views by words of mouth or in writing or through audiovisual instrumentalitys.	None
It, therefore, includes the right to propagate ones views through the print media or through any other communication channel e.g. the radio and the television.	None
Every citizen of this free country, therefore, has the right to air his or her views through the printing and or the electronic media subject of course to permissible restrictions imposed under Article 19(2) of the Constitution.	None
The print media, the radio and the tiny screen play the role of public educators, so vital to the growth of a healthy democracy.	None
Freedom to air ones view is the life line of any democratic institution and any attempt to stifle, suffocate or gag this right would sound a deathknell t	None
o democracy	None
and would help usher in autocracy or dictatorship.	None
It cannot be gainsaid that modern communication mediums advance public interest by informing the public of the events and developments that have taken place and thereby educating the voters, a role considered significant for the vibrant functioning of a democracy.	None
Therefore, in any set up, more so in a democratic set up like ours, dissemination of news and views for popular consumption is a must and any attempt to deny the same must be frowned upon unless it falls within the mischief of Article 19(2) of the Constitution.	None
It follows that a citizen for propagation of his or her ideas has a right to publish for circulation his views in periodicals, magazine s and journals or through the electronic media since it is well known that these communication channels are great purveyors of news and views and make considerable impact on the minds of the readers and viewers and are known to mould public opinion on vital issues of national importance.	None
Once it is conceded, and it cannot indeed be disputed, that freedom of speech and expression includes freedom of circulation and propagations of ideas, there can be no doubt that the right extends to the citizen being permitted to use the media to answer the criticism levelled against the view propagated by him.	None
Every free citizen has an undoubted right to lay what sentiments he pleases before the public to forbit this, except to the extent permitted by Article 19(2), would be an inroad on his freedom.	None
This freedom must, however, be exercised with circumspection and care must be taken not to trench on the rights of other citizens or to jeopardise public interest.	None
It is manifest from Article 19(2) that the right conferred by Article 19(1)(a) is subject to imposition of reasonable restrictions in the interest of, amongst others, public order, decency or morality or in relation to defamation or incitement to an offence .	None
It is, therefore, obvious that subject to reasonable restrictions placed under Article 19(2) a citizen has a right a publish, circulate and disseminate his views and any attempt to thwart or deny the same would offend Article 19(1)(a).We may now refer to the case law on the subject.	None
In Romesh Tappar v. The State of Madras, 1950	None
SCR 495 this Court held that the freedom of speech and expression includes freedom of propagation of ideas and this freedom is ensured by the freedom of circulation.	None
It pointed out that freedom of speech and expression are the foundation of all democratic organisations and are essential for the proper functioning of the processes of democracy.	None
This view was reiterated in Sakal Papers Pvt. Ltd. (supra) wherein this Court observed that the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed by Article 19(1)(a) includes the freedom of the Press.	None
For propagating his ideas a citizen had the right to publish them, to disseminate them and to circulate them, either by word of mouth or by writing.	None
In Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) Pvt.	None
Ltd.	None
Ors. etc. etc. v. Union of India Ors. etc. etc., 1985 (2) SCR 287 this Court after pointing out that communication needs in a democratic society should be met be the extension of specific rights e.g., the right to be informed, the right to inform, the right to privacy, the right to participate in public communications, the right to communicate, etc., proceeded to observe at page 316 as follow In todays free world freedom of Press is the heart of social and political intercourse.	None
The press has now assumed the role of the public educator making formal and non formal education possible in large scale particularly in the developing world where television and other kinds of modern communication are not still available for all sections of society.	None
The purpose of the press is to advance the public interest by publishing facts and opinions without which a democratic electorate cannot make responsible judgments.	None
Newspaper being surveyors of news and views having a bearing on public administration very often carry material which would not be palatable to Governments and other authorities.	None
The authors of the article which are published in the newspapers have to be critical of the action of the Government in order to expose its weaknesses.	None
Such articles tend to become an irritant or even a threat to power.	None
This Court pointed out that the constitutions guarantee of the freedom of speech and expression is not so much for the benefit of the press as it is for the benefit of the public.	None
The people have a right to be informed of the developments that take place in a democratic process and the press plays a vital role in disseminating this information.	None
Neither the Government nor any instrumentality of the Government or any public sector undertaking run with the help of public funds can shy away from articles which expose weaknesses in its functioning and which is given cases pose a threat to their power by attempting to create obstacles in the information percola ting to the members of the community.	None
In Odyssey Communications Pvt. Ltd. v. Lokvidayan Sanghtana Ors., 1988 (3) SCC 410 a public interest litigation was commenced under Article 226 of the constitution to restrain the authorities from te lecasting the serial Honi Anhony on the plea that it was likely to spread false and blind beliefs and superstition amongst the members of the public.	None
The high Court by an interim injunction restrained the authorities from telecasting the serial which led the producer thereof to approach this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution.	None
This Court while allowing the appeal held that the right of a citizen to exhibit films on the Doordarshan subject to the conditions imposed by the Doordarshan being a part of the fundamental right of freedom of expression could be curtailed only under circumstances set out in Article 19(2) and in no other manner.	None
The right to exhibit the film was similar to the right of a citizen to publish his views through any other media such as newspapers, magazines, advertisement hoardings, etc.	None
More recently in S. Rangarajan v. P. Jagjivan Ram, 1989 (2) SCC 574 this Court was required to consider if the Madras High Court was justified in revoking the U certificate issued to a Tamil Film Ore Oru Gramathile for public exhibition.	None
The fundamental point urged before this Court was based on the freedom enshrined in Article 19(1)(a).	None
This court after pointing out the difference in language between the U.S. First Amendment clause and Article 19(1)(a), proceeded to observe in paragraph 10 as under Movie doubtless enjoys the guarantee under Article 19(1)(a) but there is one significant difference between the movie and other modes of communication.	None
The movie cannot function in a free market place like the newspaper, magazine or advertisement.	None
Movie motivates thought and action and assures a high degree of attention and retention.	None
It makes its impact simultaneously arousing the visual and aerial senses.	None
The focussing of an intense light on a screen with the dramatizing of facts and opinion makes the ideas more effective.	None
The combination of act and speech, sight and sound in semidarkness of the theatre with elimination of all distracting ideas will have an impact in the minds of spectators.	None
In some cases, it will have a complete and immediate influence on, and appeal for everyone who sees it.	None
In view of the scientific improvements in photography and production the present movie is a powerful means of communication.	None
This Court emphasised that the freedom of expression means the right to express ones opinion by words of mouth, writing, printing, picture or in any other manner.	None
It would thus include the freedom of communication and the right to propagate or publish opinion.	None
Concluding the discussion this Court observed in paragraph 53 as under We end here as we began on this topic.	None
Freedom of expression which is legitimate and constitutionally protected, cannot be held to ransom by an intolerant group of people.	None
The fundamental freedom under Article 19(1)(a) can be reasonably restricted only for the purposes mentioned in Article 19(2) and the restriction must be justified on the anvil of necessity and not the quicksand of convenience or expediency.	None
Open criticism of government policies and operations is not a ground for restricting expression.	None
We must practice tolerance to the views of others.	None
Intolerance is as much dangerous to democracy as to the person himself.	None
From the above resume of the case law it is evident that this Court has always placed a broad interpretation on the value and content of Article 19(1)(a), making it subject only to the restrictions permissible under Article 19(2).	Reasoning
Efforts by intolerant authorities to curb or suffocate this freedom have always been firmly repelled.	Reasoning
More so when public authorities have betrayed autocratic tendencies.	Reasoning
The question then is whether the respondent of the first appeal could as a matter of right insist that the LIC print his rejoinder in their magazine.	Issue
The LIC denied this right on the ground that their magazine was an inhouse magazine circulated amongst subscribers who were policy holders, officer, employees and agents of the corporation.	None
The High Court rejected this contention on two grounds in the main, viz., (i) it is available to anyone on payment of subscription and (ii) members of the public are invited to contribute articles for publication.	None
Even on the assumption that it is an inhousing magazine the High Court observed under the pretext and guise of publishing a house magazine, the Corporation cannot violate the fundamental rights of the petitioner if he has any.	None
According to the High Court a house magazine cannot claim any privilege against the fundamental rights of a citizen.	None
No serious exception can be taken to this approach which commended to the High Court.	None
In the first place it must be remembered that it is not the case of the LIC that the respondents study paper contains any material which can be branded as offensive, in the sense that it would fall within anyone of the restrictive clauses of Article 19(2).	None
The study paper is a research document containing statistical information to support the conclusions reached by the author.	None
The underlying idea is to point out that unduly high premiums are charged by the LIC from those taking out life insurance policies thereby denying access to insurance coverage to a vast majority of people who cannot afford to pay the high premiums.	None
The forwarding letter of 10th July, 1978 would show that copies of the study paper were circulated to a few informed citizens with a request to disseminate the contents thereof through articles, speeches, etc, Mr. N.C. Krishnan wrote a counter LIC and its policy holders which appeared in the Hindu of 6th November, 1978.	None
This article begins by adverting to the study paper circulated by the respondent.	None
The respondent prepared a rejoinder Raw deal for Policy holders which too was published in the Hindu of 4th December, 1978.	None
The LIC then printed and published the article of Mr. Krishnan in its magazine Yogakshema (December 1978 issue).	None
On the respondent learning about the same, he requested that in fairness his rejoinder which was already published in the Hindu should also be published in the said magazine to present a complete picture to the reader.	None
The LIC refused to accede to this request and hence this litigation.	None
There is no dispute that the LIC is a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution, vide Sukhdev Singh others v. Bhagatram Sardar Singh, 1975 (1) SCC 421.	None
It is created under an Act, namely, the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956, and is charged with the duty to carry on Life Insurance business, whether in or outside India.	None
It is further charged with the duty to so exercise it s powers under the Act as to secure that life insurance business is developed to the best advantage of the community Section 6(1).	None
It is, therefore, obvious that the LIC must function in the best interest of the community.	None
The community is, therefore, entitled to know whether or not this requirement of the statute is being satisfied in the functioning of the LIC.	None
The respondents effort in preparing the study paper was to bring to the notice of the community that the LIC had strayed from its path by pointing out that premium rates were unduly high when they could be low if the LIC avoided wasteful indulgences.	None
The endeavour was to enlighten the community of the drawbacks and shortcomings of the corporation and to pinpoint the areas where improvement was needed and was possible.	None
With a view to stimulating a debate a study paper was prepared and circulated to which Mr. Krishnan, a member of LIC, countered.	None
Since Mr. Krishnan had tried to demolish some of the points raised by the respondent in his study paper, the respondent had publish a rejoinder in the Hindu.	None
However, the LIC refused to publish it in their magazine financed from public funds.	None
Such an attitude on the part of the LIC can be described as both unfair and unreasonable unfair because fairness demanded that both view points were placed before the readers, however limited be their number, to en able them to draw their own conclusions and unreasonable because there was no logic or proper justification for refusing publication.	None
A monopolistic state instrumentality which survives on public funds cannot act in an arbitrary manner on the specious plea that the magazine is an inhouse one and it is a matter of its exclusive privilege to print or refuse to print the rejoinder.	None
It is difficult to understand why the LIC should feel shy of printing the rejoinder if it has nothing to fear.	None
By denying information to the consumers as well as other subscribers the LIC cannot be said to be acting in the best interest of the community.	None
It is not the case of LIC that the rejoinder to Mr. Krishnans article is in any manner prejudicial to the members of the community or that it is based on imaginery or concocted material.	None
That being so on the fairness doctrine the LIC was under an obligation to publish the rejoinder since it had published Mr. Krishnans counter to the study paper.	None
The respondents fundamental right of speech and expression clearly entitled him to insist that his views on the subject should reach those who read the magazine so that they have a complete picture before them and not a one sided o r distorted one.	None
For the above reasons we do not find any infirmity in the view taken by the High Court on the LICs obligation to print the rejoinder in its magazine.	None
We must clarify that we should not be understood as laying down an absolute proposition that merely because the LIC is a State and is running a magazine with public funds it is under an obligation to print any matter that any informed citizen may forward for publication.	None
The view that we are taking is in the peculiar facts of the case.	None
It was contended by the learned counsel for the LIC that since the rejoinder of the respondent is to Mr. Krishnans article printed in December 1978, the same has become stale by passage of time and has lost its relevance and hence this Court should annul the High Courts directive to the LIC to print and publish the same in its magazine.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel for the respondent submitted that the issued raised by the respondent regarding high premium rates is still live as the situation has not improved from what it was in 1978.	Arguments of Respondent
It may be that the statistical information in the rejoinder may be outdated but, contends the learned counsel, the issue that the LIC is charging unduly high premium rates by refusing to prune its avoidable expenses, is still relevant.	Arguments of Respondent
He submits that if the court accedes to the submission of the learned counsel for the LIC it would result in placing a premium on the recalcitrant attitude of the LIC.	Arguments of Respondent
We see force in this submission.	None
By refusing to print and publish the rejoinder the LIC had violated the respondents fundamental right.	Reasoning
A wrong doer cannot be heard to say that its persistent refusal to print and publish the article must yield the desired result, namely to frustrate the respondent.	Reasoning
The Court must be careful to see that it does not, even unwittingly, aid the effort to defeat a partys right	Reasoning
Besides, if the respondent thinks that the issued is live and relevant and desires its publication, we thing we must accept his assessment.	Reasoning
However, in order that the reader known and appreciates why the rejoinder has appeared after such long years we direct that the LIC will, while publishing the rejoinder as directed by the High Court, print an explanation and an apology for the delay.	Reasoning
With this modification, the LICs appeal must fail.	Reasoning
That takes us to the appeal involving Doordarshans refusal to telecast the documentary Beyond Genocide based on the Bhopal Gas Disaster.	Reasoning
There is no dispute that this film own the Golden Lotus award as the best nonfeature film of 1987.	Reasoning
Yet, as the judgment of the High Court reveals, Doordarshan refused to telecast it on the ground that the contents being outdated do not have relevance now for the telecast.	Reasoning
It was emphasised that since the parameters applied for selection of a film for national award were different from those applied by the Film Selection Commit tee of Doordarshan when it comes to selecting a film for telecast, the mere fact that a film has won a national award is not sufficient for all national award winning films are not ipso facto fit for telecast on television.	Reasoning
It was said that unless a film is socially relevant and fair and balanced it is not cleared for telecast.	Reasoning
The film in question did not satisfy this broad norm since it was found lacking in moderation and restraint and hence it was not cleared for telecast .	Reasoning
Lastly it was said that since claims for compensation of the victims of the tragedy were pending and political parties were raising various issues, it was though inexpedient to screen the film.	Reasoning
It is, however, admitted in paragraph 2 of the Special Leave Petition	Reasoning
The documentary is an appraisal of what exactly transpired in Bhopal on the date the gas leak occurred.	Reasoning
Admittedly the said film was granted a U certificate by the Central Board of Film Certification under section 5A of the Cinematography Act, 1952 (hereinafter called the Act).	None
In the High Court Doordarshan had by way of an additional affidavit contended that before refusing to telecast the film, its selection committee had examined the film with a view to finding out if it conformed to the norms laid down for selection of a documentary film for telecast.	None
These norms on which reliance was placed have been extracted in the judgment o f the High Court and read as under Criticism of friendly countries(ii) Attack on religions and communities(iii)	None
Anything obscene and defamatory(iv)Incitement of violence of anything against maintenance of law and order(v)	None
Anything amounting to contempt of court(vi) Attack on a political party by name(vii) Hostial criticism of any State or Centre.	None
The High Court observes that these guidelines were purely departmental executive instructions or notings on the file for internal guidance which cannot curtail the freedom conferred by Article 19(1)(a) and not being law could not claim the protection of Article 19(2) of the Constitution.	None
The learned Additional Solicitor General submitted that the High Court had completely misdirected itself in not appreciating that these norms were fixed keeping in mind the requirement of Section 5B of the Act which section was was consistent with Article 19(2) extracted earlier.	None
We may now examine the scheme of the Act.	None
The Act was enacted to provide for the certification of cinematography films for exhibition and for regulating their exhibition.	None
Section 3 of the Act empowers the Central Government to constitute a Board consisting of a Chairman, five whole time members and six honorary members, three of whom must be persons engaged or employed in the film industry, for the purpose of sanctioning films for public exhibition.	None
Section 3B empowers the Board so constituted to constitute by special or general order an Examining Committee for the examination of any film or class of films and a Revising Committee for reconsidering, if necessary, the recommendations of the Examining Committee.	None
Any person desiring to exhibit any film has to make an application as provided by Section 4 to the Board in the prescribed manner for a certificate and the Board may after examination of the film section the film for unrestricted public exhibition or sanction the film for public exhibition restricted to adults or to direct the applicant to carry out such excisions and modifications in the film as it thinks necessary before sanctioning it for unrestricted public exhibition or for public exhibition restricted to adults or refuse to sanction the film for public exhibition.	None
Section 4A provides for the examination of films by the Examining Committee an d in the case of difference of opinions amongst the member of the Examining Committee for further examination by the Revising Committee.	None
Section 5A provides for certification of films.	None
If after examination the Board consider that the film is suitable for unrestricted public examination the Board consider that the film is suitable for unrestricted public exhibition or that although not suitable for such exhibition, it is suitable for public exhibition restricted to adults, it is required to issue a U certificate in the case of the former and an A certificate in the case of the latter.	None
Section 5B provides for laying down principles for guidance in the matter of certification of films.	None
This section to the extent relevant for our purpose reads as under 5B. Principles for guidance in certifying films  (1) a film shall not be certified for public exhibition if, in the opinion of the authority competent to grant the certified ate, the film or any part of it is against the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order, decency or morality, or involves defamation or contempt of court or is likely to incite the commission of any offence.(2) Subject to the provisions contained in sub Section (1) the Central Government may issue such directions as it may think fit setting out the principles which shall guide the authority competent to grant certificates under this Act in sanctioning films for public exhibition Section 5C provides for the constitution of appellate tribunals, whereas Section 5D provides for appeals against the Boards decision refusing to grant the certificate or granting only A Certificate or directing the applicant to carry out any excisions or modifications.	None
In addition thereto revision powers have been conferred on the Central Government to call for the record of any proceeding in relation to any film at any stage where it is not made the subject matter of appeal, to Enquirer into the matter and make such order in relation thereto as it thinks fit and where necessary give a direction that the exhibition of the film should suspended for a period not exceeding two months Subsection (5) of section 6 lays down that the Central Government may, if satisfied in relation to any film in respect of which an order has been made by an appellate tribunal under Section 5B that it is necessary so to do in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India, or the security of the State, or friendly relations with foreign State, or public order or decency or morality, make such inquiry into the matter as it deems necessary and pass such order in relation thereto as it thinks fit.	None
Thereupon the Board must dispose of the matter in conformity with such order.	None
Section 7 lays down the penalties for contravention of the requirements of Part II of the Act.	None
Section 8 confers power to make rules and Section 9 empowers the Central Government to exempt the exhibition or export of any film or class of films from any of the provisions of the said part or of any rules made thereunder subject to such conditions and restrictions, if any, as it may impose.	None
Part III of the Act deals with the regulation of exhibitions by means of Cinematography with which we are not concerned.	None
This in brief is the scheme of the statute.	None
In exercise of power conferred by subsection (2) of Section 5D of the Act the Central Government issued a notification dated 7th January, 1978 laying down the principles which should guide the authorities in sanctioning the films for public exhibition.	None
These guidelines came to be enlarged by a subsequent notification dated 11th August, 1989.	None
The guidelines laid down by these two notifications require the Board of Film Certification to ensure that Antisocial activities such as violence are not glorified or justified(ii)	None
The modusoperandi of criminals or other visual or words likely to incite the commission of any offence are not depicted(iia)Scenes showing involvement of children in violence, either as victims or as perpetrators, or showing child abuse or abuse of physically and mentally handicapped persons are not presented in a manner which is needlessly prolonged or exploitative in nature(iii) Pointless or avoidable scenes of violence, cruelty and horror are not shown(iiia) Scenes which have the effect of justifying or glorifying drinking and drug addiction are not shown(iv) Human sensibilities are not offended by vulgarity, obscenity and depravity(iva) Visuals or words depicting women in any ignoble servility to man or glorifying such servility as a praiseworthy quality in women are not presented(ivb)	None
Scenes involving sexual violence against women like attempt to rape, gangrene, murder or any other form of molestation or sciences of a similar nature shall be avoided and if for any reason such things are found to be inevitable for the sequence of a theme, they shall be properly scrutinized so as to ensure that they do not create any adverse impression on viewers and the duration of the scenes shall be reduced to the shortest span(v) Visuals or words contemptuous of racial, religious or other groups are not presented(va) Visuals or words which promote communal obscurantism, antiscientific and antinational attitudes are not presented(vi)	None
The sovereignty and integrity of India is not called in question (vii)	None
The security of the State is not jeopardized or endangered(viii) Friendly relations with foreign States are not strained(ix) Public order is not endangered(x) Visuals or words involving defamation or contempt of court are not presented.	None
In following these guidelines or principles the Board of Film Certification has been cautioned to ensure that the film is judged in its entirely from the point of view of its overall impact and is judged in the light of contemporary standards of the country and the people to which the film relates.	None
Pursuant to the issuance of these guidelines the Central Government issued a further notification dated 16th October, 1984 in exercise of power under Section 9 of the Act exempting all Doordarshan programs from the provisions relating to certification of films in Part II of the Act and the Rules made thereunder subject to the condition that while clearing programmers for telecast, the Director General, Doordarshan or the condition that while clearing programs for telecast, the Director General, Doordarshan or the concerned director, Doordarshan Kendra shall Keep in view the film certification guidelines issued by the Central Government to the Board of Film Certification under subsection (2) of Section 5B of the Act.	None
It may be stated at the outset that the refusal to telecast was not based on the ground that the list of award winning films was long and on the basis of interse priority amongst such films and the time allocated for telecasting such films, it was not possible to telecast the film.	None
The grounds for refusal that can be culled out from the pleadings were (i) the film is out dated (ii) it has lost its relevance (iii) it lacks moderation and restraints (iv) it is not fair and balanced (v) political parties have been raising various issues concerning the tragedy and (vi) claims for compensation by victims are subjudice.	None
In addition to these grounds which can be culled out from the judgment of the High Court, it is found from the affidavit filed in the present proceedings that the film was not found fit for telecast as it was likely to create commotion to the already charged atmosphere and because the film criticised the action of the State Government, which was not permissible under the Guidelines.	None
The last two grounds were not before the High Court giving the impression that Doordarshan is shifting its stand.	None
We will however not brush them aside on such technical considerations.	None
We may however point out that Doordarshan had not placed any material suggesting why it things that the film does not conform to the above stated norms.	None
Mr. Tulsi, the learned counsel for Doordarshan, submitted that subsection (2) of section 5B empowers the Central Government to issue directions setting out the principles which shall guide the authority competent to grant certificates under the Act in sanctioning films for public exhibition and since the exemption granted to Doordarshan under Section 9 of the Act from the provisions relating to certification of films in Part II of the Act and Rules made thereunder by notification dated 16th October, 1984 is subject to the condition that while clearing programs for telecast Doordarshan shall keep in view the film certification guidelines issued by the Central Government under Section 5B of the Act, the guidelines clearly have statutory flavour and would, therefore, fall within the protective umbrella of Article 19(2) and the High Court was wrong in brushing them aside as mere departmental executive directions or nothings on a file not having the force of law.	None
We will so assume for the purpose of this appeal.	None
However, once it is re cognised that a filmmaker has a fundamental right under Article 19(1)(a) to exhibit his film, the party which claims that it was entitled to refuse enforcement of this right by virtue of law made under Article 19(2), the onus lies on that party to show that the film did not conform to the requirements of that law, in the present case the guidelines relied upon.	None
Two question, therefore, arise (i) whether the filmmaker had a fundamental right to have his film telecast on Doordarshan and (ii) if yes, whether Doordarshan has successfully shown that it was entitled to refuse telecast as the guidelines were breached?	None
In the United States prior restraint is generally regarded to be at serious odds with the First Amendment and carries a heavy presumption against its constitutionality and the authorities imposing the same have to discharge a heavy burden on demonstrating its justification (See New York Times Company v. The United States, 403 US 713.	None
Traditionally prior restraints.	None
regardless of their from, are frowned upon as threats to freedom of expression since they contain within themselves forces which if released have the potential for imposing arbitrary and at times irrational decis ions.	None
Since the function of any Board of Film Censors is to censor it, it immediately conflicts with the Article 19(1) (a) and has to be justified as falling within permissible restraint under Article 19(2) of the Constitution.	None
A similar question came up before this Court in K.A. Abbas v. The Union of India, 1971 (2) SCR 446 wherein Chief Justice Hidayatullah exhaustively dealt with the question of prior restraint in t	None
he context of the provisions of the Constitution and the Act.	None
The learned Chief Justice after setting out the various provisions to which we have already adverted posed the questions How far can these restrictions go and how are these to be imposed?	None
The documentary film A tale of four cities made by K.A. Abbas portrayed the contrast between the luxuious life of the rich and the squalor and poverty of the poor in the four principal cities of the country and included t herein shots from the red light district of Bombay showing scantily dressed women soliciting customers by standing near the doors and windows.	None
The Board of Film Censors granted A certificate to the film and refused the U certificate sought b y Abbas.	None
This was on the ground that the film dealt with relations between sexes in such a manner as to depict immoral traffic in women and because the film contained incidents unsuitable for young persons.	None
Abbas challenged the Boards decision on the ground (i) that precensorship cannot be tolerated as it was in violation of the freedom of speech and expression and (ii) even if it is considered legitimate it must be exercised on welldefined principles leaving no room for arbitrary decisions.	None
This Court held that censorship in Indian had full justification in the field of exhibition of films since it was in the interest of society and if the legitimate power in abused it can be struck down.	None
While dealing with the grounds on which the U certificate was refused, the learned Chief Justice observed The task of the censor is extremely delicate and his duties cannot be the subject of an exhaustive set of commands established by prior ratiocination.	None
But direction is necessary of him so that he does not sweep within the terms of the directions vast areas of thought, speech and expression of artistic quality and social purpose and interest.	None
Our standards must be so framed that we are not reduced to a level where the protection of the least capable and the most depraved amongst us determines what the morally healthy cannot view or read.	None
The standards that we set for our censors must make a substantial allowance in favour of freedom thus leaving a vast area for creative art to interpret life and society with some of its foibles along with what is good.	None
We must not look upon such human relationships as banned in toto and for ever from human thought and must give scope for talent to put them before society.	None
The requirements of art and literature include within themselves a comprehensive view of social life and not only in its ideal from and the line is to be drawn where the average man moral man begins to feel embarrassed or disgusted at a naked portrayal of life without the redeeming touch of art or genius or social value.	None
If the depraved begins to see in these things more than what an average person would, in much the same way, as it is wrongly said, a Frenchman sees a womans legs in everything, it cannot be helped.	None
In our scheme of things ideas having redeeming social or artistic value must also have importance and protection for their growth.	None
In Ramesh v. The union of India, 1988 (1) SCC 668 petition was filed to restrain the screening of the serial Tamas on the ground that it violated Articles 21 and 25 of the Constitution and Section 5B of the Act.	None
Based on the novel of Bhisma Sahni this serial depicted the events that took place in Lahore immediately before the partition of the country.	None
Two Judges of the Bombay High Court saw the serial and rejected the contention that it propagates the cult of violence.	None
This Court after referring to the observations of Hidayatullah, CJ.	None
in K.A. Abbas proceeded to state as under It is no doubt true that the motion picture is a powerful instrument with a much stronger impact on the visual and aural sense of the spectators than any other medium of communication likewise, it is also true that the television, the range of which has vastly developed in our country in the past few years, now reaches out to the remotest corners of the country catering to the not so sophisticated, literary or educated masses of people living in distant villages.	None
But the argument overlooks that the potency of the motion picture is as much for good as for evil.	None
If some scenes of violence, some nuances of expression or some events in the film can stir up certain feelings in the spectator, an equally deep strong, lasting and beneficial impression can be conveyed by scenes revealing the machinations of selfish interest, scenes depicting mutual respect and tolerance, scenes showing comradeship, help and kindness which transcend the barriers of religion.	None
Unfortunately, modern developments both in the field of cinema as well as in the field of national and international politics have rendered it inevitable for people to face realities of internecine conflicts, inter alia, in the name of religion.	None
Even contemporary news bulletins very often carry scenes of pitched battle or violence.	None
What is necessary sometimes is to penetrate behind the scenes and analyse the causes of such conflicts.	None
The attempt of the author in this film is to draw a lesson from our countrys past history, expose the motives of persons who operate behind the scenes to generate and foment conflicts and to emphasise the desire of persons to live in amity and the need for them to rise above religious barriers and treat one another with kindness, sympathy and affection.	None
It is possible only for a motion picture to convey such a message in depth and if it is able to do this, it will be an achievement of great social value.	None
This Court upheld the finding of the Bombay high Court that the serial viewed in its entirety is capable of creating a lasting impression of this massage of peace and coexistence and there is no fear of the people being obsess ed, overwhelmed or carried away by scenes of violence of fanaticism shown in the film.	None
As already pointed out earlier this Court in S. Rangarajans case (supra) emphasised that the freedom conferred on a citizen by Article 19(1)(a) includes the freedom to communicate ones ideas or thoughts through a newspaper, a magazine or a movie.	None
Although movie enjoys that freedom it must be remembered that movie is a powerful mode of communication and has the capacity to make a profound impact on the minds of the viewers and it is, therefore, essential to ensure that the message it conveys is not harmful to the society or even a section of the society.	None
Censorship by prior restraint, therefore, seems justified for the protection of the society from the ill effects that a motion picture may produce if unrestricted exhibition is allowed.	None
Censorship is thus permitted to protect social interests enumerated in Article 19(2) and section 5B of the Act.	None
But such censorship must be reasonable and must answer the test of Article 14 of the Constitution.	None
In this decision the fundamental difference between the U.S. First Amendment and the freedom conferred by 19(1)(a), subject to Article 19(2) has been highlighted and we need not dwell on the same.	None
Every right has a corresponding duty or obligation and so has the fundamental right of speech and expression.	None
The freedom conferred by Article 19(1)(a) is, therefore, not absolute as perhaps in the case of the U.S. First Amendment it carries with it certain responsibilities towards fellow citizens and society at large.	None
A citizen who exercises this right must remain conscious that his fellow citizen too has a similar right.	None
Therefore, the right must be so exercised as not to come to direct conflict with the right of another citizen.	None
It must, therefore, be so exercised as not to jeopardise the right of another or clash with the paramount interest of the State or the community at large.	None
In India, therefore, our Constitution recognises the need to place reasonable restrictions on grounds specified by Article 19(2) and section 5B of the Act on the exercise of the right of speech and expression.	None
It is for this reason that this Court has recognised the need for prior restraint and our laws have assigned a specific role to the censors as such is the need in a rapidly changing societal structure.	None
But since permissible restrictions, albeit reasonable, are all the same restrictions on the exercise of the fundamental right under Article 19(1)(a), such restrictions are bound to be viewed as anathema, in that, they are in the nature of curbs or limitations on the exercise of right and are, therefore, bound to be viewed with suspicion, thereby throwing a heavy burden on the authorities that seek to impose them.	None
The burden would therefore, heavily lie on the authorities that seek to impose them to show that the restrictions are reasonable are permissible in law.	None
From the above discussion it follows that unquestionably the respondent has a right to convey his perception of the gas disaster in Bhopal through the documentary film prepared by him.	Reasoning
This film not only won the Golden Lotus award but was also granted the U certificate by the censors.	Reasoning
Even according to the petitioners the documentary is an appraisal of what exactly transpired in Bhopal on the date the gas leak occurred.	Reasoning
The petitioners, therefore, concede that the film faithfully brings out the events that took place at Bhopal on that fateful night.	Reasoning
Therefore, the respondent cannot be accused of having distorted the events subsequent to the disaster.	Reasoning
How than can it be alleged that it is not fair and balanced or lacks in moderation and restraint?	Reasoning
It is nowhere stated which part of the film lacks moderation and or restraint nor is it shown ho w the film can be described as not fair and balanced.	Reasoning
Merely because it is critical of the State Government, perhaps because of its incapacity to cope with unprecedented situation, is no reason to deny selection and publication of the film.	Reasoning
So also pendency of claims for compensation does not render the matter subjudice so as to shut out the entire film from the community.	Reasoning
In fact the community was keen to know what actually has happened, what is happening, what remedial measures the State Authorities are taking and what are the likely consequences of the gas leak.	Reasoning
To bring out the inadequacy of the State effort or the indifference of the officers, etc., cannot amount to an attack on any political party if the criticism is genuine and objective and made in good faith.	Reasoning
If the norms for appraisal was the same as applied by the censors while granting the U certificate, it is difficult to understand how Doordarshan could refuse to exhibit it.	Reasoning
It is not that it was not sent for being telecast soon after the disaster that one could say that it is outdated or has lost relevance.	Reasoning
It is even today of relevance and the press has been writing about it periodically.	Reasoning
The learned Additional Solicitor General was not able to point out how it could be said that the film was not consistent with accepted norms setout earlier.	Reasoning
Doordarshan being a State controlled agency funded by public funds could not have denied access to the screen to the respondent except on valid grounds.	Reasoning
We, therefore, see no reason to interfere with the High Court order.	None
In the result both the appeals fail and are dismissed with costs.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
