 Subba Rao, CJ.	None
1.	None
This appeal by special leave raises the question.	None
whether the land described as Vantari Muttah in Talluru village was included in the assets of Jaggampeta A and D Zamindari estates, in Peddapuram taluk, East Godavari District, Andhra Pradesh, at the time of the Permanent Settlement.	Issue
2.	None
The undisputed facts may be briefly narrated.	Facts
The said Muttah comprises an area of 50 puttis, i.e., about 400 acres, and five tanks are situate therein.	Facts
The said Muttah was granted to the predecessorininterest of the appellants and respondents 2 to 5 long before the Permanent Settlement in consideration of payment of Kattubadi of a sum of Rs. 620.	Facts
At the time of Inam Settlement, it was not enfranchised by the Government.	Facts
After the Madras Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act XXV1 of 1948 was passed on September 22, 1952, by a notification issued there under, the Government took over the Jaggampeta Estate.	Facts
In April 1953, when the appellants and respondents 2 to 5 tried to effect repairs to the tanks, the village munsif of Talluru under instructions from the 1st respondent, obstructed them from doing so.	Facts
Thereupon, the appellants filed O. S. No. 269 of 1953 in the Court of the District Munsif Peddapuram, against the State of Andhra and others for a declaration that the 1st respondent had no right to the said tanks and for an injunction restraining it and its subordinates from interfering with their rights in the said tanks The 1st respondent resisted the suit inter alia on two grounds, namely, (i) the entire Vantari Muttah was included in the, assets of the said estate of Jaggampeta at the time of the Permanent Settlement, and (ii) in any view, under the grant, the predecessorininterest of the appellants and respondents 2 to 5 was given only the land and not the tanks therein.	Facts
The learned District Munsif upheld the claim of the appellants to the said tanks and decreed the suit.	Facts
On appeal, the learned Subordinate Judge, Kakinada, held that the said land was included in the assets of the Zamindari at the time of the Permanent Settlement and, on that finding he dismissed the suit.	Facts
On further appeal, Kumarayya, J. of the Andhra Pradesh High Court agreed with learned District Munsif.	Facts
But, on Letters Patent appeal, a Division Bench of the High Court, consisting of Chandra Reddy, C. J. and Chandrasekhara Sastry, J., agreed with the learned Subordinate Judge.	Facts
The result was that the suit of the appellants was dismissed with costs throughout.	Facts
Hence the present appeal.	Facts
3.	None
On the pleadings, two questions arose for consideration, namely, (i) whether the Muttah was included in the asset of the Zamindari at the time of the Permanent Settlement, and (ii) even if the said Muttah was excluded from the asset of the Zamindari, whether the original grant comprised the tanks.	Issue
4. The second point need not detain us, for, though Kumarayya, J., held on the said point in favour of the appellants, the Division Bench did not express any opinion thereon, in view of its decision on the first point.	None
As we are agreeing with the Division Bench on the first point, it is not necessary for us to express our opinion on the second point.	None
5. Apropos the first point, Mr. R. Ganapathy Iyer, learned counsel for the appellants, contended that the said Muttah was granted to the predecessorininterest of the appellants and respondents 2 to 5 long before the Permanent Settlement by the then Zamindar for public services, subject to a payment of favourable rent, that, subsequently, the services were discontinued, but the grant was continued subject to the payment of favourable rent, that at the time of the Permanent Settlement the said Muttah was excluded from the assets of the Zamindari and that, therefore, the said Muttah was outside the scope of the notification issued by the Government under Madras Act XXV of 1948.	Arguments of Petitioner
6.	None
Mr. P. Ram Reddy, learned counsel for the 1st respondent, the State of Andhra Pradesh, argued that the grant was subject to the payment of the full assessment, that the said assessment was paid partly in cash and partly by personal services to the Zamindar, that at the time of the Permanent Settlement the said Muttah was included in the assets of the Zamindari and that, as it was a part of the Zamindari, the Government.	Arguments of Respondent
even at the time of the Inam Settlement, did not take ant steps to enfranchise the same.	Arguments of Respondent
7.	None
Before we advert to the evidence, it will be convenient to notice briefly at this stage, the relevant law on the subject.	None
8.	None
Under S. 3 (b) of the Estates Abolition Act, the entire estate.	Reasoning
including inter alia the tanks, shall stand transferred to the Government and vest in it free of all encumbrances.	Reasoning
This Section would be attracted only if the suit land was part of an estate as defined under the Act.	Reasoning
It cannot be disputed that if the land was included in the assets of the estate at the time of the Permanent Settlement, it would be a part of the estate.	Reasoning
Section 4 of Regulation XXV of 1802 enabled the Government to exclude from the said assets certain items.	Reasoning
Under the relevant part of the said Section, the Government was empowered to exclude from the assets of the Zamindari at the time of the Permanent Settlement lands exempt from the payment of public revenue and of all other lands paying only favourable quit rents.	Reasoning
Besides these two categories of grants of lands, namely, lands exempt from payment of public revenue and lands paying only favourable quit rents, there was another category of lands which were granted subject to the payment of favourable quit rents and also subject to the performance of certain services.	Reasoning
The said services might be public or private services, i.e., services to the community or services to the grantor.	None
The third category of land was the subject matter of decision in Mahaboob Sarafarajawant Sri Raja Parthasarathy Appa Rao Bahadur Zamindari Garu v. Secretary of State, ILR 38 Mad 620 at p. 623 (AIR 1915 Mad 122 at p. 124).	None
Where lands in a Zamindari were presettlement inams granted on condition of rendering personal service to the Zamindar and paying a favourable quit rent, the Madras High Court held that as the grant was for services purely personal to the Zamindar, prima facie the inams formed part of the assets of the Zamindari.	None
The reason for this rule of presumption was stated by Sankaran Nair, J., thusAccording to these cases, therefore, when lands were held on condition that the holders were to render certain services which were purely personal to the Zamindar and in which the Government were not interested, i.e., when such services had nothing to do with police or magisterial duties, or did not concern the community or the villagers, then the Government were entitled to include in the Zamindari assets for settling the peshkash the income from the lands allowed in lieu of such services which were not allowed for in the settlement there is, therefore, no presumption they did not do so or treated the land as free from payment.	None
If the services were purely personal to the Zamindar, there was no reason why the Government would not have included the land in the assets of the Zamindari for the purpose of fixing the peshkash.	Reasoning
The same result was arrived at by a different process.	Reasoning
Under S. 4 of Regulation XXV of 1802, lands paying only favourable quit rents might be excluded from the assets of the Zamindari.	Reasoning
If the grantee paid part of the assessment in cash and part in the shape of personal services to the Zamindar, it cannot be said that he held the lands paying only favourable quit rent to the Zamindar.	Reasoning
This aspect was brought out with clarity by Venkatasubba Rao, J., in Secretary of State v. Rajah Vasireddy, AIR 1929 Mad 676 (682).	Reasoning
Therein, the learned Judge said thisIn the case of personal service inams, was there any reason at the time of the permanent settlement for treating them as lands exempt from the payment of public revenue?	Reasoning
The Zamindar was receiving income from such lands, though not of course in the shape of cashrent but in the shape of services for the rendering of services was one mode of paying the rent.	Reasoning
It was reasonable, therefore, to treat them at the settlement as revenue paying lands.	Reasoning
9.	None
The legal position may, therefore, be put thus Under S. 4 of Regulation XXV of 1802 the Government was empowered to exclude income from lakhiraj lands, i. e., lands exempt from payment of public revenue and of all lands paying only favourable quit rents, from the assets of the Zamindari at the time of the permanent settlement.	Reasoning
If the lands fall squarely within the said two categories, there is a presumption that they were excluded from the assets of the Zamindari.	Reasoning
But if the grant of land was subject to performance of personal services to the Zamindar or subject to the payment of favourable rents and also performance of personal service to the Zamindar, there is no such presumption.	Reasoning
Indeed, the presumption is that in such a case the income from the land was excluded from the assets of the Zamindari.	Reasoning
The reason for the rule is that in one case the personal services are equated with the full assessment and in the other the favourable rent together with the personal services is equated with full assessment.	Reasoning
If the Zamindar in one shape or another was getting the full assessment on the lands, there was no reason why the Government would have foregone its revenue by excluding such lands from the assets of the Zamindari.(10 to 19) (After considering the documentary evidence.	Reasoning
their Lordships proceeded) 10.	None
The following facts emerge from a consideration of the documentary evidence.	None
The grant was a presettlement grant.	Reasoning
The land was granted to the Vantarlu subject to the payment of favourable rent and also subject to the performance of personal services to the Zamindar.	Reasoning
The Government, either before the permanent settlement or subsequent thereto, never claimed a right to resume the same.	Reasoning
Indeed, it was the Zamindar who was giving remissions to the Vantarlu whenever their services were not required.	Reasoning
There is a presumption that such a land was excluded from the assets of the Zamindari and the evidence adduced in the case not only does not rebut that presumption but also, to some extent, supports it.	Reasoning
We, therefore, agree with the Division Bench of the High Court holding that the Vantari Muttah of the appellants was part of the Jaggampeta estate and was, therefore, covered by the notification issued by the Government under the Estates Abolition Act, 1948.	None
11.	None
In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs of the first respondent.	Decision
12.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
