 Dua, J.1.	None
This appeal by special leave is directed against the award of the Industrial Tribunal, Bihar, dated October 13, 1966, by means of which the workmen of the appellant were held entitled to wages for the period of the lockout beginning with February 28, 1964 and ending with March 22, 1964.2.	Issue
On March 20, 1964 the Governor of Bihar reffered the following disputes to the Industrial Tribunal 1.	None
Whether the strike launched by the workers on the morning of the 27th February, 1964, was justified ?	None
2.	Facts
Whether the lockout declared by the management is justified ?	Facts
3.	Facts
Whether the workmen are entitled to wages for the period of strike and or lockout ?	None
3.	Facts
On the first point the Tribunal came to the conclusion that the strike by the workmen on February 27, 1964 was not justified.	Facts
As a result of this conclusion the lockout declared by the management on February 27, 1964 was held to be justified but on a consideration of the material placed before the Tribunal no justification for continuing the lockout on the following days was shown.	Facts
On this conclusion the Tribunal decided under point No. 3 that the workmen were entitled to wages for the remaining period of the lockout.4.	Facts
In this Court the learned Advocate for the appellant raised only two points.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first submission attacked the decision of the Tribunal under point No. 2 where it is held that the lockout by the management was unjustified after February 27, 1964 and the second submission assailed the decision under point No. 3 awarding to the workmen wages for the period of lockout between February 28, 1964 and March 22, 1964.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the first point Shri Gokhale very frankly conceded that the finding of fact arrived at by the Tribunal was not open to challenge in the present appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
He however, contended that the order of the Tribunal in this respect is open to question on the ground that the appellant had been deprived of a reasonable opportunity of adducing evidence in support of its case.	Arguments of Petitioner
He referred us to the proceedings of the Tribunal held on September 29, 1966.	Arguments of Petitioner
On that date the Tribunal recorded the following order Parties present.	Arguments of Petitioner
Management is represented by Shri Pandey S. Prasad, personal officer and the workmen are represented by Shri Kalika Nandan Singh, Advocate, on behalf of Pradeep Lamp Workers Karmachari Sangh and Shri B. B. Karan on behalf of Pradeep Lamp Workers Union.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Karan files written statement, cannot be accepted as it has been filed so late.	None
The Workers Union may adduce its evidence if it so likes.	None
Hearing of the case is taken up.	None
As the Karmachari Sangh pleaded its inability to start its evidence, the management is called upon to produce its witness.	None
The management examines M.W. 1.	None
Trilokinath Rastogi and M.W. 2.	None
Shri R. M. Kahattriya who are discharged after crossexamination.	None
M.W. 1 proves Exts.	None
A, A1, B/1, B/2, and B/3 for the management.	None
Thereafter the management prays that the case may be adjourned as it wants to examine more witnesses.	None
The prayer for adjournment by the management is therefore rejected Oral evidence on behalf of the management closed.	None
Union examined L.W. 1.	None
Krishna Thakur who is discharged, after crossexamination.	None
As it is late, the case is adjourned for tomorrow for further hearing.	None
Call for the letter of the Labour Commissioner dated 13364 on partys risk.6.	None
The argument strongly pressed on behalf of the appellant was that the Tribunal was wrong in rejecting the appellants prayer for adjournment when it had already given time to the Karmachari Sangh to produce its evidence later because of its inability to start its evidence in the first instance.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the appellants argument the discretion exercised by the Tribunal was arbitrary and contrary to the accepted judicial procedure.	None
In this connection our attention made by the appellant to the Tribunal on September 29, 1966 seeking an opportunity for producing the witnesses named therein, but the prayer was disallowed by the Tribunal.	Reasoning
The order of the Tribunal disallowing the prayer was described by the learned Advocate to be discriminatory and violative of the recognised standards of judicial impartiality.	Reasoning
Had the Sangh been compelled to start its evidence, then, so proceeded the augment, the appellants oral evidence could not be closed because the case was adjourned to the following day without concluding the recording of the evidence of the Union and on that day the remaining evidence of the management could be produced in the normal course.7.	Reasoning
On behalf of the respondent Shri Manchanda tried to meet this argument by submitting that the parties must be presumed to have been directed by the Tribunal on the previous hearing to come ready with their oral evidence on September 29, 1966.	Arguments of Respondent
To rebut this presumption, argued Shri Manchanda, the appellant should have got printed the previous order adjourning the case to September 29, 1966 for recording the evidence of the parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Advocate also submitted that the question whether or not a party is entitled to an adjournment for producing its evidence is a matter of discretion and the exercise of discretion cannot be assailed on appeal under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
136 of the Constitution.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
The second point strongly urged by Shri Gokhale relates to the grant of full wages to the workmen for the remaining period of the lockout.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the blame for the lockout was apportionable to both the parties then, according to the submission, full wages could not be awarded.	Arguments of Petitioner
I such cases the normal practice, argued the learned Advocate, us to award half of their wages.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this submission reference was, to begin with made to a decision of this Court as India General Navigation and Railway Co. v. Their Workmen (1960) 2 S.C.R. 1.	Arguments of Petitioner
At page 31 of the report this Court said As regards the remaining workmen the question is whether the Tribunal was entirely correct in ordering their reinstatement with full back wages and allowances on and from August 20, 1955.	None
till reinstatement.	None
This would amount to wholly condoning the illegal act of the strikes.	None
On the findings arrived at before us, the workmen were guilty of having participated in an illegal strike, for which they were liable to be dealt with by their employers.	None
It is also clear that the inquiry held by the appellants was not wholly regular as individual chargesheets had not been delivered to the workmen proceeded against.	None
When the blame attaches to both the parties, we think that they should divide the loss half and half between them.	None
We, therefore, direct that those workmen whose reinstatement by the Tribunal is up held by us, should be entitled only to half of their wages during the period between the date of the cessation of the illegal strike (i.e., from August 20, 1955) and the date the award became enforceable.	None
After that date they will be entitled to their full wages on reinstatement.9.	None
The other decision cited on this point is reported as India marine Service Private Ltd. v. Their Workmen (1963) 3 S.C.R. 575.	None
At page 583 of the report it was observed thus It is true that the strike was intended to be a token one.	None
But the object of that strike being to circumvent settlement in an amicable manner, even though the company was ready for such settlement.	None
We have no doubt that strike was unjustified.	None
It is in the light of this finding that the lockout has to be judged.	None
In our opinion, while the strike was unjustified the lockout when it was ordered on November 13, 1968 was justified.	None
It seems to us, however, that though the lockout was justified at its commencement its continuance for 53 days was wholly unreasonable and, therefore, unjustified.	None
In a case where a strike is unjustified and is followed by a lockout which has because of its long duration, become unjustified it would not be proper course for an industrial tribunal to direct the payment of the whole of the wages for the period of the lockout.	None
We would like to make it clear that in a case where the strike is unjustified and the lockout is justified the workmen would not be entitled to any wages at all.	None
Similarly where the strike is justified and the lockout is unjustified the workmen would be entitled to the entire wages for the period of strike and lockout.	None
Where, however, a strike is unjustified and is followed by a lockout which becomes unjustified a case for apportionment of blame arises.10.	None
In that case also the blame for the situation was apportioned roughly half and half between the company and the workmen with the result that the workmen were given half of their wages for the period in question.11.	None
The respondents learned Advocate submitted in reply that the management had been adopting dilatory tactics and there was a very trivial instance of slapping a workman which had led to a demand by the workmen for an apology from the offending party and this had led to the strike and the lockout.	None
In the background of this situation, the learned Advocate contended, the order giving full wages to the workmen was fully justified.	None
It was emphasised that for one day when the strike was held to be illegal, the workmen have been deprived of their wages completely.	None
Thereafter they were always willing to work but the management declared a lockout and continued the same without any justification.	None
The learned Advocate referred us to a decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal in Jeypore Sugar Company Ltd. v. Their Employees 1955  II L.L.J. 444 in support of his submission that the assault on a workman was not a matter of such a serious nature as would justify the management to declare the lockout, more particularly to continue it for such a long duration.12.	None
In our opinion, it was incumbent on the Tribunal to apply its mind to the question of apportionment of blame on the two parties and to its effect on the amount of wages to be awarded to the workmen for the period of the lockout after February 28, 1964.	Reasoning
The order of the Tribunal ignoring this important aspect is infirm and is difficult to sustain.	Reasoning
In so far as the first question is concerned, prima facie, the order of the Tribunal does appear to be somewhat arbitrary and injudicious and it would have been more appropriate exercise of judicial discretion to adjourn the case to the following day for the production of the appellants evidence, if necessary, on payment of costs.	Reasoning
Had we decided to remit the case back to the Tribunal for considering the question of the effect of both parties being blameworthy for the lockout on the amount of wages to be awarded, we would have perhaps thought it proper also to direct the Tribunal to permit the appellant to adduce evidence.	Reasoning
This evidence, we were informed, was only sought to be adduced on the question of apportionment of blame.	Reasoning
On a consideration of all the facts and circumstances of the case we, however, feel that it would be more just and proper not to prolong this litigation and to put to an end to the controversy by directing that half wages should be paid to the workmen for the period of lockout from February 28, 1964.13.	Decision
We accordingly allow the appeal to the extent stated but in the circumstances of the case there would be no order as to costs.	Decision
