 Srikrishna, J. This appeal by special leave impugns the judgment of the Delhi High Court in Letters Patent Appeal NO.331/1999.	None
The appellant joined the service in Delhi Stock Exchange  the First Respondent in this appeal  as General Manager with effect from 5.5.1992.	Facts
Initially, he was incharge of the Market Division and later on made incharge of Investor Grievances Cell.	Facts
He is highly qualified academically, holding two first class Masters Degrees in Commerce and Arts, and three core professional Degrees of Chartered Accountant, Company Secretary and Cost Accountant.	Facts
In the initial stages, the appellants service was very much appreciated by the First Respondent as a result of which he was granted accelerated increments.	Facts
While he was in charge of the Investors Grievances Cell, he took strict action against certain members of the Respondent Stock Exchange.	Facts
This caused some dissatisfaction in the minds of some of the brokers.	Facts
On 9th June 1995 there was a murderous assault on the appellant and an FIR was lodged with the police.	Facts
It is the case of the appellant that till about October 1995 the Executive Director, incharge of the First Respondent appreciated the appellants merits and was supportive.	Facts
Thereafter, there was a period of time when there was no Executive Director between 25th October, 1995 and 13th December 1995.	Facts
During this Period the First Respondents affairs were managed by elected memberdirectors.	None
The appellant contends that, because of strict action taken by him against some of the memberDirectors, the memberDirectors were waiting for an opportunity to get rid of him.	None
The appellant claims that during the period 26th October 1995 to 12th December 1995 he was subjected to continuous humiliation and victimization.	Facts
In the meanwhile, the Delhi Police after investigation gave out a press release on 7th March, 1996 naming one of the brokers, Shiv Charandass Aggarwal, as having engineered the assault on the appellant by paying money to some hooligans.	Facts
The said Shiv Charandass Aggarwal was arrested by the Delhi Police and during interrogation he admitted that he was involved in the incident, as the appellant had been harsh against him and imposed a penalty of Rs.2 lakhs in a public grievance appeal filed against him.	Facts
On 7.3.1996 the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Police issued a press release stating these facts.	Facts
According to the appellant, despite periodic notes put up by him indicating how some of the brokers were acting contrary to the rules of the Exchange and of legal provision, no action was either proposed or taken against such erring brokers by the First Respondent.	Facts
After the press release was published, the memberDirectors felt that the appellant was responsible for maligning one of the members.	Facts
In the meanwhile, on 22.5.1996, the appellant, in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministry of Finance, issued notices to various brokers including the President, VicePresident and senior Directors of the Stock Exchange.	Facts
This, perhaps, was the last straw on the camels back.	Facts
On 23.5.1996 the First Respondent issued a notice to the appellant terminating his service with immediate effect on payment of three months salary.	Facts
The termination was purportedly in exercise of the power vested in the Board of Directors, vide Para 4 of the appointment letter of the appellant dated 12.11.1993.3.	Facts
The appellant challenged the termination of his service by a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the Delhi High Court.	Facts
The learned single Judge allowed the writ petition on 7.7.1999 holding that the First Respondent is State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution and that the termination of the services of the appellant was malafide and illegal.	Facts
In this view of the matter, the learned single Judge quashed and set aside the order of termination of the appellants service and declared that the appellant shall be continued in the service of the First Respondent with all consequential benefits.	Facts
The First Respondent challenged this order of the learned single judge by a Letters Patent Appeal.	Facts
It was argued before the Division Bench in appeal that the termination of the contract of employment of the appellant was on account of loss of confidence and that the learned single Judge had failed to address himself to this issue despite the material on record being pointed out.	Facts
The Division Bench remitted the matter of the learned single Judge to give his findings on the following two issues Whether the termination of the contract of employment of the General Manager of Delhi Stock Exchange by the Board of Directors after taking into account the material on record which leads to loss of confidence is not valid in law?	None
ii)	None
Whether in a case where the Stock Exchange has lost confidence in its General Manager who was holding the post of trust should be reimposed on the Stock Exchange or is it not appropriate to grant him compensation in lieu of reinstatement as per the ratio of judgment of Supreme Court in the case of O.P. Bhandari vs. ITDC, AIR 1987 SC 111 .	Issue
By judgment dated 1.3.01 the learned single Judge held that the two issues had not been argued before him at all.	None
Referring in detail to what transpired before him, he held When the point had not been taken in the counteraffidavit and when leave was sought to file an additionalaffidavit and the point is mentioned only in the written arguments, which are submitted after the judgment was reserved, it is too much for the litigant to say, especially before any court, that the point argued was not considered.	None
It is in the above backdrop that I am driven to the conclusion that the two questions would not arise for consideration.	None
The Division Bench finally heard the Letters Patent Appeal and raised the following questions which arose for its consideration in the appeal Whether the Delhi Stock Exchange is State under Article 12 of the Constitution of India and is amenable to writ jurisdiction?2.	Issue
Whether the issue relating to the termination of service of the General Manager is purely in the realm of contract and, therefore, not amenable to writ jurisdiction?3.	Issue
Whether the termination of contract of employment of the General Manager of Delhi Stock Exchange by the Board of Directors after taking into account the material on record which leads to loss of confidence is not valid in law?4.	Issue
Whether in case where the Stock Exchange has lost confidence in its General Manager who was holding the post of trust should be reinstated on the Stock Exchange or is it not appropriate to grant him compensation in lie of reinstatement as per the ratio of judgment of Supreme Court in the case of O.P. Bhandari vs. ITDC, AIR 1987 SC 111 ?	Issue
5.	Issue
Whether the Writ Court committed an error of jurisdiction in not considering one of the fundamental contentions as was pressed that being a case of loss of confidence and the employee having the post of trust?	Issue
Answering question no.1, the Division Bench held that the Delhi Stock Exchange satisfied the conditions laid down by this Court in Ramana Dayaram Shetty vs. International Airport Authority of India (AIR 1979 SC 1628 ), and therefore, the First Respondent was State within the meaning of Article 12 and amenable to the writ jurisdiction of the High Court.	None
On the second question, the Division Bench came to the conclusion that the appellant was a permanent employee.	None
Having regard to the fact that the provision corresponding to clause (4) of his letter of appointment has been held ultra vires in a series of judgments of this Court, the Division Bench was of the opinion that the appellants service could not have been dispensed with by relying on or on the basis of the provisions contained in paragraph 4 of the letter of appointment.	None
Question Nos.3 to 5 were considered together by the Division Bench, which did not disagree with the findings of the learned single Judge that the termination of the services of the appellant was illegal and arbitrary.	None
In fact, the Division Bench observed the fact, however, remains that loss of confidence was not a ground for termination of service.	None
The order terminating the service, ex facie, was not stigmatic.	None
From a statement made in the counteraffidavit, as also the additional affidavit, it is evident that there were serious charges against the writ petitioner.	None
The Division Bench was was of the view that, on the one hand the appellant had made serious allegations on the memberDirectors of the Stock Exchange including its President, VicePresident and other senior members, while on the other there were serious allegations made against him of using his office for unauthorisedly making correspondence with the authorities.	None
The Division Bench concluded that such allegations and counter allegations of serious nature were themselves a pointer to the fact that there was bad blood between the parties and hence it would not be advisable to direct reinstatement irrespective of the fact that loss of confidence had not been pleaded or proved.	None
The Division Bench placed heavy reliance on the judgment of this Court in O.P. Bhandari vs. ITDC (supra).	None
The Division Bench partly allowed the appeal of the First Respondent  Delhi Stock Exchange and directed as under In that view of the matter, we are of the opinion that payment of compensation for a sum of Rs.12 lakhs shall meet the ends of justice.	None
Out of the aforementioned amount of Rs.12 lakhs, the amount which has already been paid to the respondent by the appellant shall be adjusted.	None
Such balance amount should be paid to the appellant within a period of three months from date.	None
Mr. Shanti Bhushan admitted that the writ petitioner had tried to obtain employment but did not succeed so far.	None
It is, therefore, not ruled out that he has a chance of getting reemployment.	None
As agreed to by the learned counsel for the parties, the writ petitioner may be technically reinstated in service for a period of three months.	None
However, as the writ petitioner would neither join in his service, nor he shall be assigned with the duties and the functions as agreed to by the learned counsel for the writ petitioner.	None
He would not claim any salary for the said period but he would during the aforementioned period, try to obtain an alternative job.	None
The appellant, however, shall issue a formal letter of reinstatement on the aforementioned terms which Dr. Singhvi, learned counsel for the appellant agreed.	None
(italics ours)11.	None
Mr. Shanti Bhushan, learned counsel for the appellant strenuously urged that the High Courts judgment was self contradictory.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended that having come to the conclusion that paragraph (4) of the letter of appointment gave no authority to the First Respondent to terminate the service of the appellant, and further having found that the action of the First Respondent was illegal and malafide there was no justification whatsoever for the High Court to have refused the normal relief of reinstatement with full back wages and consequential benefits.	Arguments of Petitioner
He relied on the same authorities that were cited before the Division Bench of the High Court and referred to in the judgment under appeal.12.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Mukul Rohtagi, learned counsel appearing for the respondent, reiterated the arguments which were made before the High Court and supported the judgment of the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
We are in agreement with the conclusions of the Division Bench that the respondent no.1 is amenable to the writ jurisdiction, that the termination of services of the appellant in purported exercise of powers vested under paragraph (4) of letter of appointment dated 12.11.1993 is illegal and that, in the facts and circumstances of the case the removal of the appellant from the services was both malafide and unjustified.	Reasoning
This takes us to the question of relief to be granted to the appellant.	None
From a reading of the judgment it appears to us that the Division Bench of the High Court decided that compensation in lieu of reinstatement was the better option and moulded the relief according to what the parties had agreed.	Reasoning
It is not possible for us, therefore, to accept that the judgment of the High Court is wholly erroneous, as urged by the learned counsel for the appellant.16.	Reasoning
Taking into consideration all circumstances, we are of the view that, although the termination of the appellants service was illegal and unjustified, the totality of the circumstances of the case render it improper and unjust to direct the relief of reinstatement with full back wages.	Reasoning
The High Court, even while moulding the relief on agreement of the parties, directed a sum of Rs. 12 lakhs to be paid to the appellant as compensation from which the amounts already paid from time to time under orders of the High Court were to be adjusted.17.	Reasoning
In our view, the impugned judgment needs to be upheld with a slight modification on the issue of compensation.	Reasoning
The compensation payable in lieu of reinstatement and back wages shall be increased to Rupees Fifteen lakhs (Rs. 15,00,000/).	Reasoning
We partly allow the appeal and modify the impugned judgment as under The compensation payable in lieu of reinstatement and back wages shall be Rupees Fifteen lakhs.	Decision
The amount, if any, already paid under the directions of the High Court shall be liable to be set off therefrom.19.	Decision
The appellant shall be given terminal benefits, if any, admissible under the terms of service.20.	Decision
The appellant shall be paid Rupees One lakh towards costs in the High Court and in this Court.	Decision
