Arijit Pasayat, J	None
In these appeals under Section 116A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (for short the Act) challenge is made to judgment and order dated 27.12.2002 passed by the Andhra Pradesh High Court dismissing the election petition filed by the appellant, by accepting prayers made by the respondent no.1 in that regard.	Issue
As the issues involved are pristinely legal, reference to the factual scenario briefly would suffice.	Issue
Election was held to Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly on 11.9.1999.	Facts
The controversy in the present appeal relates to 10 Saluru (ST) Legislative Assembly Constituency which is reserved for members of the Scheduled Tribe.	Facts
Respondent no.1 filed his nomination claiming to be a member of Schedule Tribe.	Facts
His nomination was accepted and objections in his candidature were rejected.	Facts
Nominations of some candidates were also rejected.	Facts
Respondent no.1 after poll was declared elected in the election.	Facts
The appellant filed election petition under Sections 5 and 100(1)(c) and (d)(i) of the Act before the High Court on 19.11.1999.	Facts
Primary stand taken in the election petition appears to be that the claim of respondent no.1 that he is a member of Scheduled Tribe is not correct.	Facts
Application was filed by present respondent No.1 under Order VI Rule 16 and Order VII Rule 11 read with Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (for short the CPC) and Section 86 of the Act praying for rejection of the election petition on the ground that locus of the petitioner was not established, no cause of action was disclosed and affidavit accompanying the petition was not in the prescribed form, verification done and the affidavit filed did not conform to the requirements as laid down in the statute in regard to alleged corrupt practice and, therefore, the same was misconceived and was liable to be rejected.	Facts
Appellant filed his response to the application.3.	Facts
On consideration of the rival stands the High Court came to hold that though essentially there was no definite allegation of corrupt practices, yet allegations that somebody played fraud and has approached the electorate claiming that he belongs to Scheduled Tribe and get selected are similar to, if not higher in gravity than alternations as to corrupt practices.	Facts
The allegations are to be treated at par with those relating to corrupt practices.	Facts
That being so it was held that the affidavit was not in the proper form and that election petition was not maintainable, as material facts were not pleaded, and merely some unreliable and improper averments were made and that required rejection of the petition.	Facts
It was observed that the verification as required to be done in terms of Order VI Rule 15 CPC were not complied with.	Facts
The verification was extremely vague and it was not stated as to what was the source of information on which pleadings were based and which part really was on the basis of personal knowledge and information was also not indicated.	Facts
It was additionally noted that the petitioner was every casual in filing the election petition even the district to which the election petitioner claimed to belong was described differently in the election petition.	Facts
In conclusion it was noted by the High Court as follows The Election Petition does not disclose a valid cause of action(b) It contains several paragraphs which do not fit into an Election Petition filed under Sections 5 and 100(1)(d)(i) of the Act(c)	Facts
There does not exist any valid verification of the pleadings(d)	Facts
The affidavit filed by the petitioner along with the Election Petition does not conform to the Form prescribed (Form No. 25) under Rule 94A of the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961 (in short the Rules).	Facts
In support of the appeals, learned senior counsel for the appellant submitted that the insistence on affidavit in a particular form is not correct as there was no allegation of corrupt practice and, therefore, an affidavit envisaged in relations to such allegations is not required.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since the respondent no.1 committed fraud on the constituency and the constituents by claiming to be member of Schedule Tribe, and requisite information was given the election petition should not have been dismissed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Finally the deficiencies, if any, in the verification and affidavit are of curable nature and the High Court should have granted an opportunity to cure the defects.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petition was not one which could be rejected in terms of Section 86(1) of the Act.	None
The said provision empowers the High Court to dismiss the election petition which does not comply with the provisions of Section 81 or Section 82 or Section 117 of the Act.	None
None of these provisions have application to the facts of the case.	None
In response, learned senior counsel for the respondent no.1 submitted that the election petition is extremely vague, the appellant nowhere stated that he was an elector, it was not specifically indicated in the verification as to which part of the petition was based on personal knowledge and which part also based on information and the source of information if any.	Arguments of Respondent
The petition which does not contain a proper verification is not an election petition in terms of Section 83(1) of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
There was no cause of action indicated.	Arguments of Respondent
The pleadings clearly show allegations of corrupt practices in terms of Section 123(3).	Arguments of Respondent
Particulars reference is made to paragraph 8 of the petition which according to him is definite allegation of appealing to the electorate on the ground of caste.7.	Arguments of Respondent
Respective stands need careful consideration.	None
Before we deal with the basic issues, it would be appropriate to quote few provisions from the Act Section 81  Presentation of Petitions  (1) An election petition calling in question any election may be presented on one or more of the grounds specified in subsection (1) of Section 110 and Section 101 to the High Court by any candidate at such election or any elector within fortyfive days from, but not earlier than the date of election of the returned candidate or if there are more than one returned candidate at the election and dates of their election are different, the later of those two dates.	None
Explanation  In this subsection, elector means a person who was entitled to vote at the election to which the election petition relates, whether he has voted at such election or not.(2) xx	None
xx	None
xx(3)	None
Every election petition shall be accompanied by an many copies thereof as there are respondents mentioned in the petition and every such copy shall be attested by the petitioner under his own signature to be a true copy of the petition.	None
Section 83  Contents of petition  1)	None
An election petition a) shall contain a concise statement of the material facts on which the petitioner relies(b) shall set forth full particulars of any corrupt practice that the petitioner alleged including as full a statement as possible of the names of the parties alleged to have committed such corrupt practice and the date and place of the commission of each such practice and(c) shall be signed by the petitioner and verified in the manner laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) for the verification of pleadingsProvided that where the petitioner alleges any corrupt practice, the petition shall also be accompanied by an affidavit in the prescribed form in support of the allegation of such corrupt practice and the particulars thereof.(2)	Facts
Any schedule or annexure to the petition shall also be signed by the petitioner and verified in the same manner as the petition.	None
Section 86  Trial of election petitions  (1)	None
The High Court shall dismiss an election petition which does not comply with the provisions of Section 81 or Section 82 or Section 117.Explanation  	None
An order of the High Court dismissing an election petition under this subsection shall be deemed to be an order made under clause (a) of Section 98.(2)	None
As soon as may be after an election petition has been presented to the High Court, it shall be referred to the Judge or one of the Judges who has or have been assigned by the Chief Justice for the trial of election petitions under subsection (2) of Section 80A.(3)	None
Where more election petitions than one are presented to the High Court in respect of the same election, all of them shall be referred for trial to the same Judge who may, in his discretion, try them separately or in one or more groups.(4)	None
Any candidate not already a respondent shall, upon application made by him to the High Court within fourteen days from the date of commencement of the trial and subject to any order as to security for costs which may be made by the High Court, be entitled to be joined as a respondent.	None
Explanation  For the purposes of this subsection and of Section 97, the trial of a petition shall be deemed to commence on the date fixed for the respondents to appear before the High Court and answer the claim or claims made in the petition.(5)	None
The High Court may, upon such terms as to costs and otherwise as it may deem fit, allow the particulars of any corrupt practice alleged in the petition to be amended or amplified in such manner as may in its opinion be necessary for ensuring a fair and effective trial of the petition, but shall not allow any amendment of the petition which will have the effect of introducing particulars of a corrupt practice not previously alleged in the petition.(6)	None
The trial of an election petition shall, so far as is practicable consistently with the interests of justice in respect of the trial, be continued from day to day until its conclusion , unless the High Court finds the adjournment of the trial beyond the following day to be necessary for reasons to be recorded.(7)	None
Every election petition shall be tried as expeditiously as possible and endeavour shall be made to conclude the trial within six months from the date on which the election petition is presented to the High Court for trial.	None
Section 123(3)	None
The appeal by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of a candidate or his election agent to vote or refrain from voting for any person on the ground of his religion, race, caste, community or language or the use of, or appeal to religious symbols or the use of, or appeal to, national symbols, such as the national flag or the national emblem, for the furtherance of the prospects of the election of that candidate or for prejudicially affecting the election of any candidateProvided that no symbol allotted under this Act to a candidate shall be deemed to be a religious symbol or a national symbol for the purpose of this clause.	None
What is corrupt practice is set out in Section 123.	None
In terms of Section 83(b) wherever corrupt practice is alleged, full particulars of such practice alleged including a full statement as possible of names of the parties alleged to have committed corrupt practice and the date and place of commission of such practice has to be indicated.	None
Though allegation of fraud etc. in obtaining false caste certificate have serious implications, under the Act and particularly as the language of Section 123(3) specifies and enumerates they do not per se constitute corrupt practice.	None
The fact that a candidate obtains a certificate that he belonged to and is a member of the Scheduled Caste Tribe to contest as one belonging to such caste Tribe, essential and necessary for contesting as a candidate in a Reserved Constituency, at any rate, cannot amount to an appeal to vote or refrain from voting on ground of his caste Tribe for the reason that what was obligated by the statute upon any one to be entitled to contest in such a reserved constituency cannot become condemnable as corrupt practice.	None
To attract the vice of the said provisions as amounting to corrupt practice, independent appeal or canvassing for votes by the candidate or his agent or by another person with the consent of the candidate or the election agent for the furtherance of the prospects of the election of that candidate or for prejudicially affecting the election of any candidate is an essential ingredient.	None
Therefore, the provision requiring an affidavit in the prescribed from (Form94) may not strictly have any application.	None
But that is not the omega.	None
As Section 83(c) itself, indicates, the petition shall be signed by the petitioner and verified in the manner laid down in CPC for verification of facts.	None
Order VI Rule 15 deals with verification of pleadings and reads as follows Verification of pleadings (1) Save as otherwise provided by any law for the time being in force, every pleading shall be verified at the foot by the party or by one of the parties pleading or by some other person proved to the satisfaction of the court to be acquainted with the facts of the case.(2)	None
The person verifying shall specify, by reference to the numbered paragraphs of the pleadings, what he verifies of his own knowledge and what he verifies upon information received and believed to be true.(3)	None
The verification shall be signed by the person making it and shall state the date on which and the place at which it was signed.	None
As subrule (2) of Rule 15 prescribes that a person making a verification is required to specify by reference to the numbers of paragraphs of the pleadings what he believes on his own knowledge, and what he reveals upon information received and believed to be true.	None
This admittedly has not been done in the present case.	None
In F.A. Sapa and others vs. Singora and others (1991 (3) SCC 375 ) a threeJudge Bench of this Court specifically dealt with an issue concerning defects in the verification of an election petition as well as of defects in the affidavit accompanying an election petition wherein allegations of corrupt practice are made.	None
After considering the provisions of Sections 83 and 86 of the Act, as also the requirements of Form 25 prescribed by Rule 94A of the Rules and relevant provisions of the CPC, it was held (SCC pp.40304, para 28) From the text of the relevant provisions of the R.P. Act, Rule 94A and Form 25 as well as Order 6 Rule 15 and Order 19 Rule 3 of the Code and the resume of the caselaw discussed above it clearly emerges (i) a defect in the verification, if any, can be cured (ii) it is not essential that the verification clause at the foot of the petition or the affidavit accompanying the same should disclose the grounds or sources of information in regard to the averments or allegations which are based on information believed to be true (iii) if the respondent desires better particulars in regard to such averments or allegations, he may call for the same in which case the petitioner may be required to supply the same and (iv) the defect in the affidavit in the prescribed Form 25 can be cured This judgment was followed by a Division Bench of this Court in H.D. Revanna vs. G. Puttaswamy Gowda (1999(2) SCC 217) and by a threeJudge Bench in Dr.Vijay Laxmi Sadho vs. Jagdish (2001 (2) SCC 247 ).	None
It is, therefore, a settled position in law that defect in verification or an affidavit is curable.	None
But further question is what happens when the defect is not cured.	None
There is gulf of difference between a curable defect and a defect continuing in the verification affidavit without any effort being made to cure the defect.	None
In F.A. Sapas case (supra) it was held that even though ordinarily a defective verification can be cured and the failure to disclose the grounds or sources of information may not be fatal, failure to place them on record with promptitude may lead the Court in a given case to doubt the veracity of the evidence ultimately tendered.	None
In R.P. Moidutty vs. P.T. Kunju Mohammad and another (2000 (1) SCC 481 )	Reasoning
it was, inter alia, held as follows All the averments made in paras 1 to 17 of the petition have been staged to be true to the personal knowledge of the petitioner and in the next breath the very same averments have been stated to be based on the information of the petitioner and believed by him to be true.	Reasoning
The source of information is not disclosed.	Reasoning
As observed by this Court in Singoras case (supra) the object of requiring verification of an election petition is to clearly fix the responsibility for the averments and allegations in the petition on the person signing the verification and at the same time, discouraging wild and irresponsible allegations unsupported by facts.	Reasoning
However, the defect of verification is not fatal to the petition, it can be cured (See Murarka Radhey Shyam Ram Kumar vs. Roop Singh Rathore (AIR 1964 SC 1545 and A.S. Subbaraj vs. M. Muthiah (5 ELR 21).	Reasoning
In the present case the defect in verification was pointed out by raising a plea in that regard in the written statement.	Reasoning
The objection was pressed and pursued by arguing the same before the Court.	Reasoning
However, the petitioner persisted in pursuing the petition without proper verification which the petitioner should not have been permitted to do.	Reasoning
In our opinion, unless the defect in verification was rectified, the petition could not have been tried.	Reasoning
(Underlined for emphasis)	None
The case at hand has great similarly with the decision in R.P. Moiduttys case (supra).	Reasoning
Not only defects in the verification affidavit were pointed out, but they were pressed into service seeking dismissal of the election petition.	Reasoning
The appellant stated in his reply that he was filing separate petition with permission for leave of the High Court for amending the verification.	Reasoning
But that was not done and the appellant continued to stick to his stand that since corrupt practice was not alleged, there is no need for making any amendment.	Reasoning
The importance of verification has been noted by this Court in several decisions.	None
In Virendra Kumar Saklecha vs. Jagjiwan and others, (1972) 1) SC 826) it was noted as under The importance of setting out the source of information in affidavits came up for consideration before this Court from time to time.	None
One of the earliest decisions is State of Bombay vs. Purushottam Jog Naik (AIR 1952 SC 317 ) where this Court endorsed the decision of the Calcutta High Court in Padmadbti Dasi vs. Rasik Lal Dhar (ILR 37 Cal. 259) and held that the sources of information should be clearly disclosed.	None
Again in Barium Chemicals Ltd. and Vs. Company Law Board and others (AIR 1967 SC 295 )	None
this Court deprecated slip shod verifications in an affidavit and reiterated the ruling of this Court in Bombays case (supra) that verification should invariably be modeled on the lines of Order 19, Rule 3 of the Code whether the Code applies in terms or not.	None
Again in A.K.K. Nambiar vs. Union of India and Anr.	None
(1969 (3) SCC 864 ), this Court said that the importance of verification is to test the genuineness and authenticity of allegations and also to make the deponent responsible for allegations.	None
The real importance of setting out the source of information at the time of the presentation of the petition is to give the other side notice of the contemporaneous evidence on which the election petition is based.	None
That will give an opportunity to the other side to test the genuineness and veracity of the source of information.	None
The other point of view is that the election petition will not be able to make any departure from the source or grounds, if there is any embellishment of the case it will be discovered.	None
The Constitution Bench in State of Bombay vs. Purushotham (AIR 1952 SC 317 ) noted as follows The verification however states that everything was true to the best of his information and belief.	None
We point this out as slipshod verifications of this type might well in a given case lead to a rejection of the affidavit.	None
Verification should invariably be modeled on the lines of Order 19.	None
Rule 3 of the Civil Procedure Code, whether the Code applies in terms or not.	None
And when the matter deposed to is not based on personal knowledge the source of information should be clearly disclosed.	None
e draw attention to the remarks of Jenkins C.J. and Woodroffe, J, in Padmabati Dasi vs. Rasik Lal Dhar (37 Cal. 259) and endorse the learned Judges observations.	None
An election petition has definite role in the law relating to election of representatives of the people.18.	None
The casual approach of the appellant is not only visible from the manner in which verification was done, but also from the fact that he has mentioned two different districts to which he claims to be belonging.	Reasoning
The explanation that the same was given by mistake is too shallow when considered in the background that he is stated to be a practicing advocate.	Reasoning
An advocate is supposed to know the importance of verification and the desirability of making statement of correct facts in any petition and more in case of an election petition.	Reasoning
An election petition is intended to bring to focus any illegality attached to an election.	Reasoning
It essentially and basically puts a question mark on the purity of election, casts doubt on fairness thereof and seeks a declaration that mandate of people has been obtained by questionable means.	Reasoning
In a democracy the mandate has sacrosanctity.	Reasoning
It is to be respected and not lightly interfered with.	Reasoning
When it is contended that the purity of electoral process has been polluted, weighty reasons must be shown and established.	Reasoning
The onus on the election petitioner is heavy as he has to substantiate his case by making out a clear case for interference both in the pleadings and in the trial.	Reasoning
Any casual, negligent or cavalier approach in such serious and sensitive matter involving great public importance cannot be countenanced or glossed over too liberally as for fun.19.	Reasoning
Above being the position, we find no reason to interfere with the impugned judgment dismissing the election petition though we have not approved or affirmed some of the reasons for conclusion arrived at by the High Court, as detained above.	Reasoning
The appeals fail and are dismissed.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
