 Jagannadhadas, J. 1.	None
This is an appeal by the first defendant against the affirming judgment and decree of the High Court of Allahabad dated 2221949, on a certificate granted by the said Court under Article 133(1) (a) of the Constitution.	Issue
The suit out of which this appeal arises relates to an ancient Thakurdwara in the village of Amaulipur containing a temple of Sri Hanumanji and Sri Thakurji, the entire institution being known as Amaulipur Asthan (hereinafter referred to as the Asthan).	Facts
The Asthan owns large property dedicated to it and specified in Lists A, B, and C of the plaint.	Facts
The entire income of these properties is spent for the Bhog of the idols and in maintaining a SadaBart for Sadhoos and Faqirs.	Facts
There is a fairly long history of litigation relating to this Asthan since about 1926 which it is necessary to set out for a correct appreciation of the points that arise for decision in the present appeal.	Facts
2.	None
One Ganpat Das a previous Mahant of the Asthan died in the year 1920.	Facts
He was succeeded by Mahant Bharat Das, still alive, who according to the plaintiffs case, became mentally deranged Bharat Das appears to have executed on 1151925, a power of attorney in favour of one Gomati Das.	Facts
About a year later, i.e. on 1071926, he executed another document purporting to transfer his Mahantship in favour of the present first defendantappellant, Vikrama Das.	Facts
This led to a suit No. 27 of 1927 by Gomati Das against the present first defendant for the declarations that (a) the deed of 1071926, is null and void, and (b) he himself was the Mahant of the Asthan validly in possession and occupation of the Asthan and its properties.	Facts
The trial court decided that suit in favour of Gomati Das and granted him both the declarations he had asked for.	Facts
On appeal, the High Court modified the decree to the extent that the declaration in favour of the plaintiff that he was in the position of the Mahant of the Asthan was set aside.	Facts
But the decree of the trial court was maintained in sofar as it declared that deed of 1071926, to be null and void as against the Asthan.	Facts
There was a further appeal by the first defendant, Vikrama Das, to the Privy Council.	Facts
In view of the fact that the plaintiff failed in the High Court to establish his title as Mahant, the Privy Council held that he was not entitled to get a declaration that the deed of 1071926, was null and void as against the Asthan.	Facts
The suit was accordingly dismissed in the its entirety.	Facts
The judgment of the Privy Council was given on 25101935.	Facts
A copy of the judgment is not on the record in these proceedings but it is to be found reported in Mahant Bikrama Das v. Gomati	Facts
Das 1935 All W R 1408 (PC) (A).	Facts
3.	None
During the pendency of the appeal in the Privy Council, three persons by name Bansi Das, Raghubir Das and Ram Sarup Das applied to the Collector of the District under S. 92 ( read with S. 93) Civil P. C. for permission to file a civil suit in respect of the Asthan for the removal of Mahant Bharat Das.	Facts
The permission was granted by order of the Collector dated 18111933.	Facts
A suit under S. 92 Civil P. C. was accordingly filed on 27111933.	Facts
This was suit No. 90 of 1933 in the Court of the Subordinate Judge, Basti.	Facts
The plaint therein prayed for a decree (a) for the removal of the then Mahant Bharat Das and for the appointment of his alleged disciple Ram Sarup Das as Mahant, (b) for the appointment of a committee consisting of seven named persons for fulfilling the objects of the waqf, and (c) for the entrustment of the properties of the trust to the said Ram Sarup Das and Committee for management and for preparation of a scheme.	Facts
It is necessary to notice that the suit was filed by only two of the three persons to whom sanction had been granted by the Collector, i.e. , Bansi Das and Raghubir Das and that the third, viz., Ram sarup Das whose appointment as Mahant , on removal of the existing incumbent, was prayed for, was not a party to the suit.	Facts
The sole defendant in the suit was Bharat Das described as Mahant Bharat Das insane under the guardianship of Devi Prasad Singh.	Facts
A written statement contesting the suit was filed by the said Devi Prasad Singh on behalf of Mahant Bharat Das on 3011934.	Facts
The suit was compromised shortly thereafter and a petition of compromise was filed on 341934.	Facts
The compromise was to the effect that the various reliefs asked for by the plaintiffs should be decreed including the prayer for the appointment of Ram Sarup Das as Mmahant, with the condition that the Asthan should be responsible to maintain the defendant, Mahant Bharat Das, during his life time and that Ram Sarup Das should be liable to maintain him out of the income of the trust property.	Facts
A decree in terms of the compromise was also passed on the same date.	Facts
It may be noticed that this was prior to the date of the judgment of the Privy Council which was given about a year and half later on 25101935.	Facts
According to the plaint in the present suit, Bharat Das was removed from Mahantship by the aforesaid compromise decree and Ram Sarup Das began to manage the Asthan and its properties along with the truestees appointed under the said decree, having got his name entered by the Revenue Court in the registers in respect of all the villages connected with the Asthan.	Facts
After the present defendant, Vikrama Das, succeeded in the Privy Council in getting the suit against him by	Facts
Gomati Das dismissed, he made an application in the Revenue Court for rectification of Khewats relating to the properties of the Asthan.	Facts
By the date of the institution of the present plaint, the Khewat was changed in the name of the first defendant only in respect of the properties mentioned in List C but similar applications in respect of other properties were pending.	Facts
4. The present suit has been filed for a declaration that the plaintiffs and the second defendant are the trustees of the Asthan and the properties appertaining thereto in Lists A, B, and C, with which the first defendant, Vikrama Das had no. concern, and also for possession in respect of the said properties in case the first defendant was considered to be in possession of the same by virtue of mutation of name in his favour (in the revenue records).	Facts
The plaint was filed by four persons.	Facts
Three out of them, viz Daulat Ram Asthana, Raja Ram Pandey and Ram Prasad Singh, were persons who had been appointed as trustees under the compromise decree in suit No, 90 and 1933.	Facts
The fourth plaintiff is one Baba Bansi Das.	Facts
According to the plaint, he was impleaded in order that, in the alternative a decree for possession may be passed in favour of the said fourth plaintiff on the footing that he is the successor to Mahant Bharat Das.	Facts
Vikrama Das who figured as the defendant in the litigation which went up to the Privy Council is the first defendant in this suit and the third defendant is Mahant Bharat Das described as insane under the guardianship for Devi Prasad Singh.	Facts
The second defendant is one Pandit Chandra Sekhar Pandey who was one of the seven persons enumerated as trustees under the compromise decree in suit No. 90 of 1933.	Facts
The first defendant is the only contesting defendant.	None
He raised various pleas which may be substantially summarised as follows.	Issue
1.	None
The plaintiffs have no.	Issue
right to maintain the suit, the decree under which they claim to be trustee being and invalid and collusive one to which he was not a party.	Issue
2.	None
The property in dispute is in no. way waqf property.	Issue
It has not been made a waqf for any Asthan or for any idol.	Issue
Bharat Das was the owner of the property and not a trustee.	Issue
3.	None
The contesting defendant is the most closely related Nihang Sanyasi from the spiritual family of Bharat Das and was duly appointed Mahanta according to the custom after the execution of the deed dated 1071926.	None
5.	None
Various issues were framed and a decree was granted in favour of the plaintiffs on 1321943.	Facts
As against this decree, the first defendant, Vikrama Das, filed an appeal to the High Court, which dismissed it by its judgment and decree dated 2221949.	Facts
Hence the present appeal before us by the first defendant.	Facts
6.	None
It is desirable at this stage to notice some changes in the Course of these proceedings as regards the array of some of the original parties to the present litigation.	None
The fourth plaintiff, Baba Bansi Das, filed an application dated 11111942 , in the trial Court itself asking his name to be removed from the array of plaintiffs and this was ordered.	Reasoning
The second plaintiff, Raja Ram Pandey, died during the pendency of the appeal in the High Court and the appeal was continued as against the other two plaintiffs as respondents.	Reasoning
Plaintiffs 1 and 3, Daulat Ram Asthana and Ram Prasad Singh died after leave to appeal to this Court was granted by the High Court, the former on 221951, and the latter on 1921952.	Reasoning
The appellant filed an application in the High Court (after two other futile applications) on 391953, praying that the second defendant Chandrasekhara Pandey may be treated as the trustee against whom the present appeal may be continued in the place of the deceased plaintiffs 1 to 3.	Reasoning
It was also stated in the application that two other persons, Ram Sarup Das and Shyam Narayan Pandey were intermeddling with the trust estate and that they should also be impleaded.	Reasoning
A report was thereupon called for by the High Court from the lower Court.	Reasoning
The Civil Judge submitted a report to the effect that Chandra Sekhara Pandey appeared and disclaimed any interest, that Shyam Narayan Pandey did not appear in spite of personal service and that Ram Sarup Das was an intermeddler and was intermeddling with the trust estate.	Reasoning
When the report came up for consideration by the High Court, it was prayed on behalf of the appellant that the names of Daulat Ram Asthna and Ram Prasad Singh may be removed from the record and that the name of Ram Sarup Das who had been found to intermeddling with the trust estate may be substituted as the respondent against whom the appeal was to be continued.	Reasoning
This prayer was opposed on behalf of Ram Sarup Das.	Reasoning
But the High Court directed him to be brought on record because he claimed to be intermeddling with the trust estate.	Reasoning
This order was affirmed by this Court by its order in Chambers dated 551955.	Reasoning
Ram Sarup Das is accordingly the only respondent before us.	Reasoning
At the hearing of the appeal counsel for Ram Sarup Das raised the preliminary question that he has been wrongly brought on record as a legal representative.	Reasoning
He is not, however, prepared to say that Ram Sarup Das has no. interest in the trust estate or that he is not in possession thereof.	Reasoning
On the other hand, he claims to be in possession and maintains his title to the Mahantship by virtue of the compromise decree.	Reasoning
We cannot therefore, uphold the preliminary objection.	Reasoning
The continuance of the appeal as against Ram Sarup Das as directed by the High Court and as accepted by this Court in its order dated 551955, must stand.	Reasoning
7.	None
At the trial of the suit various issues were framed of which it is sufficient to notice the more important ones and the findings thereon.	None
The first issue was in substance whether the properties in suit  i.e., the Asthan and the properties attached thereto  are waqf property subject to a public trust for religious and charitable purposes or whether they are the personal properties of the Mahant of the Asthan.	None
After elaborate consideration, the finding on this issue was the Asthan and the properties which are appurtenant there to are assuredly not the personal property of the Mahant of the Asthan but that they are waqf and subject to a public trust of a religious and charitable nature.	Reasoning
The next important issue is issue No. 6 which runs as follows Is Ram Sarup Das the lawful Mahant of the Asthan?	None
Are the plaintiffs entitled to seek a declaration to that effect without impleading him?	None
The finding thereon is as follows It has been alleged by the plaintiffs that Ram Sarup Das was initiated as a Chela by Bharat Das and is therefore a lawful successor.	Reasoning
But be that as it may, he is the Mahant by virtue of the decree.	Reasoning
After the decree Ram Sarup Das entered into possession of the Asthan property and his name was recorded in the revenue papers until it was expunged in 1940 by the Board of Revenue.	Reasoning
The plaintiffs have every right to seek declaration of Mahantship of Ram Sarup Das, for they as trustees and he as Mahant, are knit together into a body by the common bond of management of the Asthan.	Reasoning
It was not at all necessary to implea Ram Sarup Das for there are no. differences between the trustees and the Mahant.	Reasoning
The defendant at any rate cannot raise objection to the omission to implead Ram Sarup Das, for there is no. privity between the defendant and Ram Sarup Das and neither derives title through the other.	Reasoning
The next important issues are Nos. 4 and 5, which run as follows Issue No. 4 is Amaulipur a subordinate branch of Hanuman Garhi?	None
What is the rule of succession to Mahantship of the Amaulipur Asthan?	None
Issue No. 5 Is the defendant lawful successorininterest of Bharat Das and is he entitled to hold the property as such?	None
Before noticing the finding on these two issues, it is necessary to mention that the first defendant based his title to the Mahantship on two grounds, viz (1) the suit Asthan at Amaulipur is a subordinate branch of Hanuman Garhi and that the defendant who is said to be the Mahant of Jhundi Jamaat in Patti Ujjainiya of Hanuman Garhi by virtue of succession to his Guru Mahabir Das and the said Garhi belongs to the same spiritual family as that of Mahant Bharat Das.	Reasoning
Hence by custom he is entitled to succeed to the Amaulipur Garhi (presumably because Bharat Das became incompetent), and (2) the document executed by Bharat Das on 1071926, transferring the Mahantship to him entitles him thereto.	Reasoning
8.	None
The finding of the trial court on a consideration of both the above grounds appears from the following extracts from its judgment.	None
There is no. warrant for connecting the Amaulipur Asthan with Hanuman Garhi.	None
No. custom entitling a Sadhoo of Hanuman Garhi to succeed to the Amaulipur Gaddi has been established The defendant is neither the Chela of Bharat Das nor of Bharat Das Guru.	None
As the succession to the Mahantship of Amaulipur has always been in the line of senior Chela, Bikrama Das would by no. means be the prospective Mahant Amaulipur after Bharat Das.	None
The defendant has stated in this Court that the office of Mahant is transferable only to the prospective Mahant.	Reasoning
As I have held that Bikrama Das could not be prospective Mahant of Amaulipur, transfer of Mahantship of this Asthan to the defendant would illegal according to his own theory.	Reasoning
The learned trial Judge after noticing the judgment of the Privy Council and the fact that the document of 1071926, on which the first defendant, Vikrama Das, relied, appears to have been cancelled by another document by Bharat Das executed on 29101926, summed up as follows I therefore, hold that Mahantship did not pass on to the defendant, and he has no.	Reasoning
right or title to the Asthan and its properties.	Reasoning
Qua these, he is a rank trespasser and he is not entitled to retain them even if he has somehow been able to grab at them.	Reasoning
He has no.	Reasoning
right to meddle with the affairs of the Asthan.	Reasoning
Another important issue is No. 3 which is as follows Does the decree in S. 92 suit No. 90 of 1933 entitle the plaintiff to sue?	None
Is the defendant not entitled to challenge it?	None
Is the decree a nullity for the reasons set out in the written statement?	None
The reasons referred to are set out in para 12 of the written statement under six heads as follows (A)	Reasoning
The said suit was entirely collusive.	None
(B) Bharat Das, in no. way, an insane and even if it be presumed, on the false allegations of the plaintiffs that he was an insane, no. proper and impartial person was appointed as his guardian.	Reasoning
Devi Prasad, resident of Udipur, who was nominated as his guardian, is a close member of the family of Ram Prasad Singh, resident of Udipur, one of the trustees and was in collusion with the plaintiffs, the arbitrary trustees in the suit aforesaid.	Reasoning
(C)	None
The contesting defendant was not a party to suit No. 90 of 1933.	Reasoning
(D)	None
The proceedings in suit No. 90 of 1933 were taken during the pendency of suit No. 27 of 1927 and (the proceedings) are, therefore, invalid and null and void according to law and justice and also under section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act.	Reasoning
(E) The suit aforesaid was beyond the scope of S. 92, Civil P. C. and necessary proceedings were also not taken under section 4.	Reasoning
(F) The compromise in the aforesaid suit was caused to be accepted by the Court by deceiving the Court and on concealing the real facts.	None
At the trial a further objection was taken to validity of the decree on the ground that the suit which resulted in that decree was instituted by only two out of the three persons who had obtained the Collectors sanction to institute the suit and that accordingly the institution of the suit as well as the decree thereupon were invalid.	None
The finding of the learned Judge on this issue is as follows There is no. doubt that there were more than one, irregularities in the suit.	Reasoning
The decree in question was passed by a competent court which has jurisdiction to try the suit.	Reasoning
The suit itself has been instituted with the sanction of the Collector.	Reasoning
The decree is perfectly good so long as it is not set aside by a competent court at the instance of Bharat Das.	Reasoning
As it stands it is operative even as against Bharat Das himself.	Reasoning
It was further found as follows The decree arms the present plaintiffs with the right of possession of the Asthan and its properties and of their management.	Reasoning
This right had been violated in respect of certain properties by an adverse order of the Revenue Courts and was in jeopardy with regard to the other properties at the date of the suit by the pendency of mutation applications of the defendant and the plaintiffs undoubtedly had, by virtue of the decree, the right to institute the present suit.	Reasoning
The defendant can escape from the clutches of the decree in suit No. 90 of 1933 only if succeeds in making out a legal title to the Asthan and the property, eligible to the Courts recognition and it is therefore, necessary to determine the defendants rights qua the Asthan and its property.	None
There were a number of other minor issued which have mostly been answered in favour of the plaintiffs and out of which it is sufficient to notice only issues Nos. 8, 11 and 12 which are as follows Issue No. 8 Are the plaintiffs alone not competent to sue?	None
Issue No. 11 Is the suit timebarred?	None
Issue No. 12 Is the suit barred by section 42 of the Specific Relief Act?	Issue
As regards issue No. 8 the finding is as follows There is no. force in this plea.	None
The only surviving trustees are the plaintiffs and the Chandra Sekhara (2nd defendant), the rest of those who were appointed by the decree in S. 92 suit having died since.	Reasoning
As regards issue No. 11 the finding is as follows This plea is based upon the fact that a suit for cancellation of the deed dated 1071926, has become time barred and as the subject of the present suit is supposed by the defendant to be in reality cancellation of that deed he set up bar of limitation.	Reasoning
In the first place, I do not think it was necessary for the plaintiffs to seek cancellation of the aforesaid deed as a necessary preliminary to the enforcement of their rights as trustees and they would very well ignore the deed.	Reasoning
The defendant relied upon the deed and it was for him to establish its validity.	Reasoning
The cause of action for the present suit has been furnished by the order of the Board of Revenue directing mutation in favour of Bikrama Das and the object of the present suit is no. other than abrogation of the Revenue Courts order by a Civil Courts decree which is only effective remedy of mistakes in mutation committed by the Revenue Courts.	Reasoning
The suit was instituted well within time.	Reasoning
As regards issue No. 12 the finding is as follows The defendant has pleaded section 42 inasmuch as the plaintiffs have sought a mere declaration in respect of the properties and not possession as well.	Reasoning
The defendant was not in actual possession of the properties in suit.	Reasoning
He has made an abortive attempt to prove his possession by examining a few unscrupulous tenants but the evidence on record is overwhelmingly in favour of plaintiffs possession.	Reasoning
The only properties against which the defendants name was mutated prior to the suit are those included in list C and the plaintiffs have sought possession of these properties.	Reasoning
It was not necessary for the plaintiffs to sue for anything more than a declaration in respect of the properties against which the name of Ramsarup Das stood recorded at the date institution of the suit.	Reasoning
Subsequent acquisition of possession by the defendant will not entitle him to raise the plea of S. 42.	None
It is on these various finding that the trial Court passed the following decree in favour of the plaintiffs.	None
It is ordered and decreed that the plaintiffs claim about the declaration on the point that the plaintiffs and defendant No. 2 are the trustees of the Asthan of Amaulipur and the properties connected with it mentioned in lists A, B and C and are the managers of the properties aforesaid as of right, with which the defendants have no. concern and also about the recovery of possession in favour of plaintiffs Nos. 1 to 3 as trustees and Mahant Ram Sarup Das as the Mahant of the Asthan of Amaulipur over the properties mentioned in Schedule C, be decreed.	Reasoning
9.	None
The substantial contentions raised before the High Court as appears from its judgement and as summarised in the order of the High Court granting the certificate are threefold.	Reasoning
1.	None
The decree in suit No. 90 of 1933 was bad.	Reasoning
2.	None
The plaintiffs was not de facto trustees.	Reasoning
3.	None
There had been valid assignment from Bharat Das in appellants favour.	Reasoning
We have now to see what the findings of the High Court are.	None
As regards issues Nos. 1 and 12, the learned Judges said as follows Learned counsel for the appellant has not, in his able argument, challenged the finding of the court below that the Asthan and the property in dispute constituted a trust, that they were not the personal and private property of Bharat Das and that the plaintiffs are, and the appellant is not, in actual possession thereof.	Reasoning
As regards the title of the defendant covered by issues Nos. 4 and 5, the learned Judges recorded their findings as follows In view of the findings arrived by the learned Civil Judge and which as we have seen, have not been challenged before us, the Asthan and the property in dispute were not the personal and private property of Bharat Das and he could not make a valid assignment thereof in favour of the appellant, who according to his finding, cannot be regarded as his rightful successor.	Reasoning
In other words, the appellant, who is also, according to the finding of the learned Civil Judge, not in possession of the property in dispute, must be regarded as mere trespasser.	Reasoning
The High Court appears to have given no. positive finding on issue No. 6 relating to the title of Ram Sarup Das but has apparently maintained the trial court decree which may be claimed to involve such a finding.	Reasoning
The main contest before the High Court appears to have been concentrated on the finding of the trial court relating to issue No. 3.	None
In agreement with the view taken by the trial court, the High Court held on this issue that notwithstanding certain irregularities, the decree was not void and that such a decree was only voidable at the instance of the persons whom it purported to bind and who were in fact parties to the decree and that the appellant in the present case, who was merely a trespasser, had no.	Reasoning
such right to avoid the decree.	Reasoning
As regards the plea that the said previous suit and decree under S. 92 were collusive, the learned Judges recorded their opinion as follows We are not satisfied that there was any collusion or dishonesty on the part of the plaintiffs in their suit under S. 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Reasoning
The circumstances had in fact made the institution of such a suit imperative and there is nothing to show that the plaintiffs were actuated by anything but the best of motives in instituting that suit and obtaining the orders of the court for the proper management of the trust property.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, of opinion that the plaintiffs are by virtue of the decree in suit No. 90 of 1933 entitled to maintain the present suit.	None
On the question as to de facto trusteeship and as to the right to institute the suit on that basis, the High Court held as follows But even if it be held that the decree in suit No. 90 of 1933 does not entitle the plaintiffs to institute the present suit, there can be no. doubt that as de facto trustees they are entitled to maintain it.	Reasoning
It is, however, argued on behalf of the appellant that this doctrine of de facto trusteeship cannot apply to the present case because the possession of the plaintiffs cannot be regarded as clear and undisputed.	None
It is said that the plaintiffs obtained a decree in their favour and came into possession of the trust by stealing a march upon the appellant who was at the time prosecuting his appeal in the Privy Council and that the possession of the plaintiffs cannot be regarded as honest.	Reasoning
Having regard to the circumstances in which the plaintiffs instituted a suit under S. 92, Civil P.C., the contention of the learned counsel for the appellant does not appear to be justified.	None
There is nothing to show that the plaintiffs possession of the trust property ever since they obtained a decree in the year 1934 has not been clear and undisputed.	None
No. doubt, after the decision of the appeal by the Privy Council in the year 1935 the appellant did start making an attempt to obtain mutation of names with respect to some of the property belonging to the trust in his favour.	Reasoning
But that would not affect the nature of the plaintiffs possession.	None
As we have seen, the appellant has no. title to the property and is not in actual possession of any portion of it.	None
Even if he were, his possession would only be that of a trespasser and the plaintiffs as de facto trustees are clearly entitled to maintain the suit against him.	Reasoning
Thus, the learned Judges of the High Court held that the plaintiffs had the right to maintain the suit on two grounds .	None
(1) The decree in suit No. 90 of 1933 was valid until set aside .	Reasoning
(2) In any case the plaintiffs were de facto trustees who had clear and undisputed possession of the trust and its properties and as such they could maintain the suit.	Reasoning
10.	None
It may also be mentioned at this stage that in the High Court a point appears to have been pressed that the judgment of the trial court holding that the defendant had no. title under the document dated 1071926, in effect amounted to cancellation of that document and that the Court was not competent, having regard to the frame of the suit, to give any such relief.	Reasoning
It was pointed out that the plaint had originally asked for a declaration to the effect that the appellant acquired no. rights in the property in suit by virtue of the documents but that that relief was dropped by a subsequent amendment.	None
The learned Judges of the High court point out that the plaintiffs case is that Bharat Das being a mere trustee had no.	Reasoning
right to execute the document in favour of the appellant and that the document is therefore without effect and that therefore it was unnecessary for the plaintiffs to ask for cancellation of the document.	Reasoning
They found, therefore, this point also in favour of the plaintiffs.	Reasoning
As a result of all the findings above mentioned, in concurrence with those of the trial court, the High Court merely dismissed the appeal.	Reasoning
11.	None
The only point urged before us by the learned counsel for the appellant, Shri N. C. Chatterji, is that the view taken by both the lower courts to the effect that in spite of a number of irregularities relating to suit No. 90 of 1933 under S. 92, Civil P. C. the decree was one that cannot be said to be without jurisdiction and that therefore it was only voidable and not void and that it could be avoided only by a person having interest and title, is not correct.	Arguments of Petitioner
He urged strongly that when permission by the Collector was given to three named persons a suit filed by only two out of them was wholly incompetent having regard to the mandatory nature of the provision in S. 92 (2), Civil P.C. which enjoins that save as provided by no. suit claiming any of the reliefs specified in subs(1) of (S. 92) shall be instituted in respect of any such trust as is therein referred to except in conformity with the provisions of that subsection.	Arguments of Petitioner
He strongly relied on the decision of the Privy Council in  Mt. Ali Begam v. BadraulIslam Ali Khan, 1938 PC 184 (AIR V 25) at p. 186 (B) and the dictum therein as follows Where the consent in writing of the AdvocateGeneral or Collector has been given to a suit by three persons as plaintiffs the suit cannot validly be instituted by two only.	Arguments of Petitioner
The suit as instituted must conform to the consent.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also strenuously urged that there is no. proof that Mahant Bharat Das was insane or that there was any determination by the Court before which that suit was filed as to the alleged insanity of Bharat Das in order to justify the appointment of Devi Prasad Singh as the guardian for him.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also urged that the compromise was not sanctioned by the Court in the interest of the trust as apart from the interests of Mahant Bharat Das.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also contended strongly that the fact of the suit having been filed during the pendency of the Privy Council appeal and the decree having been obtained within six months from the date of the suit is extremely suspicious and that on the face of it the said decree was fraudulent and collusive.	Arguments of Petitioner
He strenuously urged further that it was for the plaintiffs to make out their title and their right to possession.	Arguments of Petitioner
He pointed out that the title of the plaintiffs was based entirely and specifically on the compromise decree as appears not only from the plaint but from their pleaders statement at the trial dated 2121942, which is as follows The plaintiffs claim is not based on any custom, nor will the plaintiffs prove any custom.	Arguments of Petitioner
The plaintiffs establish the title of Mahant Ram Sarup Das by means of the decision passed in case under S. 92 and not by means of any custom.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mahant Ram Sarup Das was not appointed as Mahant by means of any custom, nor with the help of any custom taken in proof of his appointment, nor will any custom be proved.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was accordingly urged that before any decree could be given in favour of the plaintiffs it was necessary to establish the validity of the decree in suit No. 90 of 1933.	Arguments of Petitioner
12.	None
On the other side, the learned counsel, Shri K. B. Asthana, contested the proposition that a suit filed by only two out of three persons who got the sanction from the Collector is incompetent and the decree therein is void except possibly in a case where the terms of the sanction are clear that the suit is to be filed only by all the three persons acting jointly.	Arguments of Respondent
It may also be noticed that the omitted third person, Ram Sarup Das, was the very person in whose favour appointment as Mahant was preayed in the plaint therein.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel further urged that even if a suit filed by two out of the three persons is defective in its institution as being contrary to what is provided in S. 92, Civil P. C., this does not affect the jurisdiction of the Court to pass the decree when no. objection in that behalf was raised, since admittedly the Court had jurisdiction in respect of the subject matter of the suit.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued that an application for sanction of the compromise was made to the Court, that the Court did in fact sanction the compromise and that the sanction was sufficient to operate as against the Mahant and the institution which he, through his guardian, must be taken to represent.	Arguments of Respondent
As regards the suggestion of fraud or collusion it was urged that the High Court has given a conclusive finding negativing the same and that that finding cannot be reopened before us.	Arguments of Respondent
13.	None
So far as the attack based on the ground of fraud or collusion is concerned we are of the opinion that it is no.	Reasoning
longer open to be challenged before us, in view of the finding of the High Court.	Reasoning
As regards the order contentions raised before us relating to the validity of the compromise decree, we do not consider it necessary, notwithstanding strenuous arguments on both sides, to decide between the rival contentions in the view that we are prepared to take as to the appropriate order to be passed by this Court in this appeal.	Reasoning
14.	None
Learned counsel for the respondent, Ram Sarup Das, relied on the finding of the High Court that the plaintiffs were, at any rate, de facto trustees in possession of the Asthan and its properties and that as such they were entitled to maintain the suit.	Arguments of Respondent
It appears to us that this contention is not without force.	None
Both the courts below have concurrently found that consequent on the compromise decree in suit No. 90 of 1933, the plaintiffs along with the other trustees and Ram Sarup Das have obtained possession of the Asthan and its properties and that (except those in list C) the properties were mutated in the name of Ram Sarup Das and that they have been in possession and management of the Asthan and its properties since then.	Reasoning
Both the courts have also found that the first defendant, Vikrama Das, had no. possession at any time notwithstanding that he was able, after the Privy Council decree, to get some of the properties mutated in his name.	Reasoning
They have also held that the plaintiffs with Ram Sarup Das have been continuing in possession all along or at any rate up to the date of the suit.	Reasoning
In these circumstances the question before us is whether a person who has been in de facto possession and management of the Asthan and its properties from 1934 to 1941 (and thereafter uptodate) claiming to be its trustee under the decree of a Court, valid or invalid has not sufficient interest to maintain proceedings for the warding off of a cloud cast by the defendants action against the interests of the Asthan.	Reasoning
See  Mahadeo Prasad Singh v. Karia Bharti, 1935 PC 44 (AIR V22) (C) and  Ram Charan Das v. Naurangi Lal, 1933 PC 75 (AIR V20) (D).	Reasoning
It is to be remembered as pointed out by the trial Court in its finding under issue No. 11, already quoted above, that the present suit is virtually a suit for abrogation of the Revenue Courts order directing mutation of the name of the 1st defendant, Vikrama Das.	Reasoning
Undoubtedly such a mutation would seriously jeopardise the interests of the Asthan.	None
This particularly so in view of the fact that the first defendant has all along been claiming the properties of the Asthan to the private and personal properties of the Mahant and that he himself is claiming to be the validly appointed Mahant for the time being, a claim which has been not only continued throughout in both the courts below but has been persisted in even in this Court as appears from ground No. 10 in the application filed to the High Court for leave to appeal to this Court and also ground No. 7 in the appellants statement of case filed in this Court.	Reasoning
It is with reference to the contention which has been thus raised and maintained throughout, that both the courts below have come to concurrent findings (1) that the Asthan was a public trust and that the properties attached thereto are not the private properties of the Mahant, (2) that the defendant was not entitled to the Mahantship of the Asthan either by virtue of his claim to succeed thereto or by virtue of the document dated 1071926, executed by Bharat Das, and (3) that he had at no. time any possession of these properties.	Reasoning
It is true that the plaintiffs expressly based their suit on the title which they claim under the compromise decree.	Reasoning
But even if that title fails, the further question remains, namely whether the original plaintiffs or Ram Sarup Das could not maintain the proceedings for the protection of the Asthan in their capacity as the de facto managers who have been in possession and management for a substantial number of years.	Reasoning
15.	None
Now the ordinary rule that persons without title and who are mere intermeddlers cannot sue as of right is clear.	Reasoning
But where public trusts are concerned, courts have a duty to see that their interests and the interests of those for whose benefit they exist are safeguarded.	Reasoning
Therefore, courts must possess the power to sustain proper proceedings by them in appropriate cases and grant relief in the interests of and for the express benefit of the trust imposing such conditions as may be called for. 16.	Reasoning
In the present case, if Ram Sarup Das has no. title and if he is an intermeddler  which is the basis on which he has been brought on record  so is the other side and obviously the Court cannot allow a public trust to be left to the mercy of unauthorised persons who are scrambling for a position of vantage in its management.	Reasoning
But as it is right and proper that somebody should be permitted to continue the present litigation on behalf of the trust, the question is, who.	Reasoning
We consider that, in view of Ram Sarup Dass long management and possession as Mahant and in view of the fact that he is purporting to act on its behalf and for its interests, it is proper that he should be allowed to continue to act on behalf of the trust until his title is investigated in appropriate proceedings and that this Court should grant a decree in his favour in these proceedings for the benefit of the trust.	Reasoning
17.	None
In this view, we maintain the concurrent findings of the courts below against the defendant on the three matters hereinabove specified, that is (1) that that Asthan is a public trust and that the properties attached thereto are not the private properties of the Mahant, (2) that the defendant is not entitled to the Mahantship of the Asthan either by virtue of his claim to succeed thereto or by virtue of the document dated 1071926, executed by Bharat Das, and (3) that he had at no. time any possession of these properties.	Reasoning
But we discharge the findings in favour of the original plaintiffs or Ram Sarup Das, based on the question of validity of compromise decree and leave the question open.	Reasoning
18.	None
In the result, therefore, the decree of the trial Court in so far as it gives effect to the decree in suit No. 90 of 1933 will be vacated.	Reasoning
We direct that in place thereof a declaration should be substituted that, the mutation in favour of the 1st defendant in respect of the Asthan or the properties pertaining thereto does not in any way affect the rights of the Asthan or of any duly constituted Mahant thereof, that the 1st defendant has no. concern therewith and is not entitled to possession of the Asthan or its properties and that Ram Sarup Das may recover, in execution proceedings, for the benefit of the Asthan, possession of such of the properties in lists, A, B and C of which the defendant may have obtained possession by reason of such mutation.	Reasoning
Subject to the modification of the decree as, above indicated the appeal must be dismissed with costs throughout.	Reasoning
19.	None
But this is only a stop gap expedient.	Reasoning
We cannot shut out eyes to the fact that we have before us a public trust of which, on the facts now before us, an alleged intermeddler claiming under a decree said to be void is in possession and management.	Reasoning
It may be, when proper proceedings are instituted to determine the matter, that it will be found that he is not without legal authority or it may be proper to invest him with that authority if he has not already got it, or again it may be better to have another person or body.	Reasoning
But those are not matters we need decide in these proceedings.	Reasoning
All we need do is to bring the present state of facts to the notice of the AdvocateGeneral of Uttar Pradesh and leave him to consider whether he should not, of his own motion, institute proceedings under S. 92, Civil P. C., or take other appropriate steps.	Reasoning
Let a copy of this judgment be sent to him.	Reasoning
20.	None
Appeal dismissed.	Decision
