 Dwivedi, J. 1.	None
It the defendants appeal.	Facts
The plaintiff Digamber Jain Praband Karini Sabha, Panagar, instituted a suit against the defendant Shikharchand Jain for recovery of possession over certain agricultural lands situate in mauza Imlai, Smt.	Facts
Rajrani, fifth defendant (now dead) was the proprietor of a Patti in mauza Imalai.	Facts
The land in dispute fell in that Patti.	Facts
It was her sir.	Facts
The area of the land is 12.86 acres.	Facts
Smt.	Facts
Rajrani became malik maqbooza of the land on the abolition of the proprietary rights in the State in 1951.On January 18, 1954, she gifted the land by a registered gift deed in favour of the plaintiff (which is registered under the Madhya Pradesh Public Trust Act, 1951).	Facts
Ram Das and Ballu, the third and fourth defendants were cultivating the land.	Facts
The plaintiff instituted a suit against them on July 15, 1954.	Facts
In the said suit they pleaded that Shikharchand had sublet the land to them.	Facts
The suit was decreed.	Facts
Their appeals were dismissed on May 4, 1957, Shikharchand and also instituted a suit on November 3, 1955 against the plaintiff and Smt.	Facts
Rajrani for a declaration that the gift made by her would be void after her death.	Facts
We are told that the suit has been dismissed in default.	Facts
As the aforesaid defendants are disputing the plaintiffs title, the suit was instituted.	Facts
All the defendants except.	Facts
Smt.	Facts
Rajrani filed a joint written statement.	Facts
They denied the plaintiffs title to the land.	Facts
Smt.	Facts
Rajrani held a limited estate in the land and the gift deed would be ineffective after her death.	Facts
She could not gift the entire property.	Facts
Shikharchand has been in possession over the land since 1937 as an owner thereof and has acquired rights of an owner by adverse possession for more than 12 years.	Facts
Smt.	Facts
Rajrani filed a separate written statement.	Facts
She has supported the case of the plaintiff.	Facts
The trial court framed a number of issues.	None
Of them, only two now survive for consideration.	Issue
They are issues Nos. 1 and 4.	Issue
Issue No. 1 is1 (a) Whether the defendant No. 5 (Smt Rajrani) was the owner of the suit fields till 1811954?	Issue
(b) whether she was also in possession of the suit fields till 1811954?	None
4. (a) whether defendant No. 1 (Shikharchand) has been in exclusive, continuous and uninterrupted possession of the suit fields since 1937 adversely to the defendant No. 5 and the plaintiff?	Issue
(b) whether, therefore, the defendant No. 1 has perfected his title by adverse possession?	None
2. Issue No. 1 was answered in favour of the plaintiff.	Facts
Issue No. 4 was answered against Shikharchand.	Facts
The trial Court held that he was in possession for and on behalf of Smt.	Facts
Rajrani and not in his own right.	Facts
The trial court granted a decree for possession to the plaintiff.	Facts
3. Defendants Nos. 1 to 4 went in appeal.	Facts
The first appellant court allowed the appeal and set aside the decree of the trial court and dismissed the suit.	Facts
The plaintiff then filed a second appeal in the High Court of Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
The High Court has reversed the decree of the first appellate court and restored that of the trial court.	Facts
Hence this appeal by Shikharchand.	Facts
4.	None
The first appellate court has held that Shikharchand was in possession over the disputed land since 1937 and has become the owner thereof by adverse possession before Smt.	Reasoning
Rajrani transferred the land to the plaintiff.	Reasoning
Sri Tarkunde, counsel for Shikharchnd, says that it is a finding of fact and that accordingly the High Court could not interfere with it in second appeal.	Reasoning
It appear that the High Court was aware that it was interfering with a finding of fact in a second appeal.	Reasoning
So the High Court has explained.	Reasoning
Defendants ( to 4) clearly failed to establish by positive evidence the adverse possession of (Shikharchand) for more than twelve years at any point of time so as to rebut the statutory presumption of possession arising in favour of the appellant and its predecessorintitle Smt.	None
Rajrani.	Reasoning
Therefore, with due respect to the learned appellate Judge, I might say that the question has been absolutely misconceived by him and he has not approached the question in a proper and legal manner with a view to apply the law to the facts found established from the record.	None
In this view, the decree passed by the first appellate court cannot be sustained either on facts of law.	None
So according to the High Court the finding recorded by the first appellate court was arrived at by overlooking the statutory presumption of possession in favour of the plaintiff and Smt.	None
Rajrani and his approach to the issues before him was not proper and legal.	None
In other words, the High Court intervened under Cl.	None
(c) of Section 100 (1) of the Code of Civil Procedure According to the High Court, the finding of the first appellant court suffered from a substantial error or defect in the procedure providedby any other law for the time being in force, which may possibly have produced error or defect in the decision of the case upon the merits.	None
5.	None
It is now to be seen whether the first appellate courts finding really falls within the grip of Section 100 (1) (c) of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Issue
In his written statement Shikharchand has admitted Smt.	None
Rajranis ownership of the land.	None
but he has pleaded that he has become the owner of the land on account of adverse possession for more than 12 years from 1937.	None
The burden of proving the acquisition of ownership by adverse possession lay on him.	None
The Khasra entries from 193738 to 194142 and 194344 to 195152 are all in favour of Smt.	None
Rajrani.	Reasoning
They show that she was in possession over the land during those years.	None
Khasra is a record of right according to Section 45 (2) of the Central Provinces Land Revenue Act, 1917.	None
Section 80 (3) of that Act provides that entries in a record of rights shall be presumed to be correct unless the contrary is shown.	None
This provision raises a presumption of correctness of the aforesaid Khasra entries.	None
The burden of proving adverse possession accordingly was a heavy one.	None
The judgment of the first appellate court shows that it has not kept in mind this aspect while examining the evidence.	None
In the first step, it has proceeded to assess the evidence adduced by Shikharchand.	None
After discussing that evidence, it has recorded a finding that he was in possession.	None
Thereafter, in the second step, it has proceeded to take the view that no reliance can be placed on Khasra entries.	None
It has summed up the discussion thusAll these witnesses (of Shikharchand) have stated that the possession of the fields was with Shikharchand.	None
Their statements are further supported by documentary evidence and, therefore, there is no room for any doubt that the possession was not with Shikharchand.	None
It is true that in Patwari papers Mst. Rajranis name appear and that the dues were deposited on behalf of Mst. Rajrani.	None
But in my opinion the entries in Khasra and the fact that the receipts were issued in the name of Mst.	None
Rajrani would not by themselves establish the fact of possession.	None
It is settled law that entries in Khasra have only presumptive value, and it is difficult to conclude from these entries that the possession was with Mst. Rajrani.	None
The falsity of the entries in Khasra is clear from the fact that from 1937 to 1947 the name of Mst.	None
Rajrani appeared in the Khasra Panchasala and yet Mst.	None
Rajranis admission in D/1 shows that she was not in possession.	None
This fact, is enough to show that no reliance could be placed on the Khasra entries.	None
6.	None
As already pointed out, this passage shows that the first appellate court proceeded in the reverse order.	None
Moreover, the Khasra entries have been discarded solely for the reason that Smt.	None
Rajrani has admitted in Ex. D/1 that she was not in possession.	None
But Ex. D/1 has been entirely misunderstood by the first appellate court.	None
Exhibit D/1 is a copy of the plaint filed by Smt.	None
Rajrani in a suit for profits against Shikharchand.	None
Shikharchand was Lambardar of the mahal in which the patti belonging to Smt.	None
Rajrani was situate.	None
In the first paragraph of her plaint she has mentioned this fact.	None
Thereafter she went on to say that she was entitled to get her share of profits from the defendant.	None
In paragraph 2 she has saidThat the defendant is in possession of all the sir and khudkasht land of her full patti of the villagethat as the defendant did not render any account, nor paid anything in spite of repeated demands and a notice by the plaintiff, he is liable to pay interest by way of damages at the rate of /8/ per cent per month and the amount detailed in the schedule of accounts attached to the plaint.	None
In the schedule she has shown the amount of rent recovered by Shikharchand from the tenants.	None
She has also shown the estimated income from sir and khudkasht land belonging to her.	None
After making certain deductions, a total amount of Rs. 318/7/ was claimed from Shikharchand.	None
The suit was filed in July 1942.	None
The suit was filed in July 1942.	None
The suit for profits related to a period between 193839 and 194041.	None
We do not think that paragraph 2 of the plaint can be read in the manner it has been read by the first appellate court.	None
It was a suit for profits by a cosharer against the Lambardar.	None
It was not a suit for mesne profits which an owner of land may claim from a trespasser, It was really a suit for accounts from the Lambardar.	None
So it is not possible to spell out from paragraph 2 an admission from Smt.	None
Rajrani that Shikharchand was in adverse possession over her sir land.	None
Further, Shikharchand did not file a copy of his own written statement, nor a copy of the judgment in the suit.	None
If he had denied his possession over her sir land, the suit for profits from sir land would have been dismissed.	None
If he had pleaded adverse possession, over her sir, then also her suit for profits from sir land would have been dismissed.	None
If, on the other hand, the suit for profits of Sir land were decreed, it would follow that Shikharchand was held to be in permissive possession and not in adverse possession.	None
In the result, we are of opinion that the first appellate court was wholly wrong in discarding the Khasra entries on the solitary statement in para.	None
2 of her plaint.	None
The High Court could, therefore, interfere with its finding under Section 100 (1) (c).	None
7.	None
The High Court has considered afresh the entire evidence on record and has held that Shikharchand has failed to establish by positive evidence his adverse possession for more than 12 years.	Reasoning
The appellant could not show to us that the finding is not sustainable on the evidence on record.	Reasoning
It is not necessary for us to reappraise that evidence again, but we may point out two circumstances which heavily tell against the appellant.	Reasoning
Assuming that his adverse possession started in 1937 and continued till 1949, he became the owner of the land in dispute in 1950.	Reasoning
Nevertheless he did not move the appropriate revenue authority for the correction of the entries in the record of rights.	Reasoning
He did not get the name of Smt.	Reasoning
Rajrani expunged from the record and his name entered therein.	Reasoning
Again, Beni Ram, one of his witnesses, has admitted that Shikharchand had been paying rent of the sir land of Smt.	Reasoning
Rajrani on behalf of Smt.	Reasoning
Rajrani until 195859.	Reasoning
Had he become anowner by adverse possession in 1950, he would never have paid rent on behalf of Smt.	Reasoning
Rajrani. 8.	Reasoning
Counsel for the appellant has referred us to Srischandra Nandy v. Baijnath Jugal Kishore 62 Ind App 40 (AIR 1935 PC 36 )	Arguments of Petitioner
Deity Pattabhiramaswamy v. S. Hanymayya, AIR 1959 Sc 57 and R. Ramachandran Ayyar v. Ramalingam Chettiar (1963) 3	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 604 (AIR 1963 SC 302 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
But none of these cases help the appellant on the facts of this case.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the last case this Court saidIf in dealing with a question of fact that first appellate court has placed the onus on a wrong party and its finding of fact is the result, substantially of this wrong approach, that may be regarded as a defect in procedure under Section 100 (1)(c).	Arguments of Petitioner
The same view has been expressed in Ladli Prasad Jaiswal,	None
v. Karnal Distillery Co. Ltd. (1964) 1	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 270 (AIR 1963 SC 1279 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
In this case the High Court has upset a finding of fact recorded by the lower appellate court inter alia on the ground that the burden of proof was wrongly placed on the plaintiff.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shah J., while affirming the judgment of the High Court, saidA decision of the first appellate court reached after placing the onus wronglyis not conclusive and a second appeal lies to the High Court against that decision.	Arguments of Petitioner
9.	None
In Jai Krishna v. Babu, AIR 1933 Nag 112 it was held that possession of a nonowner after partition is adverse.	Reasoning
No exception can be taken to this proposition.	Reasoning
But we fail to understand how this case will assist the appellant.	Reasoning
10.	None
We now pass on to another aspect of the case.	Reasoning
During pendency of this appeal Smt.	Reasoning
Rajrani died on December 5, 1968.	Reasoning
The appellant first filed C. M. P. No. 1377 of 1969 for his substitution in place of Smt.	Reasoning
Rajrani, the fifth respondent, as her legal representative.	Reasoning
No order has yet been made on this application.	Reasoning
Now he has made another application in the course of hearing.	Reasoning
By this application he seeks to amend his written statement.	Reasoning
He wants to make this addition to the written statement.12 (a) that the gift deed dated 1811954 was executed by Smt.	Reasoning
Rajrani who was a limited owner having a widows estate on the date of the execution of the gift deed.	Reasoning
Assuming though not admitting the said gift deed was valid it is submitted that the above gift could at most enure for the life of the defendant No. 5.	Reasoning
The plaintiff can not have any rights in the suit lands after the death of Smt.	Reasoning
Rajrani and the defendant as the sole surviving reversioner becomes the owner of the lands and resist the claim of the plaintiff.	Reasoning
(b) that the genealogy of the family is as under.	None
12(c) that the deceased Smt.	None
Rajrani could not transfer the suit property even for the religious and charitable purposes as it was the entire property she had and such a transfer is not binding on the defendant after he death.	Reasoning
11.	None
He also prays for the renumbering of present paragraph 12 as paragraph 13 of the written statement.	Reasoning
Sri Tarkunde has submitted that if the assertions made in the new paragraph 12 are accepted by the Court, the respondents suit will have to be dismissed.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also said that the new situation arising on the death of Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Rajrani during pendency of the appeal can be considered by the Court in order to mould the decree in the suit out of which this appeal has arisen.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our view, Mr. Tarkunde, is right in this submission.	Reasoning
Ordinarily, a suit is tried in all its, stages on the cause of action as it existed on the date of its institution.	Reasoning
But it is open to a Court including a Court of appeal to take notice of events which have happened after the institution of the suit and afford relief to the parties in the changed circumstances where it is shown that the relief claimed originally has (1) by reason of subsequent change of circumstances become inappropriate or (2) where it is necessary to take notice of the changed circumstances in order to shorten the litigation, or (3) to do complete justice between the parties.	Reasoning
(See Rai Charan v. Biswanath, AIR 1915 Cal 103).	None
12.	None
Sri Chagla counsel for the respondent, has submitted that the application for amendment of the written statement should not be allowed.	Arguments of Respondent
It is said that the appellant has alleged in his written statement that Smt.	Arguments of Respondent
Rajrani could not transfer the disputed land as she was a limited owner having a widows estate.	Arguments of Respondent
The trial Court had framed a specific issue on this aspect and recorded a finding against the appellants.	Arguments of Respondent
The trial Court saidSmt.	Reasoning
Rajrani is a Jain widow and therefore she is competent to transfer the suit lands for religious and charitable purposes.	Reasoning
The trial Court decreed the suit.	None
The appellant filed an appeal.	Reasoning
The appeal was allowed and the decree of the trial Court was set aside.	Reasoning
The respondent then filed a second appeal in the High Court.	Reasoning
As already stated, the High Court set aside the decree of the first appellate Court and restored the decree of the trial Court.	Reasoning
It is said by Sri Chagla that as the appellant did not challenge the validity of the gift either in the first appellate Court or in the High Court, he should not be allowed to challenge it now by an amendment of his written statement.	Reasoning
We find it difficult to accept this submission of Sri Chagla.	Reasoning
Even if the assertions made in the application for amendment of the written statement are found to be true, the appellant could not have nonsuited the respondent during the lifetime of Smt.	Reasoning
Rajrani.	Reasoning
The gift was valid during her lifetime.	Reasoning
Her death gives a fresh cause of action to the appellant who claims to be her next reversioner.	Reasoning
It appears to us that it will be just and proper to allow the amendment sought for.	Reasoning
It will shorten litigation.	Reasoning
13.	None
Sri Chagla has also pointed out that the respondent has acquired new rights under the Land reform measures passed by the Madhya Pradesh Legislature.	Arguments of Respondent
It will be open to the respondent to file a reply to the amendment when the case goes back to the trial Court and raise any plea which according to it is likely to defeat the appellants new claim.	Arguments of Respondent
14.	None
So we allow the application for amendment of the written statement on payment of Rs.	None
200/ as costs to the respondent.	None
The case will now go back to the trial Court.	Decision
The trial Court will allow reasonable time to the respondent to file a reply to the amended written statement.	Decision
Thereafter the trial Court will record evidence on the new plea raised by the appellant by his amendment and by the respondent in its reply.	Decision
The trial Court will then record its findings and forward them to this Court through the High Court.	Decision
The trial Court should send the findings within four months of the receipt of the record from this Court.	Decision
C.M.P. No. 1377 of 1969 is dismissed an infructuous.	Decision
15.	None
Order accordingly.	None
