Dr. AR.	None
Lakshmanan, J. Leave granted.	None
The unsuccessful appellant in S.B. Civil Execution First Appeal No.2 of 1998 before the High Court of Rajasthan is the appellant before us by special leave.	Issue
The appeal is preferred against the judgment and final order dated 12.11.2003 passed by the High Court of Rajasthan in S.B. Civil Execution First Appeal No. 2 of 1998 whereby the appeal preferred by the appellant was dismissed.	Issue
Briefly stated, the facts are that a decree for Rs.37,255.07 was passed against the State of Rajasthan on 6.6.1970 in respect of the construction work of irrigation department under Arbitration Act in case No.4 of 1969 entitled Sharma Co. vs. State of Rajasthan.	Facts
The said company filed execution and recovered Rs.37,592.57.	Facts
As against the said amount, two securities were furnished, one by Shri Gurbachan Singh for Rs.2927.57 and another by Smt.	Facts
Kamla for Rs.37,592.57.	Facts
Along with the aforesaid surety bonds, House No.79B Block Sri Ganganagar was also furnished against security.	Facts
The appeal preferred by the State of Rajasthan against the aforesaid judgment and decree was allowed ex parte by the High Court.	Facts
An application under Section 144 C.P.C. was moved on behalf of the State which was registered as Civil Misc.	Facts
Case No.2 of 1981.	Facts
The State of Rajasthan impleaded Sharma Co., Smt.	Facts
Kamla Devi and Shri Gurbachan Singh as respondents to the said proceedings.	Facts
Smt.	Facts
Dhanwanti Devi, the wife of Shri Shiv Lal Sharma was the exclusive owner of House bearing No. 80B Block Sri Ganganagar.	Facts
She executed a Will dated 7.12.1983 bequeathing the aforesaid house in favour of her daughters son Ashutosh.	Facts
Smt.	Facts
Dhanwanti Devi died in May, 1985.	Facts
It is stated that the probate proceedings are pending in respect of the aforesaid Will.	Facts
The District Judge, Sri Ganganagar allowed the application filed by the State of Rajasthan under Section 144 C.P.C. and held that the action can be taken against Smt.	Facts
Kamla Devi and that the applicantState was entitled to interest from Sharma Co. and that the aforesaid application was maintainable under Sections 144 145 C.P.C.	Facts
The Court while allowing the said application held as follows On the basis of the above discussions, we reach to the conclusion that this application is maintainable under Sections 144, 145 C.P.C. against the nonapplicant Nos. 1 and 2 and the applicant is fully entitled to get the action taken.	Facts
Recovery against nonapplicant No.2 be made up to the extent of Rs.35,592.57 as per the security while the action for the recovery for the interest amount of Rs.37,592.57 Rs.1.1/2 per hundred per month that would be worked out from the date of filing the application dated 21.4.1981 will be taken against nonapplicant No.1.	Facts
The attachment order in respect of House No.80B Block Sri Ganganagar was passed by the District Judge in Execution Case No. 2 of 1989 on 21.11.1992 on the application of the State.	None
It was reiterated that the aforesaid house exclusively belonged to Smt.	Facts
Dhanwanti Devi	Facts
and she had bequeathed the same in favour of the appellant  Ashutosh on 7.12.1983 and that Smt.	Facts
Dhanwanti Devi was not a party to the suit at any point of time.	Facts
It was prayed that House No. 80B Block Sri Ganganagar be released in his favour as the same can not be attached in execution.	Facts
It was further alleged that the appellantAshutosh had become the exclusive owner of the house pursuant to the Will executed by Smt.	Facts
Dhanwanti Devi in his favour and no other person had any title or interest in the same house.	Facts
The State of Rajasthan filed reply to the application under Order 21 Rule 58 C.P.C.	Facts
It was asserted that Smt.	Facts
Dhanwanti Devi was the partner of the aforesaid firm to the extent of 12 paise and she was liable for payment of suit liability.	Facts
It was also stated that Smt.	Facts
Dhanwanti Devi had executed the Will in order to escape from her liability to the suit claim.	Facts
The Additional District and Sessions Judge dismissed the application under Order 21 Rule 58 C.P.C. filed by the appellant herein.	Facts
It was also held that Smt.	Facts
Dhanwanti Devi had no right to execute the Will in respect of the disputed house.	Facts
The Review Application filed by the appellant was also dismissed.	Facts
Being aggrieved, the appellant filed S.B. Civil Execution	Facts
First appeal No. 2 of 1998 under Order 21 Rule 58 read with Section 96 C.P.C. The High Court of Rajasthan dismissed the first appeal filed by the appellant.	Facts
The High Court held that the Will was prepared to defraud the creditor and not with an intention to bonafidely bequeath the property to the appellant, daughters son.	Facts
Aggrieved by the said judgment and order dated 12.11.2003, the appellant preferred the above appeal.	Facts
We heard Mr. Manoj Prasad, learned counsel appearing for the appellant and Mr. Aruneshwar Gupta, learned Additional Advocate General, appearing for the State of Rajasthan.	None
Learned counsel appearing for the appellant raised two questions for consideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
(a) A decree cannot be executed against a partner when the decree was against the partnership firm (b) A decree cannot be executed in violation of Order 21 Rules 49 and 50 C.P.C.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel appearing for the appellant submitted that Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dhanwanti Devi had purchased House No.80B Block Sri Ganganagar from the State of Rajasthan on 7.7.1947 and that except Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dhanwanti Devi no other person including her husband had any right, title or interest in the said property.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that the proceedings in the instant case were initiated in utter disregard of the provisions of Order 21 Rules 49 and 50 C.P.C. and, therefore, the procedure adopted as against the property of Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dhanwanti Devi was manifestly illegal and is liable to be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that Section 53 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 does not apply to the facts of this case and that the Will was executed bonafidely by Smt Dhanwanti Devi on 7.12.1983 in favour of the appellant and that there was no question to defeat the claim of the respondent.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, Mr. Aruneshwar Gupta, learned Additional Advocate General, appearing for the State of Rajasthan, submitted that a partner of a partnership firm is always liable for partnership debt unless there is implied or express restriction and that where the transfer is made to defeat the execution of a decree then in those cases, provisions of Order 21 Rules 49 and 50 C.P.C. will not be applicable.	Arguments of Respondent
While replying to the arguments advanced by the learned counsel appearing for the appellant in regard to the fraudulent transfer, Mr. Aruneshwar Gupta submitted that every transfer of immovable property made with intent to defeat or delay the creditors of the transferor shall be voidable at the option of any creditors so defeated or delayed.	Arguments of Respondent
He further submitted that the original amount due and payable by the firm was Rs.37593/ which was received on 17.10.1992 , however, interest of Rs.61,890/ on the principal amount had become due and payable as on 17.10.1992 and that the appellant is also liable to pay the subsequent interest on Rs.37593/ from 17.10.1992.9.	Arguments of Respondent
We have carefully considered the rival submissions and perused the entire pleadings, the judgments of the Courts below and all the annexures and documents filed along with the appeal.	None
Both the contentions raised by the learned counsel appearing for the appellant have absolutely no merit.	Reasoning
It is not in dispute that the decree was passed against the firm in which Smt.	Reasoning
Dhanwanti Devi was also a partner.	Reasoning
Under the provisions of the Partnership Act, one partner is the agent of the other.	Reasoning
The partner is always liable for partnership debt unless there is implied or express restriction.	Reasoning
In the instant case, notice was duly served on Smt.	None
Dhanwanti Devi and her husband at House No.80B , Block Sri Ganganagar.	None
Sections 24 25 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 can be usefully referred to in the present context which are reproduced hereunder Section 24 Effect of notice to the acting partner  Notice to the partner who habitually acts in the business of the firm of any matter relating to the affairs of the firm operates as notice to the firm, except in the case of a fraud on the firm committed by or with the consent of that partner.	None
Section 25  Liability of a partner for acts of the firm  Every partner is liable, jointly with all the other partners and also severally for all acts of the firm done while he is a partner.	None
Section 24 deals with the effect of notice to a partner.	None
Such notice may be binding if the following conditions are satisfied(a) the notice must be given to a partner(b) the notice must be a notice of any matter relating to the affairs of the firm(c) fraud should not have been committed with the consent of such partner on the firm.	None
Section 24 is based on the principle that as a partner stands as an agent in relation to the firm, a notice to the agent is tantamount to the principles and vica versa.	None
As a general rule, notice to a principal is notice to all his agents and notice to an agent of matters connected with his agency is notice to his principal.	None
Under Section 25, the liability of the partners is joint and several.	None
It is open to a creditor of the firm to recover the debt from any one or more of the partners.	None
Each partner shall be liable as if the debt of the firm has been incurred on his personal liability.	None
The judgment in the case of Dena Bank vs. Bhikhabhai Prabhudas Parekh Co.	None
Ors., (2000) 5 SCC 694 can be beneficially referred to in the present context.	None
Two questions arose for consideration by this Court in this case.	None
Firstly, whether the recovery of sales tax dues amounting to Crown debt shall have precedence over the right of the Bank to proceed against the property of the borrowers mortgaged in favour of the Bank.	None
Secondly, whether property belonging to the partners can be proceeded against for recovery of dues on account of Sales tax assessed against the partnership firm under the provisions of the Karnataka Sales Tax Act, 1957.	None
We are concerned only with regard to the second question.	None
In paragraph 18, R.C. Lahoti,J. observed as under The High Court has relied on Section 25 of the Partnership Act, 1932 for the purpose of holding the partners as individuals liable to meet the tax liability of the firm.	None
Section 25 provides that every partner is liable, jointly with all the other partners and also severally for all acts of the firm done while he is a partner.	None
A firm is not a legal entity.	None
It is only a collective or compendious name for all the partners.	None
In other words, a firm does not have any existence away from its partners.	None
A decree in favour of or against a firm in the name of the firm has the same effect as a decree in favour of or against the partners.	None
While the firm is incurring a liability it can be assumed that all the partners were incurring that liability and so the partners remain liable jointly and severally for all the acts of the firm.	None
In the case of Income Tax Officer (III), CircleI, Salem vs. Arunagiri Chettiar, (1996) 9 SCC 33 , this Court considered the question as to whether an erstwhile partner is liable to pay the tax arrears due from the partnership firm pertaining to the period when he was a partner.	None
The Madras High Court has held that he is not.	None
Disputing the correctness of the said judgment, the Revenue came in appeal before this Court.	None
This Court while allowing the appeal and setting aside the judgment of the High Court observed as follows Section 25 of the Partnership Act does not make a distinction between a continuing partner and an erstwhile partner.	None
Its principle is clear and specific, viz., that every partner is liable for all the acts of the firm done while he is a partner jointly along with other partners and also severally.	None
Therefore, it cannot be held that the said liability ceases merely because a partner has ceased to be partner subsequent to the said period.	None
We have already referred to the arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the appellant on Order 21 Rules 49 and 50 C.P.C.	None
The High Court has clearly held that the Will was executed by Smt.	None
Dhanwanti Devi to defeat the execution of a decree obtained by the State.	None
Order 21 Rule 49 reads thus Order 21 Rule 49 Attachment of partnership property (1) Save as otherwise provided by this rule, property belonging to a partnership shall not be attached or sold in execution of a decree other than a decree passed against the firm or against the partners in the firm as such.(2)	None
The Court may, on the application of the holder of a decree against a partner, make an order charging the interest of such partner in the partnership property and profits with payments of the amount due under the decree and may, by the same or a subsequent order, appoint a receiver of the share of such partner in the profits (whether already declared or accruing) and of any other money which may be coming to him in respect of the partnership, and direct accounts and inquiries and make an order for the sale of such interest or other orders as might have been directed or made if a charge had been made in favour of the decreeholder by such partner, or as the circumstances of the case may require.(3)	None
The other partner or partners shall be at liberty at any time to redeem the interest charged or, in the case of a sale being directed, to purchase the same.(4)	None
Every application for an order under subrule (2) shall be served on the judgmentdebtor and on his partners or such of them as are within India.(5)	None
Every application made by any partner of the judgment debtor under subrule (3) shall be served on the decree holder and on the judgmentdebtor, and on such of the other partners as do not join the application and as are within India.(6)	None
Service under subrule (4) or subrule (5) shall be deemed to be service on all the partners, and all orders made on such applications shall be similarly served.	None
The above Rule provides that no execution can issue against any partnership property except on a decree passed against the firm or against the partners in the firm as such.	None
In the instant case, as already noticed, the State has obtained a decree against the partnership firm.	None
The High Court has clearly held in its judgment that the Will was a created document to delay the recovery proceedings.	None
It is further seen that the liability is not disputed by the firm or partners and that the terms of the order dated 12.	None
2.1980 were required to be satisfied by the partners.	None
Order 21 Rule 50 C.P.C. reads as follows Order 21 Rule 50  Execution of decree against firm  Where a decree has been passed against a firm, execution may be granted (a) against any property of the partnership(b) against any person who has appeared in his own name under rule 6 or rule 7 of Order XXX or who has admitted on the pleadings that he is, or who has been adjudged to be , a partner(c) against any person who has been individually served as a partner with a summons and has failed to appearProvided that nothing in this subrule shall be deemed to limit or otherwise affected the provisions of Section 30 of the Indian Partnership Act 1932 (9 of 1932).(2) Where the decreeholder claims to be entitled to cause the decree to be executed against any person other than such a person as is referred to in subrule (1), clauses (b) and (c) as being a partner in the firm, he may apply to the Court which passed the decree for leave, and where the liability is not disputed, such Court may grant such leave, or, where such liability is disputed, may order that the liability of such person be tried and determined in any manner in which any issue in a suit may be tried and determined.(3) Where the liability of any person has been tried and determined under subrule (2), the order made thereon shall have the same force and be subject to the same conditions as to appeal or otherwise as if it were a decree.(4)	None
Save as against any property of the partnership, a decree against a firm shall not release, render liable or otherwise affect any partner therein unless he has been served with a summons to appear and answer.(5)	None
Nothing in this rule shall apply to a decree passed against a Hindu undivided family by virtue of the provisions of rule 10 of Order XXX.	None
The execution under this Rule can only be granted where a decree has been passed against a firm.	None
A decree against the firm must perforce be in the firms name.	None
Under this Rule, execution may be granted against the partnership property.	None
It may also be granted against the partners, in which case the decreeholder may proceed against the separate property of the partners.	None
In the case of Sahu Rajeshwar Rao vs. I.T.O., AIR 1969 SC 667 , this Court ruled that the liability of the partner of the firm is joint and several and it is open to a creditor of the firm to recover the debt of the firm from any one or more of the partners.	None
In a decree against partnership firm, each partner is personally liable except the minor whose liability is limited to his assets in the partnership.	None
In the case of Her Highness Maharani Mandalsa Devi Ors.	None
Vs. M. Ramnaram Private Ltd.	None
Ors., AIR 1965 SC 1718 , while considering the scope of Order 21 Rule 50 this Court observed as follows A suit by or in the name of a firm is really a suit by or in the name of all its partners.	None
The decree passed in the suit, though in form against the firm, is in effect a decree against all the partners.	None
Beyond doubt, in a normal case where all the partners of a firm are capable of being sued and of being adjudged judgmentdebtors, a suit may be filed and a decree may be obtained against a firm under Order 30 of the Code of Civil Procedure, and such a decree may be executed against the property of the partnership and against all the partners by following the procedure of Order 21 Rule 50 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
We shall now advert to the submissions made by the learned Additional Advocate General appearing for the respondentState.	None
The starting point for the litigation is the decree dated 6.6.1970 passed against the State of Rajasthan in respect of the construction work of irrigation department.	Facts
An appeal was preferred by the State of Rajasthan on 12.2.1980, an application under Section 144 C.P.C. was moved on behalf of the State on 2.4.1981 and Smt.	None
Dhanwanti Devi executed a Will on 7.12.1983 and died in the month of May, 1985.	Facts
In May, 1987, the District Judge, Sri Ganganagar allowed the application filed by the State of Rajasthan under Section 144 C.P.C.	None
The attachment of the property was made of the house in question on 21.11.1992.	None
Several other proceedings were taken thereafter by both the parties opposing attachment and the execution etc.	None
Ultimately, the District Judge dismissed the application filed under Order 21 Rules 49 and 50 C.P.C. and the Review Application was also dismissed on 5.9.1998.	None
Thereupon the appellant filed S.B. Civil Execution First Appeal No.2 of 1998 and the said appeal was dismissed on 12.11.2003.	None
Now the parties are in this Court.	None
It is not in dispute that the decree amount of Rs.37,593/ was received by the State on 17.10.1992.	Reasoning
The dispute between the parties is only with reference to the interest on the principal amount of Rs.37,593/ as on 17.10.1992, which according to the State, was payable by the Firm.	Reasoning
A sum of Rs. 61,890/ was arrived at as interest on Rs.37,593/ as on 17.10.1992.	Reasoning
Mr. Aruneshwar Gupta submitted that the State has been dragged into Court unnecessarily by filing a vexatious litigation by the appellant and, therefore, the State must be sufficiently compensated by directing the appellant to pay the interest 18 p.a.	Reasoning
on Rs.37,593/ from 17.10.1992 till date.	Reasoning
Though the argument of Mr. Aruneshwar Gupta appears to be attractive on the first blush, yet on a reconsideration and reappreciation of the same, the said submission has no merits.	Reasoning
Both the parties are in the legal battlefield for all these years.	Reasoning
The appellant has also succeeded before the trial Court.	Reasoning
The trial Court has held that the Will is genuine and, therefore, necessarily the appellant has to defend all further proceedings initiated by the State in various Courts.	Reasoning
Mr. Aruneshwar Gupta submitted that the interest amount of Rs.61890/ as on 17.10.1992 plus the subsequent interest shall be ordered to be paid to the State without showing any sympathy to a vexatious litigant.	Reasoning
It is true that justice must be done at all costs.	Reasoning
At the same time, we should not also forget that the justice should be tempered with mercy.	Reasoning
Asking a party to pay interest on Rs.37,593/ at 18 p.a.	Reasoning
from 17.10.1992 , in our considered opinion, is on the high side and excessive.	Reasoning
This apart, asking both the parties to continue the execution proceedings at this distance of time is also not proper.	Reasoning
The State has to wait for some more time to realise the fruits of the decree.	Reasoning
We have also calculated the interest payable on Rs.37,593/ from 17.10.1992 18 p.a.	Reasoning
Calculating interest at the said rate, the interest amount comes to Rs.6,766/ p.a.	Reasoning
(approx).	Reasoning
Multiplying Rs.6,766/ X 13 years comes to Rs. 87,958/.	Reasoning
Adding Rs.61,890/ which was arrived at as interest as on 17.10.1992, The total interest payable on Rs.37,593/ from 17.10.1992 as on today 18 p.a. comes to Rs.1,49,848/ (Rs.87,958/ Rs.61,890/)	Reasoning
By this order, we are directing the appellant to pay a sum of Rs.1,00,000/ in full satisfaction of the claim made by State of Rajasthan.	Decision
The difference will be only Rs.49,848/. For recovery of the same, we need not direct the parties to proceed further in the execution at this distance of time.	Decision
Though the interest is claimed at 18 p.a.	Decision
by the State, we cannot also shut our eyes at the prevailing bank rate for fixed deposits and for lending which is not more than 67.	Decision
Without going into the merits of the rival claims any further, we feel that the interest of justice would be amply met if we direct the appellant herein to pay a sum of Rs.1 lakh in full satisfaction of the claim made by the State of Rajasthan.	Decision
Rs.1 lakh shall be paid within a period of two months from today, failing compliance, the appellant is liable to pay interest 18 p.a.	Decision
on Rs.37,593/ from 17.10.1992 till the date of payment.	Decision
Till the sum of Rs. one lakh is paid, there will be a charge over the property bearing House 80B Block Sri Ganganagar.	Decision
The appellant shall not alienate or encumber in any manner the property bearing House No.	Decision
80B Block Sri Ganganagar till the sum of Rs.	Decision
One lakh is paid and discharged.	Decision
The appeal stands disposed of.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
