 Leave granted.	None
The appellantAfnees (unconscious), through his mother, has approached this Court aggrieved by the order passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam whereby the High Court allowed the appeal of the Insurance Company and reduced the amount of compensation awarded by the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, Vadakara (for short, the Tribunal) from Rs. 10,88,800/ to Rs.5,76,000/ by applying a multiplier of 16 as the claimant was aged 19 at the relevant time and further partly allowed the appeal of the appellant and awarded Rs. 1 lakh towards future treatment.	Facts
In the petition filed by the appellant under Section 166 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (for short, the Act), which came to be registered as OP (MV) No.575 of 2007, the appellant prayed for award of compensation to the tune of Rs.22,00,000/. The appellants claim was founded on the following assertions That the appellant had suffered grievous injuries in an accident which occurred on 28.12.2006 when his motor cycle was hit by a jeep driven in a rash and negligent manner and in a high speed.	Facts
That he was initially treated at MCH, Calicut from where he was shifted to Indo American Hospital Brain and Spine Centre, Vaikom.	None
He remained in the hospital from 28.12.2006 to 11.02.2007 and 28.02.2007 to 15.03.2007.	Facts
Due to the accident, the appellant was totally bed ridden and is in a coma (vegetative) stage and the medical board assessed his disability at 100 per cent.	Facts
His treatment still continues with no improvement and may be in the same position for his remaining life.	None
That at the time of accident his age was about 19 years and he was doing parttime job as a sales man drawing a monthly salary of Rs.3,000/ per month.	None
That on account of the accident, he is fully dependent for all activities of daily life.	Facts
He is from a poor family and his parents, being labourers, cannot afford the treatment expenses.	Facts
After considering the pleadings of the parties and evidence adduced by them, the Tribunal held that the accident was caused due to rash and negligent driving.	Facts
The respondent insurancecompany admitted the valid insurance coverage over the offending jeep as on the date of accident and has not proved any violation of policy terms and conditions by driver and the owner.	Facts
Hence, the above compensation is to be paid by the insurance company.	Facts
The Tribunal then referred to the Second Schedule of the Act and determined the amount of compensation by assuming the appellants income to be Rs.3,000/ per month.	Facts
The Tribunal was of the view that due to 100 disability, the appellant would suffer loss of income to the tune of Rs.36,000/ per annum.	Facts
The Tribunal then applied the multiplier of 18 and held that the appellant is entitled to Rs.6,48,000/ towards permanent disability.	Facts
The total compensation awarded by the Tribunal under different heads amounts to Rs. 10,88,800/.	None
The Tribunal also awarded interest at the rate of 7.5 on the total compensation and directed the respondent insurance company to pay the same from the date of filing of the petition till realisation.	Facts
Aggrieved by the award of the Tribunal, the appellant preferred an appeal before the High Court seeking enhancement of compensation.	Facts
The Insurance Company also preferred an appeal seeking reduction of compensation.	Facts
The Division Bench of the High Court allowed the appeal of the insurance company and held that the multiplier of 16 should have been adopted instead of 18 as the claimant was aged 19 at the material time and reduced the compensation amount to Rs.5,76,000/.	Facts
The High Court further partly allowed the appeal of the appellant and awarded Rs. 1 lakh towards future treatment when the claimant is in a coma stage.	None
The only question which arises for our consideration is whether the High Court was justified in reducing the compensation amount and granting only Rs. 1 lakh towards future treatment.	None
Heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties.	None
Learned counsel appearing for the appellant argued that the compensation awarded by the Tribunal was wholly inadequate and the High Court committed serious error by reducing the compensation without taking into consideration the fact that on account of the permanent disability suffered by the appellant, the appellant became bedridden in a stage of coma and is in water bed and he needs someone for his assistance all throughout his life and the loss he sustained at the age of 18 is unfathomable.	Arguments of Petitioner
11.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel further argued that the Tribunal and the High Court gravely erred in not awarding just and reasonable compensation for future treatment and the amount awarded is meagre and comes nowhere in the actual expenses incurred for his treatment.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioner has been in a vegetative condition ever since the accident and is to remain so for his whole life.	Arguments of Petitioner
Moreover, the parents of the appellant has to incur more than Rs. 5,000/ per month to meet his medical and primary needs alone.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further the appellants mother is compelled to remain at home for the whole time to take care of him and thus she is not in a position to go for any job.	Arguments of Petitioner
Finally, he submitted that the considering all these factors, the courts below ought to have granted a reasonable provision for the treatment of the petitioner.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondent supported the impugned judgment and argued that the appellant has failed to make out a case for further enhancement in amount of compensation.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the respective submissions.	None
This Court has, from time to time, expressed concern over the increasing number of motor accidents and pendency of large number of cases involving adjudication of claims made by the legal representatives of the deceased as also by those who suffer permanent injuries and disabilities of various types as a result of accidents.	Reasoning
The personal sufferings of the survivors and disabled persons are manifold.	None
Sometimes they can be measured in terms of money but most of the times it is not possible to do so.	None
If an individual is permanently disabled in an accident, the cost of his medical treatment and care is likely to be very high.	None
In cases involving total or partial disablement, the term compensation used in Section 166 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (for short, the Act) would include not only the expenses incurred for immediate treatment, but also the amount likely to be incurred for future medical treatment care necessary for a particular injury or disability caused by an accident.	None
In R.D. Hattangadi v. Pest Control (India) Private Limited, (1995) 1 SCC 551 , this Court while dealing with a case involving claim of compensation under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, referred to the judgment of the Court of Appeal in Ward v. James (1965) 1	None
All ER 563, Halsburys Laws of England, 4th Edition, Volume 12 (page 446) and observed Broadly speaking while fixing an amount of compensation payable to a victim of an accident, the damages have to be assessed separately as pecuniary damages and special damages.	None
Pecuniary damages are those which the victim has actually incurred and which are capable of being calculated in terms of money whereas nonpecuniary damages are those which are incapable of being assessed by arithmetical calculations.	None
In order to appreciate two concepts pecuniary damages may include expenses incurred by the claimant (i) medical attendance (ii) loss of earning of profit up to the date of trial (iii) other material loss.	None
So far nonpecuniary damages are concerned, they may include (i) damages for mental and physical shock, pain and suffering, already suffered or likely to be suffered in future (ii) damages to compensate for the loss of amenities of life which may include a variety of matters i.e. on account of injury the claimant may not be able to walk, run or sit (iii) damages for the loss of expectation of life, i.e., on account of injury the normal longevity of the person concerned is shortened (iv) inconvenience, hardship, discomfort, disappointment, frustration and mental stress in life.	None
In the same case, the Court further observed In its very nature whenever a tribunal or a court is required to fix the amount of compensation in cases of accident, it involves some guesswork, some hypothetical consideration, some amount of sympathy linked with the nature of the disability caused.	None
But all the aforesaid elements have to be viewed with objective standards.	None
In Raj Kumar v. Ajay Kumar, (2011) 1 SCC 343 , the Court considered some of the precedents and held The provision of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 makes it clear that the award must be just, which means that compensation should, to the extent possible, fully and adequately restore the claimant to the position prior to the accident.	None
The object of awarding damages is to make good the loss suffered as a result of wrong done as far as money can do so, in a fair, reasonable and equitable manner.	None
The court or the Tribunal shall have to assess the damages objectively and exclude from consideration any speculation or fancy, though some conjecture with reference to the nature of disability and its consequences, is inevitable.	None
A person is not only to be compensated for the physical injury, but also for the loss which he suffered as a result of such injury.	None
This means that he is to be compensated for his inability to lead a full life, his inability to enjoy those normal amenities which he would have enjoyed but for the injuries, and his inability to earn as much as he used to earn or could have earned.	None
The heads under which compensation is awarded in personal injury cases are the following Pecuniary damages (Special damages) Expenses relating to treatment, hospitalisation, medicines, transportation, nourishing food, and miscellaneous expenditure.	None
Loss of earnings (and other gains) which the injured would have made had he not been injured, comprising Loss of earning during the period of treatment Loss of future earnings on account of permanent disability.	None
Future medical expenses.	None
Nonpecuniary damages (General damages) Damages for pain, suffering and trauma as a consequence of the injuries.	None
Loss of amenities (and or loss of prospects of marriage).	None
Loss of expectation of life (shortening of normal longevity).	None
In routine personal injury cases, compensation will be awarded only under heads (i), (ii) (a) and (iv).	None
It is only in serious cases of injury, where there is specific medical evidence corroborating the evidence of the claimant, that compensation will be granted under any of the heads (ii)(b), (iii), (v) and (vi) relating to loss of future earnings on account of permanent disability, future medical expenses, loss of amenities (and or loss of prospects of marriage) and loss of expectation of life.	None
In the circumstances, we shall now consider whether the compensation awarded to the appellant is just and reasonable or he is entitled to enhanced compensation.	None
In our view, considering the age of the petitioner and the fact that he is fairly educated, it can be reasonably assumed that he would have earned at least Rs.3,000/ per month taking into account the disability of the petitioner to be 100, the Tribunal rightly awarded the multiplier of 18 and came to a figure of Rs. 6,48,000/ and the High Court is wrong in allowing the appeal of the Insurance Company assessing the disability compensation at Rs. 5,76,000/ by adopting the multiplier of 16.	Reasoning
(See Sarla Verma v. Delhi Transport Corporation, (2009) 6 SCC 121 )	None
Though the appellant had claimed an amount of Rs.	None
22,00,000/ under different heads as compensation, the Tribunal has granted a meagre sum of Rs. 10,88,000/ and the High Court further reduced the compensation amount.	Reasoning
We are of the view that the compensation of Rs. 1 lakh awarded by the High Court for future treatment was wholly inadequate as the High Court without considering the fact that the appellant because of the accident has to remain in the bed in his remaining life and he needs a person for his care and caution every time.	Reasoning
Therefore, we set aside the order passed by the High Court insofar as it relates to the disability compensation and upheld the order passed by the Tribunal insofar as the disability compensation is concerned.	Decision
Insofar as the future treatment is concerned, we modify the order passed by the High Court as given herein below.	Decision
In our considered view, the loss sustained by the appellant cannot be compensated in terms of money since the accident vanish the colourful dreams of a young man at his teenage.	Decision
The pain and suffering which had to face by each and every member of his family also cannot be measured out.	Decision
Therefore, we are of the view that the cost of living as also the cost of expenses likely to be incurred for periodical treatment has substantially increased.	Decision
Therefore, it will be just and proper to award a sum of Rs.5,00,000/ to the appellant for future treatment.	Decision
If this amount is deposited in fixed deposit, the interest accruing on it will take care of the cost of treatment i.e. fees of the doctor and other ancillary expenses.	Decision
The compensation awarded by the Tribunal for the loss of amenities and extra nourishment and special diet was also meagre.	Decision
It can only be a matter of imagination as to how the appellant will have to live for the rest of life in bed.	Decision
The appellant may be expected to live for at least 50 years.	Decision
During this period he will not be able to live like normal human being and will not be able to enjoy the life.	Decision
Therefore, it would be just and reasonable to award him a sum of Rs.5,00,000/ for the loss of amenities and enjoyment of life.	Decision
In the result, the appeals are allowed.	Decision
The impugned judgment and the award of the Tribunal are set aside.	Decision
It is declared that the appellant is entitled to total compensation of Rs.	Decision
20,13,800/ with interest 7 per annum from the date of filing the claim petition till the date of realization.	None
The respondent insurance company is directed to pay the amount of compensation, after deducting the payments made, if any, with interest within a period of one month from today in the form of a Bank Draft prepared in the name of the appellant to be released to the appellant through the guardian.	Decision
