 Subba Rao, J. 1.	None
This appeal on a certificate granted by the High Court of Calcutta raises the question of the interpretation of S.5(2)(a)(ii) of the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), hereinafter called the Act.	None
2.	None
The material facts are as follows The appellant is a public limited company registered as a dealer under the Act, having its registered place of business at Calcutta.	Facts
In respect of the accounting year ending with 31st December, 1954, in the return for the year the assessee had shown its gross turnover at Rs.70,99,928100 and claimed exemption under two heads, namely, (i) under S.5(2)(a)(i) of the Act Rs. 1,33,73066 and (ii) under S. 5(2)(a)(ii) thereof Rs. 69,65,97996.	Facts
After deducting the said amounts from the gross turnover the assessee showed its taxable turnover at Rs. 21890 and deposited the tax of Rs. 9126 on the said amount in the treasury.	Facts
The Commercial Tax Officer by notice dated April 22, 1955, fixed August 4, 1955, for hearing the assessee in respect of its return.	Facts
Under S. 5 (2) (a) (ii), the appellant in order to claim exemption thereunder had to furnish declaration forms duly filled in and signed by registered dealers to whom the goods were sold by it.	Facts
After taking some adjournments of the enquiry it appears that in the second week of January 1957 the assessee found that its file containing 147 declaration forms received from its dealers in respect of the goods received from it was missing.	Facts
The assessee, it is said, made various attempts to get duplicate forms of declaration from the dealers, but on account of circumstances over which it had no control and because of the unhelpful and hostile attitude of the Commercial Tax Officer within whose jurisdiction the said dealers functioned, it was not able to furnish the duplicate forms for all the declarations that were lost.	Facts
On August 8, 1957, the summoning the dealers to produce the necessary documents in order to prove that they had issued the declaration forms to him, but the said officer did not issue the requisite summons to the parties concerned.	Facts
The assessee then filed an application to the Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, West Bengal, for directions to issue duplicate declaration forms, but that application was rejected.	Facts
The revision filed to the Revenue Board was also dismissed.	Facts
On November 21, 1957, the Commercial Tax Officer made an order of assessment disallowing the assessees claim for exemption in respect of the said sales made to the purchasing registered dealers amounting to Rs.22,46,0006 and levied on it additional tax of Rs.1,49,77846.	Facts
The assessee thereafter filed a petition under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution in the High Court of Calcutta for issuing an order directing the respondents, i.e., the Commercial Tax Officer and the Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, West Bengal, not to implement the said assessment order.	Facts
The said application came up, at the first instance, before Sihna, J., who dismissed the same.	Facts
On appeal a Division Bench of the said High Court confirmed the order of Sinha, J. Hence the present appeal.	Facts
3.	None
At the outset we must make it clear that in the view we are taking on the construction of S. 5 of the Act we do not propose to go into the question whether the department was responsible for preventing the assessee from furnishing duplicate forms of the declarations alleged to have been lost or on the question whether the department went wrong in not summoning the dealers to produce the relevant documents, to establish that the declaration forms alleged to have been lost were in fact issued by them.	None
4. The only question therefore, that arises is whether under S. 52(a)(ii) of the Act the furnishing of the declaration forms issued by the purchasing dealers was a condition for claiming the exemption thereunder.	Issue
5.	None
In substance S. 52(a)(ii) exempts from taxable turnover all sales to a registered dealer of goods of the class or classes specified in the certificate of registration of the dealer as being interested for the purpose mentioned therein.	None
But the said exemption is made subject to a proviso.	None
Under that proviso, in the case of such sales a declaration from duly filled up and signed by the registered dealer to whom the goods are sold and containing the prescribed particulars on a prescribed form obtainable from the prescribed authority has to be furnished in the prescribed manner by the dealer who sells the goods.	None
Under R. 27A of the Bengal Sales Tax Rules, 1941, hereinafter called the Rules, a dealer who wishes to claim the said exemption shall on demand produce such a declaration in writing signed by the purchasing dealer.	None
Subrule (2) thereof enjoins on a dealer not to accept and on the purchasing dealer not to give a declaration except in the form prescribed.	None
The other rules make stringent provisions to prevent the misuse of the said forms.	None
6.	None
The argument of Mr. A. V. Viswanatha Sastri, learned counsel for the appellant, may be briefly stated thus The substantive part of S.5(2)(a)(ii) of the Act provides for the exemption in respect of certain sales to a dealer if the sales are made to a registered dealer for the purposes mentioned thereunder.	Arguments of Petitioner
The proviso to the said subclause prescribes in effect that the declaration form in the manner prescribed is the best evidence to prove that the sales were for the said purposes.	Arguments of Petitioner
The proviso cannot be construed as laying down a condition for giving the exemption, but only as a directory provision to subserve the substantive provision in a reasonable way.	Arguments of Petitioner
If so construed, a dealer is not precluded in a case where the proviso cannot be strictly complied with from producing other relevant evidence to prove that the sales to the registered dealers were for the purposes mentioned in the said subclause.	Arguments of Petitioner
This conclusion is sought to be supported on the basis of the expression on demand in R. 27A which according to the learned counsel, indicates that the production of the prescribed declaration is not obligatory but only to be made if a demand is made by the authority concerned.	Arguments of Petitioner
7.	None
The learned Solicitor General, on the other hand, contends on behalf of the respondents that a dealer can claim exemption under the saidclause, but if he seeks exemption he must comply strictly with the conditions under which the exemption can be granted.	Arguments of Respondent
He argues that the clear terms of the clause, read with the proviso, impose a condition on a dealer for claiming exemption.	Arguments of Respondent
8. Section 5 (2) (a) (ii) of the Act in effect exempts a specified turnover of a dealer from sales tax.	None
The provision prescribing the exemption shall, therefore, be strictly construed.	None
The substantive clause gives the exemption and the proviso qualifies the substantive clause.	None
In effect the proviso says that part of the turnover of the selling dealer covered by the terms of subcl.	None
(ii) will be exempted provided a declaration in the form prescribed is furnished.	None
To put it in order words, a dealer cannot get the exemption unless be furnishes the declaration in the prescribed form.	None
It is well settled that the effect of an excepting or qualifying proviso, according to the ordinary rules of construction, is to except out of the preceding portion of the enactment, or to qualify something enacted therein, which but for the proviso would be within it see Craies on Statute Law, 6th Edn., p. 217.If	None
the intention of the Legislature was to give exemption if the terms of the substantive part of subcl.	None
(ii) alone are complied with, the proviso becomes redundant and otiose.	None
To accept the argument of the learned counsel for the appellant is to ignore the proviso altogether, for if his contention be correct it will lead to the position that if the declaration form is furnished, well and good but, if not furnished, other evidence can be produced.	None
That is to rewrite the clause and to omit the proviso.	None
That will defeat the express intention of the Legislature.	None
Nor does R. 27A support the contrary construction.	None
The expression on demand only fixes the point of time when the declaration are to be produced otherwise the rule would be inconsistent with the section.	None
Section 5 (2) (a) (ii) says that the declaration form is to be furnished by the dealer and R. 27A says that it shall be furnished on demand, that is to say it fixes the time when the form is to be furnished.	None
This reconciles the provisions of R. 27A with those of S. 5 (2) (a) (ii) of the Act, whereas the construction suggested by the learned counsel introduces an incongruity which shall be avoided.	None
Section 21A on which reliance is placed has no bearing on the question to be decided.	None
It only empowers the Commissioner or any person appointed to assist him under subs.	None
(1) of S. 3 to take evidence on oath, etc.	None
It can be invoked only in a case where the authority concerned is empowered to take evidence in respect of any particular matter but that does not enable him to ignore a statutory condition to claim exemption.	None
9.	None
Subrules (3) and (4) of R.27A are not helpful to the appellant.	Reasoning
They provide only safeguards against abuse of the declaration forms by the purchasing dealers they do not enable the selling dealer to either directly apply or to compel the purchasing dealers to apply for duplicate forms nor do they enjoin the appropriate authority to give the selling dealer a duplicate form to replace the lost one.	Reasoning
We realise that the section and the rules as they stand may conceivably cause unmerited hardship to an honest dealer.	Reasoning
He may have lost the declaration forms by a pure accident, such as fire, theft, etc., and yet he will be penalised for something for which he is not responsible.	Reasoning
But it is for the Legislature or for the rulemaking authority to intervene to soften rigour of the provisions and it is not for this Court to do so where the provisions are clear and unambiguous.	Reasoning
10.	None
There is an understandable reason for the stringency of the provisions.	Reasoning
The object of S. 5 (2) (a) (ii) of the Act and the rules made thereunder is selfevident.	Reasoning
While they are obviously intended to give exemption to a dealer in respect of sales to registered dealers of specified classes of goods, it seeks also to prevent fraud and collusion in an attempt to evade tax.	Reasoning
In the nature of things, in view of innumerable transactions that may be entered into between dealers, it will wellnigh be impossible for the taxing authorities to ascertain in each case whether a dealer has sold the specified goods to another for the purposes mentioned in the section.	Reasoning
Therefore, presumably to achieve the two fold object, namely, prevention of fraud and facilitating administrative efficiency, the exemption given is made subject to a condition that the person claiming the exemption shall furnish a declaration form in the manner prescribed under the section.	Reasoning
The liberal construction suggested will facilities the commission of fraud and introduce administrative inconveniences, both of which the provision of the said clause seek to avoid.	Reasoning
11.	None
The decision of this Court in State of Orissa v. M. A. Tulloch and Co. Ltd., (1964) 15 STC 641 (SC), does not help the appellant.	Reasoning
That decision was concerned with S. 5 (2) (a) (ii) of the Orissa Sales Tax Act, 1947.	Reasoning
That section was similar in terms to S. 5 (2) (a) (ii) of the Act in question, but there was no proviso to that section in the Orissa Act similar to the one found in the present section.	Reasoning
That makes all the difference, for it is the proviso that imposes the condition.	Reasoning
But under R. 27 (2) made under the Orissa Act a dealer shall produce a true declaration in writing by the purchasing dealer or by such responsible person as may be authorised in writing in this behalf by such dealer that the goods in question are specified in the purchasing dealers certificate of registration as being required for resale by him or in the execution of any contract.	Reasoning
This Court held that the said mandatory provision was inconsistent with S. 5 (2) (a) (ii) of the Orissa Sales Tax Act, and to avoid that conflict it reconciled both the provisions by holding that the rule was only directory and, therefore, it would be enough it was substantially complied with.	Reasoning
The said provisions may afford a guide for amending the relevant provisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder, but do not furnish any help for construing them.	Reasoning
12.	None
Before parting with the case we must make it clear that we are not expressing any opinion on the bona fides of the appellant or the appropriate sales tax authorities for we have not scrutinized the evidence in that regard.	None
13.	None
In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.	Decision
14.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
