 Beg, J. 1.	None
There are twenty two appeals by Special leave together with thirteen connected special leave petitions involving a common question of law for decision before us.	Facts
This question arises out of three approved schemes, which may be called the Anekal Scheme dated 1541959, the Gulbarga Scheme dated 1821960, and the Bangalore Scheme dated 76196 0, for the nationalisation under Chapter IVA of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (hereinafter referred to as the Act), of transport services on certain routes lying within the State of Mysore.	Facts
But, parts of these intrastate routes overlap interstate routes over which private transporters were granted permits and then their renewals by the State Transport authorities to ply their vehicles.	Facts
The Mysore State Road Transport Corporation objects to these permits in so far as they cover overlapping portions of intrastate routes.	Facts
The common question of law which arises may be formulated as followsCan a permit be granted to an InterState Transport Operator for the whole of his route despite the fact that a part of the route overlaps a part of a notified intraState route ?	Facts
2.	None
There can be no doubt that the Mysore State Transport Undertaking has the power to frame a scheme under section 68C of Chapter IVA of the Act, providing in the public interest that road transport services in general or any particular class of such service in relation to area or route or portion thereof should be run and operated by the State Transport Undertaking, whether to the exclusion, complete or partial, of other persons or otherwise.	None
This power includes the power to exclude even interstate motor operators altogether from a part of any notified route.	None
(See Nilkanth Prasad Ors.	None
V s. State of Bihar(1962(1) Suppl.	None
S.C.R. 728.), Standard Motor Union Pvt Ltd.	None
Vs.	None
State of Kerala Ors (1969(1) S.C.R. 464.)	None
S. Abdul Khader Saheb Vs. Mysore Revenue Appellate Tribunal Ors.(AIR 1973 S.C. 534.)	None
The Transport authorities have no power to deviate from or modify the terms of approved schemes which have the force of law.	None
They can issue or otherwise deal with permits only in accordance with the provisions of the schemes which may be either partial or total exclusion of private operators from notified routes.	None
We have to determine whether the schemes before us are of partial or total exclusion.	None
Section 68C requires, as a condition precedent to any exclusion of private operators under a scheme of nationalisation from any area or route or portion thereof, that the scheme should give particulars of the nature of services proposed to be rendered, the area or route proposed to be covered and such other particulars respecting thereto as may be prescribed.	None
Each scheme has to be published in the official Gazette and also in such manner, as the State Govt.	None
may direct.	None
A scheme finally emerges, after opportunities given under Section 68D of the Act for objections by persons interested in providing transport facilities as le ft as by local and police authorities within the area or upon the routes proposed to be covered by a scheme, as an approved scheme in which the original proposals may or may not have been modified.	None
Each scheme so approved can be either cancelled or modified by the State Transport Undertaking under Section 68E of the Act in accordance with the procedure laid down by Sections 68C and 68D of the Act.	None
3.	None
The power of the State Transport Undertaking to prohibit the use of any portion of a route by Interstate operators has not been questioned before us.	Reasoning
Nevertheless, it may be pertinent to point out that this Court thus indicated in Saghir Ahmed Anr.	Reasoning
v. State of U.P. rs., (1955 1 S.C.R. 707, 717.)	Reasoning
the nature of the right of the public to use public roads (at page 717)But the right of the public to use motor vehicles on the public road cannot, in any sense, be regarded as a right created by the Motor Vehicles Act.	Reasoning
The right exists anterior to any legislation on this subject as an incident of public rights over a highway.	Reasoning
The State only controls and regulates it for the purpose of ensuring safety, peace, health and good morals of the public.	Reasoning
Once the position is accepted that a member of the public is entitled to ply mother vehicles on the public road as an incident of his right of passage over a highway, the question is really immaterial whether he plies a vehicle for pleasure or pastime or for the purpose of trade and business.	Reasoning
The nature of the right in respect of the highway is not in any way affected thereby and we cannot agree with the learned AdvocateGeneral that the user of a public road for purposes of trade is an extraordinary or special use of the highway which can be acquired only under special sanction from the State.	Reasoning
It is enough for the purpose of the cases before us to note the distinction between the right to use a road which may be a part of a notified route and the right to ply motor vehicles on hire upon a , .route for which a permit has to be obtained under the Act.	Reasoning
Notification of a route under a scheme prevents issue of permits contrary to the scheme for the route.	Reasoning
Assuming for the purposes of the cases before us, that the State Transport Undertaking can totally exclude interstate private operators from using any part of a notified route, a scheme which has that effect must, at least, make the intention to do that clear before it can prevent the exercise of another wise legal right to ply motor vehicles for hire on a public highway subject to regulation of this kind of user by permits issues under the Act.	Reasoning
The question is, in our opinion, one of interpretation of the scheme formulated in each case.	None
Be fore interpreting each of the three schemes mentioned above, we will refer to the relevant provisions which have a bearing on questions of interpretation of the schemes and of the particulars given therein.	None
4.	None
As each scheme of nationalisation is to b e prepared in public interest, Section 68C requires the State Transport Undertaking to give particulars of the nature of services proposed to be rendered by it.	Reasoning
A distinction is made between notification of an area and of a route.	Reasoning
An area, which has to be notified under Section 2(i) of the Act, may cover a number of routes.	Reasoning
A route, as defined by the insertion of (28A) made by the Act 56 of 1969, in Section 2 of be Act, is a line of travel which specifies the highway which may be traversed by a motor vehicle between one terminus and another.	Reasoning
Whatever may have been the meaning of the word route before this insertion, it appears to us that, after this clarification, a route is not merely the physical surface covered by the highway to be traversed, but the abstract concept of a line of travel, which connects one terminus with another, has also been introduced into the legal definition of a , .route.	Reasoning
The two concepts are now so interlined that a route would not be properly indicated by merely specifying the highway which may be traversed without giving its two terming.	Reasoning
And, a difference inthe two terming will make two routes different even if there is an overlapping surface of the road common to routes.	Reasoning
In other words, the two terming are an essential part of the concept of a route.	Reasoning
Notification of routes takes place for purposes of nationalisation of transport services on the routes.	Reasoning
The routes are not n ationalised as physical surfaces of notified areas reserved for use by State owned vehicles only, but what is nationalised is the provision of certain transport services on those routes.	Reasoning
Unless a scheme clearly indicates that the user of every portion of a highway covered by an intrastate notified route is prohibited also to an interstate motor vehicle operator, who really plies on a different route inasmuch as its termini are bound to be different from those of an intrastate route, the interstate operator may not be completely debarred from the user of the overlapping part of an intrastate route.	Reasoning
A mere physical overlapping of the two may not be enough to excluder the private interstate operators by any necessary implication.	None
If the intention is to exclude such user by an operator of another route a part of which overlaps a notified route, that intention must be made, clear and unequivocal by the scheme in order to have that effect.	None
5. Section 68C also mentions other particulars of a scheme which may be prescribed.	None
These particulars have been prescribed in the State of Mysore by means of rules notified in the Mysore Gazette dated 2721958.	None
The relevant portion of the first rule reads as follows1.	None
Every scheme or modified scheme for passenger transport service shall contain the following particulars 1.	None
The area in relation to which the scheme is proposed.	None
2.	None
Whether City Town service or moffusil service.	None
3.	None
The route or routes (with their starting points, termini, intermediate stations and route length) in which the State Road Transport Undertaking proposes to introduce its services to the exclusion of private operators.	None
4.	None
The number of existing stage carriages on each route with their number of trips and the names of their operators.	None
5.	None
The maximum and minimum number of stage carriages proposed to be operated by the State Transport Undertaking to the exclusion of private operators in relation to each route and the type and seating capacity of each vehicle.	None
6.	None
The maximum number of trips proposed to be performed on each route.	None
7. Number of vehicles intended to be kept in reserve to maintain the service and to provide for special occasions.	None
6.	None
With regard to the above mentioned particulars, it was submitted, on behalf of the interstate operators , that subrules 3 and 4 of rule 1 set out above, require that existing operators on each route must be named and the numbers of their vehicles must be given before they could be deemed to be excluded from any part of a route.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also urged that, unless the scheme indicates which persons are treated as providing a service or plying on the notified route, they could not be expected to come forward to object as persons affected.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, it is submitted, if the State Transport Undertaking itself treated them as persons unaffected by nationalisation of transport services on certain intrastate routes, its intention would appear to be to leave untouched or preserve the rights of interstate, operators who were already there me rely to use parts of notified routes.	Arguments of Respondent
The argument was that the interstate operators were, by a clear implication, permitted by each scheme to use overlapping parts of notified intrastate routes.	None
They were, it was urged, thus meant to be, excluded from the purview of the prohibition in each scheme.	None
7.	None
In some of the cases before us the Regional Transport Officer had himself either granted or renewed the permits of the interstate operators.	None
In other cases, where the Regional Transport Officer had rejected the applications of the interstate operators concerned, the operators had succeeded in obtaining permits from the final state Appellate Authority functioning under the Act.	None
The High Court had, in every case, upheld the grants of permits to the interstate operators.	None
It had found the schemes to be ambiguous.	None
But, it overruled the contention that the schemes warranted total prohibition or exclusion of inter state operators on overlapping parts of notified routes mainly on the ground that such a contention could not be advanced for the first time before it in the course of arguments.	None
It was also contended that, the Manager of the appellant Corporation had impliedly admitted before, the Transport authorities that interstate operators were not totally prohibited by any scheme from using overlapping portions because he confined his objection to the sufficiency of the number of buses serving on the overlapping parts of routes and had not relied upon any parts of the schemes for any alleged total prohibition of the use of the overlapping parts of notified routes by the interstate operators.	Arguments of Respondent
8.	None
It may be mentioned here that a condition had been imposed by t	None
he final Appellate Transport Authority upon each interstate operator that he will neither pick up nor drop passengers on any part of the overlapping notified route.	None
Therefore, one of the questions argued before us is whether the Transport authorities had any power or jurisdiction to grant permits to interstate, operators even by annexing such conditions so that overlapping portions of notified routes could be merely used by the interstate operators concerned for taking their stage carriages and passengers through them but not to provide services for passengers to or from any place falling upon any portions of the notified routes.	None
It was submitted, on behalf of the appellant Corporation, that all that the Transport authorities could do was to give effect to the provisions of each scheme but not to do anything which may be a modification of the scheme.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
Although, the actions of the Transport authorities and the conduct or a concession of the Manager of the Corporation may be relevant in considering whether a scheme was so framed as to clearly convey to the officials of the Corporation and to the, Transport authorities concerned that it was a scheme of total prohibition extending to even user of any portion of an overlapping notified route by an inter state operator, yet, the real question to be considered is whether the scheme itself in each case, on the contents of it and the language employed by the framers of it, warrants total exclusion of the kind contended for before us on behalf of the Corporation.	Reasoning
It is true that this Court does not ordinarily interfere with the discretion of the High Court to refuse to allow a question to be raised for the first time in arguments before it.	Reasoning
Bu t, it is pointed out that the question raised before the High Court and argued before us is one of jurisdiction or power of the Transport authorities which goes to the root of the case so that the High Court should have permitted it to be raised and decided it.	Reasoning
We find that the High Court did, albeit indirectly, consider the question by holding that the schemes were ambiguous and did not rule out the interpretation that they were not schemes of total prohibition as the schemes could and should have done if that was intended.	Reasoning
The High Court had also correctly made observations indicating that, where such an intention of total prohibition of even the case of a portion of the notified route is present, the intention must be communicated in clear enough language so as not to leave the transport authorities in any doubt as to what they are to enforce.	Reasoning
And, as we have granted special leave on this very question and have heard arguments on it, we will consider the question briefly and not dispose of the cases before us simply on the ground that the question should have been raised at an earlier.	Reasoning
stage on behalf of the appellant Corporation.	Reasoning
We will, therefore, examine the contents of each o f the three approved schemes in which the preamble and clauses 3 to 7 have a special bearing on the question under consideration.	Reasoning
10.	None
In the Anekal Scheme, the preamble does not state that the scheme is of total exclusion.	None
Clauses 3 to 17 of the app roved scheme are stated as follows3.The route or routs (with their start As in statement ing points, termini, intermediate 1 appended stations and route (length)	None
inwhich the State Transport Undertaking will introduce its services the exclusion of private operators.	None
4.	None
The number of existing stage carria As in statement ges on each route with the number of 2 appended trips and the names of their operators.	None
5.	None
The maximum and minimum number of stage carriages to be operate d by the State Road Transport Undertaking to the exclusion of private operators in relation to each route and the type and seating capacity of each vehicle.	None
5(a)	None
Maximum and minimum number of stage carriages to be operated As in Statement 1 appended 5(b) Type and Seating capacity of each vehicle Semisaloon, single dickers.	None
The seating capacity of each vehicle is 36 to 45 seat.	None
6.	None
The maximum number of trips to As in statement 1 be performed on each route.	None
appended 7.	None
The number of vehicles to be 25 per sent of kept in reserve to maintain the services the operating and to provide for special occasions.	None
fleet.	None
11.	None
In the Gulbarga scheme, the preamble states that approval is given, to the originally published proposals subject to certain modifications, One of the modifications isthat the words or any portion thereof wherever they appear in column 2 of the, statement appended to the scheme published by the General Manager shall be deleted.	Reasoning
The, relevant clauses 3 to 7 read as follows3.	None
The route or routes (with their starting points, termini, intermediate stations and route length) in which the State Road Transport Undertaking shall introduce its services, to the exclusion of private operators.	None
As in statement appended.	None
4.	None
The number of existing stage carriages on each rout e with the number of trips and the names of their operators.	None
5.	None
The maximum and minimum number of stage carriages to be operated by the State Road Transport Undertaking to the exclusion of private operators in relation to each route and the type and sating capacity of each vehicle.	None
6.	None
The maximum number of trips to be performed on each route.	None
7.	None
The number of vehicles to be kept and to maintain the services to provide for special occasions.	None
Twentyfive percent of the operating fleet (4) (a) At present, only the Mysore Government Road Transport Department is operating service on these routes, and the number of existing stage carriages and the number of trips are as in statement appended.	None
5(a)	None
Maximum and minimum, number of stage carriages to be operated As in statement appended., 5(b) Type and seating capacity of each vehicle.	None
Semisaloon, singledeckers.	None
The seating capacity of each vehicle is 26 to 55 seats.	None
6 (a) As in statement appended.	None
7(a)	None
Twentyfive percent of the operating fleet.	None
12.	None
The preamble to the Bangalore scheme mentions the following modifications of the original proposals(a) that the passenger transport services on the routes appearing at sl.	None
Nos. 1 to 22 and 24, 25, 26, 27 anti 5 3 of the statement appended including services between any two places therein should be run and operated by the State Transport Undertaking to the complete exclusion of other operators (b) Subject to (a) above, the State Transport Undertaking should operate services on the remaining routes appearing in the statement appended between the two specified terminals only, to the complete exclusion of all other operators, excluding the intermediate routes 13.	None
The relevant clauses 3 to 7 are given here as follows The route or routes (with their starting points, termini, intermediate stations and route length) in which the State Road Transport Undertaking shall introduce its services to the exclusion of private operators.(a)	None
The passenger transport services on the routes appearing at Sl.	None
Nos. 1 to 22, and 24, 25, 26, 27, 39 and 53 of the statement appended including services between any two places therein should be run and operated by the State Transport Undertaking to the complete exclusion of other operators(b) Subject to (a) above, the State Transport Undertaking should operate services on the remaining ,	None
routes appearing in the statement appended between the two specified terminals only to the complete exclusion of all other operators, excluding the intermediate routes 4.	None
The number of existing stage At present only the carriages on each route with Mysore Government Road the number of trips and the Transport Department is names of their operators operating services on these routes and in the number of trips are as in statement appended.	None
5. (a) The maximum and minimum (a) Maximum and minimum number of stage carriages to of stage carriage s to be be operated by the State Road operated As in the Transport Undertaking to the statement appended.	None
exclusion of private operators (b) Type and seating in relation to each route and capacity of each vehicle.	None
(b) the type and seating capacity Semisaloon single of each vehicle dickers, the seating capacity of each vehicle is 26 to 35 seats.	None
6.	None
The maxims number of trips As in statement appended to be performed on each route 7.	None
The number of vehicles to be Twentyfive percent of kept in reserve to maintain the operating fleet.	None
the services and to provide for special occasions.	None
14.	None
It may be mentioned here that clauses 3 and 4 of the three schemes are apparently intended to carry out the provisions of subrules 3 and 4 of the State Transport Undertaking Mysore State Rules, 1958 , Set out above.	None
In the Anekal scheme, the appended statement mentioned in clause 3 (in purported compliance of sub rule 3) gives the termini with intermediate points thereby indicating that the exclusive service on each route is intended to be one which takes place only between the given there and not as a mere incident of service between other termini.	None
The second statement mentioned in clause 4 (in purported compliance of subrule 4) gives the number of the existing sup carriages and the names of their operators serving the prohibited routes indicated in terms of their termini.	None
Ile strongest point of the interstate operators is that their names are not mentioned in the second appended statement.	None
Hence, they could not either object as persons whose rights were meant to be affected or who could be compensated under Section 68G after necessary modification or cancellation of their permits for the overlapping portions.	Arguments of Respondent
We, therefore. think that the contention that interstate operators were apparently not meant to be denied the mere use of the overlapping portions of routes covered by this scheme is well supported.	None
In fact, this is the more reasonable inference.	Reasoning
Similarly, t he appended statements of the Gulbarga scheme show that the term route is used in the scheme for services between two termini and that persons merely using portions of the route while traveling between other termini are not totally prohibited the user of the overlapping route.	Reasoning
Lastly, as regards the Bangalore scheme, the case of the appellant Corporation may, seem better inasmuch as the words used there are the complete exclusion of all other operators excluding t he intermediate routes.	Reasoning
But, even here, the exclusion appears to be only of operators providing services between the termini mentioned there and not merely using overlapping portions of the notified routes incidentally.	Reasoning
If the exclusion of those using overlapping portions of the surface of the, highway common to two different routes was also really intended, they should have been named in the appended statement and the numbers of their stage carriages should have been give n.	Reasoning
No explanation is forthcoming for this omission.	Reasoning
Therefore, the interpretation of the three schemes advanced on behalf of the interstate operators is more reasonable.	Reasoning
In any case, if the intention was really to exclude even the user of the overlapping portions of notified routes by interstate operators, we do not see why the State Transport Undertaking should have waited for so long and not modified the scheme, as provided by Section 58E of the Act, and made its intention clear instead of allowing litigation over this issue for such a long time.	Reasoning
On behalf of the appellants, reliance was sought to be placed strongly upon the meaning assigned to the term route by a Division Bench of this Court in Nilkanth Prasads case (supra), where the view of the Privy Council in Kelani Valley Motor Transit Co. v. Colombo Ratnapura Omnibus Co., (1946 A.C. 338.)	Arguments of Petitioner
was distinguished on the ground that the context of the ordinances before, the, Privy Council for interpretation indicated that a route stood for an abstract conception of a line of travel between one terminus and another, and to be something distinct from the highway traversed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Nilkanth Prasads case (supra) was decided before the insertion of the definition in Section 2(28A) of the Act before us.	None
In it reliance was placed upon Kondala Rao v. Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (AIR 1961 S.C. 82.) where the real question considered by this Court was whether a route could also be an area.	None
It was observed in Nilkanth Prasads case (supra) (at p. 737738)The distinction between route as the notional line and road as the physical track disappears in the working of Chap.	None
IVA, because you cannot curtail the route without curtaining a portion of the road, and the ruling of the Court to which we have referred, would also show that even if the route was different, the area at least would be the same.	None
The ruling of the Judicial Committee cannot be made applicable to the Motor Vehicles Act, particularly Chap.	None
IVA, where the intention is to exclude private operators completely from running over certain sectors or routes vested in State Transport Undertakings.	None
In our opinion, therefore.	None
the appellants were rightly held to be disentitled to run over those portions of their routes which were notified as part of the scheme.	None
15.	None
On the other hand, learned Counsel for the interstate operators relied strongly on H. C. Narayanappa Ors.	None
v. The State of Mysore Ors., (1960 (3) S.C.	Arguments of Respondent
R. 742.) where a Constitution Bench of 5 Judges of this Court interpreted the very scheme dated 1311959 relating, to the Anekal area which is one of the three schemes for interpretation before us.	Arguments of Respondent
It was held there ( at p. 746)Statement I sets out the description of fourteen routes with their intermediate points, route length, number of buses to be operated and the maximum number of trips to be performed on each route.	None
By column 4 the number of existing stage carriages on each route with the number of trips and the names of their operators are described as in statement 2 appended.	None
Statement 2 sets out the names and places of business of fiftysix operators together with the, routes operated and the numbers of the stage carriages and trips made by those operators.	None
In the Anekal area, there are thirtyone routes, which are served by stage carriages operated by private operators, and by the approval of the scheme, only fourteen of those routes are covered by the scheme.	None
16.	None
Hence, it was urged that the term route was used in the schemes under consideration with reference to a service rendered to passengers between certain termini.	Arguments of Respondent
Its notification did not , it is urged, ipso facto, signify a blanketlike interdict against the user of any and every portion of a route conceived of as a prohibited area reserved for the use of State owned carriages only which private operators could not encroach upon or invade.	Arguments of Respondent
The Act itself gives power to nationalise motor transport services upon and not the Surfaces of public highways.	Arguments of Respondent
17.	None
Whatever may be said about the correctness of the decision of this Court in Nilkanth Prasads case (supra) in the context of the scheme before this Court for consideration in that case and the provisions of the Act as they stood then, we do not think that the ratio decidendi of that case is applicable here.	Reasoning
Upon the contents of the schemes before us for interpretation we find that only operators named therein or those who seek to provide services upon the routes mentioned in the schemes, in the sense that they carry passengers traveling from one place to another situated only upon the notified routes, could be totally excluded from using the highways which the notified routes cover.	None
We think that conditions were rightly imposed by the final Transport Appellate Authority on the permits of interstate operators to bring out what it understood the scheme to mean in each case.	None
The result is that we do not see sufficient reason to interfere with the view taken by the High Court and dismiss these appeals and the special leave petitions.	Decision
The parties will bear their own costs in this Court.	Decision
18.	None
Appeals dismissed.	Decision
