 Jaganmohan Reddy, J.1.	None
This appeal is by certificate against the judgment of the High Court of Bombay varying the judgment and decree passed against respondents 1 to 4 by the District Judge of Nagpur on an application under Section 235 of the Indian Companies Act 7 of 1913  hereinafter called the Act.2.	Issue
It appears that in or about April 1949 the Industrial and Agricultural Engineering Company (C.P.) Ltd.  hereinafter referred to as the Company was formed under the Act with its registered office situated at Nagpur.	Facts
From the date of the Companys incorporation till August 27, 1952 one Shantilal Nemchand Shah respondent 5 was the Managing Director, while respondents 1 to 4 were the Directors of the Company.	Facts
On August 27, 1952, respondent 5 resigned as Managing Director and in his place two Directors C.V.Krishnamurthi respondent 2 and Mr. Ganpatram respondent 3 were appointed Directors.	Facts
These two new Directors were the employees and Directors of a concern known as Industrial and Agricultural Engineering Company (Bombay) Ltd.  hereinafter called the Bombay Company.	Facts
Respondent 4 T. K. Shamu is the cousin of respondent 1 Raghawa Desikachar.	Facts
There was also a partnership firm consisting of respondent 1 and some others.	Facts
The office of this partnership was located in the office of the Bombay Company.	Facts
After August 27, 1952, respondent 5 having resigned the office of Managing Director was only a shareholder and it transpired that as the Company was not making profits, the Directors called a meeting of the shareholders of the Company on July 29, 1954, in order to obtain a Special Resolution for voluntary liquidation of the Company.	Facts
Even before this meeting took place, respondent 5 as shareholder of the Company filed an application on July 26, 1954 in the District Court at Nagpur against the Company, respondents 1 to 4 and other parties praying for an order for compulsory winding up of the Company.	Facts
The District Judge passed an order on July 13, 1955 directing compulsory winding up of the Company and appointed one K. S. Misra as the Official Liquidator of the said Company.	Facts
The Official Liquidator Misra made a report to the District Court on April 28, 1956 asking the Court to pass an order for the public examination of respondents 1 to 4  the Directors of the Company.	Facts
The District Judge passed the order prayed for under Section 196 of the Act on July 7, 1956.	Facts
Pursuant to the said order respondents 1 to 4 were examined by the Official Liquidator, and crossexamined by other parties.	Facts
The Official Liquidator also asked for the examination of respondent 5 who however was directed by the District Judge to be present in the Court.	Facts
But since the District Judge was not in a position to know why and for what purpose respondent 5 was to be examined he directed the Official Liquidator or Mr. Mani to make an application for that purpose.	Facts
On June 29, 1957 the Official Liquidator stated that he did not want to examine respondent 5.	Facts
Again on July 10, 1957 the Official Liquidator requested the Court to examine respondent 5 and the learned Judge passed an order on the same day directing examination of respondent 5 at 3 P.M. on that day.	Facts
On July 11, 1957, the Official Liquidator made an application that as the four Directors respondents 1 to 4 had illegally withheld or retained certain amounts specified therein they became liable to refund or repay the amounts with costs and with such interest as the Court deems fit.	Facts
The items which were said to be withheld were as follows(1) Commission in respect of sales of General Motors pumping sets worth about Rs.5 lakhs at 5 per cent to Bombay Rs. 20,00000(2)	Facts
Three per cent commission on General Motors supplied, transaction worth Rs.12 lakhs Rs. 36,00000(3) Commission due on other articles supplied to Model Mills and Power House etc Rs. 30,00000(4)	Facts
For stock, furniture, motor car etc. purchased by the Bombay Company at a very low price.	Facts
The amount mentioned being the difference between the real price and the purchase price Rs. 30,00000(5) Improperly remitted to a sister concern I.A.E.C. (Hyderabad) Ltd	Facts
Rs. 2,68630(6) Commission on the sale of a boiler manufactured by StainMuller to M. P. Electricity Board for Itarsi Power House through the instrumentality of the Nagpur Company Rs.	Facts
1,30,00000Total Rs. 2,48,68630Thereafter the Official Liquidator applied for certain amendments to the application and for impleading respondents 1 to 4  Directors of the Company in liquidation.	Facts
The District Judge by his order dated December 7, 1967 allowed the application and accordingly the application dated July 11, 1956 was amended.	Facts
Respondents 1 to 4 by their reply dated December 27, 1957, showed cause against the said application of the Official Liquidator and requested that they may be allowed to lead evidence in connection with the charges mentioned in the application of the Official Liquidator.	Facts
They also requested that they be allowed to crossexamine respondent 5 Managing Director of the said Company.	Facts
The District Judge, however, by his order dated September 4, 1958, rejected the application of respondents 1 to 4 and on October 9, 1958, he passed a decree against respondents 1 to 4 for items (1), (2), (5) and (6), namely, for Rs.20,000/ Rs.36,000/ Rs.2,686/3/ and Rs.1,30,000/ with interest at 4 per cent p.a.	Facts
The District Judge further directed the Official Liquidator to furnish a statement in respect of the amounts due on certain charges which was accordingly furnished by him on October 23, 1958.	Facts
On October 25, 1958, the District Judge ordered respondents 1 to 4 to pay further amounts of Rs.36,64932 p and Rs.21,70075p as per the report of the Official Liquidator.	Facts
This order formed part of the decree dated October 9, 1958.3.	Facts
Respondents 1 to 4 preferred an appeal to the High Court of Bombay which by an interlocutory judgment dated January 25, 1963 set aside the order made by the District Judge refusing respondents 1 to 4 permission to lead evidence and permission to crossexamine respondent 5.	Facts
Accordingly the Bench ordered the case to be remanded to the City Civil Court at Bombay to record additional evidence in the said matter under O.41, R.27 Code of Civil Procedure and remit to it that evidence.4.	Facts
On an application dated February 11, 1963, the Bench of the High Court by its order dated February 12, 1963, refused to allow respondents 1 to 4 to produce certain documents which were not produced by them at an earlier stage.	Facts
Pursuant to the aforesaid orders dated January 25, 1963 and February 12, 1963 respondents 1 to 4 led the evidence of 11 witnesses including themselves and crossexamined respondent 5.	Facts
They also filed certain documents.	Facts
No evidence was led by the Official Liquidator or respondent 5.	Facts
After the record of the evidence was transmitted to the High Court the Bench by its judgment D 2231963 passed a decree against respondents 1, 2 and 3 to pay to the Official Liquidator of the Company a sum of Rs.11,973/12/ in respect of certain stockintrade, furniture, motor cycle, motor car sold by the said Company and a further sum of Rupees 2,686/8/3 being a part of the debt remitted by the said Company with interest on the aforesaid amounts at 6 per cent from July 25, 1954 until payment.	Facts
The remaining claim of the Official Liquidator was set aside and the decree of the District Court was reversed to that extent.5.	Facts
The first question that has been urged before us is whether the High Court of Bombay was right in directing additional evidence to be led by respondents 1 to 4 under O.41, R.27 Code of Civil Procedure.	Issue
This Court has, in several decisions, laid down the circumstances in which an Appellate Court will be justified in directing additional evidence to be recorded for the disposal of the appeal.	Reasoning
Order 41 R.27 Code of Civil Procedure under which additional evidence could be called for states thus(1)	None
The parties to an appeal shall not be entitled to produce additional evidence, whether oral or documentary in the Appellate Court.	None
But if (a) the Court from whose decree the appeal is preferred has refused to admit evidence which ought to have been admitted, or(b) the Appellate Court requires any document to be produced or any witness to be examined to enable it to pronounce judgment, or for any other substantial cause,the Appellate Court may allow such evidence or document to be produced, or witness to be examined.(2)	None
Wherever additional evidence is allowed to be produced by an Appellate Court, the Court shall record the reason for its admission.	None
It is apparent that by the terms of the above rule, it is only where the Court has improperly refused to admit evidence or where the Appellate Court requires additional evidence to be recorded in order to enable it to pronounce judgment that it can make such an order.	None
Under O.41 R.27 (1) (b) the Court may require additional evidence either to enable it to pronounce judgment or it may require additional evidence to be recorded for any other substantial cause.	Reasoning
In Arjan Singh v. Kartar Singh, 1951 SCR 258 (AIR 1951 SC 193 )	Reasoning
it was held that the legitimate occasion for admitting additional evidence in appeal is when on examining the evidence as it stands some inherent lacuna or defect becomes apparent, not where a discovery is made outside the court, of fresh evidence, and an application is made to import it.	Reasoning
The true test is whether the appellate court is able to pronounce judgment on the materials before it, without taking into consideration the additional evidence sought to be adduced.	Reasoning
See also State of U. P. v. Manbodhan Lal, 1958 SCR 533 (AIR 1957 SC 912 ) and Municipal Corporation for Greater Bombay v. Lala Pancham, (1965) 1	Reasoning
SCR 542 at p. 548 (AIR 1965 SC 1008).	None
The learned Advocate for the appellant while admitting that the Appellate Court has power to record additional evidence, submits that the High Court did not go through the evidence, nor did it apply its mind as to whether the case was such that it could not pronounce judgment on the materials before it without taking into consideration the additional evidence sought to be adduced.	Arguments of Petitioner
This argument, however, ignores the provisions of O.41 R.27(1)(a) under which an Appellate Court can direct additional evidence to be recorded if the Trial Court had refused to allow or declined to record evidence which the party against whom the decree had been passed was prepared to produce before it.	Reasoning
What we must, therefore, see is whether the District Judge had improperly rejected the request to record the evidence of the respondents and consequently whether the High Court was justified in directing additional evidence to be recorded.	Reasoning
On a perusal of the record we have no doubt that the District Judge had improperly rejected the prayer of the respondents that they should be allowed to lead evidence in connection with the charges mentioned in the application filed by the Official Liquidator and that they should be allowed to crossexamine respondent 5.6.	Reasoning
The Roznama dated September 4, 1958 shows that on that day the four respondents, namely respondents 1 to 4 represented by Mr. Amin, and the Official Liquidator in person appeared before the District Judge.	Reasoning
The order made in those proceedings is as followsMr.	None
Amin for the respondents wanted that the petitioner should be put into the witness box so as to enable him to crossexamine the petitioner on the point of alleged misfeasance.	None
From the record it appears that the petitioner was under crossexamination for a great length of time and it is on the material elicited in his evidence, as also on the record otherwise available here, that the charge of misfeasance is made.	None
Mr. Amins contention is that when the petitioner was crossexamined by Mr. Mani, Mr. Mani represented the four different companies and not these respondents.	None
This may be so, but I do not think now I should allow another crossexamination of the petitioner when from the record it appears that a detailed and searching crossexamination was made of the petitionerBesides, there was no question of leading any evidence, since the case was fixed for argument from 21158.	None
The only part which the parties had to play was to point out the documents on which each relied for proving or disproving the alleged misfeasanceI do not think it is possible for me to put the hands of the clock behind by reverting to the stage of leading evidence, when this matter has been fixed for argument since 2111958.	None
Hence the request is rejected.7.	None
The above proceedings clearly show that no opportunity was given to respondents 1 to 4 because proceedings of January 12, 1958 show that as soon as written statement was filed on Dec.30, 1957 the District Judge fixed the case for argument.	Reasoning
The proceedings of July 7, 1958 further show that Mr. Amin had brought to the notice of the Official Liquidator that he should be supplied with materials on which the Official Liquidator would rely for the alleged malfeasance on the part of his clients, but no materials were furnished by the Official Liquidator.	Reasoning
Accordingly on the second hearing after the aforesaid application, a petition for submitting fresh evidence and for crossexamining respondent 5 was made but it was rejected.	Reasoning
The show cause notice was given by the Official Liquidator on the basis of the public examination of respondents 1 to 4.	Reasoning
It is only in answer to the show cause notice that respondents 1 to 4 could lead evidence and crossexamine respondent 5.	Reasoning
It may be mentioned that misfeasance action against the Directors is a serious charge.	Reasoning
It is a charge of misconduct or misappropriation or breach of trust.	Reasoning
For this reason the application should contain a detailed narration of the specific acts of commission and omission on the part of each Director quantifying the loss to the Company arising out of such acts or omissions.	Reasoning
The burden of proving misfeasance or nonfeasance rests on the Official Liquidator.	Reasoning
The Official Liquidator, it may be mentioned, merely relied upon the evidence recorded in public examination of the Directors and on a few documents tendered in evidence.	Reasoning
At the stage of public examination there was no change of misfeasance against the Directors and they were not in a position to know what would be the grounds that would be alleged against them for recovering any amounts, for the loss said to have been caused to the Company by reason of such misfeasance.	Reasoning
The application made by the Official Liquidator did not give sufficient particulars which, in our view it should have.	Reasoning
Once a show cause notice was given to respondents 1 to 4 the Official Liquidator did not lead any evidence nor rely upon any other documents, nor did respondents 5 who was instrumental in initiating the misfeasance case against respondents 1 to 4 lead any evidence.	Reasoning
In our view there was no justification whatsoever for the District Court to reject the evidence which the respondents had intended to lead or to disallow the production of documents other than those already produced, and for that reason the High Court rightly ordered that additional evidence be recorded in this case.8.	Reasoning
Now coming to the merits of the appeal.	Reasoning
The first challenge is to the disallowance of Rs.1,30,000/. This amount represented the commission on the sale to M. P. Electricity Board of a SteinMuller Boiler for Itarsi Power House through the instrumentality of the Nagpur Company.	None
The reason why the High Court disallowed this amount is because the Official Liquidator failed to establish that there was any connection with the Nagpur Company and the sale of this Boiler to the Itarsi Power House of the M. P. Electricity Board.	Reasoning
On the admitted facts of the case itself this conclusion is amply justified.	Reasoning
It appears that there was a partnership firm known as Industrial and Agricultural Engineering Company  hereinafter called the I.D.D This partnership firm was the sole selling agent for SteinMuller machinery and products.	None
On October 31, 1953, the M.P. Electricity Board agreed to purchase from the partnership a SteinMuller Boiler for a sum of about Rs.86,000 in respect of which there was an agreement between the I.D.D. and the Electricity Board.	None
The Electricity Board agreed to pay a sum of Rs.1,50,000 to the I.D.D. for certain services.	Reasoning
Out of this sum the Official Liquidator claimed Rs.1,30,000/ on the ground that it amounted to 10 per cent of the commission which was due to the Nagpur Company from the I.D.D. and which was wrongly withheld by the latter Company, with the acquiescence of respondent 1 who was one of the partners of the I.D.D.	Reasoning
The case of the Official Liquidator was that Shantilal Shah then Managing Director of the Company had contacted the officers of the M.P. Electricity Board and it was through his efforts that the ultimate contract was entered upon.	Reasoning
Accordingly a part of the commission which the I.D.D. was claiming on behalf of the Nagpur Company may be allowed to the Company.9.	None
The defence of respondents 1 to 4 is that the Nagpur Company had nothing to do with the I.D.D. and that the order was obtained by the I.D.D. partnership itself.	Arguments of Respondent
In our view, it is not the case of the Official Liquidator that there was an agreement under which a part of the commission was payable by the I.D.D. to the Nagpur Company and much less is there any justification for our holding that respondents 1 to 4, even if there was any agreement, which on the evidence we say there was not, had intended to withhold the amount.	Reasoning
The High Court has gone into the evidence very carefully and we do not see any reason for disagreeing with its conclusion.10.	Reasoning
With respect to item (1), namely, commission in respect of sales of General Motors pumping sets worth about Rs.5 lakhs at 4 per cent viz. Rs.20,000/, the foundation of the claim is the payment made by one Premnath Transport Company at Delhi to the Bombay Company as infringement commission, because they had sold certain machinery of the General Motors Ltd. in Bhopal area, the agency of which was held by the Company, and consequently the Company agreed to give an infringement commission of 4 per cent to the Bombay Company.	Reasoning
This amount of Rupees 20,000/ is claimed out of that amount.	Reasoning
It is contended that Bhopal was within the area allotted to the Nagpur Company and, therefore, it was entitled to the commission.	Reasoning
This was denied by the Directors.	Reasoning
The Official Liquidator failed to establish that the Nagpur Company was entitled to the whole or part of the infringement commission by reason of the fact that it was a sole selling agent of the General Motors parts in that particular area or it had an exclusive Subagency from the Bombay Company.	Reasoning
The High Court considered that the evidence in the case was not sufficient to establish either of these claims.	Reasoning
We have not been persuaded to hold otherwise.11.	Reasoning
In so far as item (2) for Rs.36,000/ is concerned, here again the Nagpur Company was being paid 15 per cent and 20 per cent commission in respect of machinery and spare parts respectively by the Bombay Company which Company was retaining 5 per cent of the commission in respect of the orders placed by the Nagpur Company.	Reasoning
According to the Official Liquidator the Bombay Company was only entitled to retain 2 per cent and consequently the Nagpur Company would be entitled to a further 3 per cent which had been wrongly withheld.	Reasoning
Here again the High Court considered that there was not sufficient evidence to sustain the claim.	Reasoning
Shantilal Shah who gave evidence did not spell out the actual terms of the agreement between the Nagpur Company and the Bombay Company by reason of which the Bombay Company was entitled to retain only 2 per cent and not 5 per cent.	Reasoning
It was held, and there is nothing to establish to the contrary inasmuch as the evidence of respondents 1 to 4 as Directors of the Company was confirmed by the first minutes, the explanation given by the respondents must be accepted.	Reasoning
Reliance was placed on subitem (2) of Item 2 of the minutes of the Board of Directors of the sister companies at which Shantilal Shah was also present.	Reasoning
It was agreed and accepted by all the associates that a commission of 2 per cent on all such imports on the c.i.f.	Reasoning
or f.o.b.	Reasoning
invoice value, as the case may be, should be paid to the Bombay Office.	Reasoning
But in so far as subitem V of Item III was concerned, it was unanimously agreed that the associated offices should pay a commission of 5 per cent on their imports covered by the licences owned by the Bombay office.12.	Reasoning
The third item is for Rs.30,000/ in connection with the supplies to Model Mills and the Power House in Nagpur with the products of the Mysore Electric Company Ltd.	Reasoning
There was some suggestion that the Bombay Company should reduce its commission from 5 per cent to 2 per cent but as the High Court pointed out that it had absolutely no connection whatsoever with the interCompany transactions in respect of goods of which agency was held by the Bombay Company.	Reasoning
The evidence of Shantilal Shah in this regard was considered to be highly unsatisfactory.	Reasoning
Apart from that Exhibit T  a letter dated February 2, 1950, clearly showed that the arrangement between the Nagpur Company and the Bombay Company was to give commission at a particular rate.	None
The High Court extracted the relevant portion of the letter which merits repetition.	None
It saysI am glad to inform you that we have been able to get some additional concession by way of extra discounts from the Mysore Lamp Works and as intimated to you personally during your recent visit, we shall give you a portion of this extra commission, thus in all 25 and 2 1/2 per cent discount on the list price.	None
It is no ones case that the commission according to this letter was not paid and as the Nagpur Company has received this commission it cannot claim any additional commission.13.	Reasoning
In so far as item (4) is concerned, it has reference to four amounts, namely, Rs.7,689/12/, Rs.2,184/ Rs.9,827/ and Rs.2,100/. Nothing has been shown as to why these claims were not properly allowed.	None
The appellant, however, challenges the item for Rs.9,827/ as not being the correct amount.	Reasoning
In fact the book value is Rs.39,309/4/9.	Reasoning
The High Court took the difference between the book value and the stock purchased by the Bombay Company after August 28, 1952, since the date of resignation of Shantilal Shah.	Reasoning
Accordingly it took the opening stock as per the balance sheet dated March 31, 1953, at Rs.53,57440.	Reasoning
The closing stock as per audit report dated March 31, 1953, reduced to the extent of 7/9 was Rs.24,09200 leaving an amount of Rs.29,48249.	Reasoning
This amount was transferred to the Bombay Office and the difference between the above amounts amounted to Rs.9,827/. Shantilal Shah was questioned about this, but he did not know how it was made up of.	None
No explanation was also given on behalf of the Official Liquidator as to how the item was made up of.	Reasoning
For this reason this item was not allowed.	Reasoning
Similarly no exception can be taken to the amount of Rs.2,100/ which was allowed because the scooter was sold to the Delhi Branch for only Rs.600/. These two items namely Rs.9,827/ and Rupees 2,100/ which are allowable to the Liquidator come to Rs.11,927/.	None
This other two items for Rs.7,689/12/ and Rs.2,184/ which relate to the purchases actually made by the Bombay Company in pursuance of their offer and in pursuance of the majority resolution of April 25, 1953, and the difference between the book value and the purchase value of the car by the Bombay Company were also allowed.	Reasoning
Apart from this, item (5) for a sum of Rs.2,686/3/ in connection with the wrongful remission to the Hyderabad Company was also allowed.	Reasoning
There seems to be no dispute on this account because the whole of the amount as claimed has been allowed.14.	Reasoning
In the result we find no reason to interfere with the judgment of the Bombay High Court under appeal.	Decision
Accordingly the appeal is dismissed with costs.15.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	Decision
