 Hegde, J.1.	None
These 51 appellants are private stage carriage operators in the State of Tamil Nadu.	Facts
They have been operating in various routes in that State.	Facts
Some of those routes are proposed to be nationalised.	Facts
A draft scheme of nationalisation has been prepared and published under Section 68 (C) of the Motor Vehicles Act (Central Act IV of 1939) (to be hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Facts
The validity of the draft scheme was challenged by the appellants before the High Court of Madras under Article 226 of the Constitution.	Facts
Incidentally the validity of some of the provisions of the amending Act XVIII of 1968 (Madras Act) also came to be challenged in those petitions.	Facts
A Division Bench of the Madras High Court consisting of Anantanarayanan, C. J. and Natesan, J., have dismissed those petitions.	Facts
As against the decision of the High Court these appeals have been brought on the strength of the certificates issued by the High Court.2.	Facts
In these appeals we are primarily concerned with the validity of the draft scheme under challenge.	Issue
The ground on which it is challenged is that the opinion requisite under Section 68 (C) of the Act was not formed by the State Government but by the Secretary to the government in the Industries.	Issue
Labour and Housing Department, acting in Pursuance of the powers conferred on him under Rule 23 (A) of the Madras Government Business Rules (to be hereinafter referred to as the Rules).	None
The contention of the appellants is that the said rule is ultra vires the provisions of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no dispute that if the rule in question is valid, the challenge directed against the draft scheme must fail.	None
The High Court has opined that that rule is a valid rule.	None
It is the correctness of that conclusion that is primarily in issue in these appeals.3.	None
Section 68 (C) prescribesWhere any State transport undertaking is of opinion that for the purpose of providing an efficient, adequate, economical and properly coordinated road transport service, it is necessary in the public interest that road transport services in general or any particular class of such service in relation to any area or route or portion thereof should be run and operated by the State transport undertaking, whether to the exclusion, complete or partial of other persons or otherwise, the State Transport Undertaking may prepare a scheme giving particulars of the nature of the services proposed to be rendered the area or route proposed to be covered and such other particulars respecting thereto as may be prescribed, and shall cause every such scheme to be published in the Official Gazette and also in such other manner as the State Government may direct.4.	None
This section requires that the State Transport Undertaking must form the opinion contemplated therein.	Reasoning
In the State of Tamil Nadu, the State Transport Undertaking is a department of the State Government.	Reasoning
Therefore the necessary opinion should have been formed by the State Government.	Reasoning
It was urged on behalf of the appellants that under our constitutional set up, the requisite opinion could have been formed either by the Council of Ministers or the Minister to whom the business in question had been allocated under the Rules.	Reasoning
The same could not have been formed by the Secretary who is merely an official and that too by the Secretary who is not the head of the department to which the functions under the Act had been assigned.	Reasoning
The contentions advanced on behalf of the appellants proceed thus The executive power of the State vests in the Governor (Article 154).	Reasoning
In the exercise of that power he has to be aided and advised by the Council of Ministers with the Chief Minister at the head (Article 163 (1)) but the Governor can make rules for more convenient transaction of the business of the Government of the State and for the allocation among Ministers of the said business in so far as it is not business with respect to which the Governor is by or under the Constitution required to act in his discretion, (Article 166 (3)).	Reasoning
A Minister can only deal with the business that has been allocated to him by the Governor under the Rules.	Reasoning
He is not competent to deal with any other business.	Reasoning
Motor Vehicles Act has been allocated to the Home Department.	Reasoning
Mr. Karunanidhi, the Transport Minister was not incharge of the Home Department.	Reasoning
Therefore his department could not have dealt with functions arising under the Act.	Reasoning
Further the Governor could not have allocated any business to a Secretary.	Reasoning
Hence in making Rule 23 (A), the governor exceeded the powers conferred on him under Article 166 (3).5.	Reasoning
On the other hand, it was urged on behalf of the State of Tamil Nadu that originally the functions under the Motor Vehicles Act had been allocated to the Home Department but when Mr. Annadurai formed the D. M. K. Government in Tamil Nadu in 1967, the Home Department as such was not allocated to any Minister.	Arguments of Respondent
The various subjects included in that department were split up and distributed amongst the various Ministers.	Reasoning
Transport was allocated to Mr. Karunanidhi.	Arguments of Respondent
Motor Vehicles Act as such was not allocated to any Minister.	Reasoning
The department of Transport included functions under the Motor Vehicles Act as well.	Arguments of Respondent
Ever since the D. M. K. Ministry was formed, the functions under the Motor Vehicles Act were dealt with by the Transport Ministry.	Arguments of Respondent
At the instance of the Transport Minister, Mr. Karunanidhi, Governor framed Rule 23 (A) for the more convenient discharge of the business.	Arguments of Respondent
On behalf of the Government, if was further urged that Article 166 (3) has two parts namely (1) rules for the more convenient transaction of the business of the Government of the State and (2) rules relating to allocation of business of the State among the Ministers.	Arguments of Respondent
It was said that after allocating the business of the Government among various Ministers, it was open to the Governor on the advice of the Ministry to make rules for the convenient discharge of the business allocated.	Arguments of Respondent
Rule 23 (A) is one such rule made under Article 166 (3).	Arguments of Respondent
Hence its validity is not open to question.6.	Arguments of Respondent
The impugned Rule 23 (A) was introduced for the first time by G. O. Ms. No. 2715	None
Public dated 221267.	None
Under subclause (1) of that rule, it is provided that powers and functions which State Transport Undertaking may exercise under Section 68 (C) of the Act shall be exercised and discharged on behalf of the State Government by the Secretary to the Government of Madras in the Industries, Labour and Housing Department.	Reasoning
The rule further provides that cases relating to such powers and functions of the State Transport Undertaking under Section 68 (C) need not be submitted to the Minister incharge.	None
Under subclause (2) of that rule, the powers and functions of the State Government under Section 68 (D) of the Act and the rules relating thereto are directed to be exercised and discharged by the Secretary to the Government in the Home Department.7.	None
Rule 4 of the Rules deals with allocation and disposal of business.	None
It provides that the business of the Government shall be transacted in the department specified in the 1st Sch. and classified and distributed between those departments as laid down therein.	None
Rule 5 says that Governor shall, on the advice of the Chief Minister allot the business of the Government among the Ministers, assigning one or more departments to the charge of a Minister but the proviso to that rule says that nothing in that rule shall prevent the assigning of one department to the charge of more than one Minister.	None
Rule 6 prescribes that each department of the Secretariat shall be under a Secretary who shall be the official head of the department.	None
Under Rule 7, Council of Ministers constituted under Article 163 (1) is held collectively responsible for all the executive orders issued in the name of the Governor in accordance with rules, whether such orders are authorised, by an individual Minister on a matter pertaining to his portfolio or as a result of the discussion at the meeting of the Council of Ministers.	None
Rule 9 provides that without prejudice to the provisions of Rule 7, the Ministerincharge of a department shall be primarily responsible for the disposal of the business pertaining to his department.	None
Section III of the Rules containing Rules 21 to 30 deal with the departmental disposal of business.	None
Rule 21 says that except as otherwise provided by any other rule cases shall ordinarily be disposed of by or under the authority of the Minister incharge who may be means of standing orders give such directions as he may think fit for the disposal of cases in the department copies of such standing orders shall be sent to the Governor and the Chief Minister.	None
Rule 22 provides that each Minister shall by means of standing orders arrange with the Secretary of the department what matters or class of matters are to be brought to his personal notice copies of such standing orders have to be sent to the Governor and the Chief Minister.	None
Rule 23 prescribes that except as otherwise provided in the rules, all cases shall be submitted to the Minister incharge by the Secretary of the department to which they belong.	None
Then comes Rule 23 (A) to which reference has already been made.8.	None
The first question that has to be decided is whether the functions under the Motor Vehicles Act had been assigned to Mr. Karunanidhi, the Minister for Transport.	None
It is true that when the various departments were reorganized in 1961, Motor Vehicles Act as well as Transport were included in the Home Department.	None
But when the D. M. K. Ministry came to power after the 1967 general elections, the Home Department as such was not allocated to any Minister.	Reasoning
The various subjects included in that department were distributed amongst several Ministers.	Reasoning
Transport was allocated to the Transport Minister.	Reasoning
Motor Vehicles Act as such was not allocated to any Minister.	Reasoning
The allocation of business among the various Ministers appears to have been made under broad heads.	Reasoning
In 1961 while allocating subjects to the various departments there was a detailed and exhaustive enumeration of the subjects.	Reasoning
But that method was not adopted in 1967 while distributing the business of the Government among the various Ministers.	Reasoning
The functions under the Act undoubtedly relate to Transport department.	Reasoning
It cannot be assumed that functions under the Act had not been assigned to any Minister.	Reasoning
It is proved that those functions were being discharged by the Minister for Transport.	Reasoning
Hence we agree with the High Court that those functions had been allocated to the Transport Minister and that the State Transport Undertaking was being run by the Transport Ministry.9.	Reasoning
Mr. Karunanidhi has in his affidavit filed before the High Court sworn to the fact that Rule 23 (A) was framed at his instance.	Reasoning
Admittedly he could have assigned the functions under Section 68 (C) of the Act to the Transport Secretary by making a standing order under Rule 22.	Reasoning
If he could have done that, we fail to see why he could not advise the Governor through the Chief Minister to make Rule 23 (A).10.	Reasoning
It was urged on behalf of the appellants that the Parliament has conferred powers under Section 68 (C) of the Act to a designated authority.	Arguments of Petitioner
That power can be exercised only by that authority and by no one else.	None
The authority concerned in the present case is the State Government.	Reasoning
The Government could not have delegated its statutory functions to any one else.	Reasoning
The Government means the Governor aided and advised by his Ministers.	Reasoning
Therefore the required opinion should have been formed by the Minister to whom the business had been allocated by the Rules.	Reasoning
It was further urged that if the functions of the Government can be discharged by any one else then the doctrine of ministerial responsibility which is the very essence of the cabinet form of Government disappears such a situation is impermissible under our Constitution.11.	Reasoning
We think that the above submissions advanced on behalf of the appellants are without force and are based on a misconception of the principles underlying our Constitution.	Reasoning
Under our Constitution, the Governor is essentially a constitutional head, the administration of State is run by the Council of Ministers.	Reasoning
But in the very nature of things, it is impossible for the Council of Ministers to deal with each and every matter that comes before the Government.	Reasoning
In order to obviate that difficulty the Constitution has authorised the Governor under subarticle (3) of Article 166 to make rules for the more convenient transaction of business of the Government of the State and for the allocation amongst its Ministers, the business of the Government.	Reasoning
All matters excepting those in which Governor is required to act in his discretion have to be allocated to one or the other of the Ministers on the advice of the Chief Minister.	Reasoning
Apart from allocating business among the Ministers, the Governor can also make rules on the advice of his Council of Ministers for more convenient transaction of business.	Reasoning
He can, not only allocate the various subjects amongst the Ministers but may go further and designate a particular official to discharge any particular function.	Reasoning
But this again he can do only on the advice of the Council of Ministers.12.	Reasoning
The cabinet is responsible to the legislature for every action taken in any of the ministries.	Reasoning
That is the essence of joint responsibility.	Reasoning
That does not mean that each and every decision must be taken by the cabinet.	Reasoning
The political responsibility of the Council of Ministers does not and cannot predicate the personal responsibility of the Ministers to discharge all or any of the governmental functions.	Reasoning
Similarly an individual Minister is responsible to the legislature for every action taken or omitted to be taken in his ministry.	Reasoning
This again is a political responsibility and not personal responsibility.	Reasoning
Even the most hardworking Minister cannot attend to every business in his department.	None
If he attempts to do it, he is bound to make a mess of his department.	Reasoning
In every wellplanned administration, most of the decisions are taken by the civil servants who are likely to be experts and not subject to political pressure.	Reasoning
The Minister is not expected to burden himself with the day to day administration.	Reasoning
His primary function is to lay down the policies and programmes of his ministry while the Council of Ministers settle the major policies and programmes of the Government.	Reasoning
When a civil servant takes a decision, he does not do it as delegate of his Minister.	Reasoning
He does it on behalf of the Government.	Reasoning
It is always open to a Minister to call for any file in his ministry and pass orders.	Reasoning
He may also issue directions to the officers in his ministry regarding the disposal of Government business either generally or as regards any specific case.	Reasoning
Subject to that over all power, the officers designated by the Rules or the standing orders, can take decisions on behalf of the Government.	Reasoning
These officers are the limbs of the Government and not its delegates.13.	Reasoning
In Emperor v. Sibnath Banerji, 72 Ind App 241 (AIR 1945 PC 156 ), construing Section 59 (3) of the Government of India Act, 1935, a provision similar to Article 166 (3), the Judicial Committee held that it was within the competence of the Governor to empower a civil servant to transact any particular business of the Government by making appropriate rules.	Reasoning
In that case their Lordships further observed that the Ministers like civil servants are subordinates to the Governor.	Reasoning
In Kalyan Singh v. State of U. P., 1962 (Supp) 2	Reasoning
SCR 76 (AIR 1962 SC 1183 )	None
this Court repelling the contention that the opinion formed by an official of the Government does not fulfil the requirements of Section 68 (C) observedThe opinion must necessarily be formed by somebody to whom, under the rules of business, the conduct of the business is entrusted and that opinion, in law, will be the opinion of the State Government.	None
It is stated in the counteraffidavit that all the concerned officials in the Department of Transport considered the draft scheme and the said scheme was finally approved by the Secretary of the Transport Department before the notification was issued.	None
It is not denied that the Secretary of the said Department has power under the rules of business to act for the State Government in that behalf.	None
We, therefore, hold that in the present case the opinion was formed by the State transport undertaking within the meaning of Section 68 (C) of the Act, and that, there was nothing illegal in the manner of initiation of the said Scheme.1416.	None
In Ishwarlal Girdharlal Joshi v. State of Gujarat, 19682 SCR 266 (AIR 1968 SC 870 )	Reasoning
this Court rejected the contention that the opinion formed by the Deputy Secretary under Section 17 (1) of the Land Acquisition Act cannot be considered as the opinion of the State Government.	None
After referring to the rules of business regulating the government business, this Court observed at p. 282In our case the Secretaries concerned were given the jurisdiction to take action on behalf of Government and satisfy themselves about the need for acquisition under Section 6, the urgency of the matter and the existence of waste and arable lands for the application of subsections (1) and (4) of Section 17.	None
In view of the Rules of business and the instructions their determination became the determination of Government and no exception could be taken.17.	None
In Capital Multipurpose Coop.	None
Society v. State of Madhya Pradesh, C. A. No. 2201 of 1966, D  3031967 (reported in AIR 1967 SC 1815 ), this Court dealing with the scope of Section 68 (D) of the Act observed that the State Government obviously is not a natural person and therefore some natural person has no give hearing on behalf of the State Government and hence the hearing given by the Special Secretary pursuant to the power conferred on him by the business rules framed under Article 166 (3) is a valid hearing.18.As mentioned earlier in the very nature of things, neither the Council of Ministers nor an individual Minister can attend to the numerous matters that come up before the Government.	Reasoning
Those matters have to be attended to and decisions taken by various officials at various levels.	Reasoning
When those officials discharge the functions allotted to them, they are doing so as limbs of the Government and not as persons to whom the power of the Government had been delegated.	None
In Halsbury Laws of England Vol.	None
I 3rd Edn.	None
at p. 170, it is observedWhere functions entrusted to a Minister are performed by an official employed in the Ministers department there is in law no delegation because constitutionally the act or decision of the official is that of the Minister.19.	None
Similar view has been expressed in Principles of Administrative Law by Griffith and Street.	None
That is also the view taken by Sir Ivor Jennings in his Cabinet Government.20.For the reasons mentioned above, we are of opinion that the functions under the Motor Vehicles Act had been allocated by the Governor to the Transport Minister under the Rules and the Secretary of that ministry had been validly authorised under Rule 23A to take action under Section 68 (C) of the Act.21.	Reasoning
The validity of some of the provisions of Madras Act 18 of 1968 which amended the Act was canvassed before us.	Reasoning
It is not necessary to go into those questions for deciding the validity of the impugned scheme.	Reasoning
Those questions can be more appropriately gone into and decided if and when action is taken on the strength of those provisions.	Reasoning
Hence we leave open those questions.22.	None
In the result these appeals fail and they are dismissed with costs  hearing fee one set.23.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	Decision
