 Dr. B.S. Chauhan, J. This criminal appeal has been preferred against the impugned judgment and order dated 2.8.2007, passed by a Special Judge of the Designated Court under the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 (hereinafter referred to as the TADA) in the Bombay Blast Case	Issue
No. 1/93, acquitting the respondent of all the charges.	Issue
Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that As the facts of this case and all legal issues involved herein have been elaborately dealt with in the connected appeal i.e. Criminal Appeal No. 1728 of 2007 Yakub Abdul Razak Memon v. State of Maharashtra thr. CBI, it may be pertinent to mention only the relevant facts and charges against the respondent.	Facts
B. Bombay Blast took place on 12.3.1993 in which 257 persons lost their lives and 713 were injured.	Facts
In addition thereto, there had been loss of property worth several crores.	Facts
The Bombay police investigated the matter at initial stage but subsequently it was entrusted to the Central Bureau of Investigation (hereinafter referred to as CBI) and on conclusion of the investigation, a chargesheet was filed against a large number of accused persons.	Facts
Out of the accused persons against whom chargesheet was filed, 40 accused could not be put to trial as they have been absconding.	Facts
Thus, the Designated Court under TADA framed charges against 138 accused persons.	Facts
During the trial, 11 accused died and 2 accused turned hostile.	Facts
Further the Designated Court discharged 2 accused during trial and the remaining persons including respondent (A76) stood convicted.	Facts
C. The respondent had been charged for general conspiracy which is framed against all the accused persons for the offences punishable under Section 3(3) TADA and Section 120B of Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter referred to as the IPC) read with Sections 3(2)(i)(ii), 3(3), (4), 5 and 6 TADA and read with Sections 302, 307,326,324,427,435,436, 201 and 212 IPC and offences under Sections 3 and 7 read with Sections 25 (IA), (lB)(a) of the Arms Act, 1959, Sections 9B (1)(a)(b)(c) of the Explosives Act, 1884, Sections 3, 4(a)(b), 5 and 6 of the Explosive Substances Act, 1908 and Section 4 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984.D. In addition, the respondent had been charged for persuading his brotherinlaw Firoz Amani Malik (A39) to undergo weapons training in Pakistan and keeping in his possession 4 handgrenades brought to him by Firoz Amani Malik (A39) and for handing over the same to Mohd.	Facts
Jabir (A93dead), showing that the same had been smuggled into India for committing terrorist activities.	Facts
E. The Designated Court after conclusion of the trial acquitted the respondent of all the charges.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	Facts
Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant has submitted that the respondent had been responsible to send the coaccused to Dubai, and further to Pakistan to have training for handling the arms, ammunition and explosives, and therefore, his acquittal for all the charges is liable to be reversed.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the contrary, learned counsel appearing for the respondent has submitted that the coaccused (A39), who was brotherinlaw of respondent himself, had not been aware of the purpose for which he had been taken to Dubai.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent cannot be held responsible for sending Firoz (A39) for any criminal activity.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, the well reasoned judgment of the Special Judge does not require interference.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
There is no confession by the respondent accused (A76).	None
Confessional statement of Firoz Akram Amani Malik (A39) revealed that the said respondent was the brotherinlaw of Firoz Akram Amani Malik (A39).	None
The said accused Firoz Akram Amani Malik (A39) had been awarded the death sentence in this very case and his appeal is being heard alongwith this case.	None
Respondent (A76) used to advise the said accused (A39) to go to Dubai and the said accused also expressed his willingness and desire to go to Dubai in the month of January, 1993.	None
He (A39) got a passport and went to Dubai with Miyaz.	None
After getting a visa they left the airport.	None
One person named Ayub Bhai took them to a building near Kadar Hotel.	None
There they found another person Nasim who took them to a flat on the 2nd floor.	None
Nasim told him there that he would be going to Pakistan and his purpose for this visit would be explained later.	None
Prakash Khanvilkar (PW513), deposed about the recovery of handgrenades from Mohmed Jabir Abdul Latif Mansoor (A93).	None
However, he does not make any reference so far as the respondent Fazal Rehman Abdul Khan (A76) is concerned.	None
The Designated Court after appreciating the entire evidence came to the conclusion that there was nothing on record to show that the respondent though facilitated sending Firoz Akram Amani Malik (A39) to Dubai, had any knowledge of the purpose of going to Dubai or Pakistan for the simple reason that Firoz Akram Amani Malik (A39) himself disclosed that he was told in Dubai that he would go to Pakistan and the purpose for going there would be explained to him later on.	Reasoning
The confessional statement of A39 did not reveal the involvement of the respondent in persuading A39 to undergo weapons training in Pakistan.9.	Reasoning
This Court has laid down parameters for interference against the order of acquittal time and again.	Reasoning
The appellate court should not ordinarily set aside a judgment of acquittal in a case where two views are possible, though the view of the appellate court may be the more probable one.	Reasoning
While dealing with a judgment of acquittal, the appellate court has to consider the entire evidence on record, so as to arrive at a finding as to whether the views of the trial court were perverse or otherwise unsustainable.	Reasoning
The appellate court is entitled to consider whether in arriving at a finding of fact, the trial court had failed to take into consideration admissible evidence and or had taken into consideration the evidence brought on record contrary to law.	Reasoning
Similarly, wrong placing of burden of proof may also be a subject matter of scrutiny by the appellate court.	Reasoning
In exceptional cases where there are compelling circumstances, and the judgment under appeal is found to be perverse, the appellate court can interfere with the order of acquittal.	Reasoning
The appellate court should bear in mind the presumption of innocence of the accused and further that the trial courts acquittal bolsters the presumption of his innocence.	Reasoning
Interference in a routine manner where the other view is possible should be avoided, unless there are good reasons for interference.	Reasoning
The findings of fact recorded by a court can be held to be perverse if the findings have been arrived at by ignoring or excluding relevant material or by taking into consideration irrelevant inadmissible material.	Reasoning
The finding may also be said to be perverse if it is against the weight of evidence, or if the finding so outrageously defies logic as to suffer from the vice of irrationality.	None
We had been taken through the evidence by Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel for the appellant, but we do not find any reason to interfere with the cogent reasons given by the Special Judge.	Decision
The appeal lacks merit and is accordingly dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 409	None
OF 2011State of Maharashtra AppellantVersusManjoor Qureshi Ors.	Facts
Respondents	None
This criminal appeal has been preferred against the impugned judgment and order dated 2.8.2007 passed by a Special Judge of the Designated Court under the TADA in Bombay Blast Case No. 1/93, acquitting the respondents of all the charges.	Facts
The respondents had been charged in addition to the common charge of conspiracy under Section 3(3) TADA and Section 120B IPC, read with the other provisions.	Facts
They were charged with knowingly abetting and facilitating the commission of terrorist acts and acts preparatory to terrorist acts as they had agreed to undergo weapons training in Pakistan in handling of arms and ammunition and explosives for committing terrorist acts and for that purpose visited Dubai but could not go to Pakistan as arrangement for training there could not be made.	Facts
They attended the conspiratorial meeting at Dubai alongwith conspirators to plan the commission of terrorist acts.12.	Facts
Mohmed Iqbal Ibrahim S o Shaikh Ibrahim (A127) has died.	Facts
Thus, this appeal stood abated qua him.13.	Facts
After conclusion of the trial, the Designated Court acquitted the respondents of all the charges.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	Facts
14	None
Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel for the appellantState has submitted that the Designated Court has erred in acquitting the respondents of the charge of conspiracy.	None
The respondents had gone to Dubai to go to Pakistan for having training to handle the arms and ammunition and explosives and this is a matter of chance that they came back as the training could not be arranged but the evidence on record clearly established that they intended to have the training and subsequently to participate in the terrorist activities.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the appeal deserves to be allowed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ms. Farhana Shah, learned counsel for the respondents has submitted that there is nothing on record to establish that either of the respondents had any idea or knowledge or they had been informed by any other coaccused that they would be sent for training to Pakistan to handle the arms etc.	Arguments of Respondent
and rather they had an impression that they would be taught handling the arms to be used for selfdefence.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, no imputation of conspiracy can be established.	Arguments of Respondent
The appeal lacks merit and is liable to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
Confession of Shaikh Kasam Babulal Ismail Shaikh (A109)	None
His confession revealed that he was working as an Office Boy in the construction company of Ijaz Khan in 1992.	None
The said office was closed after riots in Bombay in December 1992.	None
Some persons namely Munna, Karimullah, Shehjada used to come to the said construction company of Ijaz and thus the accused developed acquaintance with them.	None
Ijaz used to travel between Bombay and Dubai.	None
On 12.1.1993, Mr. Ethesham (A58) informed him that Ijaz had come from Dubai and wanted to meet the respondent (A109).	None
The accused met Ijaz Khan at the house of Haji Yakub in presence of Anwar.	None
Ijaz told them that in case something wrong happens to them they can talk to him over the telephone.	None
Subsequently, they left leaving Munna and Anwar there.	None
Yakub (AA) later told him that riots were increasing and he would take them out of India for training and using revolvers for saving themselves from the riots.	None
The respondent (A109) brought his passport from his house and delivered the same to Haji Yakub.	None
Subsequently, the respondent (A109) went to Dubai alongwith Murad, Ethesham, Shakil, Shahnawaz on 14.2.1993.	None
Yakub Haji came to meet them and said that training could not be given this time, and it would be done next time.	None
They remained for 15 days in Dubai and their visa expired.	None
They then came back to Bombay.	None
Before going to Dubai, Yakub asked them to take an oath by placing their hands on the Quran that whatever they are doing, it was for the sake of Islam and they would not fight with each other and would not divulge their talks to others.	None
Confession of SultanERome Sardar Ali Gul (A114) He was working as a driver with a Marwari at Walkeshwar.	None
After the demolition of Babri Masjid he lost his job because his employer was afraid of him as he was a Muslim.	None
The accused (A14) wanted to go to Saudi Arabia for search of work.	None
Therefore, he got his passport ready.	None
In the month of January, 1993, he met Qamar Khan.	None
Ijaz Khan and Ethesham (A58) talked with them for 510 minutes.	None
Then Ijaz told him that he had to go to Ethesham as and when he was called and he would be paid Rs.1,000/, a pair of clothes and shoes.	None
Ethesham would train him in working a revolver.	None
On 14.2.1993, he went to Dubai alongwith the others and stayed there for 14 days without any work training and came back to India.	None
He further disclosed that they were not given any training or any lectures (Taqreer) in Dubai.	None
Confession of Abdul Aziz Abdul Kader (A126)	None
He also accompanied the other coaccused to Dubai.	None
He corroborated the version of other coaccused for going to Dubai and coming back to Bombay.	None
Yeda Yakub advised him that he should learn to handle the arms as there was tension prevailing all round and the Muslims were being suppressed and beaten everywhere and therefore such training was necessary for their self defence, especially to face the Hindus.	None
Muslims have suffered heavy losses.	None
In case riots occurred in future then by learning the handling of weapons Muslims can effectively deal with Hindus.	None
When he (A126) was in Dubai he went to see a person who knew to his brother and during the conversation he enquired from the respondent (A126) the purpose for which he had gone to Dubai.	None
The respondent (A126) told him that he had come for taking training of handling of arms and on their return journey they would take some goods along with them to earn some money in India.	None
He cautioned the respondent (A126) that the work was not good and advised him to go back.	None
Confession of Mohd.	None
Iqbal Ibrahim (A127)	None
He corroborated the version of other coaccused and had admitted going to Dubai	None
but he was not aware of the purpose for what he had been taken to Dubai.	None
During their stay in Dubai, people used to talk occasionally about weapons.	None
After 1014 days of reaching Dubai, they came back to Bombay.	None
He had been to Dubai three times earlier.	None
After coming back to India he came to know that he was taken to Dubai for training in handling of arms.	None
Confession of Murad Ibrahim Khan (A130)	None
He corroborated the version given by other coaccused in the confessional statement that he had gone to Dubai.	None
He further revealed that one day when they were in Dubai, Shakil told him that he would go to Pakistan for weapon training but the arrangement had not yet been finalized.	None
After a few days they came to know that they had been taken for weapon training but arrangements could not be made and they had to return to Bombay and on expiry of their visa they came back.	None
Confessional statement of Shaikh Mohmed Ethesham (A58)	None
He disclosed that he was a close associate of Yeda Yakub and was involved in all kinds of smuggling activities.	None
He revealed about the smuggling of arms and said that on 7.2.1993 when he was at the place of Hazi Yakub Yeda Yakub, and the latter informed him, Akbar, Babulal and Shahnawaz that Muslims had suffered a considerable loss in the riots and that they had to go to Dubai for training of arms and ammunition to protect themselves.	None
He, Shahnawaz, and Babulal were ready to go to Dubai.	None
Thus, they had gone to Dubai but came back without having any training.	None
Confession of Shahnawaz Khan (A128)	None
His confessional statement revealed that he had gone to Dubai alongwith other coaccused.	None
He came to know after going to Dubai that they were going for arms training to be held in Pakistan.	None
However, due to some reason arrangements could not be made for training.	None
Thus, he came to Bombay alongwith other coaccused namely Iqbal, Etheshem, Babulal and Shahid on 1.3.1993 and the remaining persons reached later on.	None
The Designated Court after appreciating the entire evidence has drawn a conclusion that the respondents may be under the impression that they were being sent there for training of arms so that it can be used in self defence and they came to know only when they were in Dubai that they were being sent for training to Pakistan.	None
However, the training could not be finalized arranged and they came back to Bombay.	Reasoning
Therefore, the learned Designated Court had drawn the inference that as they did not have knowledge that they were going to Pakistan for training in handling of arms they could not be held guilty.25.	Reasoning
The parameters laid down by this Court in entertaining the appeal against the order of acquittal have to be applied.	Reasoning
26	None
We have gone through the entire record and we are of the view that none of the respondents was aware of the intention of the conspirators to send the respondents to Pakistan for training to deal with the arms and ammunition rather they had been taken away to Dubai on false pretext and had been misguided.	None
Thus, we fully agree with the inference drawn and conclusion reached by the Designated Court.	None
We find no reason to interfere with the same.	Decision
The appeal lacks merit and is accordingly dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
CRIMINAL APPEAL NOS.	None
601 OF 2011State of Maharashtra through CBIAppellantVersusKrishnaSadanand	Facts
Mokal Ors.	Facts
Respondents	None
This criminal appeal has been preferred against the impugned judgment and order dated 2.8.2007 passed by the Special Judge of the Designated Court under the TADA, acquitting the respondents of all the charges under TADA and Arms Act.	Facts
28 Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that all the respondents had been working as police constables in the Police Department of Bombay and at the relevant time, i.e., January 1993 were posted as constables at Police Station, Shrivardhan.	Facts
After the Bombay blast on 12.3.1993, they had been charged for conspiracy in general as well as under Section 3(3) TADA and other charges for assisting and facilitating the accused persons to smuggle and transport the contraband articles, i.e., arms and ammunition and permitting the said goods to be taken further in lieu of bribe.	Facts
The case against the said respondents had been that on 8th/9th of January, 1993, the arms, ammunition and explosives were smuggled in India and after the landing at Dighi Jetty when the contraband were being transported to Bombay in trucks, the said trucks were intercepted by the police of Shrivardhan Police Station headed by Inspector Patil (A116).	Facts
The police checked those vehicles for 1015 minutes and permitted them to go after completing a detailed bargain with the conspirators accused and reaching the settlement of the huge amount of Rs.7,00,000/ as a bribe.	Facts
The accused did not have cash thus, they had given 5 silver ingots as security which were subsequently returned by the police officials to the accused persons after the negotiated amount was paid.	Facts
The respondents constables were also put to trial alongwith other coaccused (police officials) but they have been acquitted only on the ground that there was no iota of evidence to show that the respondents herein were also members of the Shrivardhan Police Station which had intercepted those trucks.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	Facts
Mr. Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellantState has submitted that the respondents were police constables posted at Police Station Shrivardhan and therefore, they were also the members of the party which intercepted the trucks carrying the contraband.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Designated Court failed to appreciate the evidence on record and has wrongly acquitted the respondents of the charges leveled against them.	None
Ms. Farhana Shah, learned counsel appearing for the respondents has submitted that it is nobodys case that all the police force posted at Shrivardhan Police Station had gone to check intercept the trucks carrying the contraband.	None
In the instant case, there is nothing on record to show that either of the respondents was a member of the party which intercepted the trucks carrying the contraband.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, the appeal is liable to be dismissed.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
In the confession of Mohmed Kasam Lajpuria (A136) recorded by Superintendent of Police, CBI at New Delhi Camp, Mumbai, he disclosed that he was a close associate of Tiger Memon (AA) etc. and had been indulged in various criminal activities including smuggling.	None
He had been participating in the landings and facilitating the transportation of the contraband and smuggled goods.	None
In January, 1993, he planned a landing alongwith Mohd.	None
Dossa, Salim Kutta (A134), Firoz, Qyum Sajani, Arif Lambu and the landing took place at Dighi Jetty.	None
After getting the contraband goods from the sea to the seashore the same were loaded in two trucks arranged by Uttam Potdar (A30).	None
The trucks were intercepted by police headed by Inspector Patil and 67 constables from P.S. Shrivardhan.	None
Inspector Patil (A116) asked Saleem and Firoz whether they were landing and transporting the contraband without making any payment to the police.	None
Meanwhile, Uttam Potdar (A30) also came alongwith one Custom Officer named Gurav (A82) in a jeep.	None
Uttam Potdar (A30) spoke to the police people and it was decided that a sum of Rs.8,00,000/ should be paid to the police.	None
As the accused persons did not have Rs.8,00,000/ in cash, the police kept 5 silver ingots with them as a security.	Facts
Inspector Patil (A116) asked them to take the silver ingots back after making the payment in cash.	None
Uttam Potdar (A30) revealed that he was a very close associate of smugglers including Tiger Memon (AA) and Mechanic Chacha (A136) etc., and had been participating in landing and transportation of the contraband.	None
He was called by Shri R.K. Singh, Assistant Collector (A 102) on 4.12.1993 through a custom sepoy and asked about the earlier days landing.	None
Shri Gurav, Custom Inspector (A82) also had contact with the said accused (A30) and after negotiating, it was decided to settle the issue of money.	None
Accordingly, the matter was settled and amount was paid to the custom officers.	None
This accused further revealed the mode of payment per landing to the Shrivardhan Police Station as well as the custom police.	None
He revealed the incident on 9.1.1993 when the trucks were intercepted by the Shrivardhan Police.	None
The vehicles were checked by two Hawaldars, named Mali and Muneshwar.	None
He fully corroborated the statement of Mechanic Chacha (A136) that as they had no money to pay to the police, they paid the silver ingots as security.	None
Dilip Pansare (PW.97) deposed that he was working as a mechanic in the State Transport Corporation at Shrivardhan Depot.	None
He was close associate of Uttam Potdar (A30).	None
He accompanied Uttam Potdar (A30) on 9.1.1993 when the vehicles carrying the contraband after landings were intercepted by Shrivardhan Police Station.	None
He deposed that the vehicles after interception were thoroughly checked by two constables.	None
The police team was headed by Inspector Patil (A116) and there were 6 7 constables with him.	None
He also gave full details of negotiation settlement of the amount of bribe for releasing the vehicles and giving 5 silver ingots as security as they did not have the cash.	None
Thus, he corroborated the statement of Uttam Potdar (A30) as well as of Mechanic Chacha (A136).	None
In the confessions of Dawood Phanse (A14), he has deposed that he was a landing agent and was facilitating transportation of smuggled goods of various smugglers in partnership with Sharif Abdul Gafoor Parkar (A17) including Tiger Memon (AA).	None
This accused (A14) and Dadabhai (A17) corroborated the version so far as this case is concerned only to the extent of payment of money to Shrivardhan Police Station for two landings.	None
Mohd.	None
Salim (A134) corroborated the case to the extent of interception of vehicles carrying the contraband on 9.1.1993 by Shrivardhan Police at Gongdhar Phata.	None
The police team consisted of one Inspector and few constables.	None
If the evidence of all the witnesses is read conjointly, it becomes evident that none of the witnesses had named either of the respondents.	None
The other persons of the police team who had been named stood convicted.	Reasoning
The respondents have been acquitted on the ground that in absence of Test Identification Parade or their identification by any of the witnesses accused in the court, it was not safe to make a guess work that they or either of them could also be member(s) of the said police team which intercepted the contraband.	Reasoning
The evidence on record reveal that police team headed by Inspector Patil was having 67 constables.	Reasoning
There is nothing on record on the basis of which it could be assumed that the respondents were the members of the said team.	Reasoning
It is nobodys case that the total strength of the Shrivardhan Police Station was 7 or 8, so it can be presumed that all except one or two might have come.	Reasoning
The Sarpanchas of 7 villages in close proximity, deposed in court to falsify the alibi taken by the respondents that they were on police patrolling in their villages.	Reasoning
Statements made by the Sarpanchas that none of the respondents had visited their village on patrolling cannot be a proof that the respondents were members of the team, which intercepted the said trucks.37.	Reasoning
The learned Designated Court dealt with the issue elaborately and came to the conclusion that there was no material to connect the respondents with the aforesaid incident and it was not safe to presume that the respondents were also the members of the police team which intercepted the said trucks carrying contraband.38.	Reasoning
The parameters laid down by this Court in entertaining the appeal against the order of acquittal have to be applied.	Reasoning
In view of the above, we do not see any cogent reason to interfere with the impugned judgment.	None
The appeal lacks merit and is, accordingly, dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
CRIMINAL APPEAL	None
NO.	None
404 OF 2011State of Maharashtra through CBIAppellantVersusMoiddin Abdul Kadar Cheruvattam Respondent40.	Facts
This criminal appeal has been preferred against the impugned judgment and order dated 2.8.2007, passed by the Special Judge of the Designated Court under the TADA in the Bombay Blast Case No. 1/93, acquitting the respondent of all the charges.41.	Facts
Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that A.	Facts
In addition to the main charge of conspiracy, he was also charged under Section 3(3) TADA, for collecting the funds for terrorist activities and distributing the same for propaganda against Hindus after the riots in Bombay after demolishing of Babri Masjid in December 1992.B.	Facts
The Special Judge under TADA has discarded all the confessional statements on the ground that the officer who recorded the confessional statement of the respondent and other coaccused did not fulfill the requirement of law by giving any warning to the said persons telling (i) that they were not bound to make a confession and (ii) if made, it could be used against them as evidence, and thus acquitted them of all the charges.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	Facts
Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant has tried to impress upon us that undoubtedly the warning had not been administered in the first part of any of the said confessional statements but only after reflection period, when the said persons again appeared for making their respective statements they had been warned properly.	Arguments of Petitioner
If Part I and Part II of their statements are read together, it is evident that the said accused persons were fully aware that they were not bound to make the confession and if made, it would be used against them.	None
43	None
On the contrary, learned counsel for the respondent (A48) has opposed the appeal contending that before the confession is recorded, Section 15 TADA and Rule 15(3) of the TADA Rules, require that the maker of the statement must be explained that he was not bound to make such statement and if so made, would be used against him.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, no interference is warranted.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel appearing for the parties and perused the record.	None
Evidence against the respondent (A48) Confessional statement of respondent (A48)	None
Confessional statement of Ahmed Shah Khan Mubarak Shah Salim Khan Durani Salim	None
Tonk (A20) Confessional statement of Aziz Ahmed Mohammed Ahmed Shaikh (A21)	None
Confessional statement of Ismail Abbas Patel (A80)	None
First part of the confessional statement of the respondent (A 48) recorded on 14.5.1993, reads as under My name is Mohiuddin Abdul Kadar, age 30 years, occupation Sales Representative, Dubai, Place of residence 52/5, Zakaria Masjid St., Mumbai9.	None
I passed S.S.C. in the year 1978.	None
I myself informed the Inspector of Crime Branch that I wanted to make the confessional statement voluntarily.	None
I was arrested by the Bombay Police on 3.4.93 from my residence at Dongri in connection with the Bombay bomb Blast case.	None
For this reason, I wanted to give my confessional statement.	None
I have been explained about my making the confessional statement that the confessional statement, which I am going to make will be used against me.	None
In this connection, I was given 48 hours.	None
For reflection, I will be produced on 17.5.93, if I want to make the confessional statement.	None
Sd  Sd  DCP Accused Similarly the first part of the confessional statements of co accused Ahmed Shah Khan Mubarak Shah Salim Khan Durani Salim	None
Tonk (A20), Aziz Ahmed Mohammed Ahmed Shaikh (A21) and Ismail Abbas Patel (A80) are very cryptic.	None
Further, there is no explanation or warning therein as required by law.	None
Therefore, such confessions are liable to be discarded.	None
This Court in S.N. Dube v. N.B.	None
Bhoir Ors., (2000) 2 SCC 254 held that the compliance of Section 15 TADA and Rule 15 of TADA Rules, is mandatory.	None
It is necessary before making of the confessional statement that the accused must be warned that confessional statement if made will be used against him and further that he is not bound to make the same.	None
Writing the certificate and making the memorandum are thus made mandatory to prove that the accused was explained that he was not bound to make a confession and that if he made it it could be used against him as evidence, that the confession was voluntary and that it was taken down by the police officer fully and correctly.	None
These matters are not left to be proved by oral evidence alone.	None
The requirement of the rule is preparation of contemporaneous record regarding the manner of recording the confession in the presence of the person making it.	None
The court further clarified that a confessional statement would not be adversely affected if the certificate and memorandum are mixed or the format so prescribed is not used by the recording officer.	None
This Court in Lal Singh v. State of Gujarat Anr., (2001) 3 SCC 221 held that In view of the settled legal position, it is not possible to accept the contention of learned Senior Counsel Mr Sushil Kumar that as the accused were in police custody, the confessional statements are either inadmissible in evidence or are not reliable.	None
Custodial interrogation in such cases is permissible under the law to meet grave situation arising out of terrorism unleashed by terrorist activities by persons residing within or outside the country.	None
The learned counsel further submitted that in the present case the guidelines suggested by this Court in Kartar Singh v. State of Punjab (1994) 3 SCC 569 , were not followed.	None
In our view, this submission is without any basis because in the present case confessional statements were recorded prior to the date of decision in the said case i.e. before 1131994.	None
Further, despite the suggestion made by this Court in Kartar Singh case, the said guidelines are neither incorporated in the Act nor in the Rules by Parliament.	None
Therefore, it would be difficult to accept the contention raised by learned counsel for the accused that as the said guidelines are not followed, confessional statements even if admissible in evidence, should not be relied upon for convicting the accused.	None
Further, this Court has not held in Kartar Singh case that if suggested guidelines are not followed then confessional statement would be inadmissible in evidence.	None
Similar contention was negatived by this Court in S.N. Dube (supra), by holding that a police officer recording the confession under Section 15 is really not bound to follow any other procedure and the rules or the guidelines framed by the Bombay High Court for recording the confession by a Magistrate under Section 164 CrPC the said guidelines do not by themselves apply to recording of a confession under Section 15 of the TADA Act and it is for the court to appreciate the confessional statement as the substantive piece of evidence and find out whether it is voluntary and truthful.	None
Further, by a majority decision in State v. Nalini, (1999) 5 SCC 253 , Court negatived the contentions that confessional statement is not a substantive piece of evidence and cannot be used against the coaccused unless it is corroborated in material particulars by other evidence and the confession of one accused cannot corroborate the confession of another, by holding that to that extent the provisions of the Evidence Act including Section 30 would not be applicable.	None
The decision in Nalini (supra) was considered in S.N. Dube (supra).	None
The Court observed that Section 15 is an important departure from the ordinary law and must receive that interpretation which would achieve the object of that provision and not frustrate or truncate it and that the correct legal position is that a confession recorded under Section 15 of the TADA Act is a substantive piece of evidence and can be used against a co accused also.	None
In Bharatbhai v. State of Gujarat, (2002) 8 SCC 447 , this Court held In view of the aforesaid discussion, our conclusions are as follows Writing the certificate and making the memorandum under Rule 15(3)(b) is mandatory.	None
The language of the certificate and the memorandum is not mandatory.	None
In case the certificate and memorandum is not prepared but the contemporaneous record shows substantial compliance with what is required to be contained therein, the discrepancy can be cured if there is oral evidence of the recording officer based on such contemporaneous record.	None
In the absence of contemporaneous record, discrepancy cannot be cured by oral evidence based on the memory of the recording officer.	None
In the present case, admittedly Rule 15(3)(b) has not been complied.	None
No memorandum as required was made.	Reasoning
There is also no contemporaneous record to show the satisfaction of the recording officer after writing of confession that the confession has been voluntarily made.	Reasoning
The confession of Accused 7 does not even state that it was read over to him.	Reasoning
Thus, the confessional statements are inadmissible and cannot be made the basis of upholding the conviction.	Reasoning
Once confessional statements are excluded the conviction cannot be sustained.	Reasoning
The parameters laid down by this Court in entertaining the appeal against the order of acquittal have to be applied.52.	Reasoning
In view of the above, we are of the considered opinion that the learned Designated Court rightly rejected the confessional statement made by the respondent and the coaccused as the first part of these statements has not been recorded in consonance with the requirement of statutory provisions.	None
We concur with the view taken by the Special Judge.	Reasoning
The appeal lacks merit, and is accordingly, dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.405 OF 2011State of Maharashtra through CBI AppellantVersusAsfaq Kasam Hawaldar Respondent53.	None
This appeal has been preferred against the final judgment and order dated 2.8.2007 passed by the Special Judge of the Designated Court under the TADA in Bombay Blast Case No.1 of 1993, acquitting the respondent (A38) charged for larger conspiracy and under Section 3(3) TADA.54.	Facts
In addition to the charge of conspiracy, Respondent (A38) has also been charged for the commission of offences punishable u s 3(3) TADA.55.	Facts
The case of the prosecution against him has been thatA.	Facts
The accused (A38) along with his coconspirators participated in the landing and transportation of arms, ammunition and explosives at Shekhadi, Taluka Shrivardhan District Raigad, which were smuggled into the country by Mushtaq Ibrahim Tiger Abdul Razak Memon (AA) and associates for being used in commission of terrorist acts.	Facts
B. That the accused (A38) transported arms, ammunition and explosives which took place on 7.2.1993 which were smuggled into the country by Mushtaq Ibrahim Tiger Abdul Razak Memon and his associates for commission of terrorist acts in motor truck no.	Facts
MHT 6745 driven by this accused from Shekhadi to Wangni Tower.	Facts
C. The Special Judge after conclusion of the trial acquitted the respondent of all the charges.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	Facts
Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the State has submitted that as the respondent had been the driver of the vehicle which carried the contraband, i.e., arms, ammunition and explosives and therefore, there was no reason for his acquittal by the Designated Court.	None
Per contra, Ms. Farhana Shah, learned counsel appearing for the respondent has submitted that there is nothing on record to show that the respondent was driving the alleged vehicle on that particular day.	Arguments of Respondent
The registered owner of the vehicle was neither made an accused nor a witness in the case and no material had been placed on record to show that on the fateful day the respondent was driving the vehicle.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, the findings of the learned Designated Court do not require any interference.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
Confessional statement of Tulsi Ram Dhondu Surve (A 62) He revealed that he was working as a Chowkidar at Wangni Tower and came in contact with the smugglers and facilitated their activities many a times for loading and unloading the contraband smuggled by them.	None
He (A62) used to serve them tea and food.	None
On being asked by Dawood he (A62) had agreed to help the smugglers in loading and unloading at the said tower for consideration.	None
On 9.1.1993 at 8 hrs.	None
in the night one	None
Maruti car entered the premises of the tower and Sarfaraz (A55), son of Dawood Phanse got down from the Car and asked him (A62) to prepare tea.	None
He prepared tea and served the same to 910 persons.	None
Tiger Memon (AA) was also with them.	None
After having tea they went away and came back at 12 oClock in the night with one truck and a tempo, a jeep and a Maruti car.	None
Tiger Memon (AA) and his associates Iqbal, Anwar, Munna, Sharif alighted from the vehicles and then the contraband was reloaded from the truck to the tempo.	None
Tiger Memon (AA) had given his men guns and pistols in their hands and after reloading the contraband they all went away.	None
On 7.2.1993, he came to know through Sharif that Dawood Phanses (A14) contraband was about to come.	None
The accused (A62) informed his other colleagues at about 9.30 in the night.	None
He came alongwith More from the tower and waited at the Kuchha road for them.	None
After sometime a truck, followed by three jeeps, a rickshaw and two motorcycles came there.	None
Subsequently, a truck and a jeep carrying some goods also came to the tower.	None
The truck carrying the goods was owned by one Hasan Adhikari, r o Mhasla and was driven by Asfaq Kasam Hawaldar (A38).	None
Alongwith the truck, Dawood Phanse (A62), Dadamiya Parkar (A17), Sharif Adhikari, Abdul Gharatkar were there in a jeep.	None
Tiger Memon and his abovementioned associates carrying guns and pistols got down from another jeep.	None
Sarfaraz Phanse (A55), Khalil Nazir and Sajjad Nazir kept the watch during this period.	None
After transferring the goods from one vehicle to another all vehicles left from there.	None
The wooden packings of the goods were burnt in the ditch near the tower.	None
Deposition of Vyankatesh Hirba (PW.588) stated that he made the recovery of the truck used in the said offence.	None
The Designated Court has acquitted the respondent (A38) of the said charges only on the ground that the truck was owned by Hasan Adhikari and the prosecution did not consider it proper to make Hasan Adhikari as an accused or as a witness to find out as to whether the respondent (A38) had been a regular driver with him and as to whether on that particular date he was on duty.	Reasoning
No person had identified him as he was driving the said vehicle on the said date.	Reasoning
The confessional statement of Tulsi Ram Dhondu Surve (A62) was not corroborated by any other witness accused.62.	Reasoning
The parameters laid down by this Court in entertaining the appeal against the order of acquittal have to be applied.	Reasoning
We find no cogent reason to interfere with the order passed by the Designated Court and the appeal is accordingly dismissed.	Decision
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.394 OF 2011State of MaharashtraAppellantVersusIsmail Abbas Patel Respondent This appeal has been preferred against the final judgment and order dated 2.8.2007 passed by the Special Judge of the Designated Court under the TADA in Bombay Blast Case No.1 of 1993, acquitting the respondent charged under Section 3(3) and Section 120B IPC and other provisions.	Facts
Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that In addition to main charge of conspiracy, the respondent was charged as he participated in the conspiratorial meeting at Dubai, and made the arrangement and financed the trip for his coaccused Shaikh Aziz to Dubai.	None
Thus, he was charged under Section 3(3) TADA and various provisions of IPC.B. The Designated Court after conclusion of the trial acquitted the respondent of all the charges.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	Facts
Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the State has submitted that there was ample evidence against the respondent of his involvement in the aforesaid offence.	None
However, the learned Designated Court has wrongly acquitted him.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, the appeal deserves to be allowed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, learned counsel appearing for the respondent has opposed the appeal contending that the findings of fact recorded by the court below are based on evidence and by no means, the same can be held to be perverse.	None
Thus, no interference is called for.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
Evidence against the respondent is his own confession recorded under Section 15 TADA and the confessions of coaccused Ahmed Shah Khan Durrani (A20) and Aziz Ahmed Mohd.	None
Ahmed Shaikh (A21).	None
The confession of the respondent and other coaccused i.e. A20 and A21 has been discarded by the Designated Court for the reason that it had not been recorded strictly in accordance with the provisions of Section 15 TADA and Rule 15 of TADA Rules, 1987.	None
The confessional statement of these accused had been recorded in two parts and there had been some intervening period for reconsideration.	None
While recording the first part of the confession, the officer recording the statement did not inform the accused that he was not bound to make the confession and further that in case he makes it, it would be used against him as evidence.	None
In the first part of the confessional statement of the respondent as his particulars have been described and further stated that he was giving his confession of his own accord.	None
It was further recorded that the accused had been given 48 hours to reconsider. ?	None
Even in the second part of the confession which was recorded on 4.5.1993 the respondent had not been warned that he was not bound to make the confession.	None
Though he was asked as to whether he was making the statement under any pressure and whether he was willing to make the confession but even then he was not warned that he was not bound to make the statement.	Reasoning
The certificate issued by the officer regarding the confessional statement mentions the belief of the recording officer that the statement was signed of his own will.73.	Reasoning
Exactly the same is the position so far as the confessional statements of coaccused Ahmed Shah Khan Durrani (A20) and Aziz Ahmed Mohd.	Reasoning
Ahmed Shaikh (A21) are concerned.74.	Reasoning
The Designated Court has discarded the confessional statements as the same was not in accordance with the said provisions.	Reasoning
We concur with the finding of the Designated Court in view of the law laid down by this court in S.N. Dube (supra), where it was held that the compliance of Section 15 and Rule 15 of TADA, 1987 is mandatory.	Reasoning
Vide Lal Singh (supra) and Bharatbhai (supra).75.	Reasoning
As there is no admissible evidence on record connecting the respondent (A80) to the crime, he has rightly been acquitted by the court below.	None
Thus, no interference is required and the appeal is accordingly dismissed.	None
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.1033 OF 2012State of MaharashtraAppellantVersusRukhsana Mohd.	None
Shafi Zariwala Respondent76.	Facts
This appeal has been preferred against the final judgment and order dated 2.8.2007, passed by the Special Judge of the Designated Court under the TADA in the Bombay Blast Case No.1 of 1993, acquitting the respondent of all the charges.77.	Facts
Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that In addition to the main charge of conspiracy, the case against the respondent had been that she accompanied Ashrafur Rehman (A 71) and helped in the transportation of bags containing 85 handgrenades, 350 electric detonators and 3270 live cartridges of AK56 rifles from Jogeshwari to Musafirkhana, Bombay.	Facts
She thereby aided and facilitated the distribution of fire arms, ammunition and explosives which were smuggled into India by the coaccused for terrorist activities.	Facts
After conclusion of the trial, the Designated Court acquitted the respondent of all the charges.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	Facts
Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellantState has submitted that the respondent had accompanied her husband while carrying the arms, ammunition and explosives, and thus, she was guilty of facilitating the distribution of arms, ammunition and explosives etc.	None
Hence, the Designated Court erred in acquitting her of all the charges.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ms. Farhana Shah, learned counsel appearing for the respondent has submitted that the Designated Court has examined the entire evidence and came to the conclusion that she had been unnecessarily dragged in the trial.	Arguments of Petitioner
She was not involved anywhere and merely being the wife of absconding accused, she had been forced to face the trial.	Arguments of Petitioner
Considering the parameters laid down by this Court to entertain the appeal against acquittal, the case is not worth for interference.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, the appeal is liable to be dismissed.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
Confessional statement of Parvez Nazir Ahmed Shaikh (A12) revealed about the incident of transportation of the contraband arms and ammunition from Jogeshwari to Musafirkhana.	None
He disclosed that he was a close associate of Imtiyaz and Tiger Memon.	None
He knew Shafi Zariwala, the husband of the respondent who was working as driver of Tiger Memon very well.	None
He revealed his participation on various times in landing and transportation.	None
On 11.3.1993 at 12 noon he went to the house of Tiger Memon.	None
At that time Asgar was also present there.	None
Tiger Memon (AA) gave him two suit cases, two handbags (just like neck hanging bags) and one big suit case and asked him to go to Musafirkhana.	None
He and Asgar took all the goods and kept the same in room no.17 of Musafirkhana and their curiosity got the best of them and they opened the bags and found that one bag contained AK56 rifles and the other bag contained some handgrenades and pen shaped pipes.	None
They closed the bag and went to Shafis house and from there went to Mahim.	None
After some time, Shafi also came by jeep and took him (A12) to his sisterinlaws house at Jogeshwari.	None
Shafis wife (respondent herein) was also there.	None
Shafi kept 2 AK56 rifles and some handgrenades in one bag and in the bag he kept some pistols there.	None
The accused (A12), Shafi, his wife Rukhsana (respondent) and his sisterinlaw all left for Mahim at about 8.30 P.M. Shafi dropped them at Mahim and told them to go to Musafirkhana by a taxi and keep those bags in room no.17 and after that came to Shafis house.	None
He explained that the goods had been kept at Musafirkhana on the instruction of Tiger Memon (AA).	None
He revealed that after the Bombay Blast on 12.3.1993 he had shifted the contraband from room nos.16 and 17 to the lavatory and further how the recovery was made.	None
So far as the incident of transporting the goods from Jogeshwari to Musafirkhana is concerned, Ashrafur Rehman Azimulla Shaikh (A71) revealed that he had booked two rooms i.e., Room Nos.16 and 17 on the first floor in Musafir Khana.	None
On the intervening night of 11.3.1993 and 12.3.1993 at about 1.00 a.m.	None
Tiger Memon (AA) called him on telephone and asked him to reach Musafirkhana.	None
Tiger Memon met him there.	None
There were three big suit cases and one small suit case, two hand bags, three or four plastic bags containing cartridges, seven machine guns and seven small pistols etc.	None
He has given some reference to this incident, however, his statement was discarded by the Designated Court in view of the fact that the officer who recorded his statement did not meet the statutory requirement of giving him the statutory warning that he was not bound to make his confession and if made it would be used against him.	None
We have gone through his confessional statement.	None
No such requirement had been ensured and, thus, the same has rightly been rejected by the court below.	None
The Special Judge acquitted the respondent on the grounds ?	None
(a) That there is no corroborative material available to support the contents of the confession of A12 Parvez Nazir Ahmed Shaikh and further no recovery has been affected from room No. 17 of the Musafirkhana.	None
That the confession made by A71 Ashrafur Rehman in support of A12 Parvez Nazir Ahmed Shaikhs confession is inadmissible because it was not recorded by the Deputy Commissioner of police (hereinafter referred to as DCP) by following the statutory procedure and that A71 Ashrafur Rehman was not given the requisite warning that he was not bound to make confession.	None
Further, the requisite certificate memorandum as prescribed in Rule 15 (3) of TADA(P) Rules, was also not recorded.	None
The parameters laid by this Court in entertaining the appeal against the order of acquittal have to be applied.86.	Reasoning
The only allegation against the respondent had been that she had accompanied her hushand (AA) while he carried the arms, ammunition and explosives.	Reasoning
Further, there is nothing on record to show that she had any knowledge of such arms, and the purpose for which the same had been brought.	Reasoning
Further, the sisterinlaw of the respondent was neither made the accused nor a witness.	Reasoning
Her husband is still absconding.	Reasoning
In such a factsituation, the findings recorded by the learned Designated Court do not warrant any interference.	Arguments of Respondent
The appeal lacks merit, and is accordingly dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.	None
594 OF 2011The State of MaharashtraAppellantVersusSayyed Ismail Sayyed Ali Kadri Respondent87.	Facts
This appeal has been preferred against the impugned judgment and order dated 2.8.2007 passed by the Special Judge of the Designated Court under the TADA for Bombay Blast, Greater Bombay, in Bombay Blast Case	Facts
No. 1/1993, acquitting the respondent (A105) of all the charges.88.	Facts
Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that In addition to the main charge of conspiracy, the respondent was also charged for having abetted and knowingly and intentionally facilitating the commission of terrorist acts in effecting the landing of contraband goods such as arms, ammunition and explosives at Dighi Jetty on 9.1.1993.	Facts
He was further charged for concealing contraband at his house and also in the mango grove of Abdul Razak Subedar and further for his involvement in disposal of the said articles at Kandal Gaon Creek.89.	Facts
The Special Judge after conclusion of the trial, acquitted the respondent of all the charges.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	Facts
Mr. Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant has submitted that the respondent being father of Shabir Sayyed Ismail Kadri (AA) and Jamir Sayyed Ismail Kadri (A133) (dead after being convicted by the Special Judge) was a party to conspiracy and of the plan of committing terrorist acts and was fully aware as the contraband had been concealed in his house with his consent and connivance.	Arguments of Petitioner
He had also participated when the contraband arms and ammunition were shifted from his house to mango grove of Abdul Razak Subedar and concealed there by digging the earth.	Arguments of Petitioner
He was involved in disposal of the said articles in the creek.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Special Judge has wrongly given the benefit of doubt to him.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, the appeal deserves to be allowed.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the contrary, Ms. Farhana Shah, learned counsel appearing for the respondent has submitted that even if his sons Shabir Sayyed Ismail Kadri (AA) and Jamir Sayyed Ismail Kadri (A133) had been involved in the offence, there is nothing on record on the basis of which it could be held that the respondent had committed any offence.	Arguments of Respondent
More so, he had been in jail for 2 years during the trial.	Arguments of Respondent
He is 70 years of age, old and bed ridden person.	Arguments of Respondent
The incident occurred 20 years ago, so it is not a case warranting interference against the order of acquittal.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
Respondent accused (A105) did not make any confession.	None
Confession of Faki Ali Faki Ahmed Subedar (A74)	None
The confessional statement of Faki Ali Faki Ahmed Subedar (A 74) revealed that Shabir had approached him in the 2nd/3rd week of March, 1993 for help as Feroz Khan had come from Bombay and told him that after the riots the situation was very bad in Bombay and some boxes containing fire arms and bags containing cartridges were to be dumped in the creek.	None
He asked for help taking the said articles in the boat.	None
The acccused (A74) agreed.	None
Shabir, his brother Jamir (A133, since dead), Abdulla Surti and Gambas (A81) took out three wooden boxes and 6 green coloured bags kept under the straw and loaded them in a boat lying near the shore of the creek and went in the water towards Kandalwada creek.	None
The next day, Shabir came and told him that certain arms, ammunition and cartridges were to be hidden in the mango grove and he wanted the said accused to help him.	None
The accused went along with him.	None
At that time, Gambas, Abdulla Surti, Jamir and Jamirs father were there in his house.	None
After reaching there, they took out 13 coloured bags containing cartridges and guns wrapped in plastic paper and kept there in three bundles from underneath the straw.	None
These articles were put in the pit prepared earlier in the mango orchard of Abdulla Razak Subedar who was living in Nairobi at the time and the pit was covered with soil.	None
After about a month, he was interrogated by the police, wherein he disclosed about the said 13 green coloured bags containing cartridges and three bundles containing guns had been hidden in the mango orchard of Abdul Razak Subedar.	None
The hidden material was recovered from the said mango grove and it contained 4 country made guns, 12 foreign made guns, 36 magazines and 26 cartridges.	None
Confession of Jananrdan Pandurang Gambas (A81)	Reasoning
He disclosed that he was not able to maintain a good business so some smugglers persuaded him to purchase one new boat and indulge in transportation of smuggled goods particularly silver and gold through the sea.	None
Shabir used to give him Rs.1000/ for such activities.	None
On 2.12.1993, he was asked by Shabir Kadri to come to the Jetty at around 9.00 p.m., for unloading silver and gold.	None
So he participated in the said landing and brought the goods to the sea shore with the help of Mohd.	None
Chacha (A136) and Uttam Potdar (A30) and for that many persons had helped and Uttam Potdar (A30) gave Rs. 5,000/ to each and every person for their assistance.	None
After the Bombay Blast, one day Jamir (A 133, since dead) and his brother Shabir called him (A81) at Agarwada and he was told that goods unloaded on the last occasion contained guns and explosive substances i.e. gola barood and had to be hidden beneath the ground and he was directed to remain present in the mango grove after dinner and dig the pit for hiding the contraband.	None
Accordingly, a pit was prepared and three boxes each containing 4 rifles wrapped in gunny bags and 26 boxes of thermal packing were buried in the ground.	None
He was paid Rs.1,000/ for that job.	None
Shabir threatened him not to disclose the fact to anyone.	None
When these articles were buried, Shabir Jamir, Faki Ali Faki Chacha, Abdulla Surti, Sayyed Ismail Kadri, father of Shabir were also present.	None
The recovery of the said material had been made at the instance of Faki Ali Faki Chacha (A74) from the mango grove.	None
After appreciating the aforesaid evidence the Special Judge came to the conclusion that the respondent (A105) had not made any confession.	Reasoning
So far as the confession of Faki Ali Faki Chacha (A74) is concerned, it contained reference regarding the presence of one father, but the same does not specifically reveal A105 being person while the goods were being concealed after taking them from the house of the respondentaccused to the mango grove.	Reasoning
The same conclusion was drawn regarding the confession of Jananrdan Pandurang Gambas (A81).	Reasoning
He (A 81) made a passing remark revealing the presence of respondent A105 at the relevant time.	Reasoning
Still the same specifically failed to depict any act committed by him in relation with the contraband goods.	Reasoning
More so, there seems to be some contradiction and variance in the sequence of events as given in the aforesaid confessions.	Reasoning
Thus, it was difficult to accept that the said material in confession of the coaccused can be accepted without there being any independent corroboration, though the corroboration was required only on material points and not on each and every point.	Reasoning
The confessional statement of the aforesaid accused particularly Faki Ali Faki Chacha (A74) and Jananrdan Pandurang Gambas (A81) cannot be said to be cogent enough for establishing involvement of the respondent (A105) in commission of the acts amounting to a criminal offence required to be strictly proved.97.	Reasoning
The parameters laid down by this Court in entertaining the appeal against the order of acquittal have to be applied.98.	Reasoning
In the instant case, there is no evidence on record to show that the respondent had been involved in the crime in any manner.	Reasoning
If his sons had indulged in the offence, his mere presence in his house, where the contraband had been hidden, would not make the respondent responsible.	None
We do not find any cogent reason to interfere with the impugned judgment and order.	None
The appeal lacks merit and is accordingly dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.	None
402 of 2011State of Maharashtra.AppellantVersusMohd.	Facts
Ahmed Mansoor Respondent99.	Facts
This appeal has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 2.8.2007, passed by the Special Judge of the Designated Court under the TADA in the Bombay Blast Case No. 1 of 1993.	Facts
The respondent has been acquitted of all the charges.100.	Facts
In addition to the general charge of conspiracy, the respondent was charged under Section 3(3) TADA.101.	Facts
After conclusion of the trial, the Designated Court acquitted the respondent of all the charges.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	Facts
Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the State argued that the respondent received the coaccused at Dubai and facilitated their stay at Dubai and further facilitated their transit to Pakistan where they took training for handling of arms and ammunition etc.	None
When coaccused came back from Pakistan through Dubai, their transit and stay was again facilitated by him.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, his acquittal of all the charges deserves reversal.	None
Ms. Farhana Shah, learned counsel appearing for the respondent has submitted that there is no iota of evidence showing involvement of the respondent in any overt act or conspiracy.	Arguments of Respondent
The well reasoned judgment of the Designated Court does not warrant interference by this court.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
The respondent did not make any confessional statement.	None
Evidence against the respondent Confessional statement of Mohd.	None
Hanif Mohd Usman Shaikh (A 92) The accused (A92) revealed that he got a passport in the year 1987 and visited Dubai and other gulf countries several times prior to Bombay Blast.	None
During the riots in Bombay in December, 1992 and January, 1993, he was working as the driver of Salim Kurla.	None
Salim Kurla asked A92 to go to Dubai.	None
A92 agreed and he was paid Rs. 1000/ in cash and Salim Kurla agreed to arrange his ticket etc.	None
Ticket of A92 to Dubai was arranged by Salim Kurla as was done by him for Sayeed, Usman and Ibrahim.	None
All of them reached Dubai.	None
There two persons named Ahmed and Farooq were waiting for them outside the airport.	None
From there, A92 and other accused were taken to Delhi Darbar Hotel in two cars.	None
On the next day, Ahmed and Farooq came to the hotel and told them that they would go to Pakistan for work.	None
They were also given some money.	None
After 4 days, Salim, Ahmed and Farooq came to the hotel.	None
Salim told them that their air tickets for going to Pakistan were ready.	None
Thereafter, Salim and Ahmed called them and stated that great injustice had been done to the Muslim community in Bombay riots in December 1992 and January 1993.	None
Thus, in order to ensure that it was not repeated, they should be given training of handling of arms guns and ammunition.	None
They should be ready to go to Pakistan the next day.	None
Salim, Ahmed and Farooq left the hotel.	None
Next day Ahmed and Farooq came to the hotel and delivered their tickets and passports.	None
After some time, Salim also came.	None
The accused (A92) went with Usman, Ahmed and alongwith others to Dubai airport.	None
On the way, Ahmed gave one yellow coloured cap to Usman (PW.2) and told him to wear the same after reaching Pakistan so that the person who was coming to receive them, would be able to identify them.	None
In Pakistan, they were received at the airport by one Altaf and taken to the training camp in a jungle.	None
During their training, a person named Ahmed came there and enquired about training.	None
After completion of the training, two pathans took them to unknown bungalow in a jeep.	None
Thereafter, they came to Karachi and then Dubai and stayed in Delhi Darbar Hotel.	None
Confessional Statement of Shaikh Ibrahim Shaikh Hussain Shaink (A 108) He revealed that he was well acquainted with one Ismail and after the riots in Bombay in December 1992 and January 1993, he suffered a loss in business and used to stay at home.	None
On 16.1.1993, Ismail came to his house and asked him if he had a passport and whether he was willing to go to Dubai.	None
Accused (A108) told Ismail that he had no money.	None
Ismail told him not to worry about money, he would make the necessary payments.	None
So, he got ready to go to Dubai.	None
A 108 left for Dubai alongwith coaccused and reached Dubai where two persons named Ahmed and Farooq (whose names were disclosed by Salim) were waiting outside the airport.	None
Ahmed told them next day that they had to go to Pakistan for work and Ahmed gave them each 200 Dinars for their expenses.	None
Ahmed and Farooq had been meeting them and facilitated their stay and subsequent transit to Pakistan.	None
Ahmed gave one yellow coloured cap to Usman (PW.2) and told him to wear it in Pakistan so that they would be identified by the person who would come to receive them at the airport.	None
After reaching Pakistan, Usman (PW.2) wore Yellow coloured cap.	None
One person came to receive them, Usman (PW.2) told him that Ahmed and Farooq had sent them from Dubai.	None
They were taken outside the airport and taken to training camp in a jungle.	None
He (A108) got injured during the training so he was taken to hospital at Islamabad for treatment.	None
He stayed in the hospital for six days.	None
He was brought to Karachi airport from Islamabad by air by one Yusuf and one unknown person and then he reached Dubai.	None
Yusuf took him to the house of Anees Bhai.	None
Ahmed was also present there.	None
The next day the servant of Ahmed took him to Delhi Darbar Hotel where he met other persons.	None
From there, they came back to Bombay.	None
Confessional statement of Usman Man khan Shaikh (A115)	None
He revealed like other coaccused that he had also gone to Dubai and two persons named Ahmed and Farooq were already waiting for them outside the airport.	None
They had facilitated their stay in Dubai and transit to Pakistan.	None
All arrangements were made by them.	None
When the accused came back after having training in Pakistan Ahmed had given him 200 Dinars for expenses.	None
A115 revealed that the said accused persons got training in Pakistan.	None
During their training, Ahmed came and enquired about their training.	None
After completion of their training, they came back to Dubai and went to Delhi Darbar Hotel and then on 15.2.1993, Ahmed and Yusuf took them to Dubai Airport and then arrived at Bombay.	None
In his statement, Usman Ahmed Jan Khan (PW2) made reference to Ahmed without giving his full name and address or any other particular, which may be a decisive factor to determine as to whether the respondent was the real person to whom the witness had been talking about.	None
The Special Judge has given benefit of doubt to the respondent (A132) reaching the conclusion that the prosecution failed to disclose the correct identity of the accused.	None
None of the witness accused had referred to his full name or address even once.	Reasoning
In such a factsituation, the Special Judge has rightly given him the benefit of doubt.110.	Reasoning
In the facts and circumstances of the case, as the prosecution failed to fix the identity of the accused who had gone to Pakistan for training, we are of the opinion that the respondent has rightly been given the benefit of doubt.111.	Reasoning
The parameters laid down by this Court in entertaining the appeal against the order of acquittal have to be applied.	Reasoning
The appeal lacks merit, and the judgment and order of acquittal does not deserve interference.	Decision
The appeal is dismissed accordingly.	None
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 1022 OF 2012State of MaharashtraAppellantVersusRashid Umar Alwar Respondent113.	None
This criminal appeal has been preferred against the impugned judgment and order dated 2.8.2007, passed by the Special Judge of the Designated Court under the TADA in the Bombay Blast Case No. 1/93, by which the respondent had been convicted under Section 111 read with Section 135 of the Customs Act, 1962, and awarded the sentence of 3 years alongwith a fine of Rs.25,000/.	Facts
However, he had been acquitted of the general charge of conspiracy and second charge under Section 3(3) TADA.114.	Facts
Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that A.	Facts
In addition to the main charge of conspiracy, the respondent (A 27) was also charged for participating in the landing and transportation of the arms, ammunition and explosives, using his motor truck bearing registration No. MWT6683, on 3.2.1993 from Shekhadi to Wangni Tower.	Facts
About 59 bags of RDX explosives were taken by him in his truck alongwith other coaccused to the field of Tulsi Ram Dhondu Surve where it was buried and concealed.	Facts
B.	Facts
After holding the trial, the respondent had been acquitted of the charge of conspiracy, however, he has been convicted for the other charges as mentioned hereinabove.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	Facts
Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant has submitted that there was sufficient evidence against the respondent (A27), so far as the participation and transportation of the explosives used in the offences is concerned.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the acquittal under Section 3(3) TADA and of the charge of general conspiracy is unwarranted.	Arguments of Petitioner
The evidence on record makes it evident that he had knowledge that contrabands were not silver but arms and ammunition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the appeal deserves to be allowed and the respondent (A27) should be convicted for the offences punishable under the aforesaid provisions.	None
Shri Mushtaq Ahmad, learned counsel appearing for the respondent (A27) has submitted that after appreciating the evidence on record, the Designated Court reached the conclusion after that even if the respondent (A27) had participated in landing and transportation of contraband, he had no knowledge about its contents.	Arguments of Respondent
In absence of any knowledge that the contraband contained arms and ammunition, conviction under the provisions of TADA is not permissible.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent (A27) has already served 3 years imprisonment, and paid a fine of Rs.25,000/. Thus, no further consideration of the appeal is required.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the appeal is liable to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
Evidence against him Confession of the Respondent Rashid Umar Alware (A27)	None
In his own confession, Rashid Umar Alware (A27) has admitted that he owned a truck bearing registration No.MWT6683 and he drove himself.	None
In the first week of February, 1993 he had participated in the landing and transportation of silver at the behest of other co accused by driving his truck to Shekhadi village and bringing the contraband.	None
He disclosed that his truck was loaded with contraband and when the truck was moving it was followed by a jeep and they reached Wangni Tower.	None
There two persons took him aside and was asked to wait at one place.	None
After unloading some of the goods he drove the truck away from the Tower.	None
The remaining goods were unloaded and the same was kept in one pit in the land.	None
At that time he was kept at a distance from where unloading of the goods could not be seen.	None
He was paid a sum of Rs.20,000/ for transportation etc. Confession of Dawood Dawood Takllya Mohammed Phanse Phanasmiyan (A 14)	None
He disclosed that he was a very close associate of Tiger Memon (AA) and used to participate in landing and transportation of smuggled goods contraband.	None
In the first week of February, 1993, fiveseven persons with him had gone for landing at Shekhadi.	None
As per the pre arrangement, Rashid Umar Alware (A27) was called from Borli with his truck and 3540 persons were arranged for loading and unloading the goods.	None
The goods were brought from the trawlers to the shore by Tiger Memon (AA) and other persons armed with guns and were loaded in the truck.	None
Confession of Muzamil Umar Kadri (A25)	None
He (A25) disclosed that he reached Borli village on 3.2.1993 and asked Rashid Umar Alware (A27) to accompany him with his truck.	None
He came driving his truck at the place of landing.	None
Other accused persons were there.	None
They reached Shekhadi and the goods were loaded in the truck.	None
Confession of Sajjad Alam Iqbal Abdul Hakim	None
Nazir (A61)	None
He corroborated the version given by other coaccused that on 3.2.1993 the landing took place and the contraband was transported by the truck of the respondent (A27).	None
He also disclosed that most of the persons were not permitted to see when the loading and unloading took place at Wangni Tower.	None
Confession of Tulsi Ram Dhondu Surve (A62)	None
He (A62) has corroborated the version given by other coaccused disclosing that the said truck used for transportation belonged to Rashid Umar Alware (A27) from Borli and he himself was driving the truck.	None
The goods brought in the Wangni Tower contained guns and pistols.	None
The work of loading of the goods from the truck in a jeep and tempo started after bringing the same by truck from Shekhadi.	None
Out of the aforesaid goods 59 bags remained.	None
The said bags were taken by the truck of the respondent (A27) in the field and were unloaded on the steps of the house with the help of the labourers on the field and the same were covered with the soil.	None
When he asked Dawood whether those were the silver bricks, he was told that it was Kala Sabun.	None
Tiger Memon (AA) intimidated him and warned not to tell to anyone about the same.	None
Tiger Memon took one bundle from the said bundles and saw the same and ascertained as to whether the goods therein were proper or not and threw the plastic bag at that place and packed the same in another bundle and took the same with him.	None
It was learnt later that one truck had arrived on 4.2.1993 in the evening and carried away the remaining 59 bags.	None
The Designated Court after appreciating the entire evidence on record came to the following conclusion Now with regard to submission canvassed on behalf of A27 and after carefully considering the material in his confession and the same having shown the manner in which he had acted in episode it is crystal clear that he was full aware that he was involved in an illegal operation.	Reasoning
Having regard to same and so also having regard to the amount received by him it will be difficult to perceive that he was not aware that he was effecting any illegal operation.	Reasoning
Now considering the acts committed by him clearly denotes of himself having transported the goods brought into the country at a p lace which was not a port and all the facts regarding the said operation the same are sufficient to denote of the same being a smuggling operation.	Reasoning
However, there being no express evidence of A27 having seen the nature of goods transported and the evidence having indicated that he cannot be said to be a person present at Wangni tower when the exchange of material from vehicles to another vehicle was effected for concealing the same in cavity and the person from Bombay being only present along with Tiger Memon and A14 A17 his liability would be restricted for commission of offences under Customs Act he would be required to be held guilty only for commission of offence under Section 111 r w Section 135(b) of Customs Act and would be required to be held not guilty for commission of other offences including that of conspiracy in view of his acts being not of a nature for coming to the conclusion of the same being for furthering the object of conspiracy of or involvement of A27 in the same.	Reasoning
(Emphasis added)124.	None
The parameters laid down by this Court in entertaining the appeal against the order of acquittal have to be applied.125.	Reasoning
There is no evidence on record to show that the respondent had any knowledge about the nature of the articles smuggled in India.	Reasoning
In view thereof, we do not find any cogent reason to interfere with the wellreasoned judgment of the Designated Court.	None
The appeal lacks merit, and is accordingly, dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 393 OF 2011The State of Maharashtra AppellantVersusSharif Khan Abbas Adhikari Respondent126.	None
This criminal appeal has been preferred against the impugned judgment and order dated 2.8.2007 passed by the Special Judge of the Designated Court under the TADA in the Bombay Blast Case No. 1/93, by which the respondent had been convicted under Section 111 read with Section 135 of the Customs Act, 1962, and awarded the sentence of 3 years, alongwith a fine of Rs.25,000/, and in default of payment of fine, to suffer further RI for a period of 6 months.	Facts
However, he had been acquitted of the charge of conspiracy and charge under Section 3(3) TADA.127.	Facts
Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that A.	Facts
In addition to the main charge of conspiracy, the respondent was also charged for participating in the landing and transportation of the arms, ammunition and explosives at Shekhadi, Dist.	Facts
Raigad, for committing terrorist acts and also by shifting the said contrabands from motor truck bearing registration No. MWT6683 on 3.2.1993 into tempos and motor jeeps at Wangni Micro Tower Mhasla.	Facts
B.	Facts
After holding the trial, the respondent has been acquitted of the aforesaid charges, however, convicted for the other charges as mentioned hereinabove.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	Facts
Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant has submitted that there is sufficient evidence against the respondent so far as his participation in landing and transportation of the arms, ammunition, explosives etc.	None
Therefore, the acquittal under Section 3(3) TADA, and of the charge of conspiracy is unwarranted.	Arguments of Petitioner
The evidence on record makes it evident that he had knowledge that contraband were not silver, but arms and ammunition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, appeal deserves to be allowed, and the respondent should be convicted for the aforesaid offences.	None
Ms. Farhana Shah, learned counsel appearing for the respondent has submitted that after appreciating the evidence on record, the Designated Court reached the conclusion that even if the respondent had participated in landing and transportation of contraband, he had no knowledge about the nature of those articles.	Arguments of Respondent
In the absence of any knowledge that those smuggled goods contained arms and ammunition, conviction under the provisions of TADA is not permissible.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent had already served 3 years imprisonment and paid a fine of Rs.25,000/. Thus, no further consideration of the appeal is required.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, the appeal is liable to be dismissed.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
Evidence against the respondent Confession of Khalil Ahmed Sayed Ali Nasir (A42)	None
He disclosed about the incident of landing and transportation on 3.2.1993 that the goods were brought by the truck by Rashid Umar Alware (A27) who was driving the truck himself.	None
In the said truck other persons namely Abdul Salam Hishamuddin Nazir, Bashir Fakji, Sharif Khan Abbas Adhikari (A60), Muzammil Umar Kadri and Azimbhai Pardesi were sitting.	None
Confession of Tulsi Ram Dhondu Surve (A62)	None
He was the employee at the Wangni Tower.	None
He disclosed that he knew respondent Sharif Khan Abbas Adhikari (A60), resident of Mhasla and he was the person who brought Dawood Dawood Taklya Mohammed Phanse (A14) to him 1 years ago.	None
They had persuaded him (A62) to help in loading and unloading the smuggled silver and other goods in the tower for a handsome consideration.	None
So far as the relevant incident is concerned, he disclosed that some of the persons including Sharif Khan Abbas Adhikari (A60) came there with contraband at about midnight and thereafter the goods were loaded in the tempo from the truck.	None
They paid Rs.1,000/ each to the said accused, Harishchandra Surve (PW108), and Vijay Govind More (PW137), the other employees at the Wangni Tower.	None
He had been informed by Sharif Khan Abbas Adhikari (A60) regarding the landing and bringing the goods by Dawood Phanse (A14) and that is why the accused made all the arrangements.	None
Deposition of Harish Chandra Surve (PW108)	None
He corroborated the version given by Tulsi Ram Dhondu Surve (A 62) and regarding the said incident he disclosed that he knew all the coaccused conspirators.	None
The truck loaded with silver bricks came there and the bricks were shifted in the tempo and jeep.	None
Thereafter all the vehicles left the tower.	None
The deal was arranged by Tulsi Ram Dhondu Surve (A62) on consideration fixed by Dawood Phanse (A14).	None
The truck of Rashid Umar Alware (A27) was carrying silver bricks and wooden boxes of square shape.	None
Silver bricks were wrapped in a gunny cloth.	None
Persons in Maruti car were having small size guns.	None
He had not seen the weapons with the persons who had accompanied the jeep and tempo.	None
He further identified Sharif Khan Abbas Adhikari (A60) in court to be the person who was in the jeep.	None
Deposition of Vijay Govind More (PW137)	None
In respect of the incident dated 3.2.1993, he deposed that Tiger Memon (AA), Dawood Phanse (A14), Sharif Khan Abbas Adhikari (A 60), Abdul Gharatkar, Dadamiya Parkar (A17), Sarfaraz Phanse (A55) were amongst the said persons.	None
He further deposed that Dawood Phanse (A14), Sharif Khan Abbas Adhikari (A60) and others were the occupants of one of the jeep and he also identified Sharif Khan Abbas Adhikari (A60) in court.	None
The Designated court after appreciating the entire evidence on record came to the following conclusion Now carefully considering relevant material from confession of A42 and A62 about which excerpts are recited hereinabove it must be said that though same reveals involvement of A60 in relevant landing operation still close look at the same and so also other evidence does not reveal any material indicating that A60 was aware of nature of material which were smuggled during said operation.	None
The same is obvious as hardly there is any material revealing that A60 was present alongwith Tiger Memon when packets of goods were opened by Tiger Memon on coast.	None
Similarly, evidence is contrary regarding presence of A60 at Wangni Tower when goods were exchanged.	None
Having regard to same it will be extremely difficult to hold A60 guilty for offence under Section 3(3) TADA.	None
Having regard to fact that prosecution evidence about which detail dilation is made while recording the reasoning regarding the conclusion arrived about guilt of aforesaid accused and the same amongst other having denoted that A33 and A56 were owners of the boat which was used in contraband operation, both of them being involved twice in such operation, and even prior to same themselves and so also A19 being engaged in such activities, the quantity of goods which was transported by A19 being 48 cartons i.e. approximately 960 Kg.	None
allegedly being silver as told to them, confession of A14 revealing amount of Rs.24,000/ being paid to boatmen, A27 having received an amount of Rs.20,000/ for transportation effected by him.	None
A60 also being involved twice in transportation operation as disclosed from the confession of A62 and A42 and even prior to same himself being involved in smuggling operations are the factors for not accepting submissions advanced for showing leniency on the count of financial condition etc.	None
Needless to add that in the event of crimes being committed for earning handsome profits then hardly there would be any scope to show leniency on said count as the same will have an effect of causing erroneous impression of culprits being permitted to acquire the profits by commission of crimes.	None
Needless to add that the same would warrant of levying a sentence of an appropriate amount of fine in addition to the sentence of rigorous imprisonment.	None
(Emphasis added)	None
The parameters laid down by this Court in entertaining the appeal against the order of acquittal have to be applied.137.	Reasoning
There is no evidence on record to show that the respondent had any knowledge about the nature of the articles smuggled in India.	Reasoning
In view thereof, we agree with the reasoning given by the Special Judge.	Reasoning
No interference is warranted on the facts of the case.	Arguments of Respondent
The appeal is accordingly dismissed.	None
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 391 OF 2011State of Maharashtra AppellantVersusSharif Abdul Gafoor Parkar Dadabhai Respondent138.	None
This criminal appeal has been preferred against the impugned judgment and order dated 2.8.2007, passed by the Special Judge of the Designated Court under the TADA in the Bombay Blast Case No. 1/93, by which the respondent (A17) stood convicted under Section 3(3) TADA, and was awarded punishment of 7 years RI and a fine of Rs.50,000/ and in default of payment of fine, to suffer suitable RI, under Section 5 TADA, he was awarded 10 years RI and a fine of Rs.50,000/, and in default of payment of fine, further R.I. for one year and under Section 6 TADA, was awarded 14 years RI, and a fine of Rs.2 lakhs, and in default, to suffer further R.I. for 3 years.	Facts
All the sentences were directed to run concurrently.	Facts
As the respondent (A17) has been acquitted of the charge of conspiracy, the present appeal has been filed by the State.	Facts
Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant has submitted, that there is ample evidence on record to show that respondent (A17) was a close associate of Tiger Memon (AA) and was a party throughout in hatching the conspiracy and, therefore, has wrongly been acquitted for the said charge.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the statement of the respondent (A17) under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as Cr.PC.), before the learned Designated Court, he himself admitted that he was fully aware of the contraband and knew that the same was going to be used against Hindus for taking revenge.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the appeal deserves to be allowed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Sushil Karanjakar, learned counsel appearing for the respondent (A17) has submitted that the respondent has already served the sentence of 14 years awarded by the Designated Court and paid the fine and did not file any appeal against his conviction.	Arguments of Respondent
In spite of the fact that the respondent (A17) was fully aware that the arms, ammunition and explosives that had been smuggled into India by Tiger Memon (AA) would be used for terrorist activities, he was unable to give any other person this information as he had been threatened with dire consequences.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, the respondent (A17) acted under threat and coercion.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted that the confessions of the co accused used by the learned Designated Court to convict the respondent (A17) were made prior to the date of the amendment i.e. 22.5.1993 except the confession of Nasir Dhakla (A64).	Arguments of Respondent
However, the statement of Nasir Dhakla (A64) cannot be relied upon as there was no corroboration of the same.	None
Therefore, at such a belated stage there is no reason to entertain the appeal and convict the said respondent for conspiracy, as he had already suffered enough.	None
Therefore, the appeal is liable to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
Evidence against the respondent (A17)	None
Confessional statement of Dadabhai Parkar (A17)	None
He disclosed that he was a very close associate of Tiger Memon (AA) and used to participate in smuggling activities.	None
He had been called by Tiger Memon (AA) many times for landing etc.	None
So far as the landing on 3.2.1993 is concerned, he disclosed that on instructions of Tiger Memon he contacted R.K. Singh (A102), the Customs Officer and told him that he was an informant and asked him to come to hotel Big Splash.	None
He (A102) expressed his inability to come to the hotel Big Splash but assured that his Superintendent, Sayyed (A90) would come.	None
The accused (A17) and Tiger Memon (AA) had some discussion with Sayyed (A90) and Tiger Memon had told him about his programme of landing of smuggled goods.	None
On 3.2.1993, he (A17) left with coaccused and participated in the landing and brought the smuggled goods.	None
There was some material in the jeep and cardboard boxes which were covered with gunny cloth.	None
Inside the boxes there was packing of plastic and inside, in some boxes hand bombs, wire, rifles and pistols and cartridges were there.	None
Tiger Memon (AA) had been checking those goods and preparing a list.	None
Baba, Anwar, Shafi and others were keeping the arms and ammunition etc.	None
in the cavities of jeep and tempo.	None
Among the goods that were landed there, a chemical by name black soap was also there.	None
As there was insufficient space in the tempo, Tiger Memon (AA) instructed his man to bury 59 bags in the land opposite the tower.	None
The cardboard boxes and empties were handed over to some persons and they destroyed the same by burning them.	None
As to the packages of black soap which had been torn, Tiger Memon gave them to him (A17) and instructed him (A17) that he had to be careful while burning them as they may explode.	None
He burnt the same and at that time heard the noise of explosion which was very mild.	None
The work was complete by 5.00 a.m.	None
and they left for Bombay.	None
Again on 9.2.1993 there was another landing and Tiger Memon (AA), Javed, Yakub, Anwar, Shafi, Imtiyaz, Parvez, Mohd.	None
Hussain etc.	None
all proceeded to Wangni Tower.	None
At that time there were 2 tempos, 4 jeeps and one Maruti car.	None
They went to Coastal side at Shekhadi and after receiving the contraband from the trawler they loaded the same in a truck and came to the tower.	None
Two boxes from the tempo were taken out and broken and the goods like pistols, weapons were adjusted in the cavities of the jeep and the empty boxes were burnt.	None
It was on 19.2.1993 that he was paid a sum of Rs.5 lakhs by Asgar Mukadam Munna.	None
He also received Rs.9 lakhs from Shafi and one lakh from Gani.	None
So, in total he received Rs.15 lakhs and after deducting all the expenses, the three partners received Rs.70/75 thousand each.	None
Out of the said 15 lakhs, he had paid to Customs Office, Shrivardhan Customs Office, Murud Customs Office Adgaon Mhasla Police Station, Shrivardhan Police Station, Borli Out post, Trawler owners, trucks and to Hamals.	None
Confession of Dawood Dawood Taklya Mohammed Phanse Phanasmiyan	None
A 14	None
The said accused (A14) disclosed that he had been doing the work of landing of smuggled goods of various smugglers in partnership with Sharif Abdul Gafoor Parkar Dadabhai (A17), resident of village Sandheri and Rahim Abbas Karbalekar Rahim Laundriwala of village Shrivardhan for last 56 years.	None
He (A14) had been attending the landing of silver for last 2 years for Tiger Memon (AA).	None
He disclosed that he had visited Dubai at the instance of Tiger Memon and met Dawood Ibrahim Kaskar.	None
He did not know Dadabhai (A17), however, he could identify him as he had seen his photograph in the newspaper several times.	None
Dadabhai (A17) asked him (A14) as to whether he was interested to work for him and he (A14) said that he had stopped the work of silver smuggling.	None
He would transport chemicals explosives and arms consignments.	None
After pressing his teeth Dawood Ibrahim told him (A14) that Babri Masjid had been put to martyrdom and they have to take revenge and then asked how much it would cost.	None
Then Tiger Memon (AA) told him that it would cost about 910 lakhs.	None
Tiger Memon (AA) asked him (A14) to make the arrangements fully.	None
So far as the incident dated 3.2.1993 is concerned, he (A14) disclosed that Sharif Abdul Gafoor Parkar Dadabhai (A17) called Rahim Laundriwala and said that landing had to take place that evening and asked him to make all arrangements and to talk with Customs officers.	None
He (A17) disclosed about the landing and bringing the smuggled goods by the trucks.	None
He (A17) came with Tiger Memon (AA) in his jeep and reached the tower where Sharif Abdul Gafoor Parkar Dadabhai (A17) and Tigers men were already present.	None
Tigers men unloaded the goods from the truck.	None
The boxes contained Rifles, pistols, ammunition, wire, handgrenades, and something looking like black soap.	None
Out of the said boxes, Tiger Memon found something like white pencil and showed it to Sharif Abdul Gafoor Parkar Dadabhai (A17) and told him (A17) that it could blow up Oberoi Hotel.	None
He (A 14) further disclosed that he (A17) had loaded the boxes in the truck of Rashid, there were 59 items and he (A17) asked Rashid to unload them at the spot which had been dug up for this purpose.	None
Two three days thereafter, Sharif Abdul Gafoor Parkar Dadabhai (A17) told him (A14) that the black soap had been loaded by him and other persons in the tempo.	None
Confessional statement of Asgar Yusuf Mugadam (A10)	None
He (A10) disclosed that he (A17) was very close associate of Tiger Memon (AA) and had participated in the smuggling activities etc. and was involved in landing and transportation of silver, arms and ammunition with Tiger Memon (AA).	None
So far as the present respondent (A 17) is concerned, he deposed that Tiger Memon (AA) had told the accused (A10) that Fifteen Lakh rupees are to be given to Dadabhai (A 17) for landing.	None
The accused (A10) and Parvez took Rs. 5 lakhs from Chokshi and gave it to Dadabhai (A17) after going to his residence in Juhu.	None
Confession of Abdul Gani Ismial Turk (A11) So far as the present respondent (A17) is concerned, he stated that he was a close associate of Tiger Memon (AA) who was dealing with the smuggling of gold and silver.	None
He used to go to Mhasla in District Raigad, intermittently.	None
In the first week of September, 1992, he went alongwith Tiger Memon (AA) and others to Mhasla by jeep and Maruti car.	None
On the way, they met Dadabhai (A17) also.	None
He was indulging in landing and transportation and the respondent (A17) alongwith 4050 persons.	None
On about 3rd February, 1993, he disclosed that at about 1 OClock in the night, Tiger Memon (AA) came with many persons including Dadabhai (A17) alongwith a motor lorry and the goods on that lorry were unloaded at one room of Wangni Tower.	None
Tiger Memon (AA) checked all the goods in their presence and they had witnessed 70/80 black coloured boxes of chemical, 250/300 handgrenades, 15/20 small pistols and 6070 big rifles, wires like electrical wires, empty magazines (cassettes) of rifles and large number of bullets.	None
All these were packed in cardboard boxes, carton and gunny bags.	None
In respect of the incident dated 8th/9th March, 1993, this accused (A11) disclosed about the presence of the said respondent (A17) alongwith other co accused persons who had already reached by a Maruti1000 car at Vesava at about 4.30 a.m.	None
There they took Sarai and then went to the hill side in the jungle, where Tiger Memon (AA) was throwing handgrenades in the ditch in order to give training to 57 persons.	None
Those persons also practiced on operating rifles.	None
This training went on for two hours.	None
Dadabhai (A17) was staying downside.	None
When around 56 persons assembled there on hearing the sound of gunfiring, Dadabhai (A17) told them that film shooting was going on the hill, so they went away.	None
Those persons were known to Dadabhai (A17).	None
It was at that time about 12 Oclock in the noon, those persons after getting training, came down and handed over empty magazines to Dadabhai (A17) and left for Bombay.	None
Confessional statement of Parvez Nazir Ahmad Shaikh (A12) So far as the present respondent (A17) is concerned, he disclosed that on 3rd February, 1993, after landing the smuggled goods, they were brought to the Wangni Tower in a motor lorry by Tiger Memon (AA) alongwith other coaccused, namely, Shafi, Anwar, Javed, Yakub, Dadabhai (A17) and Dawood Taklya (A14) etc.	None
All the goods in the lorry were unloaded in the Wangni Tower and in accordance with the number series written on the packages, all the goods were separated from each other.	None
After shifting the goods contraband, all the material which was used for packing was burnt by Dadabhai (A17) and his men, and as there was no space in the vehicles for keeping 59 bags of chemical, they were loaded again in the truck, what happened of those thereafter, he (A12) did not know.	None
He further deposed that Tiger Memon (AA) had shown a pencil like article and said that this pencil costs Rs.25,000/ and with this pencil, he could explode one Oberoi Hotel.	None
In the entire incident of smuggling on 3rd February, 1993, Dadabhai (A17) was all along with Tiger Memon (AA) alongwith other persons.	None
Confessional statement of Mohomed Iqbal Mohomed Yusuf Shaikh (A23)	None
He disclosed in respect of the incident of landing transportation, and corroborated the statements of other co accused and disclosed that Dadabhai (A17) was present and participated in the said activity and he (A17) was present when the bomb was thrown by Tiger Bhai and Mehmud while training certain persons on the hillock.	None
After hearing the sound after the explosion, Tiger Memon (AA) told Dadabhai (A17) that the said hillock was not safe.	None
Then Dadabhai (A17) took them to another place.	None
The said hill was far away from the earlier place in the jungle.	None
Tiger Memon (AA) made the accused (A23) and other persons practice gun firing by rifle AK56.	None
After having training, they came down the hill and found Dadabhai (A17) standing there near the car and from there they came back to Bombay.	None
Confessional statement of Shanawaz Abdul Kadar Qureshi (A29)	None
He corroborated the other coaccused and he disclosed that when landing took place, they brought the contraband and started unloading and separating the goods which were wrapped in gunny bags.	None
The rest of the 5060 big boxes which were very big, were again loaded in the same truck by them.	None
The empty cartons were burnt by Dadabhai (A17) and his men.	None
After loading the articles, the truck left.	None
Confessional statement of Bashir Ahmad Gani Khairulla (A13)	None
He disclosed that when they went for landing, Tiger Memon (AA) was accompanied by various coaccused including Dadabhai (A17).	None
Confessional statement of Manoj Kumar Bhanwar Lal Gupta (A24)	None
He disclosed that at about 4.00 p.m., on 2nd February, 1993, Tiger Memon (AA) came to the Mhasla Tower alongwith 25 boys including Dadabhai (A17).	None
Confessional statement of Muzammil Umar Kadri (A25)	None
He disclosed that Dadabhai (A17) was the partner of Rahim Laundrywala and Dawood Taklya (A14) and he had seen all of them near the Wangni Tower.	None
Confessional statement of Syed Abdul Rahman Kamruddin Syed (A28)	None
He disclosed the involvement of Dadabhai (A17) alongwith others in the purchase of sacks for loading and unloading from a firm.	None
Confessional statement of Khalil Ahmed Sayed Ali Nasir (A42) He disclosed that respondent (A17) was a close associate of Dawood Taklya (A14) and Rahim Laundrywala.	None
Confessional statement of Mohammed Rafiq Rafiq Madi Musa Biyariwala (A46)	None
He disclosed that during the relevant period of 3rd February, 1993, they had been staying at Alibagh alongwith respondent (A17).	None
He left with Shafi for Sandheri village.	None
The lorry also followed them.	None
On reaching the village Sanderi, Dadabhai (A17) loaded 4050 bundles of empty gunny bags in the lorry.	None
Dadabhai (A17) loaded the truck with 59 gunny bags.	None
The said accused and Dadabhai (A17) went to the house of Dadabhai (A17) in Maruti car and found two jeeps already parked near the house.	None
Confessional statement of Sujjad Alam Abdul Hakim Nazir (A61)	None
He corroborated the version of the other accused in respect of the loading and unloading at Wangni Tower on 3rd February, 1993 and disclosed that Dadabhai (A17) was also present there.	None
Confessional statement of Tulsi Ram Dhondu Surve (A62)	None
He disclosed about the loading and unloading of contraband at Wangni Tower and participation of Dadabhai (A17) alongwith other accused.	None
Confessional statement of Nasir Abdul Kadar Kewel Nasir Dhakla (A 64)	None
He corroborated the version of Tulsi Ram Dhondu Surve (A62) in all material respect.	None
Confessional statement of Gulam Hafiz (A73)	None
He was a hotel employee and disclosed that at the relevant time, respondent (A17) who was a landing agent of Tiger Memon (AA), and smuggler of gold and silver, came there to the hotel alongwith a person and from there they went to Wangni Tower.	None
Confessional statement of Mohamed Sultan Sayeed (A90)	None
He disclosed about the meeting in the hotel with Dadabhai (A17) and he has called the said accused to furnish some information about landing etc.	None
as he wanted to give secret message to Shri R.K. Singh, Assistant Collector (A102).	None
He (A90) also disclosed that this accused (A17) was soninlaw of A.R.Antulays sister.	None
Confessional statement of Mohd.	None
Parvez Zulifkar Qureshi (A100)	None
He also corroborated the version of other witnesses accused, in all material respect and supported the case of the prosecution.	None
Evidence of Usman (PW2)	None
According to his deposition, the witness himself was involved in antisocial activities.	None
He knew respondent (A17).	None
It was respondent (A17) who booked the room in hotel Big Splash for the boys of Tiger Memon(AA).	None
Respondent (A17) helped Tiger Memon (AA) in collecting bags from the trawler.	None
He was the person who had supplied the boys, for loading and unloading the contraband and after shifting the goods, the empty boxes of RDX etc. were destroyed by respondent (A17).	None
This witness also identified the respondent (A17) in court.	None
Evidence of Vijay Govind More (PW137)	None
According to this witness, the respondent (A17) was involved in the smuggling and in the incident of February 1993.	None
He was the agent of landing and transportation with Dawood Phanse (A14) and had brought the goods to Wangni Tower.	None
Therein, it was shifted from truck to tempos.	None
Harish Chandra Surve (PW108) corroborated the version given by the respondent (A17) and he (PW.108) deposed that he had come on the relevant date, i.e., on 3rd February at Wangni Tower alongwith Dawood Phanse (A14) in jeep and he participated in shifting the goods from truck to tempos.	None
He identified respondent (A17) in the court.	None
Narendra Thale (PW141) is the employee of Hotel Big Splash and deposed that respondent (A17) booked the rooms in Hotel Big Splash and thus, corroborated the version given by Parvez Nazir Ahmed Shaikh (A12).	None
Vijay D. Kadam (PW344) supported the version of other witness accused and particularly in respect of booking the rooms in Hotel Big Splash by respondent (A17).	None
Dileep M. Katarmal (PW284) deposed that he was the Manager of the Company from where the jute bags were purchased in bulk and it was respondent (A17) with his son Mujib Sharif Parkar (A131) who had purchased the bags.	None
Jahi S. Kirkire (PW285) corroborated the version of Dileep M. Katarmal (PW.284) in respect of purchase of gunny bags.	None
Suresh Meecheri (PW.485) is the recovery witness.	None
The aforesaid evidence was considered and appreciated by the learned Designated Court, which recorded the following conclusions Respondent (A17) was guilty of the offences charged directly against him which in its term established his engagement to carry out the object of the conspiracy and it made him guilty in the conspiracy charge also.	None
ii) Respondent (A17) was fully aware about the nature of goods smuggled into India that it contained rifles, pistols, bullets, detonators, handgrenades etc.	None
That in spite of the knowledge of nature of contrabands smuggled goods, respondent (A17) continued with the operation which he had undertaken.	None
Applying the test of judicial pronouncements by this Court, respondent (A17) was party to a conspiracy for which charge at head firstly was framed against him.	None
Hardly there was any evidence to reveal that respondent (A17) was present in the meeting which had taken place in Hotel Big Splash by Tiger Memon.	None
Though there was some evidence which created suspicion of high degree regarding involvement of respondent (A17) in conspiracy for which charge at head firstly was framed, respondent (A17) was not liable for conspiracy as it was not proved that he was a party to the agreement for commission of illegal acts.	None
As he had not been the party to such meeting, he could not be held liable for conspiracy on the said count alone.	None
Respondent (A17) had effected the landing and continued with the said landing in spite of acquiring the knowledge of said landing being not of silver and being of arms, ammunitions and explosive substance.	None
He was not liable for offence of conspiracy as his act had not transcended beyond effecting the said landing for which he had agreed before knowing precise nature of goods to be smuggled.	None
viii) Respondent (A17) did not do anything to furthering the object of conspiracy.	None
Therefore, he could not be held liable for the offence of conspiracy.	None
Thus, he did not act for furthering the object of conspiracy and was not liable for the said offence.	None
More so, he did not participate in the crime committed at Bombay in furtherance of the object of conspiracy.	None
The aforesaid findings make it crystal clear that they were mutually inconsistent and could not be in consonance with each other.	None
The parameters laid down by this Court in entertaining the appeal against the order of acquittal have to be applied.	Reasoning
The respondent (A17) while making his statement under Section 313 CrPC answered the court as under I knew that all the weapons and explosives were to be used in Mumbai and that Bombay Blast were to be brought about at various places and that revenge on Hindus was to be taken.	None
But since Tiger Memon had threatened him he did not disclose the same to anyone.	None
The Special Judge recorded the finding that the respondent did not do anything to further the object of conspiracy.	Reasoning
However, landing was not of silver and gold, but of arms, ammunition and explosives.	Reasoning
The respondent was fully aware of the nature of the smuggled articles and also the purpose for which the contraband goods had been smuggled into India.	Reasoning
Even after having such a knowledge, his close association with Tiger Memon (AA) confirmed and he participated and facilitated the transportation of the said articles.	Reasoning
In such a factsituation, the Special Judge was not justified in acquitting the respondent (A17) of the charge of conspiracy.	None
The appeal is allowed.	Decision
The respondent is convicted for the charge firstly, and awarded the life imprisonment.	Decision
He is directed to surrender before the learned Designated Court within a period of four weeks to serve out the remaining sentence, failing which the Designated Court will secure his custody and send him to jail to serve out the sentence.	Decision
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 1027	None
OF 2012State of MaharashtraAppellantVersusManoj Kumar Bhanwarlal Gupta Respondent172.	Facts
This criminal appeal has been preferred against the impugned judgments and orders dated 5.6.2007 and 2.8.2007 passed by the Special Judge of the Designated Court under the TADA in Bombay Blast Case No. 1/93, by which The respondent (A24) has been acquitted of the charge of conspiracy and has been convicted under Section 3(3) TADA and has been awarded the sentence of 7 years RI and a fine of Rs.50,000/, and in default of payment of fine to suffer further RI for a period of one year.	Facts
Further, under Section 5 TADA, he was awarded 10 years imprisonment and a fine of Rs.1 lakh, and in default of payment of fine to suffer further RI for three years.	Facts
He was further found guilty under Section 6 TADA and was awarded the sentence of 14 years and a fine of Rs.1 lakh, and in default of payment of fine to suffer further RI for three years.	Facts
He was also convicted under Section 3(3) TADA and Section 201 IPC, and was awarded 5 years imprisonment and a fine of Rs.25,000/, and in default of payment of fine to suffer further RI for a period of six month.	Facts
All the sentences have been directed to run concurrently.173.	Facts
Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that A.	Facts
In addition to the main charge of conspiracy, the respondent (A 24) was charged under Section 3(3) TADA, for his participation in weapons training conducted by Tiger Memon for handling arms, ammunition and explosives which took place at Sandheri and Bhorghat, (Dist. Raigad) and his association in smuggling, landing and transportation of the arms, ammunition and explosives on 3rd and 7th February, 1993 thirdly, he was charged under Sections 5 and 6 TADA for having possession of 2 pistols, one revolver and one country made pistol unauthorisedly and lastly for his involvement in disposal of 59 packages of explosives i.e. RDX, by engaging the services of others and throwing them at Nagla Bunder Creek.	Facts
He (A24) was thus found guilty under Section 3(3) TADA and Section 201 IPC.B. After conclusion of the trial, the respondent was held guilty of the charges as referred to hereinabove, but has been acquitted of the charge of conspiracy.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	Facts
Mr. Satya Kam, learned counsel appearing for the appellant has submitted that the involvement of the respondent (A24) had been from the very beginning and he had been in close association of Tiger Memon (AA) and was involved in hatching the conspiracy, assisting him in landing and transportation of arms, ammunition and explosives.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, he ought to have been convicted for the first charge.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, the appeal deserves to be allowed.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the contrary, Ms. Farhana Shah, learned counsel for the respondent (A24) has submitted that he had already served the sentence of 14 years and deposited the fine, and has already suffered a lot.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, it is not warranted to entertain this appeal against his acquittal in view of the parameters laid down by this Court in this regard.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the appeal is liable to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
Evidence against the respondent (A24) Confessional statement of Manoj Kumar Bhanwarlal Gupta (A24) Confessional statement of Imtiyaz Yunusmiya Ghavte (A15) Confessional statement of Noor Mohammed Haji Mohammed Khan (A 50) Confessional statement of Nasir Abdul Kader Kewal Nasir Dakhla (A64)	None
Confessional statement of Tulsi Ram Dhondu Surve (A62) Confessional statement of Mohd.	None
Dawood Mohd.	None
Yusuf Khan (A91) (g) Confessional statement of Shahnawaz Abdul Kadar Qureshi (A29) (h) Confessional statement of Shaikh Mohmed Ethesham Haji Gulam Rasool Shaikh (A58) Deposition of Mohd.	None
Usman Jan Khan (PW.2)	None
Confessional statement of Manoj Kumar Bhanwarlal Gupta (A24)	None
His confessional statement was recorded on 30.4.1993 and 9.5.1993.	None
The respondent (A24) in his confessional statement had disclosed that he had been indulged in the criminal activities since very young age and had committed murders and was indulged in Hawala business with Iijaz Mohd.	None
Sharif Eijaz Pathan Sayyed Zakir (A 137dead) who was living at that time in Dubai as well as in Bombay.	None
He had murdered Majeed in 1986 and absconded.	None
He had also committed the murder of one Hameed alongwith Dawood Shamsher Aziz.	None
Even though, he had been arrested several times in most of the cases but, he had been granted bail.	None
In July 1989, he had murdered Kamaljit Singh as per the instructions of Ayub and then murdered one Mahmood who had murdered his friend Kailash Jain in Udaipur, Rajasthan.	None
However, in these cases he remained absconding.	None
Further in January, 1992, he came back to Bombay and started Hawala business and at that time he stabbed a person named Hallu and remained absconded.	None
He had developed close association with Tiger Memon (AA).	None
On 2.2.1993, Tiger Memon, Hazi Yakoob Hazi Yeda Yakoob (AA) accompanied by 2025 persons went to Mhasla tower and met Dawood Dawood Taklya Mohammed Phanse Phanasmiya, (A14) and Dadabhai (A17) there.	None
They all went to Shekhadi alongwith Tiger Memon where he (AA) alongwith others went in the sea and came back with certain bags.	None
The bags were containing AK 56 rifles, handgrenades, magazines and pistols.	None
Tiger Memon gave him (A24) one AK56 rifle, 2 loaded magazines and 1 bag containing handgrenades.	None
Tiger Memon asked him (A24) to sit alertly on the seashore and also explained to him the procedure of using the handgrenades by removing its pin.	None
After some time, a truck came there and the goods were shifted from boats into the truck.	None
He went to Mhasla Tower by another jeep where the packets were unloaded and opened.	None
There were AK56 rifles, handgrenades, pistols and cartridges in those packets.	None
He had seen those packets containing black soap.	None
The black soap was unloaded in two tempos and weapons and cartridges were loaded in jeep and tempos in the cavities made therein.	None
Altogether, there were five jeeps and two tempos for all these goods.	None
On the instructions of Tiger Memon, the vehicles left in different directions.	None
Tiger Memon and Haji Yeda Yakoob told him (A 24) to stay in the house of Hazi Yakoob at Khar, and he (A24) stayed there.	None
Respondent (A24) again participated in the second landing on 9.2.1993 wherein uploading of goods started and were unloaded within two hours.	None
Tiger Memon (AA) brought the goods to Mhasla Tower and left next morning for Bombay.	None
Tiger Memon (AA) paid him (A24) a sum of Rs.20,000/ for the job.	None
Iijaz Pathan (A137) telephoned him from Dubai and warned him not to disclose it to anybody.	None
Further, Respondent (A24) was contacted by the coaccused for the disposal of 59 packets stored in a godown and he had taken Rs. 5 lacs for doing the job and got the said goods destroyed through his persons in Nagla Bunder Creek.	None
He (A24) disclosed that the contraband used in Bombay Blast were the same which had been unloaded at Shrivardhan.	None
Confessional statement of Imtiyaz Yunusmiya Ghavte (A15)	None
He (A15) has disclosed that on 3.2.1993, Tiger Memon and other people were there at Shekhadi, and Munna (A24) was also one of them.	None
They were carrying bags on their back.	None
When the bags were opened it contained AK56 rifles, handgrenades, magazines, cartridges and explosives.	None
Tiger Memon was noting down the calculation of the unloaded articles in his diary.	None
He (A15) has disclosed that in the second week of February 1993, Munna (A24) was given two rifles at the instance of Bhai which were brought by him in a suitcase.	None
The accused witness, Shaikh Ali, Munna (A24) and three other persons were asked to sit in the tempo containing 84 bags of the explosives.	None
Confessional statement of Noor Mohammed Haji Mohammed Khan (A 50)	None
He has also made the disclosure statement in respect of the disposal of the 59 bags containing RDX in a godown which were thrown with the help of Munna (A24) at the instance of Rashid Khan.	None
He (A 50) has disclosed that he asked Rashid Khan to help him in arranging the said material.	None
Rashid told him that he would get it done through his friend Munna (A24), who has a large number of boys to do the said job.	None
They decided to pay Munna (A24) a sum of Rs.5 lakhs for throwing the material and the 59 packets containing RDX in the Nagla Creek by the boys of Munna (A24).	None
Confessional statement of Nasir Abdul Kader Kewal Nasir Dakhla (A64)	None
This accused (A64) has disclosed about the landing at Shekhadi in which Munna (A24) had participated with others.	None
He (A64) has disclosed about the full participation of Munna (A24) in landing and transportation of arms and ammunition brought from Shekhadi to Bombay in the tempo of Haji and further disclosed that he had always been moving alongwith Tiger Memon (AA) during the said operation.	None
Confessional statement of Tulsi Ram Dhondu Surve (A62)	None
This accused had disclosed about the incident at Wangni Tower on the relevant date and disclosed that Munna (A24) was with Tiger Memon at Wangni Tower alongwith other persons, and they first unloaded the contraband at Wangni Tower and then uploaded it in the jeep and tempo and most of the persons were armed with guns and pistols there.	None
Confessional statement of Mohd.	None
Dawood Mohd.	None
Yusuf Khan (A91)	None
This accused has disclosed that 78 days before Ramzan in 1993 he went to M.K. Builders, Bandra on the instructions of Iijaz Bhai (A 137) from Bombay and there he met with Dev who contacted Iijaz Bhai (A 137) and told him that A24 had arrived.	None
At that time Iijaz (A137) and Munna (A24) came out of the office, and gave him the key of the vehicle parked outside.	None
They all boarded the vehicle and Munna (A24) sat in the back seat.	None
He (A24) saw a black bag lying on the back seat and Iijaz (A137) told him about the three stunguns lying inside the bag, and asked him to keep them in his house for some time.	None
When they reached Kurla, Iijaz (A137) asked Munna (A24) to leave.	None
Thereupon, Munna (A24) took the bag from the back seat and handed it over to the accused witness (A91).	None
Confessional statement of Shahnawaz Abdul Kadar Qureshi (A29)	None
He (A29) has disclosed that on the last days of January or in the first week of February, 1993, Javed Chikna asked (A29) to accompany him to receive the smuggled goods of Tiger Memon.	None
They went to Jetty and found three boys there including Munna (A24), who also participated in the landing and transportation.	None
Confessional statement of Shaikh Mohmed Ethesham Haji Gulam Rasool Shaikh (A58)	None
This accused (A58) has disclosed that Munna was in close association of Tiger Memon and of other coaccused, and was staying in the house of Haji Yakoob Yakoob Yeda (AA).	None
Deposition of Mohd.	Arguments of Respondent
Usman Jan Khan (PW.2)	None
He has deposed that in December 1992, riots took place in Bombay and Javed Chikna was wounded by a police bullet and was admitted in the hospital.	None
He (PW.2) and Shahnawaz visited him there.	None
While attending the funeral of the son of Aziz, he met Shafi, the driver of Tiger Memon.	None
Shafi spoke in confidence with Javed Chikna and Javed Chikna took the witness accused alongwith him on the next day to the coastal area where Tiger Memons goods were coming.	None
He (PW.2) had participated in the landing and transportation alongwith the other persons and Munna (A24) was also one of them.	None
He had met Tiger Memon in hotel Big Splash in Rooms nos.	None
51, 54 and 55 booked.	None
They stayed there and at that time they were told by Tiger Memon that the government failed to stop the humiliation of Muslims, thus, he had arranged some arms and ammunition from Pakistan which were to reach on that day.	None
In the said meeting, a large number of persons were there including Munna (A24).	None
He has also deposed his participation in landing on 3rd and 7th February, 1993 in which the arms, ammunition, particularly AK56 rifles, pistols and handgrenades had been smuggled.	None
Karimullah was also there.	None
They had brought the material to Wangni Tower.	None
After unloading and opening the same they were again shifted in the jeeps and tempos, and were brought to Bombay.	None
Munna (A24) was also in the party.	None
The Special Judge had recorded the finding that the corroborative material supported his involvement in the Shekhadi landing and transportation, and he was absconding alongwith other accused.	None
However, he was acquitted from the first charge on the basis of following reasons Due to his involvement in Shekhadi landing he could be convicted under Section 3(3) TADA, but it would be significant to note even the evidence pertaining to Shekhadi landings and acts committed by Munna (A24) in connection with said landings for which he had been held guilty clearly reveal that Munna (A24) was not the main person responsible for effecting the said landing nor had played any prominent role except escorting Tiger Memon who was effecting the said landing and the goods which were to be landed and were to be transported from Shekhadi to Wangni Tower and thereafter to Bombay.	None
Even considering the role played by Munna (A24) who participated in the said landing clearly appeared to be on much lower pedestal than the other who were primarily responsible in organizing and effecting the said landing i.e. Tiger Memon, A14, A17, A15 and few more.	None
Even considering his further acts for which he has been held guilty under Sections 5 and 6 of TADA, it was clear that same were not committed by him in pursuance of any conspiracy of Bombay Blast.	None
Further, considering the quantum of contraband arms and ammunitions of pistols, revolver and country made pistol he could be found guilty for commission of offences under Sections 5 and 6 TADA.	None
Even considering his role played by him in disposal of RDX, it was clear that though he was involved still he was not the main person in disposal of the said RDX or the same was the material which was brought in Shekhkadi landing by Tiger Memon and stored in the godown.	None
His involvement was only that he had been uptil hotel at Ghodbunder.	None
He had hardly played any prominent role in disposal of any RDX and had allowed his name to be used by other accused for knocking handsome amount of money from Noor Mohammed Haji Mohammed Khan (A50) in whose godown such material was found stored.	None
Evidence further revealed that he could receive only a sum of Rs.10,000/ out of the amount of Rs.5 lakhs which was taken by accused Mohd.	None
Jindran and Rashid Khan from Noor Mohammed Haji Mohammed Khan (A50) for disposal of the said material.	None
Therefore, he cannot be held responsible for acting in pursuance of main conspiracy and his case would definitely fall on lower pedestal than such other accused persons who were repeatedly committed different acts in pursuance of main conspiracy.	None
(emphasis added)	None
The parameters laid down by this Court in entertaining the appeal against the order of acquittal have to be applied.189.	Reasoning
From the confessional statement made by the accused it can be ascertained that he (A24) was aware of the arms and ammunition being landed.	Reasoning
He stated that he was given arms and further, was told to sit on alert.	Reasoning
He also stated that Tiger Memon (AA) even taught him how to use handgrenades and also paid him for his services.	Reasoning
He was also later contacted by coaccused for the disposal of 59 packets stored in a godown and was paid Rs. 5 lakhs for the same.	Reasoning
He further revealed that the contraband used in the Bombay Blast of 12.3.1993, was the same as had been landed by him and other coaccused at Shrivardhan.	Reasoning
Coaccused Imtiyaz (A15), Noor Mohammed (A50), Nasir Dhakla (A64), Tulsi Ram (A 62) Dawood Yusuf (A91), Shahnawaz (A29) and Ethesham (A58) have corroborated the knowledge of the respondent and the fact that he was present when the landing was taking place.	Reasoning
The involvement and participation of Munna (A24) was throughout the main conspiracy.	None
The order of the learned Designated Court acquitting him on the charge of larger conspiracy is perverse, in view of the evidence on record.	Reasoning
Therefore, conspiracy stands proved.	Reasoning
Judgment to that extent is set aside and the appeal is allowed, and the sentence is enhanced to life imprisonment.	None
The respondent is directed to surrender before the learned Designated Court within a period of four weeks to serve out the remaining sentence, failing which the Designated Court will secure his custody and send him to jail to serve out the sentence.	Decision
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.	None
597 OF 2011State of Maharashtra through CBI AppellantVersusSarfaraj Dawood Phanse Respondent191.	Facts
This appeal has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 2.8.2007, passed by the Special Judge of the Designated Court under the TADA for the Bombay Blast case, Greater Bombay, in the Bombay Blast Case No. 1/93, by which the respondent has been convicted under Section 3(3) TADA and acquitted of the main charge of conspiracy.192.	Facts
In addition to the main charge of conspiracy, the respondent (A 55) has been found guilty for offence punishable under Section 3(3) TADA, and on the said count, he has been convicted and sentenced to suffer RI for 9 years, alongwith a fine of Rs.25,000/, and in default, to suffer RI for 6 months.	Facts
However, the respondent has been acquitted of the first charge of conspiracy.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	Facts
Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant has submitted that acquittal of the respondent on the charge of conspiracy is unwarranted and uncalled for as large number of co accused, particularly, Abdul Gani Ismail Turk (A11), Suleman Mohammed Kasam Ghavate (A18), Ibrahim (A41), Sajjad Alam (A61), Tulsi Ram Dhondu Surve (A62), Mohd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sultan Sayyed (A90) and the depositions of Harish Chandra Surve (PW108) and Vijay Govind More (PW137) specifically revealed a very deep involvement of the respondent in the offence and the evidence is sufficient warranting his conviction for the charge of conspiracy also.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the appeal deserves to be allowed.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the contrary, Ms. Farhana Shah, learned counsel appearing for the respondent has submitted that he had already served the sentence of 10 years, though awarded the sentence of 9 years, and also deposited a fine of Rs.25,000/. There is nothing on record to implicate the said respondent in conspiracy, as he had no knowledge as what was going to happen, and he had no intention to participate in the offence, for which he has been charged so far as the conspiracy is concerned.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, no further conviction is required.	None
We have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
Respondent has not made any confessional statement.	None
Confessional statement of Abdul Gani Ismail Turk (A11)	None
The confessional statement of Abdul Gani Ismail Turk (A11) revealed that on 8th/9th February 1993, Suleman Mohammed Kasam Ghavate (A18) and (A11) returned to Mhasla from Panvel after meeting Tiger Memon (AA), when they were carrying the goods brought from Mhasla and went to the house of accused Dawood Dawood Taklya Mohammed Phanse (A 14), and thereafter accused Sarfaraj Dawood Phanse (A55) had accompanied Abdul Gani Ismail Turk (A11) and Suleman Mohammed Kasam Ghavate (A18) to Bombay and they dropped Sarfaraz Dawood Phanse (A 55) at the guest house at Bandra at the say of Dawood Phanse (A14).	None
Confessional statement of Dawood Dawood Taklya Mohammed Phanse (A 14)	None
The confessional statement of Dawood Phanse (A14) revealed that after his arrival from Bombay, Sarfaraz Dawood Phanse (A55) told him that the absconding accused Shafi had been to their house and told that he had kept the weapons in the house of Muzammil Umar Kadri (A 25).	None
Confessional statement of Suleman Mohammed Kasam Ghavate (A18)	None
The confessional statement of Suleman Mohammed Kasam Ghavate (A 18) disclosed that the said accused had been to Mhasla alongwith Abdul Gani Ismail Turk (A11) and Uttam Shantaram Potdar (A30) for bringing the part of the goods which had been smuggled in the first landing operation.	None
He also corroborated the meeting of Abdul Gani Ismial Turk (A11) and Suleman Mohammed Kasam Ghavate (A18) with Tiger Memon (AA) at Panvel and had given the message of Tiger Memon (AA) to Dawood Dawood Taklya Mohammed Phanse (A14) and thereafter taken the accused (A55) alongwith him to Bombay.	None
Confessional statement of Sajjad Alam (A61)	None
The confessional statement of Sajjad Alam (A61) revealed that on 20.1.1993 that said accused (A61) had gone to the house of his grandmother and at that time he found accused Muzammil Umar Kadri (A 25) present taking 16 rifles and 32 magazines by a jeep alongwith accused (A55).	None
Confessional statement of Tulsi Ram Dhondu Surve (A62)	None
The confessional statement of Tulsi Ram Dhondu Surve (A62) disclosed that during the second landing and transportation operation of contraband goods organised by Dawood Dawood Taklya Mohammed Phanse (A14) and Tiger Memon (AA), accused (A55) was also present near Wangni Tower alongwith other coaccused.	None
Confessional statement of Mohd.	None
Sultan Sayyed (A90)	None
The confessional statement of Mohd.	None
Sultan Sayyed (A90) disclosed that on 12.2.1993, respondent (A55) had been to the rest house at Mhasla and enquired about R.K. Singh, Assistant Custom Collector (A102).	None
The respondent (A55) was carrying one plastic bag containing Rs.3 lacs with him which he handed over to R.K. Singh.	None
The Designated Court after considering the entire evidence came to the following conclusion 53B)	None
Thus considering material contained in confessions of above stated accused and so also evidence to which brief reference is made in the later part it can be safely said that A 55 who is son of main landing agent responsible for Shekhadi landing i.e. A14 was involved not only in said landing but so also even earlier to same in committing nefarious activities.	None
Needless to add that as denoted by further dilation involvement of A55 in commission of acts for which he is charged at head 2ndly and, consequently in commission of offence u sec.	None
3(3) of TADA Act is squarely borne from the same.	Reasoning
With regard to argument canvassed that material in above referred confession or that of witnesses pertaining to events which had occurred at Wangni Tower not disclosing any positive overt act on part of A55 or that at time of exchange of goods he was not at Wangni Tower or that he was only travelling on motor cycle etc.	Reasoning
and as such himself being involved by Investigating Agency in case only because he is son of A14 does not appeal to mind after considering in proper perceptive relevant material.	Reasoning
Even accepting that A55 was then moving on motor cycle still considering time of dead night at which he was doing so, place at which he was moving etc. clearly shows falsity of all said submissions after considering material in entirety disclosing acts committed by A55.	Reasoning
The same considered upon earlier acts of A55 in concealment of weapons at his house in absence of his father etc.	Reasoning
his participation in going to house of A 42 as disclosed by aforesaid material clearly repels all said submission.	Reasoning
However, even carefully considering all material evidence available against A55 and same having not transcended beyond acts committed by him in facilitating Dighi landing and or transportation of goods smuggled and same failing to disclose any material showing his nexus with conspiracy for which he is charged with or conspiracy for which his father A14 held to be guilty it will be extremely difficult to accept that his guilt for same can be said to have been established by prosecution only on basis of his guilt found to be established for commission of offence u sec.3 (3) of TADA Act.	Reasoning
(Emphasis added) 204	None
We do not see any cogent reason to interfere with the impugned judgment applying the parameters laid down by this court for interference against the order of acquittal.	None
The evidence on record disclosed his involvement and association with Tiger Memon (AA) in landing and transportation, but that is because his father Dawood Phanse (A14), was the landing agent.	Decision
The appeal lacks merit, and is accordingly, dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 407 OF 2011The State of Maharashtra through CBI AppellantVersusAyub	None
Ibrahim Patel Respondent205.	None
This appeal has been preferred against the judgments and orders dated 10.11.06 and 31.05.07, passed by the Special Judge of the Designated Court under the TADA for the Bombay Blast case, Greater Bombay in Bombay Blast Case No.1/93, by which the respondent Ayub Ibrahim Patel (A72) has been found guilty for the offences punishable under Section 3(3) TADA and on the said count has been convicted and sentenced to suffer RI for 5 years alongwith a fine of Rs.25,000/ and in default, to further undergo RI for 6 months.	Facts
He has also been found guilty under Section 5 TADA and has been sentenced to suffer RI for 10 years and has been ordered to pay a fine of Rs.50,000/, in default of payment of fine, he has been ordered to suffer further RI for one year.	Facts
The Respondent has further been found guilty under Section 6 TADA, and has been sentenced to suffer RI for 10 years and has been ordered to pay a fine of Rs.50,000/. In default of payment of fine, he has been sentenced to suffer further RI for one year.	Facts
The Respondent also stands convicted under Sections 3 and 7 read with Section 25(1A)(1B)(a) of the Arms Act.	Facts
However, he has been acquitted of the charge of conspiracy.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	Facts
Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant has submitted that the respondent had been found to be in the unauthorized possession of 20 hand grenades, which were part of the consignment of arms that had been smuggled into India by the terrorists.	None
The said hand grenades were recovered from his house upon his disclosure statement.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, he ought to have been held guilty for the charge of conspiracy.	None
On the contrary, Shri S.P Sinha, learned counsel appearing for the respondent has submitted that the respondent has not preferred any appeal against his conviction on any other charges.	Arguments of Respondent
He has already served out the sentence that was awarded to him, and has also paid the fine.	Arguments of Respondent
After appreciating the evidence on record, the Special Judge has acquitted the respondent of the charge of conspiracy.	Arguments of Respondent
The facts of the case do not warrant any further interference.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, the appeal is liable to be dismissed.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have considered the rival submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties and perused the evidence on record.	None
Confessional statement of Baba alias Ibrahim Mussa Chauhan (A 41) revealed that he was well acquainted with Abu Salem (AA), and Anis Ibrahim Kaskar, brother of Dawood Ibrahim.	None
On 15th January 1993, Salem telephoned him (A41) to find a garage equipped with closed shutters.	None
In this regard he (A41) spoke to Salem and Anis Ibrahim Kaskar several times.	None
Salem asked him (A41) to keep 2/3 AK56 Rifles for a few days and also told him that they should be kept by him (A 41) at his house.	None
On 16th January, 1993 Salem came to his house and then they went to the house of Sanjay Dutt (A117) and delivered some of the contraband arms to him.	None
A bag containing 20 grenades was kept by him (A41) in the car owned by Sameer (A53) and a bag containing 3 Rifles, 16 Magazines, 25 hand grenades and 750 bullets was taken by him (A41).	None
The said goods were not taken back by Salem as promised, so he (A41) contacted Salem to take it back.	None
A41 received a message to give 2 AK56 Rifles, 6 Magazines to Salem Kurla.	None
After some time Salem met A41 and the latter informed Salem that remaining goods were kept with a man named Ayub residing at Oshivara.	None
At that time Salem had 30 loaded magazines wrapped in a plastic bag and he handed over the bag over to A41 and told him (A41) that he had spoken to Ayub via telephone and asked him to keep the goods with A41.	None
Accordingly, on the same day Ayub came with a bag containing 1 AK 56 Rifle, which along with magazines and a bag was kept at one place.	None
After 2/3 days, Salem came to A41 and handed over a vehicle asking him to leave it at a place near Ram and Shyam Talkies at Jogeshwari and hand over the vehicle to Ayub and there were further instructions for Ayub to keep all the goods except hand grenades in the car and to leave the car near the office of Salem.	None
A41 handed over the car to Ayub and conveyed the message.	None
After Bombay blast, Salem Kurla was arrested and on his information police arrested A 41 on or about 28th of March 1993.	None
After his arrest, the father of A41 obtained the bag which he had kept with Ayub through Haji Ismail and produced it before the police.	None
Recovery panchnamas Exts.154155 make it clear that Sub Inspector Nerlekar had interrogated the accused Ayub Ibrahim Patel (A 72) and he expressed his desire to make the disclosure statement.	None
At that time, two Panchas were called through the Constable and in their presence, Ayub Ibrahim Patel (A72) made the statement that he had concealed the handgrenades, the recovery of which he would get effected.	None
The recovery was made and proved by Nerlekar (PW.605) and the panch witness (PW.44).	None
According to the said witnesses, after recording the disclosure statement, i.e., the panchnama, the accused (A72) led the Panchas and police team to room no.202 on the second floor of Noora Building in Dalwai compound, opposite Ajit Glass Factory Oshiwara(West).	None
The appellant (A72) rang the door bell of the said room and the door was opened by one lady and she was introduced by A72 as his wife named Smt.	None
Kausar.	None
Thereafter, Ayub Ibrahim Patel (A72) led the panchas and police in the said room and took out a plastic bag from a steel cupboard near the eastern wall of the house.	None
The said bag contained 20 handgrenades.	None
The same was handed over to the SubInspector Nerlekar (PW 605) who drew a panchnama and left for Worli Police Station with the hand grenades.	None
The Special Judge after appreciating the entire evidence summarised the whole case against Ayub Ibrahim Patel (A72) as under However, after carefully considering the matters from the said confession reveals that A41 had handed over the bag containing 25 hand grenades to Iqbal Tunda and had informed about the same to Salem and Iqbal Tunda had informed him of the same being kept with Ayub residing at Oshiwara still there appears full substance in the criticism advanced by the ld.	None
Defence counsel that hardly there exists any material on record to come to the conclusion that the person by name Ayub from Oshiwara referred in the said confession is A72.	None
There is also further substance in the defence criticism in such an eventuality 25 hand grenades could have been found with A 72Thus considering the aforesaid evidence of recovery and particularly statement made by A72 showing his authorship in keeping the relevant hand grenades and apart from same A72 at the trial having not given any other explanation about the reason because of which such hand grenades were in his house or his knowledge about the same all the said factors establishes himself being in possession of such contraband material attracting the provisions of Sec. 5 of TADA.	None
Now considering the statutory presumption arising out of the relevant facets established and the same having remained unrebutted at the trial will safely lead to only conclusion of A72 of having possessed the same for the purpose of terrorist act or terrorist activity.	None
The same is apparent in view of the law regarding the same as explained by the Honble Constitutional Bench of the Apex Court in the decision in the case of Sanjay Dutt v. State of Maharashtra reported in 1995(5) SCC 410.	None
In view of the same A 72 will be required to be held guilty for commission of offence u s 5 of TADA.	None
Though the aforesaid evidence clearly establishes of A72 to be in possession of such contraband material within notified area still there being no evidence to come to the conclusion that the same were part parcel of the consignment smuggled into country by coconspirators for commission of terrorist acts for which the charge at head 1stIy is framed, A72 cannot be held guilty for the said conspiracy.	Reasoning
However, possessing huge quantity of hand grenades considered with other evidence not denoting involvement of A72 in any terrorist activity also leads to the conclusion of the same being either kept with him for storage purpose and or for assisting some other co conspirators for commission of terrorist acts.	None
Needless to add that the same is also suggestive of A72 having made the preparation for commission of terrorist acts.	None
In view of the same A72 will be also required to be held guilty for commission of offence u s. 3 (3) of TADA.	None
Similarly considering the quantity of hand grenades found in possession of A72 the same also denotes of himself having committed offence u s. 6 of TADA and so also the offence punishable u s.3 7 r w Sec. 25(1A) (I B)(a) of Arms Act.	None
In light of discussion made hereinabove Point Nos. 170 to 173 will be required to be answered in consonance with the conclusion arrived during the said discussion i.e. A72 having committed all the said offences for which the said points are framed but for the reasons stated hereinabove.	None
However, hardly there being any evidence of A72 of having committed the said offence in pursuance of conspiracy for which he has been charged due to nexus of material found with him being not established with the material smuggled for commission of Serial bomb Blast and there being no other evidence he will be required to be absolved from the offence of conspiracy for which he is charged with.	Reasoning
(Emphasis added)212.	None
The parameters laid down by this Court in entertaining the appeal against the order of acquittal have to be applied.213.	Reasoning
From the above discussion it is evident that Baba Chauhan (A41) had given 20 hand grenades to one Ayub resident of Oshiwara.	Reasoning
However, he has also disclosed that after his arrest on 28th March, 1993, the said contraband had been produced before the police by his father through Haji Ismail.	None
In view of the above, the conclusion reached by the learned Designated Court that there is nothing on the record to establish that Ayub of Oshiwara could be Ayub (A72), does not require interference.	Decision
In such a factsituation, the respondent (A72) is entitled to benefit of doubt, so far as the charge of conspiracy is concerned.	Decision
The appeal lacks merit, and is accordingly, dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 1025 OF 2012State of MaharashtraAppellantVersusMohd.	None
Shahid Nizamuddin Qureshi Respondent214.	Facts
This appeal has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 2.8.2007 passed by the Special Judge of the Designated Court under the TADA in the Bombay Blast Case No.1 of 1993, by which the said respondent has been convicted under Section 3(3) TADA, and has been awarded a sentence of 10 years rigorous imprisonment, alongwith a fine of Rs. 25,000/, and in default of payment of fine, to further undergo RI for six months.	Facts
He has been acquitted of some of the other charges including the main charge of conspiracy.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	Facts
Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant, has submitted that there is enough evidence to show the deep involvement of Mohd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shahid Nizamuddin Qureshi (A135) in the said crime and, therefore, he ought not to have been acquitted for the charge of conspiracy.	None
Ms. Farhana Shah, learned counsel appearing for the respondent (A135), has submitted that he has already suffered tremendously.	Arguments of Respondent
He has served 111/2 years of sentence, though he was awarded only 10 years rigorous imprisonment, and has also deposited the fine.	Arguments of Respondent
He has not filed any appeal against his conviction, as he has reconciled himself with his fate.	Arguments of Respondent
There is nothing on record to show that the accused (A135) had any knowledge of the contraband, or how the same was going to be used.	Arguments of Respondent
He had no intention to harm any one.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, the findings recorded by the Designated Court on this issue, do not require any interference.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
The confession of the accused (A135) was recorded, however, the same has been discarded by the Special Judge on the ground that the police officer who had recorded the confessional statement, had not ensured compliance with Section 15 TADA and Rule 15(3) TADA Rules, 1987.	Facts
However, as far as the charge of conspiracy is concerned, the other evidence is of Nasir Abdul Kader Kewal Nasir Dakhla (A64) who has revealed, that in either at the end of January 1993 or in the beginning of February 1993, at the instance of Tiger Memon (AA), Javed Chikna, the accused (A64) etc., had participated in the landing of contraband goods such as rifles, bullets, handgrenades, detonators, RDX etc.	None
at the Shekhadi coast.	None
The said goods had been transported to the Wangni Tower, and here, the bags containing the contraband had been opened and weapons, cartridges etc., had thereafter been concealed in fake cavities of the vehicles that had been arranged for the transportation of the smuggled goods into Bombay.	None
During the said operation, the accused (A135) had actively participated alongwith Javed Chikna, and various other associates.	None
He has further disclosed that 34 days after the first landing, a second landing had taken place, in which the contraband were smuggled in through Shekhadi coast, in which yet again, the accused (A135) had actively participated.	None
Usman (PW.2) has also deposed that the accused (A135) had in fact, participated in the said landing, as well as in the transportation of the contraband material.	None
However, a question does arise with respect to whether the accused (A135) had been aware of the contents of the contraband, and whether he had known the purpose for which the weapons etc., had been smuggled into India.	None
As per the material on record, it becomes evident that Tiger Memon (AA) and his close associates, including the accused (A135), had first gone to Hotel Big Splash at Alibagh, and from there they had gone to the seashore to participate in the said landing.	None
At this time, the close associates of Tiger Memon (AA), had been fully armed with AK47/56 rifles, revolvers, magazines and cartridges.	None
They had taken up positions near the seashore to prevent any kind of interference.	None
The goods had then arrived in large packets, which had been unloaded with the help of some villagers who were already present there, as the same had been deployed by Dawood Dawood Taklya Mohammed Phanse(A14).	None
After the loading of the goods into a truck, the contraband had been brought to Wangni Tower.	None
All the packets had been taken inside the tower, and when the same had been opened, it had become evident that the packets contained explosives, cartridges and arms.	None
These arms had then subsequently, been filled into secret cavities that had been created in the jeeps, and were then taken away.	None
After 23 days, Yeda Yakub, Riaz Khatri, Munna Jadia, Ehtesham (A 58), Akbar and Karimullah had gone in a Maruti van and had picked up Nasir (A64).	None
Yeda Yakub had told them that more arms were scheduled to arrive for Tiger Memon (AA) at the Shekhadi coast, for the purpose of which, they would have to go there.	None
They had thus, participated in the second landing as well, and had brought in the said goods.	None
At such time, the associates of Tiger Memon (AA) had also been present there, alongwith Shahid Qureshi (A135).	None
Following the orders of Tiger Memon (AA), the packets of arms and explosives had been loaded into a jeep and a tempo, and had been taken to Bombay.	None
The deposition of Usman Ahmed Jan Khan (PW2) has revealed that Tiger Memon (AA) had convened a meeting at the hotel Big Splash, and had expressed his desire to take revenge for the demolition of the Babri Masjid.	None
Shahid (A135) had also been present at the said meeting.	None
From the hotel, they had left for Shekhadi Coast in jeeps.	None
At about 11 p.m., Tiger Memon (AA) and his associates, including the accused (A 135) had gone to high sea, in a boat.	None
The said boat had taken them to a big red speed boat.	None
Tiger Memon (AA) had gone over to the other boat, and had brought out seven bags of military colour from the said speed boat.	None
The bags had contained guns, pistols and handgrenades, and also AK56 rifles.	None
The Designated Court, after appreciating the entire evidence on record with respect to Nizammudin Qureshi, has recorded the following conclusion All said evidence considered in proper perspective clearly reveals close association of A135 with Tiger Memon and or himself man of confidence of Tiger Memon.	None
All said evidence considered in proper perspective clearly reveals involvement of A135 in Shekhadi landing episode.	Reasoning
Similarly entire evidence having remained confined to act committed by A135 of assisting and aiding Shekhadi landing and transportation operation and there existing no cementing material revealing his involvement in conspiracy he will be required to be held not guilty for offence of conspiracy for which charge is framed at head 1st ly.	Reasoning
Undoubtedly, the respondent had participated in the landing at Shekhadi when the contraband were smuggled into India.	Reasoning
However, as the evidence on record as well as the findings recorded by the Designated Court remain to the effect that he had not been aware of the articles smuggled, he cannot be held liable for punishment for conspiracy.224.	Reasoning
The parameters laid down by this Court in entertaining the appeal against the order of acquittal have to be applied.	Reasoning
We concur with the finding recorded by the learned Designated Court, and find no reason to interfere with the order passed by the Special Judge.	None
The appeal lacks merit, and is accordingly dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.	None
599 OF 2011State of MaharashtraAppellantVersusShaikh Mohd.	Facts
EtheshamRespondent226.	Facts
This appeal has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 2.8.2007 passed by the Special Judge of the Designated Court under the TADA for Bombay Blast Case No.1 of 1993, by which the respondent (A58) was found guilty under Section 3(3) TADA and awarded a sentence of 10 years with a fine of Rs.25,000/ with suitable RI in default of payment of fine, for the commission of offence of conspiracy to commit terrorist act and further sentenced to suffer RI for 10 years with a fine of Rs.	Facts
25,000/ with suitable RI in default of payment of fine, for the commission of offence punishable under Section 3(3) TADA, for commission of such acts as abovesaid.	Facts
However, he has been acquitted of the general charge of conspiracy i.e. first charge.227.	Facts
Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that A.	Facts
In addition to the general charge of conspiracy, the respondent (A58) had been charged under Section 3(3) TADA, firstly on the ground, that he had participated and assisted Tiger Memon (AA) and his associates in smuggling, landing and transportation of arms, ammunition etc., into India for the purpose of terrorist activities.	Facts
Secondly, he had assisted in landing at Shekhadi on 3rd and 7th February, 1993 and had further agreed to undergo a training in Pakistan for handling of arms, ammunition and explosives for committing terrorist acts and had even attended a conspirational meeting at Dubai to plan commission of terrorist acts.	Facts
B.	Facts
After conclusion of the trial, the Designated Court convicted the respondent as referred to hereinabove, but acquitted of the charge of larger conspiracy.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	Facts
Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the State, has submitted that the respondent had been a very close associate of Tiger Memon and had participated in landing and went to Dubai for the purpose of getting training in handling of arms, ammunition and explosives, attending the conspiratorial meetings at Dubai.	None
Therefore, the learned Designated Court under TADA, committed an error in acquitting him of the first charge of larger conspiracy.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, the appeal deserves to be allowed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ms. Farhana Shah, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent, has opposed the appeal contending that the respondent had already served the sentence of 10 years and paid the fine.	Arguments of Respondent
He did not file any appeal against the conviction.	Arguments of Respondent
Though he went to Dubai for going to Pakistan for having training in handling of arms, ammunition and explosives, but did not get any training whatsoever, and his acts were prior to hatching of the conspiracy.	Arguments of Respondent
He did not participate in any of the illegal activity conspiracy subsequent to coming back from Dubai.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the order impugned does not need any interference whatsoever.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
The evidence against the said respondent (A58) is disclosed in the confessional statements of Nasir Abdul Kadar Kewal Nasir Dhakla (A64), Shaikh Kasam Babulal Ismail Shaikh (A109), SultanERome Sardar Ali Gul (A114), Abdul Aziz Shaikh (A126), Mohd.	None
Iqbal Shaikh Ibrahim (A127), Shahnawaz Khan Faiz Mohd.	None
Khan (A128) and Murad Ibrahim Khan (A130).	None
The said confessional statements revealed that the respondent (A58) had participated in the landing at Shekhadi.	None
He was present at the Wangni Tower at the time of shifting the contraband and had also participated in second landing at Shekhadi.	None
He had also attended the meeting in a partially constructed building in Khar and agreed to go out of India for receiving the arms training in Pakistan.	None
He went to Dubai on 14.2.1993, but could not go to Pakistan and stayed in Dubai for 14 days and returned to India on 2.3.1993.	None
While in Dubai, he had taken an oath of secrecy that he would not disclose anything about the conspiracy to anyone.	None
The aforesaid evidence also stands corroborated by the evidence of Usman Ahmed Jan Khan (PW2) and Prakash Ramugade (PW207).	None
The Designated Court after appreciating the entire evidence on record reached the conclusion as under Thus considering material in the confession of A58 and aforesaid coaccused the same leads to the conclusion of A58 also being involved in Shekadi landing operation as denoted by said material and as such having committed offence u s. 3(3) of TADA for which he is charged at head	Reasoning
2nd	Reasoning
ly clause a.	None
In the said context it is necessary to add that considering evidence pertaining to Shekhadi landing in proper perspective and role carried out by A58 in the same and during said operation contraband material being opened at the sea shore and so also exchanged from truck to other vehicles at Wangni Tower, the defence submission that A58 was not aware about nature of contraband material to be brought etc. does not appeal to mind.	Reasoning
Needless to add that considering material in confession of other coaccused regarding Shekhadi landing episode it is difficult to accept such submission.	Reasoning
Needless to add that A58 was man of close confidence of Tiger Memon is being also revealed from fact of himself being given weapon during relevant operation.	Reasoning
Similarly A58 himself having participated in said operation in which large quantity of arms, ammunition and explosives were smuggled into India leading to legitimate conclusion of same being brought for commission of terrorist act and still A58 thereafter having agreed to undergo weapon training in operating arms, ammunition in foreign country and in said process having gone to Dubai but being required to return in view of further arrangements being not made clearly denotes A 58 was party to conspiracy to commit terrorist act punishable u sec.	Reasoning
3(3) of TADA Act.	Reasoning
However all said acts committed by A58 being much prior to main conspiracy of committing serial blast having taken final shape i.e. during conspiratorial meetings held in month of March, 1993 and A58 after returning from Dubai having not participated in any act furthering object of larger conspiracy for which charge at head 1st	Reasoning
ly in framed he cannot be held liable for larger conspiracy and he will be required to be held guilty for conspiracy to commit terrorist act as stated aforesaid.	Reasoning
(Emphasis added)233.	None
The parameters laid down by this Court in entertaining the appeal against the order of acquittal have to be applied.	Reasoning
In view of the fact that the respondent has already served the sentence of 10 years and paid the fine, therefore we are not inclined to allow this appeal.	Decision
It is accordingly dismissed.	None
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.	None
395 of 2011State of MaharashtraAppellantVersusFarooq	None
Illiyas Motorwala Respondent235.	Facts
This appeal has been preferred against the final judgment and order dated 2.8.2007, passed by the Special Judge of the Designated Court under the TADA in Bombay Blast Case No.1 of 1993, by which the respondent has been found guilty for the offences under Section 3(3), and awarded 13 years RI with a fine of Rs.25,000/ and in default of payment of fine, to suffer further RI for 6 months.	Facts
He was also convicted under Section 3(3) TADA, and awarded 7 years RI with a fine of Rs.25,000/, in default of payment of fine, to suffer further RI for 6 months.	Facts
However, he has been acquitted of some other charges including the larger conspiracy.236.	Facts
Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that A.	Facts
In addition to the main charge of conspiracy, the charge against the respondent was that in pursuance of the conspiracy, he visited Dubai on a fictitious passport No. H118352, obtained by him in the name of Kazi Salim Illyas and participated in conspiratorial meeting held at Dubai alongwith other coaccused Mohmed Jamil Omar Khatlab (PW 1) (approver), who had been recruited for undergoing weapons training in Pakistan.	Facts
B.	Facts
After conclusion of the trial, the Designated Court convicted the respondent as referred to hereinabove, but acquitted of some charges including the larger conspiracy.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	Facts
Shri Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant has submitted that there was sufficient material on record to show the involvement of the respondent in larger conspiracy and the Special Judge has committed an error in acquitting him for the said charge.	None
Thus, the appeal should be allowed.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the contrary, Mr. S.P. Sinha, learned counsel appearing for the respondent (A75) has submitted that the respondent has been awarded 13 years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs.	Arguments of Respondent
50,000/.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent has already served the sentence and also deposited the fine.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, at such a belated stage, this court should not interfere against the order of acquittal, in view of the parameters laid down by this court, for entertaining the appeal against acquittal.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, the appeal is liable to be dismissed.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
Evidence against the respondent (A75) Confessional statement of the respondent (A75) (b) Confessional statement of Mohd.	None
Salim Mira Moiddin Shaikh Salim Kutta (A134) Deposition of Mohd.	None
Jabir Umar Khatlab (PW1) (d) Deposition of Tota Tiwari (PW340) Deposition of Rajan Dhoble (PW585)	None
Confessional statement of the respondent (A75)	None
He disclosed that he indulged in smuggling of goods and used to go to Dubai frequently.	None
He was introduced by his friend Latif Bagwala to Tahir Merchant.	None
The respondent (A75) had a passport, however, he obtained another passport in a fictitious name i.e. Kazi Salim Illyas Majid Rajkotwala and on a fictitious address.	None
On 15.1.1993, he went to Dubai on the passport obtained in a fictitious name and attended the meetings with Tahir Merchant.	None
Respondent (A75) called his friend Mohd.	None
Jamil Omar Khatlab (PW.1) (approver) to Dubai and sent him to undergo arms training in Pakistan.	Reasoning
Respondent (A75) returned to Bombay on 27.2.1993 and Mohd.	None
Jamil Omar Khatlab (PW.1) also came back after having training in Pakistan in handling weapons.	None
After the Bombay blast, Mohd.	None
Jamil Omar Khatlab (PW.1) had told him (A75) that a person had come from Tahir Merchant and asked him to keep guns and pistols.	None
Confessional statement of Mohd.	None
Salim Mira Moiddin Shaikh Salim Kutta (A134)	None
The said coaccused did not name the respondent (A75) specifically.	None
However he corroborated that there were 7 conspiratorial meetings held in Dubai at the behest of Dawood Ibrahim and Mustafa Majnu and an oath was administered to them for taking revenge from Hindus for the damage of Babri Masjid.	None
Mohd.	None
Jamil Omar Khatlab (PW1) deposed that on 11.2.1993, respondent (A75) took him to Tiger Memon (AA) at AlHusseini Building.	None
Tiger Memon (AA) told them that during December 1992 and January 1993, Muslims had greatly suffered.	None
Babri Masjid was demolished and Indian Government remained a mere spectator.	None
So they should take revenge.	None
Thereafter they were administered oath to take revenge.	None
He further disclosed that Tiger Memon had told them that he would teach a lesson to the Indian Government by exploding bombs at various places and attack people with rifles and for that purpose he wanted persons who can participate in such actions.	None
At this juncture, Mohmed Jamil Omar Khatlab (PW.1) and respondent (A75) had agreed to participate.	None
Mohd.	None
Jamil Omar Khatlab (PW.1) told Tiger Memon (AA) that he did not know how to handle arms.	None
Thereafter, the respondent (A 75) told Mohd.	None
Jamil Omar Khatlab (PW.1) that he would be sent for weapons training in Pakistan where I.S.I. would train them and Mohd.	None
Jamil Omar Khatlab (PW.1) agreed to go to Pakistan for the same.	None
Tiger Memon (AA) had told them that young Muslims from all over India would be sent to Pakistan for weapons training and they decided to destroy the society and create panic and for that purpose he would get all the required assistance from Pakistan.	None
They were also administered oath again by Tiger Memon (AA) that none of them would disclose any information about the plan.	None
On 20.2.1993, Mohd.	None
Jamil Omar Khatlab (PW.1) got a phone call from the respondent (A75) from Dubai who instructed him to reach Dubai on 24.2.1993.	None
He was also informed that one Walter DSouza, friend of respondent (A75) would hand over the passport of Mohd.	None
Jamil Omar Khatlab (PW.1).	None
On 24.2.1993, he (PW.1) received the passport and he left for Dubai on 25.2.1993.	None
This witness also identified the air tickets etc.	None
in the court.	None
Mohd.	None
Jamil Omar Khatlab (PW.1) further deposed that he reached Dubai airport on 25.2.1993 at about 4.45 p.m. and respondent (A75) and one Tahir Bhai received him at the airport and Tahir Bhai had made arrangements for his stay at Dubai.	None
On 26.2.1993, a meeting of Tahir Merchant with the respondent (A75) took place at the flat of Tahir Merchant and in the said meeting Tahir Merchant told Mohd.	None
Jamil Omar Khatlab (PW.1) that he had to leave for Islamabad where he would be given military training to fight against Hindus and particularly for throwing bombs and operating fire arms.	None
The case of the prosecution was further corroborated by the Investigating Officer as well as by the panch witnesses, particularly, Tota Tiwari (PW340) and Rajan Dhoble (PW585) and the documents (i.e his fictitious passport, embarkation and disembarkation cards.) which facilitated the journey of the respondent (A75) from Bombay to Dubai and Dubai to Bombay.	None
The learned Designated Court after appreciating the entire evidence held ?	None
19.	None
Thus, considering all the aforesaid selfeloquent matters revealed from the evidence of PW1, the same squarely reveals the manner in which A75 had taken PW1 to Tiger Memon.	None
It is significant to note that upon Tiger Memon telling the matters narrated in clause (3), PW1 had expressed to him that he was not knowing to operate weapon and thereafter A75 had told PW1 that he will be sent for weapon training at Pakistan where ISI will help him in training and PW1 had agreed for going to Pakistan for weapon training.	None
Since the further matters stated in further part of evidence of PW1 having revealed the manner in which he had been to Dubai, A75 along with Tahir Bhai had been to the airport for receiving him and the further acts committed by A75 and the fact of PW1 having been to Pakistan and having participated in training programme, clearly reveals PW1 was initiated in conspiracy by A75 i.e. the conspiracy to which he was party since earlier.	None
Needless to add that all the said material clearly establishes A75 having committed the offence under Section 3(3) of TADA for which he was charged with and so also himself being in conspiracy for commission of terrorist acts as observed earlier during the discussion made in Part10.	None
Though the aforesaid evidence clearly reveals involvement of A75 in a conspiracy to commit terrorist acts and himself having initiated PW1 in the said conspiracy still the evidence reveals that A75 had not committed any act after 26th February 1993 for furthering the object of conspiracy to which he was party or to the larger conspiracy for which he has been charged at head firstly.	None
Now considering the evidence which has surfaced at trial, it is clear that the targets for commission of bomb Blast at Bombay were discussed by Tiger Memon for the first time to other co conspirators in the meetings which had taken place after 6th of March, 1993 at the house of Babloo or Mubina.	None
Thus, there being hardly any evidence on record of A75 being aware that the serial bomb Blast were to be committed by committing explosions at such place and or himself having not participated in any other operation after 26th February, 1993, though the evidence reveals his involvement in conspiracy still the same does not transcend further than establishing involvement of A75 in the conspiracy other than commission of terrorist acts made punishable under Section 3(3) of TADA.	None
Since knowledge of the object of conspiracy is the vital part for determining liability of conspirator in a conspiracy to commit the offences and even though some suspicion might be arising due to the acts committed by A75 also being involved in larger conspiracy as every conspirator need not know every act to be committed by other conspirators or the other conspirators still the same cannot take the place of proof of involvement of A75 for the larger conspiracy.	None
(Emphasis added)	None
The Special Judge while dealing with the sentence part observed Thus guilt of A75 for offence of conspiracy has remained confined to the extent of himself being guilty for offence of conspiracy to commit terrorist act.	None
Needless to add that it was neither prosecution case nor any evidence has surfaced on record revealing that either A75 had participated in any of the further operation which were effected for furthering the larger object of conspiracy and or himself being aware that the explosions were to be committed in Bombay by the co conspirators.	None
xxxxx	None
Thus in light of reasoning given aforesaid, it will be difficult to accept submission of ld.	None
Chief P.P. to give maximum to A75 for the reasons canvassed by him and dealt earlier and so also for any other reason, which is also precisely absent.	None
At the cost of repetition, it will be necessary to say, that even it is accepted that inducting such person into conspiracy is a heinous act still merely on said count awarding maximum punishment to accused responsible for same de hors considering the extent of other acts committed by him and thereby assessing the element of criminality existing in him would amount allowing oneself to be swayed by feelings and would amount of having acted without any logical reasoning behind it.	None
Needless to add that an adult person joining any conspiracy would be always due to such decision taken by him the entire liability of his such a decision cannot be fastened upon other who have advocated with him for joining such a conspiracy.	None
Having regard to the same, while awarding punishment to A75 it will be necessary to take into account the gravity of the act committed by him and so also the other circumstances relevant to same as urged on his behalf or even otherwise.	None
However, at the same time the relevant facet spelt from evidence that A75 had not committed any terrorist act at any point of time or after 24th Feb., 1993 any act furthering the object of conspiracy for which he has been found to be guilty or furthering object of larger conspiracy of which outcome was Serial Bomb Blast.	None
The parameters laid down by this Court in entertaining the appeal against the order of acquittal have to be applied.248.	Reasoning
The Special Judge recorded the finding that the respondent did not do anything to further the object of conspiracy.	Reasoning
However, he was involved in sending Mohd.	Reasoning
Jamil Omar Khatlab (PW1) to Dubai and further to Pakistan for getting initiated in the training of weapons.	Reasoning
The respondent received the coaccused at the airport and attended 7 conspiratorial meetings held in Dubai.	Reasoning
Admittedly, the respondent who travelled to Dubai had a fictitious passport for a particular purpose.	Reasoning
He further went to Pakistan and undertook the training in handling the arms, ammunition and explosives.	Reasoning
He met Tiger Memon (AA) in Dubai, who told him that they would teach a lesson to the Indian Government by exploding bombs etc.	Reasoning
However, the learned Designated Court did not convict him on the charge of conspiracy.	Reasoning
Such a conclusion is not worth acceptance and the said finding being perverse, is liable to be set aside.	None
The appeal is allowed.	Decision
The respondent has now been convicted for the charge first and awarded the life imprisonment.	Decision
He is directed to surrender before the learned Designated Court within a period of four weeks to serve out the remaining sentence, failing which the Designated Court will secure his custody and send him to jail to serve out the sentence.	Decision
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO. 397 of 2011State of Maharashtra through CBI AppellantVersusMohd.	None
Rafiq Usman Shaikh Respondent249.	Facts
This appeal has been preferred against the final judgment and order dated 2.8.2007 passed by the Special Judge of the Designated Court under the TADA in Bombay Blast Case No.1 of 1993, by which the respondent accused has been convicted for the offences punishable under Section 3 (3) TADA and awarded 7 years RI with a fine of Rs.15,000/ and in default of payment of fine, to suffer further RI for 3 months on each count.	Facts
However, he has been acquitted of the general charge of conspiracy.250.	Facts
Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that A.	Facts
In addition to the main charge of conspiracy, the appellant (A 94) was charged under Section 3(3) TADA, as he had visited Pakistan alongwith other coconspirators via Dubai and underwent training in handling of arms, ammunition and explosives with the object of committing terrorist acts and even attended the meetings at the residences of Nazir Ahmed Anwar Shaikh Babloo (AA) and Mubina Bai where plans for committing terrorist acts were discussed finalised.	Facts
Further, he had also taken oath in the name of Quran while in Dubai, not to disclose to anybody about the conspiracy.	Facts
B.	Facts
After conclusion of the trial, the respondent was held guilty of the charges as referred to hereinabove but has been acquitted of the charge of conspiracy.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	Facts
Mr. Mukul Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant has submitted that the Special Judge was not justified in imposing such a lenient punishment in view of the fact that the respondent (A94) had gone to Pakistan and acquired the knowledge in handling of arms and ammunition during training.	Arguments of Petitioner
He had attended the conspiratorial meetings wherein conspiracy was not only hatched, but plans for committing terrorist acts were also given final stage.	Arguments of Petitioner
Moreover, he had taken oath as to nondisclosure of information about the conspiracy in the name of Quran in Dubai.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the appeal deserves to be allowed.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the contrary, Ms. Farhana Shah, learned counsel appearing for the respondent has submitted that the respondent (A94) had been awarded 7 years RI which he has already served.	Arguments of Respondent
He had also deposited the fine imposed upon him.	Arguments of Respondent
The deposition of Mohd.	Arguments of Respondent
Usman Jan Khan (PW.2) is not worth reliance for the reason that he was also an accused who, subsequently turned to be an approver.	Arguments of Respondent
Moreover, Mohd.	Arguments of Respondent
Usman Jan Khan (PW.2) had not named him (A94) specifically as being present in the conspiratorial meeting on 10.3.1993 and there is no material even on record to show that the respondent (A94) was present on 11.3.1993 in the conspiratorial meeting at AlHusseini building.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the respondent (A94) cannot be discriminated against, as his role had been like all others particularly, Gul Mohamamed Gullu Noor Mohmed Shaikh (A77), Mohmed Hanif Mohmed Usman Shaikh (A92), Mohmed Sayeed Mohmed Issaq (A95), Shaikh Ibrahim Shaikh Hussein (A108) and Usman Man Khan Shaikh (A115) except that none of the above named accused had participated in the conspiratorial meetings.	Arguments of Respondent
Moreover, in spite of the fact that on 10.3.1993, the respondent (A94) was present in the conspiratorial meeting and accepted a sum of Rs.5,000/ from Tiger Memon (AA), he did not participate in any overt act on the fateful day i.e. 12.3.1993, when the Bombay Blast took place.	None
Therefore, no interference is required with the impugned judgment and order, and enhancement of punishment is not warranted.	None
We have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
Evidence against the respondent (A94) Confessional Statement of Mohd.	None
Rafiq Usman Shaikh (A94)	None
Confessional statement of Bashir Ahmed Usman Gani Khairulla (A13)	None
Confessional statement of Nasim Ashraf Sherali Barmare(A49)	None
Confessional statement of Parvez Mohmed Parvez Zulfikar Qureshi (A 100) Confessional statement of Shahnawaz Abdul Kadar Qureshi (A29) Confessional statement of Zakir Hussain Noor Mohd.	None
Shaikh (A 32) Confessional statement of Abdul Khan (A36)	None
Confessional statement of Firoz Akram Amani Malik (A39) Confessional statement of Niyaz Mohamed (A98) Deposition of Mohd.	None
Usman Jan Khan (PW2) Deposition of Jagdesh Lohalkar (PW.237) Deposition of Ramchandra (PW.231) Confessional Statement of Mohd.	None
Rafiq Usman Shaikh (A94)  	None
He has disclosed that he was of 25 years of age and used to wash cars and fill petrol.	None
He lost his job 78 months prior to Bombay Blast.	None
On 16.2.1993, one Mohmed Jabir Abdul Latif Mansoor (A93) (now dead) told the respondent (A94) that his ticket to Dubai had been arranged for 17.2.1993 and he (A94) went to Dubai by an Air India flight on 17.2.1993.	None
He was received at Dubai airport by a fair looking man with a beard at Dubai airport.	None
The respondent (A94) stayed in a hotel with five other persons who had gone there for the same purpose, namely, Haji Yakub, Anwar, Bashir and Nasir Dhakla.	None
Four more persons had joined them there, and on the advice of Tiger Memon (AA) they went to the airport on 20.2.1993 to go to Islamabad.	None
They reached Islamabad where they were received by a person who took them to a hilly jungle area where tents had already been pitched.	None
On the next day, Javed Chikna told the respondent (A94) to get ready for pistol and machine gun training and advised him to learn all those weapons, as atrocities had been committed on Muslims in Bombay.	None
Respondent (A94) participated in the training and came back to Dubai from Islamabad on 1.3.1993.	None
He also took oath in the name of Quran in Dubai alongwith other conspirators not to reveal any information about the training etc. to anyone.	Facts
Respondent (A94) returned to Bombay on 3.3.1993.	None
On 10.3.1993, respondent (A94) had participated with other conspirators in a conspiratorial meeting at Mubinas place at Bandra, where targets were discussed and groups were assigned particular duties and each participant was given a sum of Rs.5,000/ by Tiger Memon (AA).	None
The aforesaid confessional statement of the respondent (A94) was further corroborated by the confessional statement of Bashir Ahmed Usman Gani Khairulla (A13) to the extent that he revealed the presence of respondent (A94) in the conspiratorial meeting on 10.3.1993 at Bandra, and that Tiger Memon (AA) had given everybody a sum of Rs.5,000/ in the meeting.	None
Confessional statement of Nasim Ashraf Sherali Barmare (A49)  	None
He has revealed the version given by respondent (A94) to the extent that he (A94) had attended the training in Pakistan and further he (A94) attended the meeting at Bandra on 10.3.1993, and each of the participants was given a sum of Rs.5,000/. Confessional statement of Parvez Mohmed Parvez Zulfikar Qureshi Parvez Kelewala (A100) He has also disclosed the similar facts as given by the respondent (A94) in his confessional statement to the extent that the respondent (A94) attended the arms training in Pakistan.	None
Confessional statement of Shahnawaz Abdul Kadar Qureshi (A29)  	None
He has revealed that the respondent (A94) had gone to Pakistan for arms training via Dubai and attended the meeting in Dubai.	None
He had also taken on oath in the name of Quran that he would not reveal any information about conspiracy to anyone and that he was told in that meeting by Tiger Memon (AA) that his tickets were ready for evening flight for Bombay.	None
Confessional statement of Zakir Hussain Noor Mohd.	None
Shaikh (A 32)  He has disclosed that respondent (A94) had joined other conspirators for training in Pakistan and took an oath in Dubai in the name of Quran.	None
The same version stood corroborated further by the confessions of Abdul Khan Yakub Khan Akhtar Khan (A36), Firoz Akram Amani Malik (A39) and Niyaz Mohmed Aslam Iqbal Ahmed Shaikh (A98).	None
Mohd.	None
Usman Jan Khan (PW.2) has deposed that he knew the respondent (A94) and he identified him in court.	None
He has further deposed that the respondent (A94) had attended the arms training in Pakistan.	None
Jagdish Shantaram (PW.237) and Ramchandra (PW.231) have also proved the departure of respondent (A94) from Bombay to Dubai on 17.2.1993 and his arrival in Bombay on 3.3.1993 respectively.	None
The Special Judge after appreciating the entire evidence came to the following conclusion Now considering the matters stated in the confession of A 94 the similar phenomenon is found therein and hence detailed dilation regarding same is avoided.	None
The same also alike the confession of A64 though reveals that A94 had initially agreed to go to Dubai for the purposes of trip ultimately in a similar manner (but alongwith different person).	None
He had reached the said training camp in which A64 was acquiring training along with other persons.	None
Similarly, the same also reveals of A 94 and his companion being cleared at Islamabad airport in the similar manner.	None
As a difference the material on page of confession of A94 reveals that in Pakistan A94 had acquired the knowledge that he has to take training and at the said juncture absconding accused Javed Chikna had told him the purpose for which the said training of operating pistols and machine gun was to be taken.	None
Now visualizing the situation then prevailing between India and Pakistan in the year 1992 and still A94 having continued to take training and or not making any protest about the same even later on also clearly reveals of himself having joined the band of said.	None
Thus, considering all the material contained in confession of other accused and concerned evidence it is amply clear that the person with beard who had met A77 and A94 at Dubai was none else but Tiger Memon.	None
xx	None
xx	None
xx	None
xx	None
Now considering further material in the confession of A94 the same in terms reveals the promptness in which he has gone to Pakistan and acquired training at the said place.	None
On the said backdrop considering the earlier recitals in the confession that he had gone for a trip clearly appears to be not only inconsistent with other matters stated in the confession but the same clearly appears to have been belied by other material stated in the said confession.	None
Thus the said recitals will be liable to be discarded.	None
After discarding the said recitals and considering in proper perspective other material the same clearly reveals that A94 having agreed for acquiring training at Pakistan and for the said purpose he had promptly gone and acquired the same.	None
xx	None
xx	None
xx	None
xx	None
The same being not directed against any particular person the said fact clearly reveals that the same cannot be said to be of any other purpose rather than for commission of terrorist acts.	None
The aforesaid fact is also fortified by the further material contained in the confession regarding the manner in which A94 had taken an oath and the matters then told by Tiger Memon.	None
Thus, considering all facets from confession of A94 about which few are discussed hereinabove, it can be safely said that the same squarely establishes the guilt of A94 in commission of offence for which charges are framed against him.	None
xx	None
xx	None
xx	None
In the premises aforesaid i.e. in the light of discussion made hereinabove, it can be safely said that A16, A29, A32, A 36, A39, A49, A52, A64, A77, A92, A94, A95, A98, A100, A108 and A105 had been to Pakistan via Dubai themselves and as agreed had received training in handling of sophisticated arms, ammunitions, explosives for commission of terrorist acts and in said process A77, A92, A95, A108 and A115 had attended meeting themselves and or the remaining also had taken on oath of secrecy and were involved in planning in commission of terrorist act after returning to India and or utilizing the training acquired by them and thus having committed offence punishable u s 3(3) of TADA and so also offence of conspiracy all the points under the discussion i.e. point Nos. 22, 23 and 24, will be required to be answered in affirmative against each of them.	Reasoning
TADA COURTON SENTENCE of A94 Now considering the case of A94 from them, though same apparently appears to be different than the remaining five due to himself having participated in the meeting on 10th of March, 1993, the close look at the evidence and particularly his confession does not reveal himself having committed any further act or any evidence denoting that he had acquired knowledge of further activities to be committed in pursuance of conspiracy to which other members in said meeting were party and in future the said members having indulged in commission of further acts furthering the objects of the larger conspiracy to which other said members are found to be guilty.	None
Needless to add that though confession of A94 reveals that said meeting was attended by Tiger Memon, PW2, Javed Chikna, Bashir, A32, A38 and 1415 others, the said material does not transcend further other than showing that small groups were formed at said meeting and the members of said group were discussing the matters amongst themselves and Tiger Memon had given Rs.5000/ to each of participant of the said meeting.	None
Curiously enough material fails to denote commission of any further act by A94 making him liable for being a party to larger conspiracy in pursuance of which further preparatory acts for commission of Serial Bomb Blast was committed.	None
Needless to add that the material reveals that A94 was enquired whether he was knowing driving and he had replied in negative.	None
The material in the confession also reveals that on 14th of March, 1993, A16 had told A94 that Tiger Memon had caused the bomb explosions and has ran away etc.	None
Thus, careful consideration of said material though reveals that case of A94 is somewhat different still at the same time the same fails to establish of the same being materially different and or being on higher pedestal than other 5 accused concerned with present discussion.	None
xx xx	None
xx	None
Thus, considering acts committed by each of aforesaid 6 accused and out of them involvement of A94 being slightly more than others but having regard to the crucial fact that in spite of all of them at certain point of time having become party to conspiracy to commit terrorist act, in pursuance of same or otherwise having acquired the necessary training surreptitiously in a foreign country for commission of terrorist act and thus each of them having acquired gained sufficient potential for commission of terrorist act but in fact none of them having committed such act and each of them having remained continuously in custody for a long period of 56 years after arrest uptil their release on bail and the same having reduced the potential acquired by each of them for commission of heinous crime and same in turn having resulted in protecting the society at large from such potential gain and even after release of said accused on bail, their conduct being not indicative of themselves having attempted to use potential gain by them for causing any danger to society at large and in fact the act committed by all of them having not resulted in causing any danger to society and other matters stated by them during their statement recorded upon quantum of sentence will deserve not giving any much harsher or the maximum punishment to them.	None
The same would be necessary as the conduct of these accused after their release on bail in some what indicative of there being eradication of the element of criminality because of which they had committed the crime.	None
This Court has laid down parameters for interference against the order of acquittal time and again and the same have to be followed herein.266.	Reasoning
In view of the fact that the respondent (A94) had gone to Pakistan and took training in handling the arms, ammunition and explosives and also attended the conspiratorial meeting at Dubai and took oath in the name of Quran not to divulge any information regarding the conspiracy, it is abundantly clear that the respondent was aware of the purpose of training in Pakistan and he undertook the training there without any protest.267.	Reasoning
We are of the view that the Special Judge committed an error in not convicting the respondent for the larger conspiracy.	Reasoning
Therefore, the appeal is allowed and he is awarded life imprisonment.	None
He is directed to surrender before the learned Designated Court within a period of four weeks to serve out the remaining sentence, failing which the Designated Court will secure his custody and send him to jail to serve out the sentence.	Decision
Annexure A CriminalAccused Name andSentence byAward by No.AppealNumberDesignatedSupreme	None
CourtCourt 1.418 of 2011Fazal Rehman Abdul (A76)AcquittedDismissed 2.409 of 2011Manjoor Qureshi Ors.	None
(A88, A109,AcquittedDismissed A114, A126, A127(dead) and A130) 3.601 of 2011Krishna Sadanand Mokal Ors.	None
AcquittedDismissed (A83, A84 and A87) 4.404 of 2011Moiddin Abdul Kadar Cheruvattam (A48)AcquittedDismissed 5.405 of 2011Asfaq Kasam Hawaldar (A38)AcquittedDismissed 6.394 of 2011Ismail Abbas Patel (A80)AcquittedDismissed 7.1033 of 2012Rukhsana Mohd.	None
Shafi Zariwala (A103)AcquittedDismissed 8.594 of 2011Sayyed Ismail Sayyed Ali Kadri (A105)AcquittedDismissed 9.402 of 2011Mohd.	None
Ahmed Mansoor (A132)AcquittedDismissed 10.1022 of 2012Rashid Umar Alwar (A27)U s 111 r w Sec.	None
135Dismissed of Customs Act 3 years RI with fine of Rs. 25,000/and acquitted of charge of conspiracy 11.393 of 2011Sharif Khan Abbas Adhikari (A60)U s 111 r w Sec.	None
135Dismissed of Customs Act 3 years RI with fine of Rs. 25,000/and acquitted of charge of conspiracy 12.391 of 2011Sharif Abdul Gafoor Parkar U s 3(3) TADA 7Allowed Dadabhai (A17)years RI with fine ofand awarded Rs.	None
50,000/ U s 5,life imprison TADA 10 years RIment with fine of Rs.	Facts
50,000/ U s 6, TADA	None
14 years RI with fine of Rs. 2 lakhs and acquitted from charge of conspiracy 13.1027 of 2012Manoj Kumar Bhanwarlal Gupta (A24)U s 3(3) TADA 7Allowed years RI with fine ofand awarded Rs.	None
50,000/ U s 5,life imprison TADA 10 years RIment with fine of Rs. 1 lakh	Facts
U s 6 TADA 14 years RI with fine of Rs. 1 lakh U s 3(3) TADA and Sec.201 IPC 5 years RI with fine of Rs.25,000/ and acquitted from charge of conspiracy 14.597 of 2011Sarfaraj Dawood Phanse (A55)U s 3(3) TADA  9Dismissed years RI with fine of Rs. 25,000/ and acquitted from charge of conspiracy 15.407 of 2011Ayub Ibrahim Patel (A72)U s 3(3) TADA  5Dismissed years RI with fine of Rs.	None
25,000/ U s 5 TADA  10 years RI with fine of Rs.	None
50,000/ U s 6 TADA  10 years RI with fine of Rs. 50,000 and acquitted from charge of conspiracy 16.1025 of 2012Mohd.	None
Shahid Nizamuddin QureshiU s 3(3) TADA  10Dismissed (A135)years RI with fine of Rs. 25,000/ and acquitted from charge of conspiracy 17.599 of 2011Shaikh Mohd.	None
Ethesham (A58)U s 3(3) TADA  10Dismissed years RI with fine of Rs. 25,000/ and further U s 3(3) TADA  10 years RI with fine of Rs. 25,000/ and acquitted from charge of conspiracy 18.395 of 2011Farooq Illiyas Motorwala (A75)U s 3(3) 13 yearsAllowed RI with fine of Rs.and awarded 25,000/ U s 3(3)life imprison TADA 7 years RI withment fine of Rs. 25,000/ and acquitted from charge of conspiracy 19.397 of 2011Mohd.	None
Rafiq Usman Shaikh (A94)U s 3(3) TADA 7 yearsAllowed RI with fine ofand awarded Rs. 15,000/ andlife imprison acquitted from chargement of conspiracy We have dealt with 19 appeals filed by the State against the order of acquittal on certain charges and particularly, the charge of conspiracy.	None
Out of the said 19 appeals, we have dismissed 15 appeals, however, allowed 4 appeals bearing Criminal Appeal No. 391/2011 (Sharif Abdul Gafoor Parkar Dadabhai (A17), Criminal Appeal No. 1027 of 2012 (Manoj Kumar Bhanwarlal Gupta (A24), Criminal Appeal No. 395 of 2011 (Farooq Iliyas Motorwala (A75) and Criminal Appeal No. 397 of 2011 (Mohd.	None
Rafiq Usman Shaikh (A94).	None
The respondents in these appeals ae awarded life imprisonment and they are directed to surrender before the learned Designated Court within a period of four weeks to serve out the remaining sentence, failing which the Designated Court will secure their custody and send them to jail to serve out the sentence.	None
