 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted in S.L.Ps.2.	None
Constitutionality and or validity of Regulation 13 of the Indian Airlines (Flying Crew) Service Regulations (for short the Regulations) is in question in these appeals which arise out of a judgment and order dated 30th August, 2005 passed by the High Court of Bombay in Writ Petition No. 2030 of 2003.	Issue
Indian Airlines Ltd. (Corporation) was constituted under the Air Corporation Act, 1953 (for short the 1953 Act).	Facts
Regulations were framed by Appellant No. 1 in the year 1994 by Act No. 13 of 1994.	Facts
The Parliament enacted Air Corporations (Transfer of Undertakings and Repeal) Act, 1994 (for short the 1994 Act) whereby and whereunder, the right, title and interest of Indian Airlines were transferred to Indian Airlines Limited.	Facts
In terms of Section 45 of the 1953 Act, the Corporation made Regulations.	Facts
Regulation 13 of the said Regulations is in the following terms The services of an employee may be terminated without assigning any reasons to him her and without any prior notice but only on the following grounds not amounting to misconduct under the Standing Orders, namely(a) If he she is, in the opinion of the Company (the Board of Directors of Indian Airlines) incompetent and unsuitable for continued employment with the Company and such incompetence and unsuitability is such as to make his her continuance in employment detrimental to the interest of the Company ORif his her continuance in employment constitutes, in the opinion of the Company (the Board of Directors of Indian Airlines), a grave security risk making his her continuance in service detrimental to the interests of the Company ORif in the opinion of the Company (the Board of Directors of Indian Airlines) there is such a justifiable lack of confidence which, having regard to the nature of duties performed, would make it necessary in the interest of the Company, to immediately terminate his her services.(b)	Facts
No employee shall resign from the employment of the Company without giving six months notice in writing to the Company of his her intention to resign Provided that Managing Director of the Company may dispense with or reduce the period of six months on grounds of continued illhealth of the employee or such other compelling or extraordinary circumstances which in the opinion of the Managing Director warrant such dispensing with or reduction in the period of noticeProvided further that the Company will be at liberty to refuse to accept termination of his her services by an employee where such termination is sought in order to avoid disciplinary action contemplated or taken by the Management.	Facts
Different provisions of the Regulations took effect from different dates, viz., 1.4. 1977, 1.3.1993 and 17.3.1993.5.	Facts
The question as regards the validity of Rule 9 of the Central Inland Water Transport Corporation Ltd. Service Discipline and Appeal Rules, 1979 came up for consideration before this Court in Central Inland Water Transport Corporation Limited and Another v. Brojo Nath Ganguly and Another (1986) 3 SCC 156 , the relevant portion whereof was as under Termination of employment for Acts other than misdemeanour.	Facts
(i) The employment of a permanent employee shall be subject to termination on three months notice on either side.	Facts
The notice shall be in writing on either side.	Facts
The Company may pay the equivalent of three months basic pay and dearness allowance, if any, in lieu of notice or may deduct a like amount when the employee has failed to give due notice Constitution of India contains a provision for dispensing with an inquiry in terms of proviso (b) appended to clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution of India in regard to commission of a misconduct on the grounds specified therein.7.	Facts
The question as to whether services of a permanent employee can be terminated on the ground that it was no longer expedient to continue to employ the employee concerned initially came up for consideration in the case of Workmen of Hindustan Steel Ltd. and Another v. Hindustan Steel Ltd. and Others 1984 Supp SCC 554 .	Facts
A Division Bench of this Court while comparing the said provisions with the proviso (b) appended to clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution of India opined Power to dispense with inquiry is conferred for a purpose and to effectuate the purpose power can be exercised.	Facts
But power is hedged in with a condition of setting down reasons in writing why power is exercised.	Facts
Obviously therefore the reasons which would permit exercise of power must be such as would clearly spell out that the inquiry if held would be counterproductive.	Facts
The duty to specify by reasons the satisfaction for holding that the inquiry was not reasonably practicable cannot be dispensed with.	Facts
The reasons must be germane to the issue and would be subject to a limited judicial review.	Facts
Undoubtedly subarticle (3) of Article 311 provides that the decision of the authority in this behalf is final.	Facts
This only means that the court cannot inquire into adequacy or sufficiency of reasons.	Facts
But if the reasons ex facie are not germane to the issue namely of dispensing with inquiry the court in a petition for a writ of certiorari can always examine reasons ex facie and if they are not germane to the issue record a finding that the prerequisite for exercise of power having not been satisfied, the exercise of power was bad or without jurisdiction.	Facts
If the court is satisfied that the reasons which prompted the concerned authority to record a finding that it was not reasonably practicable to hold the inquiry, obviously the satisfaction would be a veneer to dispense with the inquiry and the court may reject the same.	Facts
What is obligatory is to specify the reasons for the satisfaction of the authority that it was not reasonably practicable to hold such an inquiry.	Facts
Once the reasons are specified and are certainly subject to limited judicial review as in a writ for certiorari, the court would examine whether the reasons were germane to the issue or was merely a cloak, device or a pretence to dispense with the inquiry and to impose the penalty.	Facts
Let it not be forgotten what is laid down by a catena of decisions that where an order casts a stigma or affects livelihood before making the order, principles of natural justice namely a reasonable opportunity to present ones case and controvert the adverse evidence must have full play.	Facts
Thus even where the Constitution permits dispensing with the inquiry, a safeguard is introduced that the concerned authority must specify reasons for its decision why it was not reasonably practicable to hold the inquiry.	None
It was observed It is time for such a public sector undertaking as Hindustan Steel Ltd. to recast S.O. 32 and to bring it in tune with the philosophy of the Constitution failing which it being other authority and therefore a State under Article 12 in an appropriate proceeding, the vires of S.O. 32 will have to be examined.	Facts
It is not necessary to do so in the present case because even on the terms of S.O. 32, the order made by the General Manager is unsustainable.	Facts
The validity or otherwise of the said proviso came up for consideration before this Court in Union of India and Another v. Tulsiram Patel (1985) 3 SCC 398	Facts
wherein inter alia it was held Much as this may seem harsh and oppressive to a government servant, this Court must not forget that the object underlying the second proviso is public policy, public interest and public good and the Court must, therefore, repel the temptation to be carried away by feelings of commiseration and sympathy for those government servants who have been dismissed, removed or reduced in rank by applying the second proviso.	Facts
Sympathy and commiseration cannot be allowed to outweigh considerations of public policy, concern for public interest, regard for public good and the peremptory dictate of a constitutional prohibition It was further observed Those who formed the Constituent Assembly were not the advocates of a despotic or dictatorial form of government.	Facts
They were the persons who enacted into our Constitution the Chapter on Fundamental Rights.	Facts
The majority of them had fought for freedom and had suffered imprisonment in the cause of liberty and they, therefore, were not likely to introduce into our Constitution any provision from the earlier Government of India Acts which had been intended purely for the benefit of a foreign imperialistic power.	Facts
After all, it is not as if a government servant is without any remedy when the second proviso has been applied to him.	Facts
There are two remedies open to him, namely, departmental appeal and judicial review.	Facts
The scope and extent of these remedies will be considered later in the course of this judgment In Brojo Nath Ganguly (supra), Clause (i) of Rule was termed to be a the Henry VIII Clause.	Facts
It was held that it conferred arbitrary and unguided power upon the Corporation.	Facts
It was found to be violative of audi alteram partem rule of natural justice which was implicit in Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	Facts
It was held to enable the Corporation to discriminate between the employees and employees.10.	Facts
This Court rejected a contention raised on behalf of Appellant therein that the same pertains to contract and held that even if that be so it was violative of Section 23 of the Indian Contract Act being containing an unconscionable term.11.	Facts
This Court took note of the fact that there were 970 government companies and its agencies and instrumentalities and they constitute the largest employer in the country and, thus, a clause like Rule 9(i) in a contract of employment affecting large sections of the public is harmful and injurious to the public interest.12.	Facts
This Court held that no opportunity whatever of a hearing is at all to be afforded to the permanent employee whose services are to be terminated in exercise of power.	Facts
It rejected the contention that the Board of Directors would not exercise this power arbitrarily or capriciously as it consists of responsible and highly placed persons stating This submission ignores the fact that however highly placed a person may be, he must necessarily possess human frailties It, however, appears that it specially referred to the case of Air India Regulations which had a similar clause.	Facts
It was observed Undoubtedly, in certain circumstances the principles of natural justice can be modified and, in exceptional cases, can even be excluded as pointed out in Tulsiram Patel case.	Facts
Rule 9(i), however, is not covered by any of the situations which would justify the total exclusion of the audi alteram partem rule.	Facts
Air India and Indian Airlines who have similar regulations thereafter amended Regulation 13.	Facts
A similar question came up for consideration before this Court in Delhi Transport Corporation v. D.T.C. Mazdoor Congress and Others 1991 Supp (1) SCC 600 wherein this Court specifically referred to Regulation 9(b) of Delhi Road Transport Authority (Conditions of Appointment and Service) Regulations.15.	Facts
Sabyasachi Mukharji, CJ who delivered the minority opinion noticed the regulation framed by Indian Airlines in the following terms The services of an employee are terminable at 30 days on either side or basic pay in lieuProvided, however, the Corporation will be at liberty to refuse to accept the termination of his service by an employee where such termination is sought in order to avoid disciplinary action contemplated or taken by the management.	Facts
The learned Chief Justice noticed that the Board of Directors of Indian Airlines have approved the amendment carried out in Regulation.17.	Facts
In para 109 of the judgment, the learned Chief Justice opined Efficiency of the administration of these undertakings is very vital and relevant consideration.	Facts
Production must continue, services must be maintained and run.	Facts
Efficacy of the services can be ensured only if manned by disciplined employees or workers.	Facts
Discipline, decency and order will have to be maintained.	Facts
Employees should have sense of participation and involvement and necessarily sense of security in semipermanent or quasipermanent or permanent employment.	Facts
There must be scope for encouragement for good work.	Facts
In what manner and in what measure, this should be planned and ensured within the framework of the Constitution and, power mingled with obligations, and duties enjoined with rights, are matters of constitutional adjustment at any particular evolved stage of the philosophy of our Constitution.	Facts
B.C. Ray, J. speaking for the majority, however, declared the said rule to be ultra vires inter alia on the premise that it conferred unbriddled, uncanalised and arbitrary power without conforming to audi alteram partem rule of principle of natural justice which was violative of Section 23 of the Indian Contract Act.	Facts
Sawant, J. opined Both the society and the individual employees, therefore, have an anxious interest in service conditions being well defined and explicit to the extent possible.	Facts
The arbitrary rules, such as the one under discussion, which are also sometimes described as Henry VIII Rules, can have no place in any service conditions.	None
It has been observed In fact, one of the public undertakings, viz., Indian Airlines has come out with such regulation being amended Regulation 13 of its Employees Service Regulations, and the same has been placed on record by them.	None
What is necessary to note in this connection is that the reading of such circumstances in the existing regulation would require its extensive recasting which is impermissible for the court to do.	Facts
I know of no authority which supports such wide reading down of any provision of the statute or rule regulation.	Facts
For all these reasons the doctrine of reading down is according to me singularly inapplicable to the present case and the arguments in support of the same have to be rejected.	Facts
Sawant, J. while considering the doctrine of reading down noticed In fact, one of the public undertakings, viz., Indian Airlines has come out with such regulation being amended Regulation 13 of its Employees Service Regulations, and the same has been placed on record by them.	Facts
What is necessary to note in this connection is that the reading of such circumstances in the existing regulation would require its extensive recasting which is impermissible for the court to do.	Facts
I know of no authority which supports such wide reading down of any provision of the statute or rule regulation.	Facts
For all these reasons the doctrine of reading down is according to me singularly inapplicable to the present case and the arguments in support of the same have to be rejected.	Facts
Sawant, J. and Ramaswamy, J. adopted the reasonings of Ray, J.	Facts
The learned Judges, however, did not deal with the question as to whether Regulation 13 could be said to be ultra vires.21.	Facts
Amended Regulation also came up for consideration before this Court in Hari Pada Khan v. Union of India and Others (1996) 1 SCC 536 wherein while referring to Hindustan Steel Ltd. (supra) and Tulsiram Patel (supra), this Court opined The doctrine of principle of natural justice has no application when the authority concerned is of the opinion that it would be inexpedient to hold an enquiry and that it would be against the interest of security of the Corporation to continue in employment the offenderworkman when serious acts are likely to affect the foundation of the institution.	Facts
In Union of India v. Tulsiram Patel, a Constitution Bench of this Court upheld the validity of the similar provisions under Article 311 of the Constitution.	Facts
Recently, in SLP (C) No. 11659 of 1992 the matter had come up before this Court on 13111995, where the validity of a pari materia provision was questioned.	Facts
This Court upheld the validity stating that the above clause will operate prospectively.6.	Facts
A contention has been raised by Mr Krishnamani that in Tulsiram Patel case this Court had upheld the validity of the rule subject to the principle of natural justice.	Facts
It is needless to mention that the principle of natural justice requires to be modulated consistent with the scheme of the rules.	Facts
It is settled law that the principle of natural justice cannot supplant but can supplement the law.	Facts
In that view of the matter, the rule having been made to meet specified contingency the principle of natural justice by implication, stands excluded.	Facts
We do not think that the rule is ultra vires of Articles 14 and 21 as stated earlier.	Facts
In the amended Regulation 13, care had been taken to set out the circumstances in which the services of an employee can be terminated by way of discharge without holding enquiry and it took stock of eventualities which do not constitute misconduct and yet retention of an employee in the service by the management for any one of the grounds mentioned in the said regulation might be considered as detrimental for the management or against public interest.23.	Facts
The question again came up for consideration before this Court in Basudeo Tiwary v. Sido Kanhu University and Others (1998)	None
8 SCC 194 wherein Rajendra Babu, J. opined The law is settled that nonarbitrariness is an essential facet of Article 14 pervading the entire realm of State action governed by Article 14.	Facts
It has come to be established, as a further corollary, that the audi alteram partem facet of natural justice is also a requirement of Article 14, for natural justice is the antithesis of arbitrariness.	Facts
In the sphere of public employment, it is well settled that any action taken by the employer against an employee must be fair, just and reasonable which are the components of fair treatment.	Facts
The conferment of absolute power to terminate the services of an employee is an antithesis to fair, just and reasonable treatment.	Facts
This aspect was exhaustively considered by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Delhi Transport Corpn.	Facts
v. D.T.C. Mazdoor Congress.11.	Facts
In the light of these principles of law, we have to examine the scope of the provision of Section 35(3) which reads as follows35.	Facts
(3) Any appointment or promotion made contrary to the provisions of the Act, statutes, rules or regulations or in any irregular or unauthorised manner shall be terminated at any time without notice.12.	Facts
The said provision provides that an appointment could be terminated at any time without notice if the same had been made contrary to the provisions of the Act, statutes, rules or regulations or in any irregular or unauthorised manner.	Facts
The condition precedent for exercise of this power is that an appointment had been made contrary to the Act, rules, statutes and regulations or otherwise.	Facts
In order to arrive at a conclusion that an appointment is contrary to the provisions of the Act, statutes, rules or regulations, etc., a finding has to be recorded and unless such a finding is recorded, the termination cannot be made, but to arrive at such a conclusion necessarily an enquiry will have to be made as to whether such appointment was contrary to the provisions of the Act etc.	Facts
If in a given case such exercise is absent, the condition precedent stands unfulfilled.	Facts
To arrive at such a finding necessarily enquiry will have to be held and in holding such an enquiry, the person whose appointment is under enquiry will have to be issued a notice.	Facts
If notice is not given to him, then it is like playing Hamlet without the Prince of Denmark, that is, if the employee concerned whose rights are affected is not given notice of such a proceeding and a conclusion is drawn in his absence, such a conclusion would not be just, fair or reasonable as noticed by this Court in D.T.C. Mazdoor Sabha case1.	Facts
In such an event, we have to hold that in the provision, there is an implied requirement of hearing for the purpose of arriving at a conclusion that an appointment had been made contrary to the Act, statute, rule or regulation etc.	Facts
and it is only on such a conclusion being drawn, the services of the person could be terminated without further notice.	Facts
That is how Section 35(3) in this case will have to be read.	Facts
Yet again in Uptron India Ltd. v. Shammi Bhan and Another (1998) 6 SCC 538 Saghir Ahmad, J opined that the principles of natural justice must be complied with and the employee concerned must be informed of the grounds for which action was proposed to be taken against him for overstaying the leave.	Facts
See also State of Punjab v. Jagir Singh, (2004) 8 SCC 129 V.C. Banaras Hindu University and Ors.	Facts
v. Shrikant, 2006 (6) SCALE 66 25.	Facts
Keeping in view the aforementioned legal principles, we may notice the factual matrix of the matter.26.	Facts
Prabha D. Kanan (Respondent) joined service of the Corporation as an Air Hostess on 28th September, 1977.	Facts
She was promoted as Deputy Manager in Inflight Service Department.	Facts
On 18th June, 2002.	Facts
She was put on duty in Flight IC617961 operating on sector Mumbai Hyderabad Bangalore Sharjah.	Facts
When the flight landed at Hyderabad, she along with other crew members went for customs clearance from the Departure Hall to board the connecting flight being Flight No. 961 from Hyderabad to Sharjah via Bangalore.	Facts
Immediately after take off, it was called back at the request of the Customs Authorities.	Facts
Respondent was asked to deplane by Custom Authorities.	Facts
She was arrested for carrying Indian currency amounting to Rs.	Facts
22,07,978/ along with foreign currency, viz., 180 UAE Dirhams, 13, Kuwaiti Dirhams, 3 Bahraini Dirhams and 20 Nepali Rupees.	Facts
She is said to have made a confessional statement before the Custom Authorities in terms of Section 108 of the Customs Act that she had been carrying unauthorisedly the said amount.	Facts
Her husband on the basis of her statement was also arrested.	Facts
The arrest of Respondent and her involvement in a racket of dealing in foreign exchange in violation of Foreign Exchange and Regulation Act was extensively reported in newspapers on 19th June, 2002.	Facts
Respondent was released on bail on 3rd July, 2002.	Facts
Her services were terminated invoking Regulation 13 of the Regulations by the Board of Directors of the Corporation by a letter dated 9th August, 2002 stating This is to inform you that the Board of Directors of Indian Airlines Ltd. has decided to terminate your services with immediate effect under Regulation 13 of Service Regulations applicable to you.	Facts
Accordingly, your services stand terminated with immediate effect from 09.08.2002.	Facts
Though you are not entitled to any notice or salary in lieu thereof in terms of Regulation 13, however, a cheque No. 354551 dated 09.08.2002 for Rs. 21,734/ is enclosed.	Facts
A writ petition was filed by Respondent before the High Court of Delhi.	Facts
In its judgment dated 30th August, 2005, while rendering Regulation 13 as ultra vires, it was held We have noted the relevant judgments.	Facts
We have to note that the incident leading to termination is not denied by the petitioner, she had accepted the guilt at least initially and the criminal trial is still pending.	Facts
Considering that the serious allegations are found worthy of acceptance by the Board of Directors, we do not think that we should compel the Board of Directors to reinstate such an employee in whom they have obviously lost confidence.	Facts
She will, however, have to be compensated monetarily.	Facts
By now, the rates of interest have gone down considerably and nearly to half of what is mentioned in O.P. Bhandaris case (supra).	Facts
This being so, if the petitioner is to be adequately compensated, we direct that she be paid six years salary towards both back wages as well as for loss of employment in future.	Facts
This will be on the basis of her last drawn basic pay and dearness allowance.	Reasoning
Respondents will pay the petitioner the amount refunded by her towards the provident fund and gratuity also with interest at the rate provided under the statutes governing them.	Facts
This should be the appropriate compensation for the termination of her services and loss of employment considering that she has about 10 years of service hereafter Mr. Arun Jaitley and Mr. Lalit Bhasin, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Corporation would submit that the High Court committed a manifest error in holding Regulation 13 to be unconstitutional insofar as it failed to take into consideration that the same does not confer any unguided or arbitrary power.(ii)	None
Regulation 13, it was pointed out, does not speak of misconduct.	Arguments of Petitioner
It speaks of justifiable lack of confidence having regard to (a) incompetence, (b) unsuitability and (c) security.	Arguments of Petitioner
Regulation, thus, provides for the specific contingencies specified therein.(iii)	Arguments of Petitioner
An assessment of such contingencies is required to be made by the highest available authority.	Arguments of Petitioner
What would be the material for arriving at a conclusion is a reasonable apprehension that the act on the part of the employee would be detrimental to the interest of the country.(iv)	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court also failed to take into consideration the history of the precedents of this Court as also how the Regulation was amended having regard to the directions issued by this Court in Hindustan Steel Ltd. (supra).	Arguments of Petitioner
Strong reliance in this behalf has been placed on Ajit Kumar Nag v. General Manager (PJ) Indian Oil Corporation Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Haldia and Others (2005) 7 SCC 764 .	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Uday Umesh Lalit, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of Respondent, per contra would submit that Regulation of Air India was not saved by Section 8 of the 1994 Act.(ii) Reference of the amended Regulation in Delhi Transport Corporation (supra) itself would not be a ground for upholding the validity thereof.(iii)	Arguments of Respondent
Regulation 13 is arbitrary as no reason is required to be assigned as to which of the provisions had been applied.(iv) When an extraordinary power has been conferred keeping in view the objective criteria laid down therein, it was obligatory on the part of the Corporation to spell out as to how they were invoking the said extraordinary rule which was not rule.(v)	Arguments of Respondent
It was in that sense contended that not only reasons were required to be assigned but opportunity was also required to be given for making a representation.(vi)	Arguments of Respondent
Extraordinary power cannot be invoked except in a case of security risk.	Arguments of Respondent
It may not be permissible to invoke the said power only on the purported ground of justifiable lack of confidence.(vii) Only because power has been conferred upon a high authority, the same by itself is not a ground to uphold the constitutionality of the provision.	Arguments of Respondent
Had there been a provision for complying with the principles of natural justice, the same would have been a solace to the employee.	Arguments of Respondent
Our attention was drawn to a decision of this Court in Institute of Chartered Accountants of India v. L.K. Ratna and Others (1986) 4 SCC 537 wherein the provisions of Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 were upheld opining that although no hearing was required to be given but such a hearing had been provided for by the Appellate Authority.(viii)	Arguments of Respondent
The question as regards the applicability of the principles of natural justice would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.	Arguments of Respondent
Strong reliance in this behalf has been placed on Babubhai Co. and Others v. State of Gujarat and Others (1985) 2 SCC 732 .(ix)	Arguments of Respondent
In any event, even in relation to quantum of compensation, the High Court should have taken into consideration that she had put in 20 years of service.	Arguments of Respondent
While doing so, the attending circumstances were also required to be considered, viz.	Arguments of Respondent
, she had checked in her baggage she was already in the cabin the suit case was found in the baggage handling area	Arguments of Respondent
and she was said to be the owner of the unclaimed suit case which was denied and disputed.	Arguments of Respondent
She although had made confession but the same was retracted.	Arguments of Respondent
She was found to be not guilty not only in the adjudicating proceedings but also in the criminal case.	Arguments of Respondent
In that view of the matter, she should be directed to be reinstated in service with full backwages.	None
Respondent was holding a very high ranking post.	None
She was incharge of a flight.	None
Admittedly, a suit case was found which was booked by her, which, however, remained unclaimed.	None
The Custom Authorities found the same.	None
Only Respondent was singled out as the owner of the suit case.	None
It is not in dispute that the suit case contained a large sum of money including foreign currencies.	None
Whoever be the owner thereof did not make any declaration is regard thereto.	None
Rs. 22 lakhs were recovered.	None
She was arrested only on her confession.	None
Thereafter only, the impugned order was passed.	None
The Board of Directors consisting of five directors, viz., Shri Sunil Arora , Chairman Managing Director, IAL, Shri V. Subramanian, Jt.	None
Secretary Financial Advisor, Ministry of Civil Aviation, Shri J.N. Gogoi, Offg.	None
Managing Director, Air India, Shri S.K. Narula, Chairman, Airports Authority of India and Shri P.P. Vora, Chairman, IDBI, passed the impugned order.	None
Evidently, there is no provision for appeal since the decision is taken by the highest authority of the corporate entity, viz., Board of Directors which includes the Chairman also.	None
Appellant is a body corporate.	None
No appeal can be made against the order passed by the Chairman and the Board of Directors.	None
The order being passed by a highest authority, the question of providing for appeal would not arise.	None
Even in Tulsiram Patel (supra), this Court held that no appeal would be available from an order passed by the President of India.	None
Regulation 13 is invoked when the termination of the services is effected by reason of some act on the part of the employee which does not amount to misconduct.	None
It can be invoked where an employee is rendered incompetent and unsuitable.	None
where continuance in employment may also constitute a grave security risk.	None
where there is justifiable lack of confidence.	None
where lack of confidence must have a direct correlation to the nature of duties performed.	None
where the Board must consider it to be necessary in the interest of the Corporation to immediately terminate the services of the employee concerned.	None
The provisions, therefore, provide for inbuilt safeguards.	None
In Ajit Kumar Nag (supra), a ThreeJudge Bench of this Court had the occasion to construe Standing Order 20(vi) of the Certified Standing Orders of Indian Oil Corporation which reads as under Where a workman has been convicted for a criminal offence in a court of law or where the General Manager is satisfied for reasons to be recorded in writing, that it is neither expedient nor in the interest of security to continue the workman, the workman may be removed or dismissed from service without following the procedure laid down under III of this clause.	None
The court noticed that standing Order No. 32 in Hindustan Steel Ltd. (supra) was more or less similar to Standing Order 20(vi) of the certified standing of Respondent, therein.	None
Strong reliance was placed by Appellant for advancing the contention that the said clause was ultra vires in Hari Pada Khan (supra).	None
This Court, however, opined We are unable to accept the contention.	None
It is true that in Hari Pada Khan this Court upheld the order of dismissal by expressly observing that it would be subject to result of trial but what Mr Rao forgets is that in Hari Pada Khan the power was exercised by the General Manager not under the second part of Standing Order 20(iv), but under the first part thereof, which covered cases of conviction of a workman for a criminal offence.	None
The second part dealt with satisfaction of the General Manager about the expediency of not keeping a workman in service.	None
Since the power was exercised by the General Manager on the first part and the basis was registration of a criminal case against the workman, obviously, this Court was justified in observing that when the action was taken on the basis of pendency of a criminal case, the action of dismissal of the workman must abide by the result of the trial.	None
The facts of the case before us are totally different.	None
In this case, the General Manager has exercised the power under the second part of Standing Order 20(vi) which empowered him to take action on satisfaction for reasons to be recorded in writing that it was not in the interest of security to continue the workman in service.	None
The direction in Hari Pada Khan therefore, does not apply to the factual matrix of the present case for claiming relief by the appellant.	None
Referring to Tulsiram Patel (supra), this Court held that as security of a State is not involved and a limited power is conferred upon the General Manager being the highest administrative head of the Corporation, it cannot be contended that the power had been conferred upon a petty officer of the Corporation.	None
It was further opined We are equally not impressed and hence unable to uphold the contention that clause (vi) of Standing Order 20 confers a blanket or uncanalised power on the General Manager.	None
In our judgment, sufficient guidelines and safeguards have been provided in the Standing Orders themselves, such as (i) the power is conferred on the highest administrative head of the Corporation (ii) eventualities have been specifically and expressly stated in clause (vi) of Standing Order 20 (iii) satisfaction of the General Manager that such an eventuality has arisen (iv) recording of reasons in writing and (v) right of appeal against the decision of the General Manager.	None
Such a provision, in our considered view, cannot be held arbitrary or unreasonable, violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.	None
The Court further opined that even in absence of an appeal, the employee is not remediless as a power of judicial review would be applicable.	None
As has been held by this Court in Ajit Kumar Nag (supra), per se, the provisions cannot be held to be arbitrary or discriminatory.	None
Although all persons comprising of the Board of Directors would have human frailties, as has been observed by this Court in Brojo Nath Ganguly (supra) but a provision for appeal cannot be made from the highest authorities.	None
Regulation provides for simpliciter discharge.	None
It does not debar any employee from being reappointed.	None
By such simpliciter discharge, the employee concerned would not be debarred from obtaining appointment elsewhere.	None
Power can be exercised only in interest of the company.	None
In a case of this nature, requirements to comply with principles of natural justice as such may not be practicable.	None
In Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (supra), it was stated Our attention has been invited to the difference between the terms in which Section 21(3) and Section 21(4) have been enacted and, it is pointed out, that while in Section 21(4) Parliament has indicated that an opportunity of being heard should be accorded to the member, nowhere in Section 21(3) do we find such requirement.	None
There is no doubt that there is that difference between the two provisions.	None
But, to our mind, that does not affect the questions.	None
The textual difference is not decisive.	None
It is the substance of the matter, the character of the allegations, the farreaching consequences of a finding against the member, the vesting of responsibility in the governing body itself, all these and kindred considerations enter into the decision of the question whether the law implies a hearing to the member at that stage.	None
It was further observed It is then urged by learned counsel for the appellant that the provision of an appeal under Section 22A of the Act is a complete safeguard against any insufficiency in the original proceeding before the Council, and it is not mandatory that the member should be heard by the Council before it proceeds to record its finding.	None
Section 22A of the Act entitles a member to prefer an appeal to the High Court against an order of the Council imposing a penalty under Section 21(4) of the Act.	None
It is pointed out that no limitation has been imposed on the scope of the appeal, and that an appellant is entitled to urge before the High Court every ground which was available to him before the Council.	None
Any insufficiency, it is said, can be cured by resort to such appeal.	None
Learned counsel apparently has in mind the view taken in some cases that an appeal provides an adequate remedy for a defect in procedure during the original proceeding.	None
Some of those cases as mentioned in Sir William Wades erudite and classic work on Administrative Law 5th Edn.	None
But as that learned author observes (at p. 487), in principle there ought to be an observance of natural justice equally at both stages, andIf natural justice is violated at the first stage, the right of appeal is not so much a true right of appeal as a corrected initial hearing instead of fair trial followed by appeal, the procedure is reduced to unfair trial followed by fair trial.	None
And he makes reference to the observations of Megarry, J. in Leary v. National Union of Vehicle Builders.	None
Treating with another aspect of the point, that learned Judge said If one accepts the contention that a defect of natural justice in the trial body can be cured by the presence of natural justice in the appellate body, this has the result of depriving the member of his right of appeal from the expelling body.	None
If the rules and the law combine to give the member the right to a fair trial and the right of appeal, why should he be told that he ought to be satisfied with an unjust trial and a fair appeal?	None
Even if the appeal is treated as a hearing de novo, the member is being stripped of his right to appeal to another body from the effective decision to expel him.	None
I cannot think that natural justice is satisfied by a process whereby an unfair trial, though not resulting in a valid expulsion, will nevertheless have the effect of depriving the member of his right of appeal when a valid decision to expel him is subsequently made.	None
Such a deprivation would be a powerful result to be achieved by what in law is a mere nullity and it is no mere triviality that might be justified on the ground that natural justice does not mean perfect justice.	None
As a general rule, at all events, I hold that a failure of natural justice in the trial body cannot be cured by a sufficiency of natural justice in an appellate body.	None
The view taken by Megarry, J. was followed by the Ontario High Court in Canada in Re Cardinal and Board of Commissioners of Police of City of Cornwall.	None
The Supreme Court of New Zealand was similarly inclined in Wislang v. Medical Practitioners Disciplinary Committee, and so was the Court of Appeal of New Zealand in Reid v. Rowley.	None
In Babubhai Co. (supra), this Court held It cannot be disputed that the absence of a provision for a corrective machinery by way of appeal or revision to a superior authority to rectify an adverse order passed by an authority or body on whom the power is conferred may indicate that the power so conferred is unreasonable or arbitrary but it is obvious that providing such corrective machinery is only one of the several ways in which the power could be checked or controlled and its absence will be one of the factors to be considered along with several others before coming to the conclusion that the power so conferred is unreasonable or arbitrary in other words mere absence of a corrective machinery by way of appeal or revision by itself would not make the power unreasonable or arbitrary, much less would render the provision invalid.	None
Regard will have to be had to several factors, such as, on whom the power is conferred whether on a high official or a petty officer, what is the nature of the power whether the exercise thereof depends upon the subjective satisfaction of the authority or body on whom it is conferred or is it to be exercised objectively by reference to some existing facts or tests, whether or not it is a quasijudicial power requiring that authority or body to observe principles of natural justice and make a speaking order etc.	None
the last mentioned factor particularly ensures application of mind on the part of the authority or body only to pertinent or germane material on the record excluding the extraneous and irrelevant and also subjects the order of the authority or body to a judicial review under the writ jurisdiction of the Court on grounds of perversity, extraneous influence, mala fides and other blatant infirmities.	None
Moreover all these factors will have to be considered in the light of the scheme of the enactment and the purpose intended to be achieved by the concerned provision.	None
If on an examination of the scheme of the enactment as also the purpose of the concerned provision it is found that the power to decide or do a particular thing is conferred on a very minor or petty officer, that the exercise thereof by him depends on his subjective satisfaction, that he is expected to exercise the power administratively without any obligation to make a speaking order then, of course, the absence of a corrective machinery will render the provision conferring such absolute and unfettered power invalid.	None
But it is the cumulative effect of all these factors that will render the provision unreasonable or arbitrary and liable to be struck down.	None
In three of the decisions referred to by counsel where the concerned provision was struck down the cumulative effect of several factors that were present in each was taken into consideration by the Court, while in C.R.H. Readymoney case the provision was held to be valid.	None
But, in a case of this nature although there is no provision for appeal, but even in a judicial review, the court may require the employer to produce the records, on a perusal whereof the court may come to a finding as to whether the order passed by the Board of Directors was bona fide or not.	None
A judicial review of such an order would be maintainable.	None
In a case of judicial review, where no appeal is provided for, the High Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India would not confine its jurisdiction only to the known tests laid down therefor, viz., illegality, irrationality, procedural impropriety.	None
It has to delve deeper into the matter.	None
It would require a deeper scrutiny.	None
We may notice that keeping in view the situational changes and, particularly, outsourcing of the sovereign activities by the State, this Court has been expanding the scope of judicial review.	Reasoning
It includes the misdirection in law, posing a wrong question or irrelevant question and failure to consider relevant question.	Reasoning
On certain grounds judicial review on facts is also maintainable.	Reasoning
Doctrine of unreasonableness has now given a way to doctrine of proportionality.	Reasoning
In S.N. Chandrashekar v. State of Karnataka (2006) 3 SCC 208 , this Court observed It is now well known that the concept of error of law includes the giving of reasons that are bad in law or (where there is a duty to give reason) inconsistent, unintelligible or substantially inadequate.	None
(See de Smiths Judicial Review of Administrative Action, 5th Edn., p. 286.)34.	None
The Authority, therefore, posed unto itself a wrong question.	None
What, therefore, was necessary to be considered by BDA was whether the ingredients contained in Section 14A of the Act were fulfilled and whether the requirements of the proviso appended thereto are satisfied.	None
If the same had not been satisfied, the requirements of the law must be held to have not been satisfied.	None
If there had been no proper application of mind as regards the requirements of law, the State and the Planning Authority must be held to have misdirected themselves in law which would vitiate the impugned judgment.35.	None
In Hindustan Petroleum Corpn.	None
Ltd. v. Darius Shapur Chenai this Court referring to Cholan Roadways Ltd. v. G. Thirugnanasambandam held (SCC p. 637, para 14)14.	None
Even a judicial review on facts in certain situations may be available.	None
In Cholan Roadways Ltd. v. G. Thirugnanasambandam this Court observed (SCC p. 253, paras 3435)34.	None
It is now well settled that a quasijudicial authority must pose unto itself a correct question so as to arrive at a correct finding of fact.	None
A wrong question posed leads to a wrong answer.	None
In this case, furthermore, the misdirection in law committed by the Industrial Tribunal was apparent insofar as it did not apply the principle of res ipsa loquitur which was relevant for the purpose of this case and, thus, failed to take into consideration a relevant factor and furthermore took into consideration an irrelevant fact not germane for determining the issue, namely, that the passengers of the bus were mandatorily required to be examined.	None
The Industrial Tribunal further failed to apply the correct standard of proof in relation to a domestic enquiry, which is preponderance of probability and applied the standard of proof required for a criminal trial.	None
A case for judicial review was, thus, clearly made out.35.	None
Errors of fact can also be a subjectmatter of judicial review.	None
(See E. v. Secy. of State for the Home Deptt.)	None
Reference in this connection may also be made to an interesting article by Paul P. Craig, Q.C. titled Judicial Review, Appeal and Factual Error published in 2004 Public Law, p.788.	None
Yet again in State of U.P. v. Sheo Shanker Lal Srivastava (2006) 3 SCC 276 , this Court observed While saying so, we are not oblivious of the fact that the doctrine of unreasonableness is giving way to the doctrine of proportionality.25.	None
It is interesting to note that the Wednesbury principles may not now be held to be applicable in view of the development in constitutional law in this behalf.	None
See, for example, Huang v. Secy. of State for the Home Deptt.	None
wherein referring to R. v. Secy. of State of the Home Deptt.,	None
ex p Daly it was held that in certain cases, the adjudicator may require to conduct a judicial exercise which is not merely more intrusive than Wednesbury, but involves a fullblown merit judgment, which is yet more than ex p.	None
Daly requires on a judicial review where the court has to decide a proportionality issue.	None
Although it is of not much relevance but the history in relation to such regulation assumes importance in view of the fact that this Court in Hindustan Steel Ltd. (supra) directed framing of Regulation in the light of proviso (b) appended to Clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution of India.	None
Regulation 13 has been amended accordingly.	None
So far as the justifiability of the impugned order is concerned, we are of the opinion that the following facts are required to be taken into consideration.	None
Respondent was holding a post of trust and confidence.	Reasoning
She had been issued a Red Airport Entry Pass which gave unrestricted access to all civil airports in India and flying to other countries on the network of Indian Airlines.	Reasoning
Any doubt on the integrity of the person holding such a post of trust and confidence may shake the confidence of the employer.	Reasoning
If such activities are permitted, the same in a given case may provide for risk not only to the aircraft but also to a large section of people.	Reasoning
The subjective satisfaction of the Board of Directors was based on the confession she made and the evidences collected by the Directorate of Enforcement.	Reasoning
The fact that subsequently she had been exonerated or she had been discharged from the criminal case may not be of much significance as the validity of the order must be judged having regard to the fact situation as was obtaining on the day on which the same was passed.	Reasoning
We have noticed in the final order dated 13th December, 2005, the Custom Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal, South Zonal Branch at Bangalore exonerated Respondent.53.	Reasoning
However, having regard to the fact that there was no evidence as to why she carried the suit case from Mumbai or she had been handed over the suitcase at Hyderabad and keeping in view the nature of investigation carried out by the Customs Authorities, the penalties imposed on her under Section 114 (i) of the Customs Act was held to be not sustainable stating Summing up, we find(i)	Reasoning
The investigation into this episode is not very thorough(ii) The reason for abandoning the currency has not been brought out(iii)	Reasoning
There is no evidence to establish that the Appellants made an attempt to export the currency.(iv)	Reasoning
The statements do not appear to have been given voluntarily(v)	Reasoning
The currency was neither seized from the possession of the Appellants nor from the aircraft(vi)	Reasoning
The test to prove an attempt to illegally export as laid down in the case of Mohd.	Reasoning
Yakub has not been proved.	None
In the criminal case, no charge was framed.	None
Respondent was discharged only on the ground that she had not been found liable in the civil proceedings.54.	Reasoning
Appellant in the said proceedings had no role to play.	Reasoning
We, therefore, are of the opinion that Regulation 13 is intra vires.	Reasoning
We are bound by the decision of this Court in Ajit Kumar Nag (supra).	Reasoning
The Board of Directors, in the aforementioned fact situation, must be held to have public interest in mind.55.	Reasoning
In Kanhaiyalal Agrawal and Others v. Factory Manager, Gwalior Sugar Company Ltd. (2001) 9 SCC 609 , whereupon Mr. Lalit placed strong reliance, this Court upheld the findings of the Industrial Court as also the High Court that the principles for invoking loss of confidence in the employee based on objective criteria , viz., (i) that the workman is holding a position of trust and confidence (ii) by abusing such position, he commits acts which results in forfeiting the same and (iii) to continue him in service would be embarrassing and inconvenient to the employer or would be detrimental to the discipline or security of the establishment stood satisfied.56.	Reasoning
True, loss of confidence cannot be subjective but there must be objective facts which would lead to a definite inference of apprehension in the mind of the employer regarding trustworthiness of the employee and which must be alleged and proved.	Reasoning
But, then all the criteria mentioned therein are present in the instant case.57.	Reasoning
The question which now arises is as to whether the Regulation 13 is applicable to the case of Respondent.	Reasoning
Section 45 of the 1953 Act provides for regulation making power of the Corporation.	Reasoning
It extends to the terms and conditions of service of officers and other employees of the Corporation other than the Managing Director and officers of any other categories referred to in Section 44 of the 1953 Act.	Reasoning
Regulations were framed pursuant to or in furtherance of the said regulation making power.	Reasoning
Regulation 13, as it stood earlier, did not contain any power in the Board of Directors to terminate the services of an employee.	Reasoning
Regulation 13 speaks of lack of confidence.	Reasoning
Regulation 13 came into force with effect from 1.3.1993.	Reasoning
Respondent indisputably was appointed prior thereto.58.	Reasoning
A question arose as to whether by reason of the repealing provisions contained in the 1994 Act, the Regulations framed under the 1953 Act survives and consequently the exercise of powers under Regulation 13 shall be void ab initio.59.	Reasoning
Our attention has been drawn to a decision of this Court in Air India v. Union of India and Ors.	Reasoning
JT 1995 (5) SC 578 wherein it was held Section 8 of the 1994 Act does not in express terms save the said Regulations, nor does it mention them.	Reasoning
Section 8 only protects the remuneration, terms and conditions and rights and privileges of those who were in Air Indias employment when the 1994 Act came into force.	Reasoning
Such saving in undoubtedly to quieten doubts of those Air India employees who were then in service.	Reasoning
What is enacted in Section 8 does not cover those employees who joined Air Indias service after the 1994 Act came into force.	Reasoning
The limited saving enacted in Section 8 does not, in our opinion, extent to the said Regulations.	Reasoning
The said decision was rendered when a question was raised as to whether standing orders framed under Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 survives the regulation making power.	Reasoning
It was held that the regulations have ceased to be effective on 29th January, 1994 and, thus, regulation making power no longer survives.61.	Reasoning
Mr. Bhasin would submit that the provisions of the Regulations would apply to Respondent as(i)	Reasoning
She never disputed the application of the Regulations.(ii) A Special Leave Petition covering the same area being SLP (C) No. 223031 of 2005 is pending before this Court.62.	Reasoning
As at present advised, we do not intend to enter into the said controversy.	Reasoning
The judgment of this Court in Air India (supra) is binding on us.	Reasoning
We have, therefore, no other option but to hold that Regulation 13 would not apply to the case of Respondent.	Reasoning
However, despite the same, we are of the opinion that the interest of justice would be subserved if the nature of relief to Respondent granted by the High Court is upheld.63.	Reasoning
We, therefore, hold that although Regulation 13 is not unconstitutional but the same is not applicable in case of Respondent.	Reasoning
However, we are furthermore of the opinion that in the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case and keeping in view the fact that she had put in 20 years of service she be paid eight years salary towards both back wages as well as for loss of employment in future.	Reasoning
This will be on the basis of her last drawn basic pay and dearness allowance.	Reasoning
The Corporation will pay Respondent the amount refunded by her towards the provident fund and gratuity at the rate of interest provided under the Statutes governing them.	Reasoning
The relief granted to Respondent shall, in our opinion, subserve the interest of justice.64.	Reasoning
Both the appeals are allowed in part and to the extent mentioned hereinbefore.	Decision
No costs.	None
