Surinder Singh Nijjar, J.	None
In this special leave petition, the petitioners have challenged the judgment of the Delhi High Court in a writ petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India, CM (M) No. 516 of 2007, dated 23rd March, 2009, whereby the High Court has quashed and set aside the order passed by the Additional Rent Control Tribunal ARCT for short dated 12th March, 2001, upholding the order passed by the Additional Rent Controller ARC for brevity.	Issue
Heard Counsel.	None
Leave granted.	None
The facts, as noticed by the High Court, are that the appellants are claiming themselves to be the landlords in respect of premises constructed on the plot of land No. 2, Block B, Transport Area of Jhandewalan Estate, Desh Bandhu Gupta Road, Karol Bagh, New Delhi.3.	Facts
In the eviction petition, it was stated that the premises were let out to respondent No.2, Delhi Transport Corporation for short DTC, on a monthly rental of Rs.	Facts
3500/. DTC has sublet assigned the premises in favour of respondent No.1, Municipal Corporation of Delhi for short MCD and parted with possession in favour of MCD without the written consent of the appellants.	Facts
Therefore, both DTC and MCD were liable for eviction.	Facts
The High Court has noticed the sequence of events since the transport services were being run by Gwalior Northern India Transport Company (for short GNIT) to the time when DTC stepped into its shoes.	Facts
The appellants claimed that the tenancy of the premises was with DTC.	Facts
MCD had, however, claimed that the legal possession was retained by MCD rent was being paid by MCD to DTC.4.	Facts
The ARC by an order dated 11th November, 1989, upon consideration of the rival contentions, held Admittedly it is respondent No.2 (MCD) who is in possession of the premises in question.	Facts
It is also admitted that respondent No. 2 (MCD) pays a sum of Rs. 3500/ as rent to respondent No. 1 (DTC) by way of cheques.	Facts
It is not the case of the respondent that any written consent of the petitioners was obtained in this regard.	Facts
Therefore, it has to be held that respondent No. 1 (DTC) has either sublet, assigned or otherwise parted with the possession of the tenanted premises illegally to respondent No.2 (MCD).	Facts
It is well settled that in voluntarily (sic) transfers are also included with the meaning of subletting etc. in Section 14(1)(b) DRC Act.	Facts
The order passed by the ARC was upheld by the ARCT with the following observations After having heard up the matter in all its possible aspects I do not find any infirmity or illegality in the finding of the learned trial Court by holding that there exists relationship of landlord and tenant between the parties and since the exclusive possession of the premises was handed over by the erstwhile tenant to the Municipal Corporation of Delhi, i.e., respondent No. 2 which is itself a separate and independent legal entity, it amounts to subletting.	Facts
The High Court set aside the concurrent findings recorded by the ARC and ARCT with the following observations The orders passed by learned ARC and the learned ARCT categorically show that neither the learned ARC nor learned ARCT has devolved upon the facts of the case and nor had even considered the concept of tenancy and subtenancy in this case in the peculiar circumstances of this case.	Facts
The High Court held that this is not a case of subletting as Delhi Transport Services (for short DTS), Delhi Transport Undertaking (for short DTU), MCD and DTC were the creation of statute.	Facts
The premises had come to them after it was acquired by Union of India (UOI) from GNIT on nationalization of the business.	Facts
There was no parting with possession by DTC to MCD, therefore, it was not subletting.	Facts
The DTC was incorporated in lieu of DTU as a separate company to facilitate running of transport business.	Facts
Mere payment of Rs. 3500/ per month by MCD to DTC does not show subletting or parting with possession.	Facts
Relying on a judgment of this Court in Madras Bangalore Transport Co.	Facts
West v. Inder Singh Ors., AIR 1986 SC 1564 , the High Court has held that In the case in hand, the situation, is much better.	Facts
The alleged original tenant GNIT stood acquired by a Legislative Act and the premises went to DTS.	Facts
DTS was converted to DTU and DTU was further converted into DTC.	Facts
The premises remained in occupation of the same entity which changed its form from one to another.	Facts
Thus it cannot be said that it was a case of subletting under any circumstances.	Facts
The orders passed by learned ARC and learned ARTC are liable to be set aside for non application of law and non consideration of facts at all.	Facts
The objection raised by the appellants to the entertainment of the petition under Article 227, on the ground of laches, has been rejected with the following observations The respondent in this case has strongly objected to entertaining the petition on the ground of limitation.	Facts
The petitioner has filed this petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India.	Facts
In exercise of this power, interfering with the orders of the Court of Tribunal has to be done where this Court finds that there was a serious dereliction of duty and blatant violation of the fundamental principles of law and justice and where, the order caused grave injustice and needs to be corrected.	Facts
Although the petitioner herein had not been vigilant in prosecuting the appeal below but that cannot prevent his Court from correcting the patent illegality writ large on the face of the orders of the ARC and Tribunal below.	Facts
Both the ARC and ARCT passed orders without considering the facts of the case in a very mechanical manner.	Facts
Neither the learned ARC nor learned ARCT had taken into account the sequence of facts brought before them regarding acquisition of the entire assets of GNIT and conversion of DTS to DTU and then to DTC by the Legislative Act and the order has been passed merely on the ground that amount of Rs.3500/ was being remitted by the MCD to DTC.	Facts
The Courts below did not even consider the issue as to who was the tenant and how MCD became the subtenant of respondent once the premises was owned by Union of India and the leasehold rights of the entire land vested in Union of India.	Facts
This Court can set aside the findings and the orders of the Tribunal below if there was no evidence at all to justify the findings and the findings were perverse.	Facts
The order can also be set aside if no reasonable or prudent person can possibly come to such a conclusion despite the fact that the petition was not brought before this Court by the petitioner soon after the passing of the order.	Facts
In Badlu and Anr.	Facts
v. Shiv Charan and Ors., (1980) 4 SCC 401 , Supreme Court observed that the delay caused in prosecuting the case in bona fide and good faith in wrong Court due to mistake of law or facts can be condoned, I, therefore, consider that petition is not liable to be dismissed on the ground of delay, nor learned ARCT was justified in dismissing the application.	Facts
Learned ARCT went wrong in dismissing the application of the petitioner for condonation of delay.	Facts
The order of learned ARCT on this count also is liable to set aside.	Facts
It is ordered accordingly.	None
Mr. Altaf Ahmad, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellants submits1.	Arguments of Petitioner
The exercise of power under Article 227 of the Constitution of India, by the High Court, in the peculiar facts of this case was improper.2.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petition was liable to be dismissed on the ground of delay and laches alone.3.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even otherwise, the High Court exceeded its jurisdiction by acting as an Appellate Court.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court erroneously decided the question of ownership of the premises which was not even an issue in the proceedings, under Article 227 of the Constitution of India.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even on facts, the findings are contrary to the material on record.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Ms. Madhu Tewatia, learned Counsel appearing for the respondents submits that the High Court was fully justified in exercising its jurisdiction under Article 227 of the Constitution to correct the patent, factual and legal errors committed by ARC and ARCT.	Arguments of Respondent
She has emphasised the entire history of transformation of GNIT into DTC.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned Counsel, there was no landlord and tenant relationship between the predecessor of the appellants and GNIT.	Arguments of Respondent
The payment of Rs.3500/ per month was a misnomer.	Arguments of Respondent
The plot vested in the Government under the agreement dated 23rd April, 1948, therefore, GNIT was incompetent to transfer any perpetual lease to Bharat Singh.	Arguments of Respondent
The amount of Rs.3500/ was being paid to Bharat Singh as compensation for the amount spent by him on behalf of GNIT for construction of the depot.	Arguments of Respondent
She further submits that the land vested in DDA, i.e., Government.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, Rent Controller had no jurisdiction.	Arguments of Respondent
In any case, the appellants have failed to prove that there has been any parting with possession, without the written consent of the landlord.	Arguments of Respondent
The ARC and ARCT ignored vital documents in concluding that there has been subletting by DTC to MCD.	Arguments of Respondent
In fact, MCD has retained the legal possession all along.	Arguments of Respondent
The payment of Rs. 3500/ was only being routed through DTC, as a matter of convenience.	Arguments of Respondent
On the question of delay and laches, it is submitted that the High Court had converted the RCSA to a petition under Article 227.	Arguments of Respondent
The delay has been condoned as the MCD had been bona fide pursuing the wrong legal remedy.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court in a petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India had the jurisdiction to undo the injustice caused to the MCD by the orders of ARC and ARCT.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of her submissions, learned Counsel relied on a number of judgments of this Court, viz., on subletting Resham Singh v. Raghbir Singh Anr., VII (1999)	Arguments of Respondent
SLT 3231999 (7) SCC 263 Bharat Sales Ltd. v. Life Insurance Coropration of India, III (1998)	Arguments of Respondent
SLT 191998 (3) SCC 1 , and on jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 227 of the Constitution of India,Estralla Rubber v. Dass Estates (P) Ltd., VI (2001)	Arguments of Respondent
SLT 5772001 (8) SCC 97.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Ahmad, in reply submits that the subtenant DTC, cannot be permitted to plead a case which even the tenant could not have pleaded.12.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have anxiously considered the submissions of the learned Counsel.	None
Before we consider the factual and legal issues involved herein, we may notice certain well recognized principles governing the exercise of jurisdiction by the High Court under Article 227 of the Constitution of India.	None
Undoubtedly the High Court, under this Article, has the jurisdiction to ensure that all subordinate Courts as well as statutory or quasi judicial Tribunals, exercise the powers vested in them, within the bounds of their authority.	None
The High Court has the power and the jurisdiction to ensure that they act in accordance with well established principles of law.	None
The High Court is vested with the powers of superintendence and or judicial revision, even in matters where no revision or appeal lies to the High Court.	None
The jurisdiction under this Article is, in some ways, wider than the power and jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.	None
It is, however, well to remember the well known adage that greater the power, greater the care and caution in exercise thereof.	Reasoning
The High Court is, therefore, expected to exercise such wide powers with great care, caution and circumspection.	Reasoning
The exercise of jurisdiction must be within the well recognized constraints.	Reasoning
It can not be exercised like a bull in a china shop, to correct all errors of judgment of a Court, or Tribunal, acting within the limits of its jurisdiction.	Reasoning
This correctional jurisdiction can be exercised in cases where orders have been passed in grave dereliction of duty or in flagrant abuse of fundamental principles of law or justice.	Reasoning
The High Court cannot lightly or liberally act as an Appellate Court and reappreciate the evidence.	Reasoning
Generally, it can not substitute its own conclusions for the conclusions reached by the Courts below or the statutory quasi judicial Tribunals.	Reasoning
The power to reappreciate evidence would only be justified in rare and exceptional situations where grave injustice would be done unless the High Court interferes.	Reasoning
The exercise of such discretionary power would depend on the peculiar facts of each case, with the sole objective of ensuring that there is no miscarriage of justice.14.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the High Court in this case, has travelled beyond the limits of its jurisdiction under Article 227 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Both ARC and ARCT had acted within the limits of the jurisdiction vested in them.	Reasoning
The conclusions reached cannot be said to be based on no evidence.	Reasoning
All relevant material has been taken into consideration.	Reasoning
Therefore, there was hardly any justification for the High Court to undertake an investigation into issues which did not even arise in the lis.	Reasoning
The appellants had filed a simple eviction petition before the ARC, under Section 14(1)(b) of Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958 (in short DRC Act).	None
They had stated that DTC was their tenants in premises as the entire plot No. 2 with the construction thereon at Jhandewalan known as Karol Bagh Depot, as per plan attached.	None
Monthly rent was stated to be Rs. 3500/.	None
It was claimed that DTC has sublet the premises to MCD, without permission of the landlord.	None
Therefore, both DTC and MCD were liable for eviction.	Facts
Both DTC and MCD took identical pleas.	None
Their defence was that the appellants are neither the owners nor the landlords of the demised premises.	None
They claimed that Late Bharat Singh (LBS) had agreed to construct the depot for and on behalf of GNIT.	None
He was receiving Rs. 3500/ p.m. for the money spent on construction.	None
Therefore, the term rent is a misnomer.	None
Allegations of subletting were denied.	None
The business of GNIT was nationalized and taken over by the Governmentvide agreement dated 23rd April, 1948.	None
The plot was mutated in the name of Government of India.	None
Thereafter, Delhi Road Transport Corporation Act, 1950, was enforced.	None
Under this Act, Delhi Transport Services (DTS) was established.	None
From then the onward DTS was in occupation and started paying the rent of Rs. 3500/ till the enactment of DMC Act, 1957.	None
Under this Act, the transport service in Delhi was given to Delhi Transport Undertaking (DTU), which was made a wing of MCD.	None
Since then MCD started releasing Rs. 3500/ to LBS through its wing, DTU.	None
After the death of LBS, the amount has been paid to the appellants, without any objection.	None
On passing of Delhi Road Transport Laws (Amendment) Act, 1971, Delhi Transport Corporation, came into existence as a statutory body.	None
But the possession of the demised premises remained with MCD.	None
As DTC had taken the place of DTU, the rent amount, thereafter, was routed through DTC.	None
Therefore, there was no subletting.	None
In any event, since the property vests in Government of India, Delhi Rent Control Act would not be applicable.	None
Taking into consideration the aforesaid claims of the parties, the ARC concluded that there is no dispute with regard to construction and ownership of the depot by LBS.	None
The appellants are successors of LBS.	None
The issues as crystallized by the ARC are as follows The tenant has sublet, assigned or otherwise parted with possession.(ii)	None
It may be in respect of the whole or any part of the premises.(iii) Such subletting, etc. has taken place on or after the 9th day of June, 1952.(iv) Such subletting, etc. has taken place without obtaining the consent in writing of the landlord.(v)	None
The first and the foremost ground that requires to be seen is whether relationship of landlord and tenant exist between the petitioners and respondent No. 1 or not.	None
Thereafter in Para 9 ARC observes Whether relationship of landlord and tenant was contemplated or not is the most important fact which has to be seen.	None
Thereafter, ARC proceeds to consider the implications of the agreement dated 10th November, 1944, wherein LBS agreed to develop the plot of land.	None
He is referred to as the prospective purchaser.	None
The lease with GNIT was provided for, LBS was to pay all taxes.	None
GNIT had to pay 10 p.a. of the entire cost of the building.	None
GNIT were to execute a ten year lease.	None
Rent of Rs. 3500/ was regularly paid.	None
The ARC noticed that Government of India had moved the Rent Controller, New Delhi for fixation of fair rent in June, 1950.	None
The Rent Controller, after conducting an inquiry had fixed the agreed rent as the fair rent.	None
An appeal against the order of Rent Controller, New Delhi dated 26th December, 1950 was dismissed by the learned District Judge at Delhi by an order dated 3.5.1951.	None
Not only this, ARC notices that during the course of present proceedings, rent was deposited in Court for the period 1.4.93 to 30.11.93, by DTC.	None
Therefore, they can not now be permitted to say that MCD is the tenant, in possession.	None
In such circumstances, the ARC held that DTC has sublet the premises to MCD.	None
Thereafter, MCD challenged the aforesaid order before the ARCT in RCA No.9 of 2001.	None
The aforesaid appeal was beyond limitation by 431 days.	None
It appears that even though the ARCT did not find any substance in the reasons given by the MCD for seeking condonation of delay, the appeal was still considered on merits.	None
ARCT discussed at length the negligent attitude of the MCD in pursuing the proceedings in the Court of ARC.	None
Ultimately, the ARC was left with no alternative but to proceed against the MCD exparte on 25th of August, 1999.	None
It was observed by the ARCT that the delay was wholly unjustified as well as wholly unexplained.	None
We may notice the observations made by the ARCT which are as follows Now, looking to the appellants stand through another angle, I find that the appellant and respondent DTC are both governmental organization and it does not stand to mind that respondent DTC or its representative would not intimate the appellant MCD about its not being represented to some advocate or about its having been proceeded ex parte.	None
The case was admittedly on last state and it appears that the appellant took chance and stayed out of the scene and has now come up with this hopelessly delayed appeal with a cock and bull story which does not seem to be any way bona fide, reasonable and acceptable to mind.	None
Strangely enough, the appellant even did not disclose in the application as to on which date or month, the Court bailiff had gone to the demises premises, and this lengthy delay of about 431 days (or 393 days after excluding the time taken in obtaining the certified copies) has remained completely unexplained.	None
The application for seeking condonation of delay, thus, is found to be without any sufficient or reasonable ground and needs to be dismissed.	None
Order as such with the dismissal of the appellant is application for condonation of delay this appeal meets the same fate.	None
Having observed as such, the ARCT considered the appeal on merits on the assumption that the application of MCD for condonation of delay has been allowed, though it had not been allowed.	None
The ARCT thereafter considered the entire gamut of facts and circumstances in detail.	None
The ARCT noticed the submissions made by the learned Counsel for the MCD and considered each submission in detail.	None
It was submitted that ARC had failed to distinguish the three expressions sublet, assigned and otherwise parted with possession.	None
This was answered as follows I feel that the submissions made by learned Counsel Mr.Chachra do not gather any support from the records because the learned ARC has dealt with insufficient details of the needed requirements and it was only thereafter that he came to a conclusion of the respondent DTC having sublet, assigned or otherwise parted with the possession of the demised premises in favour of this appellant.	None
For attracting the applicability of a ground of eviction under Section 14(1)(b) of the Act, it has either to be direct circumstance of subletting which ordinarily may not be possible to be detected since it is, in most cases, a secret deal between the tenant and the alleged subtenant or it is the assignment where under the tenant has to divest himself of all the rights that he had as a tenant or parting with possession which circumstances postulates the parting with legal possession also i.e. the tenant surrenders his legal right of areentry to the premises.	None
This mischief of Section 14(1)(b) of the Act is complete if any of the three expressions gets established.	None
It is certainly no necessary and nor has it been so held by any of the pronouncements of any superior Courts that pleadings on this aspect must state in specific terms that it either sublet or assignment or parting with possession.	None
In case a party succeeds in establishing the first expression sublet the to my mind.	None
It goes to establish that even the other two expressions assignment and parting with possession stand proved because the moment a tenant indulge a third person as his tenant (subtenant) qua the demised premises he (tenant) squarely assigns and also parts with possession in both ways as he divests himself of all the rights as he had as a tenant and part with possession to delivering and only physical possession but also fully surrendering his legal possession over the tenanted premises.	None
The impugned judgment did discuss evidence with a clear angle that the appellant had been parting rent of Rs.3,500/ per month to respondent DTC every month.	None
The respondent DTC was admittedly not in possession any way of the demised premises as the appellants own stand on this point is admittedly the same.	None
In case, the first expression sublet has been established, almost in an admitted style, through various acts admitted documents and stands taken in various Court proceedings, the other two expressions would also go hand in hand and the learned ARC was not any way required to state as to under which of the three expressions, parties case felt Evidence or specific admissions through deeds and conduct find duly discussed through various admitted or proved documents and these negates the plea of the appellant that the evidence had not been discussed by the learned Trial Court.	None
I feel the impugned judgment carries all these necessary details and these need not be repeated here any further.	None
ARCT thereafter considered in detail the relationship of landlord and tenant between LBS and various statutory entities, in succession.	None
The transformation of GNIT, through DTS to DTC was duly noticed, and dilated upon.	None
It was noticed that DTC which was a Government undertaking, was a successorininterest of a private transport company.	None
It was further noticed that the land underneath the superstructure the demised premises might or might not belong to the Government and the superstructure was built around May, 1948 by predecessorininterest of respondents 1 to 3 and an amount of Rs. 3,500/ per month was agreed to be paid being a fair return against the investment made towards construction of superstructure.	None
The submission that Rs. 3,500/ per month was paid as compensation for construction of the superstructure was considered and rejected with the observations The submission of appellants learned Counsel that the amount was agreed to be paid only with a view to compensate the predecessorininterest of respondents 1 to 3 and was not the rental of the superstructure does not seem to be carrying any weight and to my mind this submission cannot stand because the moment, we speak of compensation it indicates to some specific amount of a specific period by which the liability would be deemed to have been discharged.	None
It never means a flowing steam of payments to continue till infinity.	None
It has got to be the rental only and it was also to understand, taken and acted upon by the parties as is clearly and unambiguously indicated from the admitted stand of respondent DTC.	None
The respondent DTC had in its written statement admitted this amount as rent though at other point it denied it being so.	None
Really, respondent DTC could not suppress the truth and at times, it honestly leaned towards it and described this sum of Rs. 3,500/ as monthly rental.	None
Paras (a), (f) and (k) of brief facts of the written statement of respondent DTC clearly reflect the above stand.	None
In para (e), the words used are and would give it on rental basis to GNIT.	None
The words used in para (f) are that Sh.	None
Bharat Singh constructed a depot on plot No. 2 and rented out the same structure to GNIT at a monthly rental of Rs.	None
3,500/. Para (k) states and the GNIT company continued paying a rent of Rs. 3,500/ per month to Sh.	None
Bharat Singh for the amount he had invested on the superstructure and also for the amount he had financed to GNIT company.	None
These terms are no misnomers and actually they pump out the real intent of the parties under which respondent DTC started making payments of monthly rentals to respondents 1 to 3 their predecessorininterest.	None
We have been constrained to make elaborate reference to the orders of ARC and ARCT only to demonstrate that High Court was not justified in observing that there has been serious dereliction of duty or that there has been blatant violation of the fundamental principles of law and justice by the ARC and ARCT.	Reasoning
We also cannot accept the observations of the High Court that both ARC and ARCT have considered the facts in a very mechanical way, or that the orders passed by ARC and ARCT exhibited any patent illegality writ large on the face of the orders.	Reasoning
We also do not agree that the ARC and ARCT ignored the sequence of events through which GNIT was substituted by DTC.	Reasoning
The entire sequence of metamorphosis of GNIT into DTC have been elaborately explained and dilated upon.22.	Reasoning
We are of the considered opinion that the High Court ought not to have exercised the extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 227 of the Constitution in the peculiar circumstances of this case.	Reasoning
We may briefly indicate the reasons for saying so Initially the appellants filed a petition for eviction against DTC and MCD.	None
They had clarified that MCD has been impleaded only to avoid multiplicity of proceedings.	None
Decree of eviction was passed.	None
DTC lost in appeal, lost in RCSA in the High Court.	None
However, the High Court clarified it shall have no bearing on the appeal filed by MCD.	None
The order dated 31.1.2001, passed by the High Court in CM (M) No. 31 of 2001 reads as under There is a concurrent findings of facts and law against the petitioner.	None
It is not for this Court to substantiate for judgment over the judgment of the Court below through the proceedings under Article 227 of the Constitution of India.	None
Dismissed.	None
I am informed that the MCD has challenged the impugned order before the Rent Control Tribunal.	None
Dismissal of this petition shall have no bearing on the determination of the Appeal filed by the MCD.	None
Following the aforesaid order, RCSA No. 17/2001 and CMs 7475/2001 filed by the MCD was also dismissedvide order dated 3.9.2004, with the following observations It appears that the order of the Additional Rent Controller was challenged before the Tribunal, which order has been adjudicated upon by other Bench of this Court which uphold the order of the Additional Rent Controller.	None
In view of the matter, I see no reason to entertain this appeal.	None
SAO 17/2001 is accordingly dismissed.	None
In our opinion the aforesaid order was unexceptional since the pleas taken by the DTC and MCD before the Additional Rent Controller were identical.	None
Therefore, it was in fitness of things that the subsequent Coordinate Bench also dismissed the appeal filed by MCD.	None
The aforesaid order was however recalled without any justification with the following observations Heard Counsel for the parties and have gone through the order dated September 3, 2004 as also January 30, 2001.	None
It appears to me that while disposing of RCSA 17/2001 reference has been made purely CM(M) 31/2001.	None
What escaped notice was that the order dated January 30, 2001 in CM(M) would have no bearing on the determination of the appeal by the Municipal Corporation of Delhi.	None
Thereafter MCD, moved CM 4639/2007 with the prayer that the appeal be treated as a petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India as the appeal is not maintainable.	Reasoning
The application was disposed off by the following order dated 30/3/2007 Counsel for the appellant has moved CM	None
No 4639/2007 praying that this appeal be treated as a petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India as the appeal is not maintainable.	None
He further submits that the appellant should file a fresh petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India or under any other law if the same is permissible under law.	Facts
On instruction from the respondent who is present in Court, Counsel will not proceed with the execution petition for a period of 15 days from today.	None
Subject to this condition as prayed by Counsel for the appellant RCSA 17/01 is dismissed as withdrawn.	None
CM 4639/07 also stands disposed of.	None
A perusal of the aforesaid order clearly shows that the application was disposed of on the statement made by the learned Counsel for MCD that the appellant (MCD) should file a fresh petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India if the same is permissible under law.	Reasoning
Therefore, the aforesaid order cannot be treated as an order passed by the High Court permitting MCD to file a petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
However using the aforesaid order of the High Court as an excuse, MCD filed the petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India on 9.4.2007, being CM (Main) No. 57/2007, challenging the order which was passed by the ARC dated 11.11.1989 and the order passed by ARCT dated 12.3.2001.	Reasoning
At this stage, in our opinion, the High Court failed to bestow proper attention to the objections taken by the appellants to the maintainability of the writ petition on the ground of delay and laches.	Reasoning
Proceedings under Article 227 can be initiated in the absence of the availability of an alternative efficacious remedy.	Reasoning
In the present case, MCD had consciously withdrawn RCSA which had been filed under Section 39(1) of the Delhi Rent Control Act.	Reasoning
The appeal had been filed against the order of the ARCT dated 12.3.2001.	Reasoning
However, the objection on the ground of delay and laches was brushed aside by the High Court on two wholly untenable grounds, i.e.(i)	Reasoning
The orders passed by the ARC and ARCT suffered from patent illegality on the face of the orders.(ii)	Reasoning
The MCD was bona fide prosecuting a case in the wrong Court, due to mistake of law.23.	Reasoning
We are of the opinion that the High Court committed a patent error of jurisdiction in entertaining the writ petition under Article 227 of the Constitution which was unconscionably belated.	Reasoning
Both reasons stated by the High Court in support of its conclusions, are contrary to the facts on the record.	Reasoning
It must be remembered that in these proceedings, the pleas raised by the DTC and MCD before the ARC as well as the ARCT were identical.	Reasoning
The order passed by the ARCT has been upheld by a Coordinate Bench of the High Court.	Reasoning
The RCSA No. 17/2001 filed by MCD on identical grounds was thus dismissed by a subsequent Coordinate Bench.	Reasoning
That was indeed in conformity with the high traditions, procedures and practices established by the Courts to maintain judicial discipline and decorum.	Reasoning
The underlying principle being, to avoid conflicting views taken by Coordinate Benches of the same Court.	Reasoning
Except in compelling circumstances, such as where the order of the earlier bench can be said to be per incuriam, in that it is passed in ignorance of an earlier binding precedent statutory or constitutional provision, the subsequent bench would follow the earlier Coordinate Bench.24.	Reasoning
It appears that the entire proceedings adopted by MCD after the dismissal of the RCSA CM(M)	Reasoning
No. 31 of 2001, on 31.1.2001 were a subterfuge to avoid the execution proceedings in a decree which had become final between the parties.	Reasoning
In the application seeking conversion of RCSA No. 17/2001 to a petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India, it was categorically stated by MCD that the aforesaid RCSA was not maintainable.	Reasoning
The aforesaid statement is a clear admission that the appeal filed by the MCD did not involve a substantial question of law.	Reasoning
It is apparent from the fact that under Section 39(1) of the DRC Act subject to the provisions of Subsection (2), an appeal lies to the High Court from an order made by the ARCT.	None
Subsection (2) provides as under No appeal shall lie under Subsection (1), unless the appeal involves some substantial question of law.	None
Having made an admission that no substantial question of law was raised in the RCSA, withdrawal of the same could not possibly have been used as a justification for filing a petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
If the RCSA was devoid of any substantial question of law, the petition under Article 227, based on the same facts, would be equally devoid of any substantial question of law.	Reasoning
This categoric admission of the MCD was ignored by the High Court whilst recording the finding that the orders of ARC and ARCT were passed in blatant violation of fundamental principles of law and justice.	Reasoning
This apart in the peculiar facts of this case, noticed above, it could not be held that MCD had been bona fide prosecuting a case in the wrong Court.	None
It was seeking a remedy provided under Section 39(1) of DRC Act.	Reasoning
Even this appeal was filed beyond limitation.	Reasoning
It was delayed by 431 days.	Reasoning
In the meantime possession of a part of the premises had already been taken by the appellants.	Reasoning
In spite of the objections having been raised to the maintainability of a writ petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India, they were rejected by the High Court with the observations noticed in the earlier part of the judgment.	Reasoning
In such circumstances, in our opinion, it was wholly inappropriate for the High Court to entertain the writ petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
Undoubtedly, the High Court has the power to reach injustice whenever, wherever found.	None
The scope and ambit of Article 227 of the Constitution of India had been discussed in the case of The Estralla Rubber v. Dass Estate (P) Ltd., VI (2001)	None
SLT 577(2001) 8 SCC 97 , wherein it was observed as follows The scope and ambit of exercise of power and jurisdiction by a High Court under Article 227 of the Constitution of India is examined and explained in a number of decisions of this Court.	None
The exercise of power under this article involves a duty on the High Court to keep inferior Courts and Tribunals within the bounds of their authority and to see that they do the duty expected or required of them in a legal manner.	None
The High Court is not vested with any unlimited prerogative to correct all kinds of hardship or wrong decisions made within the limits of the jurisdiction of the Subordinate Courts or Tribunals.	None
Exercise of this power and interfering with the orders of the Courts or tribunals is restricted to cases of serious dereliction of duty and flagrant violation of fundamental principles of law or justice, where if the High Court does not interfere, a grave injustice remains uncorrected.	None
It is also well settled that the High Court while acting under this article cannot exercise its power as an Appellate Court or substitute its own judgment in place of that of the Subordinate Court to correct an error, which is not apparent on the face of the record.	None
The High Court can set aside or ignore the findings of facts of an inferior Court or Tribunal, if there is no evidence at all to justify or the finding is so perverse, that no reasonable person can possibly come to such a conclusion, which the Court or tribunal has come to.	None
In our opinion, the High Court committed a serious error of jurisdiction in entertaining the writ petition filed by MCD under Article 227 of the Constitution of India in the peculiar circumstances of this case.	Reasoning
The decision to exercise jurisdiction had to be taken in accordance with the accepted norms of care, caution, circumspection.	Reasoning
The issue herein only related to a tenancy and subletting.	Reasoning
There was no lis relating to the ownership of the land on which the superstructure or the demised premises had been constructed.	Reasoning
The whole issue of ownership of plot of land No. 2, BlockB, Transport Area of Jhandewalan Estate, Desh Bandhu Gupta Road, Karol Bagh, New Delhi is the subject matter of a civil suit being Suit No 361 of 1980 in the High Court of Delhi.	Reasoning
The High Court, therefore, ought not to have given any opinion on the question of ownership.26.	Reasoning
We are of the opinion the High Court travelled beyond the well defined contours of its jurisdiction under Article 227 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
We, therefore, allow this appeal and set aside the impugned judgment and order.	Decision
Civil Appeal No. 8234 of 2010 Special Leave Petition (C) No.1925 of 20081.	Decision
Leave granted.2.	Decision
In view of the judgment in Civil Appeal No. 8233 of 2010 SLP (C) No. 16995 of 2009, this appeal becomes infructuous and is dismissed as such.	Decision
