 Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, J. The present appeal raises an interesting question of law.	None
The Court is tasked with determining whether a death due to malaria occasioned by a mosquito bite in Mozambique, constituted a death due to accident.	Issue
The appeal by the insurer has been filed against the judgment of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission , which upheld a decision of the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission .	Issue
The State Commission, in first appeal, had upheld the award of a claim under an insurance policy.	None
Debashis Bhattacharjee, the spouse of the first respondent and the father of the second respondent applied for a housing loan for an amount of Rs. 13.15 lacs from the Bank of Baroda on 16 June 2011.	Facts
The loan was sanctioned and was repayable in 113 monthly installments, each of Rs. 19,105/. Incidental to the loan, he availed of the facility of an insurance scheme called National Insurance Home Loan Suraksha Bima.	Facts
On 25 August 2011, a policy was issued to cover the loan amount of Rs. 13.15 lacs with a term of 20 years commencing on 25 August 2011.	None
A single premium was paid against the policy.	Facts
The policy was a nonlife insurance product intended to provide insurance security to a person who obtains a loan for constructing, purchasing or repairing a residential house, flat or apartment.	Facts
Section I of the policy insured the house against fire and allied perils, including earthquakes.	Facts
Section II insured the borrower against personal accidents.	Facts
3.	Facts
The insured was working as a Manager of a Tea Estate in Assam.	Facts
He thereafter took up employment in 2012 as a Manager of a Tea Factory at ChaDeMagoma, District Gurue, ProvinceZambezia, Republic of Mozambique.	Facts
During his stay in Mozambique, the insured was admitted to the hospital on 14 November 2012.	Facts
He was diagnosed with encephalitis malaria and died on 22 November 2012 due to multiorgan failure.	Facts
His death certificate issued by the Republic of Mozambique spelt out the conditions and causes of death thus chart The heirs of the deceased filed a complaint under the Consumer Protection Act 1986 before the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum , North 24 PGS, Barasat alleging that the insurer had committed a deficiency of service in not settling the claim under the insurance cover.	Facts
In the written statement filed by the appellant, it set up the plea that Section II of the policy insured the borrower of the loan against personal accident.	Facts
Death due to malaria caused by a mosquito bite was, in the submission of the insurer, a result of an infection or disease and was not an accidental death under the terms of the insurance policy.	Facts
5.	Facts
By an order dated 28 February 2014, the District Forum allowed the claim and called upon the insurer to pay the entire outstanding EMIs in respect of the loan to the Bank of Baroda.	Facts
A statutory appeal was filed by the appellant before the State Commission.	Facts
The State Commission by its order dated 2 February 2016 affirmed the order of the District Forum, holding that a sudden death due to mosquito bite in a foreign land was an accident it would be rather silly to say that it was a natural death.	Facts
The order of the State Commission was assailed in revision before the National Commission.	Facts
The National Commission observed thus The term accident has not been defined in the policy which the deceased had taken and therefore contextual dictionary meaning of the said term has to be taken for the purpose of deciding whether the death of the deceased was due to an accident or not.	Facts
An accident is something that happens unexpectedly and is not planned in advance.	Facts
It is defined as (i) as unpleasant event, especially in a vehicle, that happens unexpectedly and causes injury or damage, (ii) something that happens unexpectedly and is not planned in advance, in the Oxford Advanced Learners Dictionary (New 8th Edition).	Facts
The word accident is defined as (i) as accident, an unforeseen injuries occurrence, something that does not come in the usual course of event or that cannot be reasonably anticipated, (ii) an unforeseen and injurious occurrence due to mistake, negligence, neglect or misconduct an unanticipated and untoward event that cause(s) harm (In Blacks Law Dictionary (Ninth Edition).	Facts
(sic) On whether a death as a result of encephalitis malaria was an accident, the National Commission held It can hardly be disputed that a mosquito bite is something which no one expects and which happens all of a sudden without any act or omission on the part of the victim.	Facts
In Consumer Complaint No. 223 of 2006, Shri Matber Singh versus Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. decided on 05.09.2014, this Commission noted that as per the information available on the website of the Insurance Company, an accident may include events like snake bite, frost bite and dog bite.	Facts
Hence, it would be difficult to accept the contention that malaria due to mosquito bite is a disease and not an accident.	Facts
During the course of hearing Ms Madhavi Divan, learned Additional Solicitor General submitted that Among the perils which were insured against by the policy is death due to accident Clause 3(A) of the conditions specified that the insured was required to give immediate notice of any change of business or occupation(iii)	Arguments of Petitioner
No intimation was furnished by the insured of having taken a job in Mozambique which was a material breach of the policy condition(iv)	Arguments of Petitioner
Malaria is a common occurrence in tropical countries, particularly so in Mozambique(v)	Arguments of Petitioner
The death of the insured was hence not accidental, since the expression accident postulates an occurrence which is unnatural, unforeseen or unexpected(vi)	Arguments of Petitioner
It is well established that the expression accident does not include disease and other natural causes(vii)	None
The insured died of multiorgan failure which may not necessarily be a direct consequence of a mosquito bite(viii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The analogy drawn by the National Commission with a snake bite or a scorpion bite is inapposite and(ix)	Arguments of Petitioner
A variety of ailments can be caused on account of mosquito bites such as Dengue, Chikungunya and Zika, which if unattended can lead to complications and result in death, but it would be absurd to term the cause of death as an accident.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents supported the decisions of the District Forum, the State Commission and the National Commission.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel submitted that sustaining the mosquito bite is by its very nature a matter of chance or accident since it is unforeseen.	Arguments of Respondent
Malaria traces its origin to a mosquito bite and hence, it was urged that a death which is caused as a result of malaria must necessarily be construed to be accidental in nature.	Arguments of Respondent
The rival submissions fall for consideration.	None
Section II of the policy covered the following perils Section II1.	None
Death due to accident.2.	None
Accidental loss of two limbs, two eyes or one limb and one eye.	None
3.	Facts
Permanent total disablement or injuries other than that named above.	None
The exclusions from Section II were Loss of one limb or one eye2.	None
Any accidental injury or loss not mentioned under SectionII above3.	None
Cumulative Bonus4.	None
Education Fund5.	None
Cost of transportation of the dead body6.	None
Persons below the age of 18 years at the time of disbursement of loan, and above 60 years at the end of repayment period7.	None
People having Hysteria8.	None
Death or accidental resulting from intentional self injury, suicide or attempted suicide9.	None
Death or injury from accident while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drug10.	None
Death or injury from accident caused by insanity or venereal disease11.	None
Death or injury from accident arising or resulting from the insured committing any breach of law with criminal intent12.	None
War or war like operations13.	None
Lionising radiations or contamination by radioactivity14.	None
Loss by delay, loss of market or any other consequential or indirect loss or damage15.	None
Default in repayment of installments and or loan due to any reason whatsoever except due to the occurrence of insured peril.	None
In support of the submission that death due to malaria is a common occurrence in Mozambique, Ms Divan has adverted to the World Health Organizations World Malaria Report 2018.	None
According to it, in 2017, there have been an estimated ten million cases of malaria in Mozambique and an estimated 14.7 thousand deaths According to the World Population Prospects 2017 Report published by the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division, nearly one out of three people in Mozambique contracted malaria.	Reasoning
In our view, it would be appropriate to approach the issue which has been raised in the present case as a matter of interpreting the conditions contained in the insurance policy.	Reasoning
A line of precedents, both of this Court and international, have dealt with the meaning of the expression accident.	None
In Union of India v Sunil Kumar Ghosh (1984) 4 SCC 246 , this Court held that 13An accident is an occurrence or an event which is unforeseen and startles one when it takes place but does not startle one when it does not take place.	None
It is the happening of the unexpected, not the happening of the expected, which is called an accident.	None
In other words an event or occurrence the happening of which is ordinarily expected in the normal course by almost everyone undertaking a rail journey cannot be called an accident.	None
But the happening of something which is not inherent in the normal course of events, and which is not ordinarily expected to happen or occur, is called a mishap or an accident.	None
In a subsequent decision in Regional Director, ESI Corporation v Francis De Costa 1993 Supp (4) SCC 100 , the expression accident was defined as follows 4The popular and ordinary sense of the word accident means the mishap or an untoward happening not expected and designed to have an occurrence is an accident.	None
It must be regarded as an accident, from the point of view of the workman who suffers from it, that its occurrence is unexpected and without design on his part, although either intentionally caused by the author of the act or otherwise.	None
The same principle was adopted in Jyothi Ademma v Plant Engineer, Nellore (2006) 5 SCC 513 , where this Court held 7the expression accident means an untoward mishap which is not expected or designed.	None
P Ramanatha Aiyars Law Lexicon 3rd Edition, 2012 , defines the expression accident an event that takes place without ones foresight or expectation and event that proceeds from an unknown cause, or is an unusual effect of a known cause, and therefore not expected, chance, causality, contingency.	None
The above Law Lexicon, relying on Lovelace v Travelers Protective Association 47 Am.	None
St. Rep. 638 , defines the expression death by accident as Death from any unexpected event, which happens, as by chance, or which does not take place according to the usual course of things.	None
In order to constitute an accident, the event must be in the nature of an occurrence which is unnatural, unforeseen or unexpected.	Reasoning
The present case concerns death caused due to a disease being contracted.	Reasoning
Section II of the insurance policy covers death caused by accident.	Reasoning
Death or injury from accident caused by insanity or venereal disease has been specifically excluded and not covered under the policy.	Reasoning
The issue is whether death caused by any other disease not specifically excluded under the policy, is be covered.	None
The issue whether a disease can be covered under the ambit of the expression accident has been analysed in A W Baker Welfords The Law Relating to Accident Insurance2nd Edition, 1932 , where it was stated The word accident involves the idea of something fortuitous and unexpected, as opposed to something proceeding from natural causes and injury caused by accident is to be regarded as the antithesis to bodily infirmity caused by disease in the ordinary course of events.(emphasis supplied) Colinvauxs Law of Insurance	None
10th Ed.by Robert Merkin elucidates on the ambit of the expression accident Accident excludes disease.	None
It follows from the above principle that a disease cannot be classified as an accident.	None
Although disease proximately caused by an accident, in the absence of any exclusion for disease will be covered by a personal accident policy, it is well established that the word accident does not include disease and other natural causes, and implies that intervention of some cause which is brought into operation by chance and which can be described as fortuitous.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The expression accidental death insurance has been explained in P Ramanatha Aiyars Advanced Law Lexicon 3rd Ed.	None
(2005) Insurance that provides coverage in the event of death due to accidental injuries, but not illness.	None
In the event of death, payment is made to the insureds beneficiary.	None
If bodily injury occurs (e.g., the loss of a limb), the insured receives a sum specified by the contract.	None
(insurance)	None
The treatises extracted above construe accidents and diseases as distinct concepts.	None
Baker Welford regards accident as a term which does not include disease in the ordinary course of events.	None
Colinvaux acknowledges that a disease caused as a proximate cause of an accident will be covered by a policy for personal accident, in the absence of an exclusion.	Reasoning
But then it is also argued that the term accident does not include disease.	Reasoning
15.	Reasoning
Courts across international jurisdictions  including in the UK, US and Canada have interpreted the term accident.	None
There is a fine distinction between the occurrence of a disease which may be considered as an accident and a disease which occurs in the natural course of events.	None
In 1861, the Queens Bench Division Sinclair v Maritime Passengers Assurance (1861) 3 EE 478 in the UK was called upon to consider whether a sunstroke suffered by a person while on board a ship in the course of performing his ordinary duties would amount to an accident.	None
Cockburn C.J., delivering the judgment of the court held It is difficult to define the term accident, as used in a policy of this nature, so as to draw with perfect accuracy a boundary line between injury or death from accident, and injury or death from natural causes such as shall be of universal application.	None
At the same time we think we may safely assume that, in the term accident as so used some violence, casualty, or vis major, is necessarily involved.	None
We cannot think disease produced by the action of a known cause can be considered as accidental.	None
Thus diseases or death engendered by exposure to heat, cold, damp, the vicissitudes of climate, or atmosphere influences, cannot, we think properly be said to be accidental unless at all events, the exposure is itself brought about by circumstances which may give it the character of accident.	None
Thus (by way of illustration), if, from the effects of ordinary exposure to the elements, such as is common in the course of navigation, a mariner should catch cold and die, such death would not be accidental although if, being obliged by shipwreck or other disasters to quit the ship and take to the sea in an open boat, he remained exposed to wet and cold for some time, and death ensued therefrom, the death might properly be held to be the result of accident.	None
It is true that, in one sense, disease or death through the direct effect of a known natural cause, such as we have referred to, may be said to be accidental inasmuch as it is uncertain beforehand whether the effect will ensue in any particular case.	None
Exposed to the same malaria or infection, one man escapes, another succumbs.	None
Yet diseases thus arising have always been considered, not as accidental, but as proceeding from natural causes.	None
The Court contrasted the term accident with an event that occurs naturally and held that death due to a sunstroke was not an accident In the present instance, the disease called sunstroke, although the name would at first seem to imply something of external violence, is, so far as we are informed, an inflammatory disease of the brain, brought on by exposure to the too intense heat of the suns rays.	None
It is a disease to which persons exposing themselves to the sun in a tropical climate are more or less liable, just as persons exposed to the other natural causes to which we have referred are liable to disastrous consequences therefrom.	None
The deceased, in the discharge of his ordinary duties about his ship, became thus affected and so died.	None
We think, for the reasons we have given, that his death must be considered as having arisen from a natural cause, and not from accident, within the meaning of this policy In Fenton v Thorley Co.	None
Ltd.(1903)	None
AC 443 , the House of Lords held that a rupture caused by an act of overexertion would not fall within the ambit of the term injury by accident.	None
Lord Macnaughten speaking for the House of Lords held thus Now the expression injury by accident seems to me to be a compound expression.	None
The words by accident are, I think, introduced parenthetically as it were to qualify the word injury, confining it to a certain class of injuries, and excluding other classes, as, for instance, injuries by disease or injuries selfinflicted by design.	None
The Court of appeal followed this decision in Steel v Cammel, Laird Co. (1905) 2 K.B. 232 , Cozens Hardy L.J. observed The doctor called as a witness by the workman said that the paralysis was an occupation disease, which he should expect in a certain number of cases to follow on the work on which the workman was engaged.	None
It was not unforeseen it was not unexpectedInjury by disease alone, not accompanied by an accident, is expressly excluded, as pointed out by Lord Macnaughten in Fenton v Thorley Co. (emphasis supplied)	None
In Cooperators Life Insurance Company v Randolph Charles Gibbens 2009 SCC 59 , the Supreme Court of Canada was tasked with determining whether contracting a rare complication of herpes that resulted in paralysis caused due to engagement in unprotected sex would be covered under the definition of accident.	None
The Court held thus In the present case the evidence is that genital herpes is a sexually transmitted virus that spreads by sexual intercourse.	None
Sex is its normal method of transmission.	None
As such, unlike for example an internally developing condition leading to an aneurysm, its transmission requires an outsiders participation.	None
But the same could be said of infectious diseases generally.	None
Viruses and bacteria pass, directly or indirectly, from person to person, and occasionally across species.	None
In the ordinary language of the people, an individual would not say on coming down with influenza that I had an accident.	None
We come down with the flu in the ordinary course of events.(emphasis supplied)	None
As the law of insurance has developed, there has been a nuanced understanding of the distinction between an accident and a disease which is contracted in the natural course of human events in determining whether a policy of accident insurance would cover a disease.	Reasoning
At one end of the spectrum is the theory that an accident postulates a mishap or an untoward happening, something which is unexpected and unforeseen.	Reasoning
This understanding of what is an accident indicates that something which arises in the natural course of things is not an accident.	Reasoning
This is the basis for holding that a disease may not fall for classification as an accident, when it is caused by a bodily infirmity or a condition.	Reasoning
A person who suffers from flu or a viral fever cannot say that it is an accident.	Reasoning
Of course, there is an element of chance or probability in contracting any illness.	Reasoning
Even when viral disease has proliferated in an area, every individual may not suffer from it.	Reasoning
Getting a bout of flu or a viral illness may be a matter of chance.	Reasoning
But a person who gets the flu cannot be described as having suffered an accident the flu was transmitted in the natural course of things.	Reasoning
To be bitten by a mosquito and be imbued with a malarial parasite does involve an element of chance.	Reasoning
But the disease which is caused as a result of the insect bite in the natural course of events cannot be regarded as an accident.	Reasoning
Particularly, when the disease is caused in an area which is malaria prone.	Reasoning
On the other hand, there may well be instances where a bodily condition from which an individual suffers may be the direct consequence of an accident.	Reasoning
A motor car accident may, for instance, result in bodily injuries, the consequence of which is death or disability which may fall within the cover of a policy of accident insurance.	Reasoning
Hence, it has been postulated that where a disease is caused or transmitted in the natural course of events, it would not be covered by the definition of an accident.	Reasoning
However, in a given case or circumstance, the affliction or bodily condition may be regarded as an accident where its cause or course of transmission is unexpected and unforeseen.19.	Reasoning
Recently, in Gloria Wells v Minnesota Life Insurance Company No. 1620831 (5th Cir. 2018) , the United States Court of Appeals, Fifth Circuit, dealt with a case where the question of law before the court was whether death caused by a bite of a mosquito carrying West Nile Encephalitis virus in Texas was covered under an accidental death insurance policy.	Reasoning
The Court while remanding the case to the lower court on the disputed issue of facts, observed that the determinate, single act of a mosquito bite was not incidental to a body process and the mosquito, an external force produced an unforeseen result.	Reasoning
However, this may be distinguished from the facts in the present case.	Reasoning
Malaria is most commonly transmitted to humans through malaria virus infested mosquito bites, and when a virus is contracted through normal means brought about by everyday life it cannot be deemed to be an unexpected or unforeseen accident.20.	Reasoning
In a policy of insurance which covers death due to accident, the peril insured against is an accident an untoward happening or occurrence which is unforeseen and unexpected in the normal course of human events.	Reasoning
The death of the insured in the present case was caused by encephalitis malaria.	Reasoning
The claim under the policy is founded on the hypothesis that there is an element of uncertainty about whether or when a person would be the victim of a mosquito bite which is a carrier of a vectorborne disease.	Reasoning
The submission is that being bitten by a mosquito is an unforeseen eventuality and should be regarded as an accident.	Reasoning
We do not agree with this submission.	Reasoning
The insured was based in Mozambique.	Reasoning
According to the World Health Organizations World Malaria Report 2018, Mozambique, with a population of 29.6 million people, accounts for 5 of cases of malaria globally.	Reasoning
It is also on record that one out of three people in Mozambique is afflicted with malaria.	Reasoning
In light of these statistics, the illness of encephalitis malaria through a mosquito bite cannot be considered as an accident.	Reasoning
It was neither unexpected nor unforeseen.	Reasoning
It was not a peril insured against in the policy of accident insurance.	Reasoning
We are hence of the view that the interpretation placed on the terms of the insurance policy was manifestly incorrect and that the impugned order of the National Commission is unsustainable.22.	Decision
We have been informed during the course of the hearing that the claim under the insurance policy has been paid by the insurer.	Decision
We direct in exercise of our jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution that no recoveries shall be made.	Decision
We have embarked on the present exercise since the issue raised in the present case will have a bearing on similar questions of interpretation in policies of insurance envisaging an accident cover.23.	Decision
The appeal is allowed and the impugned judgment and order of the National Commission shall stand set aside.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
