 Mohan, J. Leave granted.	None
The short facts leading to this appeal are as under The premises in dispute is a Church property situate at No. 16 Sudder Street, Calcutta including the outhouse.	Facts
The first respondent, Kalyan Kumar Kisku, filed a Suit bearing No. 328 of 1988 before the High Court of Calcutta, for declaration of title, in his capacity as Secretary of Durgapur Diocese.	None
It was claimed in the said suit that the Durgapur Diocese consisted of three rooms and inter alia it was claimed that the possession of Durgapur Diocese may not be disturbed.	Facts
The suit was directed against the Church of North India and the Durgapur Diocese.	Facts
3.	Facts
The prayers in the said suit are as follows (a) A decree be passed declaring that the premises being No. 16, Sudder Street, Calcutta16 including the outhouse and garages to which the Durgapur Diocese is in possession and or occupation, belong to the said Diocese of Durgapur to the exclusion of Diocese of Calcutta and the Durgapur Diocese alone has the executive right and title to use and enjoy the same (b) A decree be passed declaring that until the properties of the Durgapur Diocese are demarcated and or transferred and or handed over to the Diocese of Durgapur in terms of the resolution of the CNI Synod from the Calcutta Diocese, the power of attorney executed by the Trustees of the Calcutta Diocese Trust Association in favour of the Durgapur Diocese be restored and the Durgapur Diocese will be legally entitled to collect all rents, issues and profits of the assets belonging to the said Diocese of Durgapur (c) A decree be passed declaring that the CNI Synod Officebearers have no authority to extend the date of holding the Episcopal Election and in the event of any delay in holding such election the said CNI Synod Office bearers have no right and or authority to appoint Moderator Commissary and or Episcopal Commissary and the Executive Committee as well as the Diocesan Council of Durgapur cannot be dissolved and or superseded and or disturbed and the said council as well as Executive Committee would be allowed to function to its full tenure, i.e. 8.9.1989 (d)	Facts
An order be passed granting leave under Order (i) Rule 8 of the Civil Procedure Code (e) Permanent injunction be granted restraining the defendants from interfering with the functions of the Diocesan Council as well as the Executive Committee of the Durgapur Diocese till the full tenure is over, i.e. 8.9.1989 (f) Permanent injunction be granted restraining the defendants and their servants and agents from interfering with the peaceful possession and use and occupation of the premises being No. 16, Sudder Street, Calcutta16 including the outhouse and garages by the Durgapur Diocese (g) Permanent injunction be granted restraining the defendants and their servants and agents from collecting rent, issues and or profits of the properties belonging to the Durgapur Diocese in terms of the CNI Synod resolution and by operation of the power of attorney executed and or to be executed by the Calcutta Diocesan Trust Association until the properties belonging to the Diocese of Durgapur are handed over and or transferred to the Durgapur Diocese by the Calcutta Diocesan Trust Association (Private) (h) Permanent injunction be granted restraining the defendants and particularly the CNI Synod officebearers in the matter of Episcopal Election and further restraining the defendants from appointing Moderatory Commissionary and or Episcopal Commissionary over the Durgapur Diocese (i) Adinterim Injunction (j) Receiver (k) Costs (l) Such other relief or reliefs.	Facts
4.	Facts
Pending this suit an interlocutory application was filed and an order dated 20th May, 1988 was passed directing the maintenance of status quo in respect of running of Durgapur Diocese till further orders.	Facts
5.	Facts
On 1st June, 1988 this order was modified stating that the order dated 20th May, 1988 will not stand in the way of retirement of the Bishop which was due on 4th June, 1988 or the appointment of the Commissary by the Moderator of the Church of Nottingham.	Facts
The defendants were directed to appoint a new Bishop within 5 weeks from the date of the said order.	Facts
We may at this juncture point out that these two orders are not material for our purposes.	Facts
However, what is important is the order dated 15th September, 1988.	Facts
That order is extracted in full This application was stand adjourned for one week from date.	Facts
Affidavitinopposition and Affidavitinreply to be filed in the meantime.	None
So far as the fixed properties concerned there would be an order of status quo as of today till the disposal of the application.	Facts
There would also be an order not to dissolve the committee in the meantime.	Facts
It is recorded that Mr. Bishop Ghose has already taken over the charge.	Facts
All the parties are to act on a signed copy of the minutes of this order.	Facts
6.	Facts
From the above it is seen that in relation to the properties an order of status quo as of today, (that is, 15th September, 1988) had been passed by the court.	Facts
It is complained that there is a violation of these three orders by the six respondents, Satyabrata, Biswas, Rev. Bilash Chandra Das, Salil Biswas, Sushil Sharma, Rt.	Facts
Riv.	Facts
Dinesh Chandra Gorai and Rt.	Facts
Rev. John E. Ghosh.	Facts
The contempt was for (1) putting a padlock to the main entrance of the premises on 3.7.93 (2) disconnecting water supply, (3) obstructing sewerage line and (4) preventing the appellants from getting the rooms repaired.	Facts
7.	Facts
By an order dated 20th of July, 1993 the court directed to make an inventory in the rooms lying in the first floor of the suit premises and also to find if there be any padlock.	Facts
The Special Officer was appointed under that order.	Facts
He was permitted to break open the padlock and put his own padlock after the inventory was made.	Facts
8.	Facts
On 4.8.93 the Special Officer was directed to continue the inquiry and complete the same as per order dated 26th July, 1993.	Facts
The keys to the main door were to remain with the officerincharge Taltola Police Station.	Facts
9.	Facts
On 16.8.93 the said order dated 26th July, 1993 was modified to the effect that the Receiver would make the inventory of the articles in terms of the earlier order, but would not put the main entrance gate under lock and key.	Facts
A modification to the said order dated 16.8.93 was sought to the effect that the Special Officer should allow representatives of each of the parties and should not allow anybody from the occupier at the time of making inventory.	Facts
This modification was refused.	Facts
Until this, Sumani Builders (respondent No. 2 herein) was not a party to any of the proceedings nor did it move an application to implead itself.	Facts
Yet an oral prayer made by Somani Builders was allowed on 20.8.93 inter alia in the following terms It is submitted by Mr. Ghosh that even after the inventory is complete the Receiver has put padlock.	Facts
Mr. Bhattacharjee, Learned Receiver is present.	Facts
It is submitted by the Receiver that the inventory is complete.	Facts
Receiver is directed to remove the padlock, if any, put by him by tomorrow.	Facts
10. Aggrieved by these proceedings an appeal came to be preferred by the appellants.	Facts
It was contended by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants that the said A. K. Ghosh was neither a tenant nor did he have the competence or authority to let out any portion of the premises in question.	Facts
Therefore, the said A. K. Ghosh did not have authority to be there as a tenant.	Facts
It was further urged that the creation of tenancy was an after thought and no order should have been passed in favour of the said Somani Builders who had intervened in this proceeding.	Facts
On this plea the court inter alia observed as follows Whether or	Facts
not the Somani Builders Pvt. Ltd. is a lawful sub tenant cannot be decided in this proceeding.	Facts
It is for the landlord to initiate appropriate proceedings for their ejectment.	Facts
But at this stage, the question is whether Somani Builders Pvt. Ltd. is in occupation or not.	Facts
On the facts and in the circumstances of this case, we are prima facie satisfied that the company was in occupation of the disputed premises.	Facts
Even a trespasser can be evicted only by due process of law.	Facts
11.	Facts
Thereafter it proceeded to appoint Joint Receivers with a direction to obtain the keys from the OfficerinCharge Taltola Police Station.	Facts
They would make an inventory of the rooms stated to have been occupied by Somani Builders Pvt.	Facts
Ltd. opening the padlock which was fixed by the Special Officer.	Facts
After making the inventory the Joint Receivers were directed to take possession of the said premises.	Facts
They were also directed to allow Somani Builders to occupy the said premises for the purpose of carrying on business in the usual course.	Facts
The occupation charges would be paid by the Somani Builders to the Joint Receivers without prejudice to the rights and contentions of the parties.	Facts
12.	Facts
Under these circumstances the present civil appeal by special leave has come to be preferred.	Facts
It is urged on behalf of the appellants that in view of the status quo order dated 15th September, 1988 regarding the fixed property in possession of the Durgapur Diocese no tenancy or subtenancy rights could be created.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also urged that the said Somani Builders became subtenant under an agreement dated 10th May, 1993.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such a subtenancy cannot be valid in view of the status quo order.	None
It is somewhat strange that Somani Builders should make an oral application before the learned Single Judge.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the basis of that oral application, the order came to be passed in favour of the Somani Builders directing the Special Officer to remove the padlock.	Arguments of Petitioner
As to what was the nature of the prayer, that too by a person who was not a party to any one of these proceedings, is not known.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the removal of padlock on its instance, as directed by the learned Single Judge, was not warranted.	Arguments of Petitioner
As though to add insult to injury when the appellant was complaining about this order, the Division Bench goes one step further and directs possession be given to Somani Builders.	Arguments of Petitioner
This direction would amount to putting a premium on the illegality committed by the former alleged tenant A. K. Ghosh.	Arguments of Petitioner
First of all, he had no authority to grant a tenancy.	Reasoning
Even otherwise, since status quo order had been passed by the Court on 15th September, 1988 the creation of subtenancy under the agreement dated 10.5.93 would not confer Somani Builders with any right whatever.	Reasoning
In contempt jurisdiction an utter stranger to the proceedings cannot be put in possession, while the sole question was whether the parties had violated the order dated 15th September, 1988.	Reasoning
Therefore, the order is liable to be set aside.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for respondent No. 1 Kalyan Kumar Kisku submits The appellants herein are fully aware that they cannot succeed in the suit filed by the respondent No. 1 and, therefore, they have taken a shortcut method to obtain their objective by adopting illegal and unfair means, thereby dispossessing all occupants of the first floor without sanction of law.	Arguments of Respondent
It was held by this Honble Court in the case of Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. v. State of Bihar, reported in 1987 Supp.	Arguments of Respondent
SCC 394 that according to the ordinary legal connotation, the term Status quo implies the existing state of things at any given point of time.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that in view of the definition of status quo as aforesaid, the Durgapur Diocese was entitled to continue its existing activities as on 20.5.1988 regarding running of its activities including the functioning of the Executive Committee of the Diocesan Council.	Arguments of Respondent
The Court as a matter of practice does not interfere in the interlocutory orders under Article 136 of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance is placed on two decisions (i) State of A.P. v. T. Nadagopal, 1986, Supp.	Arguments of Respondent
SCC 568, (ii) State of Maharashtra v. Dadamaya, 1972(3) SCC 85.	Arguments of Respondent
16.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the respondenttenant, A. K. Ghosh, would urge that he was the tenant of the premises from 1988 onwards.	Arguments of Respondent
He had been specifically authorised to create a subtenancy by a resolution of Durgapur Diocese dated 11.3.1988 to grant the sublease.	None
The order of status quo was against the parties who had been impleaded in the interlocutory application.	None
Mr. P. Chidambaram, learned counsel for Somani Builders would submit that the application for contempt was directed against the respondents therein.	Arguments of Respondent
Where, therefore, they were directed to maintain the status quo, there was no legal disability on the part of the tenant, A. K. Ghosh to sublet the property.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, if the subtenant had been lawfully inducted he can lawfully remain in possession of the premises as the same was directed to be handed over to the Joint Receivers by the learned Single Judge.	Arguments of Respondent
It became necessary on the part of the Somani Builders to mention before the learned Single Judge because its possession came to be disturbed by the Special Officer fixing the padlock.	Arguments of Respondent
Till then the question of impleading itself did not arise.	Arguments of Respondent
Only when it was affected oral mention had to be made.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellate court found that there was disturbance of possession which came to be restored to Somani Builders.	Arguments of Respondent
Inasmuch as the inventory disclosed its properties were found in the premises.	Arguments of Respondent
In the written submissions, it is further urged ACTUS CURIAE NEMINEM GRAVABIT meaning thereby an act of Court shall prejudice no man  (a) This principle of law has been applied by the English Courts as well as by the Honble Supreme Court of India.	Arguments of Respondent
(See Alexander Rodger Charles Carnie and Richard James Gilman v. The Compotoir D Escompte De Paris and The Chartered Bank of India, Australia, and China (1871, Law Report Vol.	Arguments of Respondent
III Privy Council page 465), Jagat Dhish Bhargava v. Jawahar Lal Bhargava (AIR 1961 SC 832 ) and Jang Singh v. Brij Lal (AIR 1966 SC 1631 )	Arguments of Respondent
(b) In AIR 1961 SC 832 (supra), the Honble Supreme Court has stated the litigant deserves to be protected against the default committed or negligence shown by the court on its officers in the discharge of their duties.	Arguments of Respondent
IN A CONTEMPT PROCEEDING, WHICH WAS NOTE EVEN INITIATED AGAINST THE RESPONDENT NO. 2 OR ANY OF ITS OFFICERS, THE SAID RESPONDENT WAS DISPOSSESSED  (a)	Arguments of Respondent
The Court has no jurisdiction to direct dispossession of any one in a contempt proceeding.	Arguments of Respondent
Neither the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 nor Article 215	Arguments of Respondent
authorises	Arguments of Respondent
the Court to pass any order of dispossession in a contempt proceeding (b) In any event, in a contempt proceedings, no order can be passed against a person, who is not a party thereto and without giving any notice to him and affording an opportunity of hearing to such person.	Arguments of Respondent
(See Section 14 of the Contempt of Court Act, 1971) (c)	Arguments of Respondent
The said contempt petition was filed by the respondent No. 1 against some of the special leave petitioners contending that the special leave petitioners have violated the order of Court (d)	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the Court had no jurisdiction to pass an order of dispossession against the respondent No. 2 in such proceedings.	Arguments of Respondent
NO ORDER PASSED IN SUIT CAN BIND A PERSON, WHO WAS NOT A PARTY THERETO (a) The tenant Ashok Kumar Ghosh and his subtenant Somani Builders Private Limited were not parties to the suit instituted in the High Court of Calcutta.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, none of the orders passed in the said suit was ever or is at all binding on any of them (b) The tenant was inducted prior to the institution of the suit.	Arguments of Respondent
The suit was instituted on 29th April, 1980 and prior thereto, the tenant was inducted (c) On 20th May, 1988 the tenant was authorised to grant sub tenancy (d)	Arguments of Respondent
The suit was for a declaration that premises No. 16, Sudder Street, Calcutta including its outhouse and garage belongs to the Diocese of Durgapur and Diocese of Durgapur has alone exclusive right, title and interest to use the same (e) On 20.5.1988, the parties to the suit were directed to maintain status quo in respect of running of Diocese of Durgapur till further order (f) On 15.9.1988, the Calcutta High Court passed an order of status quo as of THE SAID DATE in regard to the fixed properties of Diocese of Durgapur (g)	Arguments of Respondent
The said orders were not, nor can claim to be binding on the tenant Ashok Kumar Ghosh (h) In any event, the status quo order passed on 15.9.1988 which specifically mentioned that the same should be maintained as of 15.9.1988 cannot curtail the right of the tenant, which has been granted to him on 20.5.1988 (i) A status quo order with a specification that the same should be as of that date under no stretch of imagination can be stretched or given effect to retrospectively (j)	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, the tenants right to grant subtenancy accorded to him on 20.5.1988 was not nor could be affected by the said order of status quo dated 15.9.1988. 18.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, no exception would be taken to the impugned order.	Arguments of Respondent
In order to appreciate the respective contentions it is necessary to state that violation of the following three orders were complained of (1) 20th May, 1988 (2) 1st June, 1988 (3) 15th September, 1988.	None
As stated above, we are not concerned with the first of the two orders since they do not relate to the property.	None
It is the violation of the order dated 15th September, 1988 (already extracted) which gives rise to contempt.	None
The contempt was chiefly about the respondents putting padlock on the entrance of the suit premises on 3rd July, 1993, disconnecting water supply for the first floor and blocking sewerage etc.	None
Therefore, all that was required to decide was whether the respondents therein had maintained the status quo or not.	Issue
If there was any kind of disobedience, that would amount to contempt.	None
Thus, it is a simple case of contempt.	None
Unfortunately, it has taken a devious course and peculiar orders have been passed both by the learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench.	None
The learned Single Judge directed by order dated 26th July, 1993 the Special Officer to make an inventory of the state of affairs.	None
Where was the need to make the inventory of things is difficult to understand having regard to the nature of violation alleged in the petition for contempt.	None
The Special Officer had put his own padlock after inventory had been taken.	None
Whether it was the main entrance or not was an ancillary issue.	None
It is at this stage that Somani Builders entered the scene.	None
It made an oral application for the removal of a padlock.	None
What was the nature of prayer is not discernible anywhere.	None
Even the order of the learned Judge does not make mention about this prayer.	None
It has to be carefully noted that Somani Builders based its claim on the strength of the agreement dated 10th May, 1993, claiming a right of subtenancy from A. K. Ghosh.	None
First of all, whether A. K. Ghosh was a tenant is itself in dispute.	Issue
Secondly, whether A. K. Ghosh had a right to create a subtenancy is again in dispute.	None
Thirdly, more than above all this, when the right of subtenancy was sought to be founded on an agreement dated 10th May, 1993, it should have occurred to the learned Single Judge that such a creation of subtenancy was clearly violative of the order of status quo passed as early as 15th of September, 1988.	None
It is extremely unfortunate that the learned Judge had not even cared to bestow thought and entertained an oral application at the instance of a person who had nothing to do till then with the application for contempt.	None
He had not even taken out an application to implead himself as a party.	None
If mere oral mention could be enough to direct a Special Officer to remove the padlock, one has to put aside the law of procedure altogether and render justice as the court conceives, conferring benedictions on parties who cannot have any legal basis to found their claim.	None
Still worse was to follow.	None
When the appellants before us complained of this direction by the learned Single Judge to remove the padlock, the Division Bench followed a novel procedure.	None
We have already extracted its finding in relation to the validity of subtenancy.	None
Having held in no uncertain terms whether or not the Somani Builders is lawfully a subtenant, cannot be decided in the proceeding, it should have thrown out the plea of Somani Builders.	None
Why then the Joint Receivers were directed to allow Somani Builders to occupy the premises for the purpose of carrying on business passes our comprehension ?	None
The status quo is not a status quo as on the date of inventory but the status quo as of 15.9.88.	None
The order of that date states unequivocally status quo as of today.	None
That could only mean 15th September, 88 and there cannot be the state of affairs after five years of that order.	None
In Whartons Law Lexicon 14th Edition at page 951 Status Quo has been defined as meaning The existing state of things at any given date e.g., Status quo ante bellum, the state of things before the war.	Arguments of Respondent
According to Blacks Law Dictionary 6th Edition the relevant passage occurs  The existing state of things at any given date.	None
Status quo ante bellum, the state of things before the law.	None
Status quo to be preserved by a preliminary injunction is the last actual, peaceable, uncontested status which preceded the pending controversy.	None
This Court in Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. v. State of Bihar, (supra) stated thus According to the ordinarily legal connotation, the term status quo implies the existing state of things at any given point of time.	Arguments of Respondent
When the removal of padlock was complained of in the appeal filed by the appellants herein, strangely delivery of possession was ordered.	None
The said order clearly betrays lack of understanding as to the scope or contempt jurisdiction and proceeds upon a total misappreciation of the facts.	None
We are obliged to remark that both the learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench had not kept themselves within the precincts of contempt jurisdiction.	None
Instead peculiar orders have come to be passed totally alien to the issue and disregardful of the facts.	None
The orders of the learned Single Judge and that of the Division Bench cannot stand even a moments scrutiny.	None
Therefore, it is idle to contend that no interference is warranted under Article 136.	None
Apart from the fact whether A. K. Ghosh had a legal authority to sub lease or not it was not open to him to grant a sublease in violation of the order.	Reasoning
It is no use contending as Mr. Chidambaram, learned counsel for the respondents does, that there was a bar to such a sublease under the terms of the status quo order.	Reasoning
It has the effect of violating the preservation of status of the property.	Reasoning
This will all the more be so when this was done without the leave of the court to disturb the state of things as they then stood.	Reasoning
It would amount to violation of the order.	Reasoning
The principle contained in the maxim Actus Curiae Neminem Gravabit has no application at all to the facts of this case when in violation of status quo order a sub tenancy has been created.	Reasoning
Equally, the contention that even a trespasser cannot be evicted without recourse to law is without merit, because the state of affairs in relation to property as on 15.9.1988 is what the Court is concerned with.	Reasoning
Such an order cannot be circumvented by parties with inpunity and expect the court to confer its blessings.	Reasoning
It does not matter that to the contempt proceedings Somani Builders was not a party.	Reasoning
It cannot gain an advantage in derogation of the rights of the parties, who were litigating originally.	Reasoning
If the right of subtenancy is recognised, how is status quo as of 15.9.1988 maintained ?	None
Hence, the grant of sublease is contrary to the order of status quo.	None
Any act done in the teeth of the order of status quo is clearly illegal.	Reasoning
All actions including the grant of sub lease are clearly illegal.	Reasoning
30.	Reasoning
We hereby set aside the order of the Division Bench dated 5.10.1993 and the orders of the learned Single Judge dated 20.7.1993 (except that part relating to appointment of Special Officer, 4.8.93, 6.8.93, 11.8.93, 16.8.1993 and 20.8.1993 as well).	Reasoning
31.	Reasoning
The parties are relegated to the position as on 15.9.1988.	Reasoning
Somani Builders are hereby directed to deliver vacant possession to the Special Officer within one month from today.	Reasoning
The learned Single Judge is directed to dispose of the application for contempt in its proper perspective confining himself to contempt jurisdiction.	Reasoning
The Special Officer shall continue to be in possession till the disposal of contempt proceedings.	Reasoning
This direction becomes necessary in view of the scramble for possession.	Reasoning
For the foregoing reasons, the Civil Appeal is allowed with costs which shall be borne equally by respondents 1 and 2 in this appeal.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
