 Bhan, J. Leave granted in SLP(c) No. 2783 of 1999.	None
These appeals by grant of special leave have been filed by the writ petitioners  the appellants herein against the common order passed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh in a group of writ petitions.	Issue
The High Court in the impugned judgment has upheld Clause 10 of the Price Notification No. 3/9697 dated 14.3.1997 issued by M s. Singareni Collieries Co. Ltd. (hereinafter for short the respondent).	Issue
Appellants are proprietors of various coal based smallscale industries who draw C and D grade coal from the respondent.	Facts
Respondent is a state owned company in which 51 shares are held by the State of Andhra Pradesh and 49 shares are held by the Government of India.	Facts
Government of India has identified 7 crore priority sector industries .	Facts
They are 1.	Facts
Exports.	Facts
2. Power Utilities, 3. Defence, 4. Railways (Loco), 5. Fertilizers, 6.	Facts
Steel including Sponge Iron and Pig Iron and 7.	Facts
Other metallurgical industries who use coal coke for their own use.	Facts
Core priority sector industries alone consume about 9095 of the coal produced and left over 5 plus are supplied to the noncore unlinked sector industries to which the appellants belong.	Facts
The Government of India has been fixing the grades and prices of the coal produced in India in pursuance of clauses 3 and 4 of the Colliery Control Order, 1945 as continued in force by Section 16 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955.	Facts
It appears that the company had accumulated heavy losses and was reeling under financial problems.	Facts
The Government of India by its notification dated 22.3.1996 issued under clause 3(2) of the Colliery Controller Order, 1945 deregulated the price and distribution of noncoking coal of grades A, B C. By a further notification dated 12.3.1997, decontrol was extended to some other grades of coal as well.	Facts
By a communication dated 13.3.1997 addressed by the Government of India (Ministry of Coal), it was clarified that the Board of the respondent company will henceforth determine the economic price to be charged for the coal produced from time to time.	Facts
Soon thereafter, the respondent issued the Price Notification No. 3/9697 dated 14.3.1997.	Facts
Clause 10 of the Price Notification provided that noncore unlinked sector industries are required to pay 20 additional price over and above the notified prices.	Facts
Clause 10 reads as follows Any linked customers who are drawing B, C and D grades of coal are required to pay 20 additional price over and above the notified prices.	Facts
Being aggrieved with the above stated clause in the price notification issued by the respondent, the appellants filed various writ petitions in the High Court of Andhra Pradesh challenging the levy of additional price by the respondent being discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to them, the classification of linked and unlinked industries for the purpose of pricing was irrational and gave rise to hostile discrimination.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was averred that the respondent has effected a substantial price variation under the guise of additional levy and the same amounts to dual pricing.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also averred that the price fixed was arbitrary and excessive.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent in its reply contended that fixation of price is within its discretion and coal being not a controlled commodity now, the respondent could not be precluded from fixing appropriate prices for its produce including dual price.	Arguments of Respondent
It was averred that the limited grievance of the appellants was against the alleged discriminatory treatment between core sector linked sector industries and other industries.	Arguments of Respondent
Having regard to the financial position of the respondent, having accumulated loss of more than Rs. 1000 crores and additional cost of production, there was nothing wrong in charging higher price from the noncrore unlinked sector customers leaving a comfortable profit margin to the respondent.	Arguments of Respondent
Dual price has been resorted to by the respondent after taking into consideration the policy of the Government of India as well as the cost of production of the coal of respective grades.	Arguments of Respondent
The price was fixed looking into the various economics of the cost structure of the production of coal.	Arguments of Respondent
It was averred that sale price was fixed keeping in view the respondents financial capacity, operational costs and importance of certain category of industries in larger national interest.	Arguments of Respondent
It was denied that there was any arbitrariness or unreasonableness in the price structure.	Arguments of Respondent
In the High Court the appellants gave up their challenge to the fixation of the price being arbitrary or unconscionably high or that the respondent has fixed the price of 20 extra according to its whims and fancies without appraisal of relevant factors.	Arguments of Petitioner
The only point argued before the High Court was with regard to dual pricing.	None
According to the appellants, the noncore unlinked sector customers could not be charged more than what the respondent was charging from the core sector linked sector customers.	None
The High Court dismissed the writ petitions with costs finding no infirmity in Clause 10 of the Price Notification.	None
It was held that Clause 10 of the Price Notification did not violate Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
It was observed that core sector linked sector industries had been given priority from the beginning so as to ensure regular supplies of coal to them.	None
This benefit has been extended to them due to their intrinsic importance and the role played by such industries in nation building activities and the propensities of public utility possessed by them.	None
Lesser price was charged from them because of the same considerations.	None
Core sector industries, besides playing a vital role in the economy of the country, were bulk consumers and coal formed a major input and hence they cannot be compared with the noncore sector.	None
Any substantial increase in the price of the coal from them would have a substantial effect on the cost of finished products and the cost of services to public in general.	None
It was observed that any increase in the price of coal from them shall have a chain reaction on the budgetary allotments and will require additional funds.	None
In the case of noncore sector unlinked sector industries, consumption of coal is minimal and the increase of price of coal from them will not result in any appreciable increase in the cost of products manufactured by such industries.	None
The extent of bulk consumption of coal by core sector linked sector industries call for a special treatment.	None
It cannot be said that by evolving dual price and charging lesser price from the core linked sector industries, the respondent has treated equals as unequals or that the classification made was not rational.	Reasoning
Being aggrieved by the dismissal of the writ petitions by the High Court, the present appeals have been filed.	None
The only point argued before us in these appeals is whether resort to dual price fixation classifying its customers into core sector linked sector and noncore sector unlinked sector by the respondent and charging different prices for coal from such customers is discriminatory treating the equals as unequals and, therefore, violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	None
Essence of the submissions advanced by Shri T.N. Rao, learned counsel for the appellants, is that classification of core linked sector industries and noncore unlinked sector industries by the respondent for the purpose of pricing is irrational and gives rise to hostile discrimination.	None
The respondent being the Statecontrolled company having monopoly business cannot discriminative between customers at its whims and apply double standards in charging the price for coal.	None
The classification carved out between core and noncore industries for the purpose of price fixation is arbitrary and unreasonable and an instrumentality of State, even though running a business activity cannot take the stand that it has unfettered freedom in charging any prices it deems fit from any customer.	None
That there is no reasonable basis for the classification introduced for the first time and the appellants cannot be subjected to bear the brunt of much higher prices.	None
As against this, Shri Altaf Ahmed, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondents submitted that fixation of price is within the discretion of the company and coal being not a controlled commodity now, the company cannot be precluded from fixing appropriate price for the produce including dual price and no customer has any say in the matter.	None
It was submitted that a mandamus could not be issued to the respondent to charge lesser price from the appellants or to charge uniform price from all the customers.	None
That number of factors such as financial problems of the company, operational cost and importance of certain categories of industries in the larger national interest can be legitimately taken into account while fixing the price.	None
That there was enough justification for adopting dual pricing having regard to the financial position of the company and the additional cost of production peculiar to the respondent, there was nothing wrong in charging a higher price from noncore unlinked sector consumers which would leave a comfortable margin of profit to the company.	None
This Court in Union of India vs. Cynamide India Ltd. (AIR 1987 SC 1802 ) has held that price fixation is generally a legislative activity.	None
It may occasionally assume an administrative or quasijudicial character when it relates to acquisition or requisition of goods or property from individuals and it becomes necessary to fix the price separately in relation to such individuals.	None
Such situations may arise when the owner of the goods is compelled to sell goods to the Government or its nominee and the price is to be determined according to the statutory guidelines laid down by the Legislature.	None
In such situations, the determination of price may acquire a quasi judicial character but, otherwise, price fixation is generally a legislative activity.	None
After observing thus, the Court held that price fixation is neither the function nor the forte of the Court.	None
The Court is neither concerned with the policy nor with the rates.	None
But in appropriate proceedings it may enquire into the question, whether relevant considerations have gone in and irrelevant considerations kept out while determining the price.	None
In case the Legislature has laid down the pricing policy and prescribed the factors which should guide the determination of the price then the Court will, if necessary, enquire into the question whether policy and factors were present to the mind of the authorities specifying the price.	None
The assembling of raw materials and mechanics of price fixation are the concern of the Executive and it should be left to the Executive to do so and the Courts would not revaluate the consideration even if the prices are demonstrably injurious to some manufacturers and producers.	None
The Court will however examine if there is any hostile discrimination.	None
It was observed as under We start with the observation, Pricefixation is neither the function nor the forte of the Court.	None
We concern ourselves neither with the policy nor with the rates.	None
But we do not totally deny ourselves the jurisdiction to enquire into the question, in appropriate proceedings, whether relevant considerations have gone in and irrelevant considerations kept out of the determination of the price.	None
For example, if the Legislature has decreed the pricing policy and prescribed the factors which should guide the determination of the price, we will, if necessary, enquire into the question whether the policy and the factors are present to the mind of the authorities specifying the price.	None
But our examination will stop there.	None
We will go no further.	None
We will not deluge ourselves with more facts and figures.	None
The assembling of the raw materials and the mechanics of price fixation are the concern of the executive and we leave it to them.	None
And, we will not revaluate the considerations even if the prices are demonstrably injurious to some manufacturers or producers.	None
The Court will of course, examine if there is any hostile discrimination.	None
That is a different cup of tea altogether.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
A Constitution Bench of this Court in M s. Shri Sita Ram Sugar Co. Ltd. vs. Union of India (AIR 1990 SC 1277 ) (in paras 57 58) has held that in judicial review that Court is not concerned with the matters of economic policy.	None
The Court does not substitute its judgment for that of the Legislature or its agent as to the matters within the province of either.	None
The Legislature while delegating the powers to its agent may empower the agent to make findings of fact which are conclusive provided, such findings satisfy the test of reasonableness.	None
In all such cases, the judicial enquiry is confined to the question whether the findings of facts are reasonably based on evidence and whether such findings are consistent with the laws of the land.	None
The Court only examines whether the prices determined was with due regard to the provisions of the Statute and whether extraneous matters have been excluded while making such determination.	None
It was further observed that price fixation is not within the province of the Courts.	None
Judicial function in respect of such matters stands exhausted once it is found that the authority empowered to fix the price has reached the conclusion on rational basis.	None
Seven industries, reference to which has already been made, have been identified as core sector consumers.	None
These consumers are extended inter se priorities in the supply of coal by granting appropriate linkages.	None
No linkage is required for Defence, Railways and for Exports.	None
The coal linkages, as far as these industries are concerned, are monitored periodically by the Standing Linkage Committee.	None
Guidelines for giving linkages are issued under the provisions of clause 8 of the Colliery Control Order, 1945 by the Central Government.	None
The priority given to the linked customers in the matter of supply of coal are not under challenge before us.	None
The industries which do not fall in the core sector are classified as noncore unlinked sector industries.	None
In the present case admittedly the respondent is facing heavy financial deficit having accumulated loss of more than Rs. 1000 crores.	None
The decontrol of prices was done with the predominant object to enable the respondent and other coal companies which were in red to wriggle out of the financial predicament to some extent and to derive returns so as to prevent or minimise further losses.	None
An industrial company completely held by the Government cannot be denied the right to keep in view the consideration of commercial expediency while formulating its policies in the discharge of its functions.	None
Though absolute and unfettered freedom cannot be granted to the Stateowned company but a wide latitude and flexible approach should be conceded to it especially when the price fixation is outside the realm of statutory control.	None
Coresector industries are of intrinsic importance of the economy of the country.	None
They are given assured supply of coal by the Standing Linkage Committee which is a committee formed as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Coal, Government of India.	None
The core sector industries consume nearly 90 of the entire production of the respondent company.	None
In fact, the Power Sector consumes nearly 75 and the other industries consume nearly 15 of the entire production and only 10 or less is being drawn by other medium smallscale industries.	None
As per the averments made in the counter affidavit, the electricity which is being generated by the Power Sector, the quantity of coal consumed amounts to 75 of the product cost.	None
To generate one unit of electricity, 0.5 kg o 1 kg quantity of coal is consumed.	None
In case of cement, steel and fertilizers, the percentage of cost of coal in the entire cost of production is ranging from 15 to 25.	None
Keeping in view the several factors, the Board of Directors after due deliberations felt that the core sector industries are of intrinsic importance to the building of the nation and to the common man in general.	None
It was thought fit to keep the price increase at particular levels for the core industries and charge a bit extra from other industries.	None
This was a policy decision taken by the respondent company with regard to price fixation.	None
Any increase in prices for the coresector industries will automatically affect market economy.	None
Taking an instance, increase in the price of coal to the Electricity Board, will have a serious impact on every institution or an individual consuming electricity.	None
Electricity has become an essential commodity and is required for running industry, commercial activity, locomotives, agriculture and for the domestic use.	None
Every category of consumer shall have to pay more resulting in cascading effect of increasing the price of every commodity.	None
This is not the case of industries like Paints, Lime etc. which are used once in a while.	None
By any increase in the price of coal supply to them, the common man would not be affected much.	None
Even otherwise, the increase in the price is passed on the consumers by the appellants.	None
Their end product does not have a national bearing.	None
The products of these industries are not of an everyday concern for a common man.	None
The primary consideration for placing the seven industries in the coresector is of their intrinsic importance to the economy of the country and the role which they play in the nation building activities.	None
The same consideration will hold good for charging lesser price from them.	None
The requirement of coal in the coresector is on the higher side either for captive power generation or for other uses for the manufacturing operations.	None
Any substantial increase in the price of coal shall have a substantial effect on the cost of finished products of vital importance and the cost of service to the public.	None
Counsel for the respondent has submitted before us that 70 of the cement manufactured by the country is utilized by the Central or State Governments for the construction of projects, bridges, roads etc.	None
Any increase in the price of coal supplied to the core industries would result in the increase of cost of essential commodities such as electricity, cement and steel.	None
The consumption of coal is quite high and is a major input of these industries.	None
In the case of nonlinked industries the coal consumption is minimal and the increase in the price will not result any appreciable increase in the cost of products manufactured by nonlinked sector industries.	None
Keeping in view the intrinsic importance of the coresector consumers and their importance in the national building activities and the extent of consumption of coal either for captive power generation of for use in manufacturing operations legitimately calls for a special treatment as far as these industries are concerned.	None
For charging lesser prices or evolving a dual price policy, it cannot be said that equals are treated unequally or that the classification does not rest on rational basis.	Reasoning
The objective of dual pricing purportedly is to ensure that coresector industries or customers are not unduly burdened with price increase while at the same time the respondent gets adequate return for its products so as to cover the financial deficit.	None
There is no such law that a particular commodity cannot have a dual fixation of price.	None
Dual fixation of price based on reasonable classification from different types of customers has met with approval from the courts.	None
Monopolistic organizations like Electricity Boards, Petroleum Corporations are having dual price fixation.	None
It is a common feature that Electricity Boards which generate power sell the power at different rates to different types of customers such as domestic agriculture and industrial consumers.	None
Even different types of industries are charged different rates.	None
Keeping in view the law laid down by this Court in Union of India vs. Cynamide India Ltd. (supra) and M s. Shri Sita Ram Sugar Co. Ltd. vs. Union of India (supra), in our opinion, the High Court did not fall into an error in upholding Clause 10 of the Price Notification dated 14.3.1997.	Reasoning
The High Court rightly came to the conclusion that Clause 10 of the Price Notification did not violate the equality clause of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
By evolving the dual price policy and charging lesser price from the coresector industries the respondent has not treated equals as unequals or that the classification made was not rational.	Reasoning
For the reasons stated above, we do not find any merit in these appeals and dismiss the same.	Decision
The parties shall bear their own costs in this Court.	Decision
