 Harjit Singh Bedi, J. Special Leave granted.	None
The appellant Sanjay Kumar Kedia, a highly qualified individual, set up two companies M s. Xponse Technologies Limited (XTL) and M s. Xponse IT Services Pvt. Ltd. (XIT) on 22.4.2002 and 8.9.2004 respectively which were duly incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1956.	Facts
On 1.2.2007 officers of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) conducted a search at the residence and office premises of the appellant but found nothing incriminating.	Facts
He was also called upon to appear before the NCB on a number of occasions pursuant to a notice issued to him under Section 67 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) and was ultimately arrested and the bank accounts and premises of the two companies were also seized or sealed.	Facts
On 13.3.2007 the appellant filed an application for bail in the High Court which was dismissed on the ground that a prima facie case under Sections 24 and 29 of the Act had been made out and that the investigation was yet not complete.	Facts
The appellant thereafter moved a second bail application before the High Court on 16.4.2007 which too was dismissed with the observations that the enquiry was at a critical stage and that the department should be afforded sufficient time to conduct its enquiry and to bring it to its logical conclusion as the alleged offences had widespread ramifications for society.	Facts
It appears that a bail application was thereafter filed by the appellant before the Special Judge which too was rejected on 28.5.2007 with the observations that the investigation was still in progress.	Facts
Aggrieved thereby, the appellant preferred yet another application for bail before the High Court on 4.6.2007 which too was dismissed on 7.6.2007.	Issue
The present appeal has been filed against this order.	Issue
Notice was issued on the Special Leave Petition on 30.7.2007 by a Division Bench noticing a contention raised by Mr. Tulsi that service providers such as the two companies which were intermediaries were protected from prosecution by Section 79 of the Information Technology Act, 2000.	None
An affidavit in reply has also been filed on behalf of the respondent  NCB and a rejoinder affidavit in reply thereto by the appellant.	Facts
We have heard learned counsel for the parties at length.	None
Mr. Tulsi has first and foremost argued that the allegations against the appellant were that he had used the network facilities provided by his companies for arranging the supply of banned psychotropic substances on line but there was no evidence to suggest that the appellant had been involved in dealing with psychotropic substances or engaged in or controlled any trade whereby such a substance obtained outside India had been supplied to persons outside India and as such no case under section 24 of the Act had been made out against the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Elaborating this argument, he has submitted that the two drugs which the appellant had allegedly arranged for supply were phentermine and butalbital and as these drugs were not included in ScheduleI of the Narcotic Drugs or Psychotropic Substances Rules 1987 in terms of the notification dated 21.2.2003 and were also recognized by the Control Substances Act, a law applicable in the United States, as having low potential for misuse and it was possible to obtain these drugs either on written or oral prescription of a doctor, the supply of these drugs did not fall within the mischief of Section 24.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has further argued that in the circumstance, the companies were mere network service providers they were protected under Section 79 of the Technology Act from any prosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Vikas Singh, the learned Additional Solicitor General for the respondents has however pointed out that the aforesaid drugs figured in the Schedule appended to the Act pertaining to the list of psychotropic substances (at Srl.	Arguments of Respondent
Nos. 70 and 93) and as such it was clear that the two drugs were psychotropic substances and therefore subject to the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It has also been pointed out that the appellant had been charged for offences under Sections 24 and 29 of the Act which visualized that a person could be guilty without personally handling a psychotropic substance and the evidence so far collected showed that the appellant was in fact a facilitator between buyers and certain pharmacies either owned or controlled by him or associated with the two companies and that Section 79 of the Technology Act could not by any stretch of imagination guarantee immunity from prosecution under the provisions of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It is clear from the Schedule to the Act that the two drugs phentermine and butalbital are psychotropic substances and therefore fall within the prohibition contained in Section 8 thereof.	None
The appellant has been charged for offences punishable under Sections 24 and 29 of the Act.	None
These Sections are reproduced below Punishment for external dealings in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances in contravention of section 12.	None
Whoever engages in or controls any trade whereby a narcotic drug or a psychotropic substance is obtained outside India and supplied to any person outside India without the previous authorization of the Central Government or otherwise than in accordance with the conditions (if any) of such authorization granted under section 12, shall be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than ten years but which may extend to twenty years and shall also be liable to fine which shall not be less than one lakh rupees but may extend to two lakh rupees Provided that the court may, for reasons to be recorded in the judgment, impose a fine exceeding two lakh rupees.	None
Punishment for abetment and criminal conspiracy.  	None
(1) Whoever abets, or is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable under this Chapter, shall, whether such offence be or be not committed in consequence of such abetment or in pursuance of such criminal conspiracy, and notwithstanding anything contained in section 116 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), be punishable with the punishment provided for the offence.	None
A person abets, or is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit, an offence, within the meaning of this section, who, in India abets or is a party to the criminal conspiracy to the commission of any act in a place without and beyond India which  (a) would constitute an offence if committed within India or (b) under the laws of such place, is an offence relating to narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances having all the legal conditions required to constitute it such an offence the same as or analogous to the legal conditions required to constitute it an offence punishable under this Chapter, if committed within India.	None
A perusal of Section 24 would show that it deals with the engagement or control of a trade in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances controlled and supplied outside India and Section 29 provides for the penalty arising out of an abetment or criminal conspiracy to commit an offence under Chapter IV which includes Section 24.	None
We have accordingly examined the facts of the case in the light of the argument of Mr. Tulsi that the companies only provided third party data and information without any knowledge as to the commission of an offence under the Act.	None
We have gone through the affidavit of Shri A.P. Siddiqui Deputy Director, NCB and reproduce the conclusions drawn on the investigation, in his words.	None
The accused and its associates are not intermediary as defined under section 79 of the said Act as their acts and deeds was not simply restricted to provision of third party data or information without having knowledge as to commission of offence under the NDPS Act.	None
The company (Xponse Technologies Ltd.	None
And	None
Xpose IT Services Pvt. Ltd.	None
Headed by Sanjay Kedia) has designed, developed, hosted the pharmaceutical websites and was using these websites, huge quantity of psychotropic substances (Phentermine and Butalbital) have been distributed in USA with the help of his associates.	None
Following are the online pharmacy websites which are owned by Xponse or Sanjay Kedia.	None
Brother Pharmacy.com and LessRx.com Brothers pharmacy.com, online pharmacy was identified as a marketing website (front end) for pharmaceutical drugs.	None
LessRx.com has been identified as a back end site which was being utilized to process orders for pharmaceutical drugs through Brotherspharmacy.com.	None
LessRx.coms registrant and administrative contact was listed True Value Pharmacy located at 29B, Rabindra Sarani, Kolkata, India700073.	None
Telephone No.03323357621 which is the address of Sanjay Kedia.	None
LessRx.coms IP address is 203.86.100.95.	None
The following websites were also utilizing this IP address ALADIESPHARMACY.com, EXPRESSPHENTERMINE.com, FAMILYYONLINEPHARMACY.com ONLINEEXPRESSPHARMACY.com, SHIPPEDLIPITOR.com Domain name Servers for LessRx.com (IP address 203.86.100.95) were NS.PALCOMONLINE.com and NS2PALCOMLINE.com.	None
The LessRx.coms website hosting company was identified as Pacom Web Pvt. Ltd., C56/14,1st Floor, Institutional Area, Sector 62, Noida201301.	None
Sanjay Kedia entrusted the hosting work to Palcom at VSNL, Delhi.	None
These servers have been seized.	None
Voluntary statement of Shri Ashish Chaudhary, Prop.	None
Of Palcom Web Pvt. Ltd. indicates that He maintained the websites on behalf of Xponse.	None
According to the bank records, funds have been wired from Brothers pharmacy, Incs Washington Mutual Bank Account 0971709674 to Xponse IT services Pvt. Ltd., ABN AMRO bank account No.1029985, Kolkata.	None
Deliveredmedicine.com	None
A review of the Xponses websiteXPONSEIT.com was conducted and observed and advertisement for XPONSERX.	None
That XPONSERX was described as a software platform developed for the purpose of powering online pharmacies.	None
Xponserx was designed to process internet pharmacy orders by allowing customers to order drugs.	None
Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), USA conducted a who is reverse lookup on domain name XPONSERX.COM was at domaintools.	None
Com and it revealed that XPONSERX.COM was registered to Xponse IT Services Pvt. Ltd, Sanjay Kedia, 29B,Rabindra Sarani, 12E,3rd floor, Kolkata, WB 70073.	None
Telephone no.919830252828 was also provided for Xponse.	None
Two websites were featured on the XPONSEIT.COM websites as featured clients.	None
And these were DELIVEREDMEDICINE.COM AND TRUEVALUEPRESCRIPTIONS.COM.	None
Review indicated that these two websites were internet pharmacies.	None
Consequently a who is reverse lookup on domain name DELIVEREDMEDICINE.COM at domainstools.com conducted by DEA revealed that it was registered to Xponse Inc., 2760 Park Ave., Santa Clara, CA, USA which is the address of Sanjay Kedia.	None
Truevalueprescriptions.com Review of this website indicated that this website was a internet pharmacy.	None
In addition TRUEVALUEPRESCRIPTIONS listed Phentermine as a drug available for sale.	None
It appeared that orders for drugs could be made without a prescription from the TRUEVALUE website, it was noted that orders for drugs could be placed without seeing a doctor.	None
According to the website, a customer can complete an online questionnaire when placing the order for a drug in lieu of a physical exam in a physicians office.	None
Toll free telephone number 8005905942 was provided on the TRUEVALUE website for customer Service.	None
DEA, conducted a who is reverse lookup on domain name TRUEVALUEPRESCRIPTIONS.COM at domaintools.com and revealed that IP address was 203.86.100.76 and the server that hosts the website was located at Palcom, Delhi which also belongs to Xponse.	None
From the above facts it is clear that the Xponse Technologies Ltd and Xponse IT Services Pvt. Ltd were not acting merely as a network service provider but were actually running internet pharmacy and dealing with prescription drugs like Phentermine and Butalbital.	None
We thus find that the appellant and his associates were not innocent intermediaries or network service providers as defined under section 79 of the Technology Act but the said business was only a fagade and camouflage for more sinister activity.	Reasoning
In this situation, Section 79 will not grant immunity to an accused who has violated the provisions of the Act as this provision gives immunity from prosecution for an offence only under Technology Act itself.	None
We are therefore of the opinion that in the face of overwhelming inculpatory evidence it is not possible to give the finding envisaged under Section 37 of the Act for the grant of bail that there were reasonable grounds for believing that the appellant was not guilty of the offence alleged, or that he would not resume his activities should bail be granted.	None
For the reasons recorded above, we find no merit in this appeal, which is accordingly dismissed.	Decision
We however qualify that the observations made above are in the context of the arguments raised by the learned counsel on the bail matter which obligated us to deal with them, and will not influence the proceedings or decision in the trial in any manner.	None
