 Kurian Joseph, J.1.	None
The Appellants are before this Court, aggrieved by the judgment dated 24.02.2016 passed by the High Court of judicature at Allahabad in Writ Petition No. 12468 of 2002 and other connected matters, by which the High Court remitted the dispute to the Industrial Tribunal for fresh adjudication.2.	Issue
It is the contention of the learned senior Counsel that this is the second time the remittance is made and going by the order dated 14.09.2010 passed by this Court, the High Court could not have made a remand.	Arguments of Petitioner
The relevant portion of the order dated 14.09.2010 passed by this Court in Civil Appeal Nos. 351355 of 2006 and other connected matters, is reproduced belowIn the circumstances and keeping in view the fact that the Labour Court has taken two different views in the two references made to it as regards the stout of Supervisors and Deputy Superintendents, we are of the view that the matters need to be remanded back to the High Court to enable both the sides to argue the matter afresh and also the High Court to examine the issues that arise for determination.	Facts
We, accordingly, allow these appeals, set aside both the impugned orders and remit the matters back to the High Court for a fresh disposal in accordance with law.	None
Keeping in view the importance of the issues that arise for consideration, we would request the Chief Justice of the High Court to direct placing the matters before a Division Bench.	Facts
Since, the matters have been lingering on for a long time, we give liberty to the parties to approach the Division Bench for an early hearing and disposal.	Facts
Parties are left to bear their own costs.	Facts
Needless to say that all contentions available to the parties are left open to be urged before the High Court.3.	Facts
It may be seen that the order, as above, was passed in view of the conflicting stands taken by two Labour Courts on the issue as to whether the Supervisors Deputy Superintendents would be workmen or not under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.	Reasoning
The learned Counsel for the Management submits that in view of the intervening development after the order dated 14.09.2010 passed by this Court, whereby the Management has been taken over by the present Respondent, the matter needs a fresh adjudication.	Arguments of Respondent
We are afraid, the contention cannot be appreciated.4.	Arguments of Respondent
The only dispute remaining to be decided is whether the Supervisors Deputy Superintendents would be workmen or not.	Issue
There are already two conflicting views of the Labour Courts.	None
In the above circumstances, we do not find any justification for the High Court remitting the matter again to the Labour Court on the issue.	Decision
Accordingly, these appeals are allowed.	Decision
The impugned judgment is set aside.	Decision
We direct the High Court to decide the issue finally in the true spirit of the order dated 14.09.2010, as explained by us above on the basis of the materials available on record.	Decision
Being an old matter, we request the High Court to dispose of the writ appeals expeditiously and preferably before the Court closes for summer vacation.	Decision
It will be open to the first Respondent to bring the intervening developments to the notice of the High Court.	Decision
No costs.	None
