 Order Dated 14.08.2014 (HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE T.S. THAKUR HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE ANIL R. DAVE HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE ARJAN KUMAR SIKRI)	None
The Respondentcontemnors in these applications made the following prayer extend the operation of the said order of this Honble Court dated 1st August, 2014 by a further period of 15 working days Mr. S. Ganesh, learned senior Counsel appearing for the contemnors submits that substantial progress has been made by the contemnorsapplicants in these applications in finding a suitable buyers for the three offshore properties and also arranging a Bank guarantee for a sum of L 5,000 crores.	None
He submits that negotiations for sale and for finalising the guarantee etc. are now at a critical stage, made possible only because this Court had permitted the contemnorsapplicants to avail of the facility of video conferencing within the Tihar Jail complex.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that given 15 working days extension in the arrangement already made by us in terms of our order dated 01.08.2014	Arguments of Petitioner
the contemnors should be in a position to complete the process of negotiations not only in relation to sale of the three offshore hotel properties but also in relation to provision for a Bank guarantee for the required amount of L 5,000 crores.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also submitted that the negotiations are in progress in relation to Amby Valley property to raise further funds to comply with the directions of this Court.	None
Learned Counsel for the Respondents submit that although there is nothing on record apart from an assertion in the application and an affidavit in support thereof, to suggest that any negotiations have been conducted or that the negotiations have reached any meaningful stage between the sellers and the purchasers yet this Court could extend the facility already given to the contemnors subject to the condition that the contemnors do not ask for any further extension.	Arguments of Respondent
In the circumstances and in view of the submissions made at the Bar we extend the operation of our earlier order dated 01.08.2014 for a further period of 15 working days only commencing 20.08.2014.	Decision
We make it clear that we will not be inclined to grant any further extension and the contemnors would do well to finalise the ongoing negotiations within the extended period.	Decision
These I.As. are disposed of with the above directions.	Decision
Order Dated 08.09.2014 (HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE T.S. THAKUR HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE ANIL R. DAVE HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE ARJAN KUMAR SIKRI) Heard.	None
We had by order dated 14th August, 2014 extended the operation of our earlier order dated 1st August, 2014 for a period of fifteen working days commencing 20.08.2014, making it clear that we would not be inclined to grant any further extension of time for the contemnors to finalise the ongoing negotiations with prospective buyers of properties, within India and outside the country.	None
The contemnors have now filed the present applications (I.A. Nos. 1921 of 2014) seeking a further extension of the arrangement made by us by another fifteen more working days.	Issue
The applications inter alia point out that a deal for sale of the three offshore properties has been almost finalised by the contemnors and even a memorandum of Master Agreement executed between a foreign purchaser.	Issue
While the deal had yet to be clinched and acted upon, adverse reports, appearing in United States print and electronic media, led to a panic situation in which the purchaser of the offshore properties expressed their hesitation in finalising the deal.	Issue
The contemnors assert that they have somehow persuaded the foreign purchaser to hold on and let the protests against the proposed sale of the assets to cool down and that the foreign purchaser has agreed to do so.	None
Appearing for the applicants, Mr. S. Ganesh, learned senior counsel, submitted that given fifteen working days to negotiate the sale of offshore properties they shall finalise the deal with the party concerned or with any other party, willing to purchase the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ganesh also points out that the contemnors are simultaneously making efforts to sell the remaining eight properties situate within the country through property agents brokers realestate developers and that notwithstanding the slumps in the realestate market expect to finalise such deals within the extended period.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since the applications filed by the contemnors did not carry any documentary material suggesting that any deal had been finalised with anyone interested in purchasing the offshore properties, we asked Mr. Ganesh whether he could make good that statement by reference to any document.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ganesh has, in response, filed before us a copy of the in principle Master Agreement as also copies of certain press clippings which suggest that there were some demonstrations against the proposed sale of the properties inquestion to a particular entity, owned by a sovereign nation.	Arguments of Petitioner
A perusal of these documents does prima facie suggest that an attempt has been indeed made to finalise the deal and also that some protests have been raised on account of the proposed sale of the assets to that particular entity.	None
At the request of Mr. Ganesh, we direct that the copies of the in principle Master Agreement and the documents enclosed therewith including the press clippings be taken on record but kept in a sealed cover to maintain confidentiality in regard to the proposed transactions.	Reasoning
Having said so, we are of the view that a prayer for extension of another fifteen working days further time to finalise the sale of the assets deserves to be granted.	None
We must mention to the credit of Mr. Arvind P. Datar, learned senior counsel appearing for SEBI, say that even he did not in principle contest the prayer for an extension of time but only urged that the contemnors should finalise the deal as expeditiously as possible particularly when a large amount remains to be recovered from them, which will also have to be arranged after the conditions of bail are satisfied by the contemnors.	None
Mr. Ganesh in reply submitted that given fifteen working days further time, the contemnors would not ask for any further extension.	Arguments of Petitioner
That statement is accepted.	None
In the circumstances, we allow these applications and extend the arrangement made by us by our Order dated 1st August, 2014 as extended by Order dated 14th August, 2014, for a further period of fifteen working days w.e.f. 10th September, 2014.	Decision
I.A. Nos. 1921 of 2014 are disposed of accordingly.	Decision
Order Dated 02.12.2014 (HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE T.S. THAKUR HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE ANIL R. DAVE HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE ARJAN KUMAR SIKRI) Heard.	None
In these applications (I.A. Nos. 3739) filed by Saharas, the applicants have made the following prayers (a) grant its permission, whether by Oasis or by some other party, of Bank of Chinas loans to Sahara (including the related securities) and the amendment of the terms and conditions applicable to such loans(b) grant its permission for raising of additional junior loans of up to US650 million and the creation of subordinate charges on the said 3 foreign hotel properties (or on Saharas shareholding in the relevant hotel owning companies)(c) grant its permission for the sale of the Chauma for the sale prices and in accordance with the payment scheduled stated in the Table in para 15 hereinabove(d) direct that out of the Petitioners deposit the amount of L 226.96 crores in the Sahara SEBI Refund A c in terms of para 18 hereinabove and also hand over the cheques issued by the buyers of the domestic immovable properties of an aggregate amount of L 2146.25 crores (net off the transaction costs, taxes, incidental expenses etc.)	Issue
in terms of para 16 hereinabove and(e) pass such further or other orders as this Honble Court may deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances of the present case M s. Rajiv Dhawan and S. Ganesh, learned senior counsel appearing for the applicants, submit that the applicants have already negotiated suitable deals for the sale of the properties at Chauma (Gurgaon), Jodhpur, Vasai (Mumbai) and Pune.	Arguments of Petitioner
Agreements to sell in relation to the sale of the said properties have also been executed with the prospective buyers except the Pune property.	None
It is further submitted that in regard to three properties at Chauma, Jodhpur and Vasai, the applicantssellers have received a down payment of L 184.50 crores while the balance out of the total consideration is payable to the applicantssellers by May 2015.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Ganesh, the purchasers of the properties inquestion have already issued postdated cheques covering the sale consideration less the transaction costs, taxes and incidental expenses.	Arguments of Petitioner
These cheques have been issued in favour of Sahara SEBI Refund A c copies whereof have been enclosed with these applications.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged that while the property situated at Jodhpur and Vasai are within 5 margin of the estimated value of the said properties in terms of our previous order dated 4th June, 2014, the property situated at Chauma is about 15 below the estimated value of the property.	Arguments of Petitioner
The sale consideration in regard to all the three properties at the places, indicated above, is however many times more than the circle rates fixed for those areas.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that this Court could permit the sale of the property at Chauma at the price settled in terms of the agreements to sell in relation to the said property in relaxation of the condition earlier imposed by this Court that the properties shall not be sold at a price below 5 of the estimated value without the permission of this Court.3.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Arvind P. Datar and Mr. Pratap Venugopal, Learned Counsel appearing for SEBI, have no objection to the sale of the three properties at Chauma, Jodhpur and Vasai on the terms stipulated in the agreements to sell, executed between the sellersapplicants herein and the purchasers of the said properties especially when the purchasers have agreed to furnish undertakings to this Court that the postdated cheques issued by them pursuant to the said agreements to sell, shall be honoured on the due dates.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the circumstances, therefore, we direct deposit of a sum of L 184.50 crores already received by the sellersapplicants with the Sahara SEBI Refund A c. Mr. Ganesh has handed over to Mr. Pratap Venugopal, counsel appearing for the SEBI, in the Court today three demand drafts and a cheque, totalling L 184.50 crores.	Decision
We direct that the proposed sale of the properties at Chauma, Jodhpur and Vasai shall be subject to the terms of the agreements to sell copies, whereof have been filed by the applicants, and also that the purchasers of the said properties shall file in this Court specific individual undertakings to the effect that the postdated cheques issued by them shall be honoured on the due dates.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regards to Pune property, Dr. Dhawan and Mr. Ganesh argued that the properties to which the applicants have agreed to sell is for a sum of L 550 crores which is within 5 margins fixed by our order dated 4th June, 2014.	Arguments of Petitioner
They submit that the agreement is being finalised with the purchaser and upon execution of the agreement a down payment of L 50 crores received from the purchasers, shall also be deposited with the SEBI in the Sahara SEBI Refund A c and the balance amount of consideration deposited within six weeks thereafter, subject of course to deduction of transaction costs, taxes and other statutory dues.	Arguments of Petitioner
We, in that view, permit the applicants to proceed with the finalisation of the sale of the Pune property also on the above condition.	None
That leave us with the proposed payment of the Bank of Chinas outstanding loan amount and substitution of another lender in place of Bank of China and also permission to take additional junior loans to a tune of US 650 million.	None
M s. Arvind P. Datar and Mr. Shekhar.	None
Naphade, learned amicus, argued that the terms and conditions on which the substitution may take place the escrow account is being opened and operated as also deductions that may be made on account of junior loans of US 650, million in the second loan, are not very clear from the documents furnished to them by the applicants.	None
They submitted that certain further information in regard to these aspects and other related matters may be required, before the Respondents make their submissions to the proposals now floated by the applicants.	None
M s. Dhawan and Ganesh have no objection to the requisite information being furnished to counsel opposite.	Reasoning
In that view, we leave it open to M s. Datar and Naphade to indicate in writing the information they would require from the applicants whereupon the applicants are expected to furnish the same within a period of one week.	Reasoning
These applications shall accordingly stand adjourned by two weeks to be listed again on Wednesday, the 17th December, 2014 at 2 P.M. Order Dated 17.12.2014 (HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE T.S. THAKUR HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE ANIL R. DAVE HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE ARJAN KUMAR SIKRI) Heard.	None
Mr. S. Ganesh, learned senior counsel appearing for the contemnors has handed over to Mr. P. Venugopal, learned counsel for the SEBI, a cheque for a sum of Rs.77.80 crores representing the entire balance purchase price of the Jodhpur property.	Arguments of Respondent
In addition, he has also handed over to Mr. Venugopal 21 postdated cheques payable between 15th January and 22nd June, 2015 for a total amount of Rs.1884.96 crores.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Ganesh submits that each one of the purchasers who has issued the postdated cheques aforementioned has also filed an individual undertaking on affidavit in this Court in terms of the previous order of this Court dated 2nd December, 2014.	Arguments of Respondent
He contended that this Court could in the light of the payments already made to SEBI grant permission to Saharas for work on the transfer of the loan outstanding towards Bank of China to Oasis Light Ltd. and suitable amendments of the terms and conditions applicable to those loans.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that permission could also be granted to Saharas to raise a junior loan to the tune of US 650 million by creating against the three foreign hotel properties and shareholdings relating thereto.	Arguments of Respondent
It was urged by Mr. Ganesh, that as suggested by Mr. Shekhar Naphade, learned Amicus appointed by this Court, the Saharas had agreed to shift the escrow account from Nation Wide to Bank of America which has extensive banking operation even in India but any deposit by the junior lenders will be possible only when the Bank of China exits and Oasis is allowed to take over the charge.	Arguments of Respondent
He urged that this Court could in order to facilitate the deposit in the escrow account by the junior lenders as a first step permit Saharas to allow the Bank of China to exit and Oasis to enter into the proposed arrangement.	Arguments of Respondent
M s. Arvind P. Datar, learned senior counsel appearing for the SEBI and Mr. Shekhar Naphade, learned Amicus, on the other hand submitted that certain aspects of the proposed arrangement between Oasis and Bank of China as also the arrangement between the Mirach and Saharas still need to be verified and examined especially as to the amount that will actually become available to SEBI, should the proposed arrangement be sanctioned by this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also submitted that there may be certain legal impediments in the transfer of the money to be deposited in the escrow account on account of the provisions of FEMA and that the loan proposed to be raised by the Saharas in the manner indicated above may require sanction permission from the competent authority under the said Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
They submitted that additional queries have to be made to counsel opposite in writing to which Mr. Ganesh offered to send a suitable reply without delay.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the circumstances, therefore, we do not consider it necessary at present to issue any direction on the above subject.	Reasoning
We may consider all these aspects only after the queries raised by M s. Datar and Naphade are satisfactorily answered by Mr. Ganesh in writing.	Reasoning
We may only mention in passing that according to Mr. Ganesh ECB regulation to which a brief reference was made by Mr. Datar, does not have any application to the transaction.	Reasoning
We do not however propose to make any observation regarding the merits of the rival contentions at this stage.	Reasoning
M s. Datar and Naphade are permitted to seek any further clarification on any issues or aspect considered relevant by them to which Mr.Ganesh may present a suitable reply within a week from the date he receives such queries.	Reasoning
Mr. Datar at this stage submitted that the SEBI has out of the deposited amount disbursed a sum of Rs.2,00,00,000/ (Rupees Two Crores only) but it has also sought permission in IAs.	Arguments of Petitioner
No. 92 and 93 of 2014 to pay up multiple deposits made by several others who have claimed such deposits some of which have been found to be genuine on verification.	Arguments of Petitioner
He urged that at one stage of these proceedings this Court had not allowed the reimbursement to multiple depositors.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged by Mr. Datar that the SEBI has verified as at present 2781 applications from multiple deposit holders and the reimbursement if permitted would led an outflow of Rs.28.1 crores only.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that the IncomeTax Authorities could be left free to take such action as may be permissible in law against the depositors or Saharas who have received such multiple deposits.	Arguments of Petitioner
But there is no reason why the multiple depositors who have made their deposits which depositors have been found to be genuine on verification should not be reimbursed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ganesh, learned counsel submits that there should be no difficulty in permitting the SEBI to reimburse the depositors whether multiple or otherwise.	Arguments of Respondent
We accordingly allow these IAs No. 3739 and permit SEBI to reimburse the amount of deposit with interest accrued on the same to all such depositors all have made multiple deposits upon due and proper verification about the genuineness of the deposits.8.	None
Post on 09.01.2015 at 2.00 P.M along with I.As No. 9091 and I.A.	Decision
No of 2014 (Appln.	Decision
for direction) filed by Mr. Niraj Sharma, Adv	None
. Order Dated 24.02.2015 (HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE T.S. THAKUR HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE ANIL R. DAVE HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE ARJAN KUMAR SIKRI) Heard.	None
As.	None
Nos. 5052 of 2015These applications have been filed by Reserve Bank of India seeking addition as party Respondent to these proceedings.	Facts
From a reading of the averments made in the applications and the submission made in support of the same and keeping in view the fact that the parties do not have any objection to the prayer being allowed, we add Reserve Bank of India as a party Respondent to these proceedings.2.	Facts
I.A. Nos. 5052 of 2015 are accordingly allowed and disposed of.	Facts
I.A.	Facts
No. of 2015 in I.A. Nos. 101103 in Contempt Petition Nos. 9813 and 9833 of 2011 and Contempt Petition (C)	Facts
No. 260 of 2013 in Civil Appeal No. 8643 of 2012  (Application for Modification of Order dated 4th June, 2014 passed by this Court)3.	Facts
Taken on Board.	None
Mr. Parag P. Tripathi, learned Senior Counsel for the applicantReserve Bank of India, submits that in terms of the report of the Auditors of Sahara India Financial Corporation Limited, one of the Sahara Group of Companies, FDs, Bonds and Securities held by the said company have been encashed pursuant to an order of this Court dated 4th June, 2014 and sale proceeds maturity value of L 484.67 crores lent to Sahara India a Partnership Firm instead of depositing the same in the SEBI Sahara Refund Account as directed by this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that by encashing the securities which the Sahara India Financial Corporation Limited was required to maintain in terms of the directions issued by the Reserve Bank of India dated 17th June, 2008, the Saharas have not only committed a breach of the direction issued by the Reserve Bank of India but also violated the order passed by this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that violation of this Courts order can be separately dealt with by this Court in these proceedings, but Reserve Bank of India who propose to take note of the breach committed by the Sahara company, aforementioned, and initiate proceedings against it under the relevant provisions of the Reserve Bank of India Act should be permitted to do so, after due notice to the company concerned.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. S. Ganesh, learned Senior Counsel for the contemnors, submits that the report submitted by the Auditors does not appear to be factually correct and stands substantially contradicted by letter dated 23rd February, 2015 sent by Sahara Indian Financial Corporation Limited to Reserve Bank of India.	Arguments of Respondent
He further states that although a sum of L 484.67 crores has transferred to Sahara India a Partnership Firm but the same is not a loan as alleged.	Arguments of Respondent
The amount inquestion has been transferred to the said partnership firm for repayment to the depositors investors and has been utilised for that purpose.	Arguments of Respondent
He submits that Saharas have no objection to Reserve Bank of India being given the liberty to initiate whatever proceedings it proposes to start but seeks time to explain to this Court the alleged violation of the order of this Court dated 4th June, 2014 by which the entire maturity value sale consideration of the security had to be deposited in the SEBI Sahara Refund Account only.	Arguments of Respondent
In the circumstances, we allow Reserve Bank of India to initiate such action as may be otherwise legally permissible under the provisions of the Reserve Bank of India Act and the Regulations framed thereunder and to pass appropriate orders on the subject after hearing the parties.	Reasoning
A copy of the order so passed shall be placed on record.7.	Reasoning
Mr. Ganesh may also in the meantime file an affidavit explaining the circumstances in which the securities inquestion which were allowed to be encashed sold were sold and the maturity value sale consideration thereof transferred to Sahara India instead of being deposited in the SEBI Sahara Refund Account as directed by this Court.	Reasoning
The affidavit, to be filed by Mr. Ganesh, shall also indicate whether the disbursements have been made to the depositors investors in cash or by cheques and whether the identity of the recipients has been established before making all such disbursements.	Reasoning
The information relating to disbursement made by Sahara India Financial Corporation Limited to the investors depositors shall also be placed on record in the form of a DVC CD with copies to M s. Parag P. Tripathy, Arvind P. Datar and Shekhar Naphade.	Reasoning
In the light of the controversy raised before us in relation to the utilisation of the maturity amount sale value of the directed securities, we deem it fit to direct that the Saharas will not transfer, alienate or encumber the remaining directed securities if any provided by Sahara India Financial Corporation Limited (SIFCL).I. As.	Decision
No. 4749 of 20159.	None
Issue notice to counsel opposite.	Decision
Objection, if any, be filed within two weeks from today.	Decision
Post on Friday, the 13th March, 2015 at 2 p.m. Appeals No. 42 of 2013, 48 of 2013, 49 of 2013, 50 and 2013 and W.P. )	None
No. 2088 of 2013 shall also be listed on 09.01.2015 which has been transferred from the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad vide this Courts order dated 17.07.2013.	None
Order Dated 13.03.2015 (HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE T.S. THAKUR HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE ANIL R. DAVE HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE ARJAN KUMAR SIKRI)	None
By our Order dated 24.02.2015 we had allowed Reserve Bank of India to initiate such proceedings as were called for under the provisions of Reserve Bank of India Act against the alleged acts of omission and commission committed by Sahara India Financial Corporation Limited.	Facts
Mr. Ramesh Babu, learned counsel appearing for the Reserve Bank of India today submits that the Bank has already initiated action and served a showcause notice upon the company concerned and that it would take further steps in the matter no sooner a reply to that notice is received.	None
We had also by the same order directed the Saharas to file an affidavit explaining the circumstances in which the securities and fixed deposits etc. were encashed sold and the maturity value sale consideration thereof transferred to Sahara India instead of being deposited in the SEBI Sahara Refund Account.	Reasoning
Saharas have filed an affidavit in compliance with the said direction.	Reasoning
Mr. Arvind Datar learned senior counsel for the respondent and Mr. Ramesh Babu, learned counsel pray for and are granted two weeks time to respond to the said affidavit.	None
Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent submits that the respondents are in the process of negotiating a deal in regard to its offshore properties to comply with the orders passed by this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
He submits that an out line of the proposed deal which will generate sufficient funds to enable the respondents to comply with the directions of this Court shall be furnished to Mr. Shekhar Naphade, learned A.C. as also Mr. Datar within one week from today along with requisite documents to demonstrate that the deal is a serious attempt to raise money against the offshore assets of the companies.4.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Sibal further submits that the respondents shall cooperate and furnish such further information as may be demanded by the A.C. and Mr. Datar in relation to proposed deal.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Sibal Submits that although two earlier attempts to negotiate a somewhat similar deal have proved abortive, a third and final chance could be given to the respondents to raise the requisite amount of money for discharge of its liability in terms of the orders passed by this court.	Arguments of Respondent
We have in the previous orders passed by us from time to time noticed how despite facilities which the respondents had demanded while in custody, the proposed deals had failed to fructify.	None
We have in the light of that experience put it to learned counsel for the respondent that we are inclined to appoint a receiver for the properties owned by Saharas in question and to authorise the receiver to alienate the same with a view to compiling with the directions of this Court.	None
Mr. Sibal however fervently argued that the need for appointing a receiver may not arise if a final chance is given to Saharas to negotiate and finalise a suitable deal that would ensure that the directions of this Court are complied with.	None
We are inclined to accept the prayer made by Mr. Sibal.	Reasoning
We, therefore, grant to the respondents yet another opportunity to negotiate the proposed deal the outline whereof shall be shared by the respondents with counsel for the SEBI and the A.C. Mr. Sibal submits that in order to save time we could restore the facility earlier extended to the respondent within the jail precincts.	Reasoning
He urged that this would help the respondents in finalising the deal early.	Reasoning
We are not for the present inclined to extend the facility earlier directed by us for the outline of the proposed deal remains to be critically examined by the A.C. and counsel for SEBI.	Reasoning
We however see no difficulty in extending to five hours a day the concession of communication with the outside world in favour of the respondents besides two lap top computers.	Reasoning
The jail authorities would make sure that the facility limited to communication for a period of five hours a day and two laptops only are extended to the respondents.	Reasoning
This matter shall now stand adjourned, to be posted again on 23.03.2015 at 2.00 P.M. Order Dated 23.03.2015 (HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE T.S. THAKUR HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE A.K. SIKRI)	None
By our Order dated 13.03.2015 we had granted to the Saharas an opportunity to place on record broad features of the deal which they propose to strike in respect of their offshore properties comprising three hotels two out of which are situate in the United States of America and the third in London.	Facts
Since the outline of the proposed deal was not shared by the Saharas with counsel appearing for SEBI and Mr. Shekhar Naphade learned Amicus Curiae, Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel appearing for the Saharas had agreed to do so.	Facts
The whole purpose behind that exercise was to prima facie satisfy ourselves whether the Saharas are indeed making a serious effort to raise funds for compliance with the directions issued by this Court.	Facts
We had also by the same order extended to the respondentscontemnors the concession of communication with the outside world for 5 hours a day besides allowing them use of two laptops computers.	None
When the matter came up today before us Mr. Sibal filed what is described as Confidential Note On Proposals Now Being Negotiated and Finalised By Saharas For Complying With Supreme Court Order dated 26.03.2014 In particular Mr. Sibal drew our attention to a communication dated 09.03.2015 from Head of Corporate and Investment Banking Madrid at BBVA to Nouam Limited whereby BBVA Investment Bank has confirmed with full bank responsibility the authenticity and validity of the cash funds to the tune of EUR 900 Million in an account mentioned in the said communication and held by the Nouam Limited represented by Mr. Karan Judge.	Arguments of Respondent
The letter confirmed legal responsibility that Nouam Limited represented by Mr. Karan Judge has full custody over the said funds in his account and that the said funds shall remain under his instruction.	Arguments of Respondent
Not only that the communication further states that the funds are legal, good, clean, clear, unencumbered and legitimately earned cash funds of noncriminal origin consisting of 100 cash and that the same are freely available for investment.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Sibal submitted that if permitted by this Court, Saharas can go ahead with the proposal under consideration where under Nouam Limited will take over the loan outstanding towards Bank of China.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the loan credit being negotiated will not only pay off the Bank of China but generate an additional 120 million dollars equivalent roughly to L650 crores in Indian rupee.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Sibal urged that although Saharas have a few other proposals also on the anvil yet the proposal mooted by Nouam Limited for the take over of the Bank of China loan and for payment of an additional amount of 160 million dollars appears to be the most serious presently under consideration.3.	Arguments of Respondent
In an attempt to show that the proposals under consideration with Saharas are serious, Mr. Sibal also placed reliance upon another letter dated 18.03.2015 addressed by HSBC to M s. Aambey Valley confirming a Bank guarantee for a sum of 820 million equivalent to INR 5000 crores in favour of Aambey Valley Limited, Sahara Star Domestic Airport, Bombay.	Arguments of Respondent
The Bank guarantee is according to the said communication irrevocable, divisible and transferable to any supplier of M s. Aambey Valley Limited.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Sibal submitted that although the communication offers the bank guarantee to Aambey Valley Limited, steps will be taken to ensure that the bank guarantee of Rs. 5,000/ crores is furnished in the name of SEBI in compliance with the orders of this Court.4.	Arguments of Respondent
Our attention was also drawn by Mr. Sibal to a Memorandum of Understanding said to have been executed between Nouam Limited and Aambey Valley Limited in connection with the proposed deal referred to above.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted by Mr. Sibal that the availability of funds with Nouam Limited, the assurance regarding the issue of a bank guarantee for a sum of Rs. 5,000/ crores and the execution of a Memo of Understanding between Nouam Limited and Aambay Valley Limited should sufficiently reassure this Court that Saharas are seriously pursuing the finalisation of the deal.	Arguments of Respondent
It was in the above context urged that this Court could permit the Saharas to process the deal to its logical conclusion and to present to this Court a final proposal where under the Saharas would deposit the balance of the amount required for the release of the respondents from custody on bail and for the Bank guarantee which is one of the conditions for that release.	Reasoning
On behalf of SEBI Mr. Arvind Datar very fairly stated that Saharas do appear to be taking some steps for finalising the deal and that so long as the deal results in raising funds that would find their way into the SEBI account in compliance with the orders of this Court, SEBI will have no real objection to the process being taken forward.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Napahde, learned A.C. submitted that even though relevant documents touching the proposed deal were available to him rather late and even though certain matters remain to be clarified, there is no real impediment in allowing Saharas as a last chance to finalise the proposed deal with Nouam Limited.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the circumstance therefore and keeping in view the steps that Saharas appear to have taken in the matter of finalising their proposed deal with the Nouam Limited we see no reason why a last and final opportunity be not granted to Saharas to do the needful.	Reasoning
We have made it clear to learned counsel for the respondents and to others appearing for Saharas that should there be any difficulty in finalising the deal with Nouam Limited, we shall be left with no option but to explore the alternative option of appointing a Receiver for sale of the property to recover the outstanding amount.	Reasoning
That being made clear we permit Saharas to negotiate the proposed deal with Nouam Limited.	Reasoning
We make it clear that since this is going to be the last and final opportunity to the Saharas to sell or encumber the properties themselves to raise funds, Saharas shall also have the liberty to negotiate any other deal qua the said three offshore properties should the deal with Nouam Limited for any reason fail to fructify.	Reasoning
Needful shall be done within the outer limit of three months from today.	Reasoning
In order to facilitate the finalisation of the proposed deal we permit use of facility to the respondents in terms of our order dated August 1, 2014 for a period from three months today.	None
Mr. Sibal next argued that out of nine properties situate within the country which this Court had permitted the Saharas to sell, five properties have already been sold while the remaining four properties according to Mr. Sibal can not fetch the required amount within 5 of the estimated value declared by the Saharas.	Arguments of Respondent
He therefore urged that this Court could modify the order permitting the sale of such properties so as to allow the sale of remaining four items of properties at prices less up to 25 to 40 as indicated in paragraph C at page 5 of his Note (supra).10.	Arguments of Respondent
Alternatively Mr. Sibal argued that this Court could allow the Saharas to sell one or more properties out of the ten properties situate in different parts of the country set out at page 7 of the note with the extent mentioned against each as also the circle rates and the market valuation.11.	Arguments of Respondent
From a perusal of the statement set out at page 7 of the compilation it appears that although the value of the properties set out in the said statement calculated on the Circle rates comes to L456.46 crores, the land value as per market valuation is said to be more than L570 crores.	None
We are in that view inclined to allow the alternative prayer made by Mr. Sibal and permit the Saharas to sell one or more properties mentioned at page 7 of the compilation on the same terms and conditions as were stipulated by us in our Order dated 04.06.2014.	Reasoning
At this stage Mr. Sibal submitted that in the event of any shortfall difficulty in selling the properties in the prices indicated by them or on the conditions set out by us we could also permit Saharas to sell up to 600 acres of the developed buildable land area in Aambey Valley at a price which shall not be less than L6.55 crores per acre.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not see any reason to decline that prayer either especially when the value of land fixed at Rs.	None
6.55/ crores per acre is many times in excess of 25 lakhs per acre fixed by the SEBI in its affidavit dated 16.03.2012 filed in I.As No. 67 of 2012.	None
We accordingly permit the Saharas to sell up to 600 acres of land in Aambey Valley L6.50 crores per acre.	Decision
The details of the extent sold shall be furnished to the Court by Saharas.14.	Decision
Mr. P. Chidamabaram, learned senior counsel appearing for Mirach Capital Group LLC proposes to make an application to make an offer in a sealed cover.	Decision
He is permitted to do so with copy to learned counsel for the parties.15.	Decision
The note filed by Saharas shall be kept in a sealed cover.	Decision
These proceedings shall stand over for a period of three months.16.	Decision
At this stage Mr. Arvind Datar submits that some of the purchasers of the Gurgaon property have sought rescheduling of the payments and that the SEBI has received certain cheques as per the new schedule proposed.	Decision
We permit the SEBI to receive and encash the same.	Decision
Fresh undertakings filed by the purchasers to abide by the rescheduled payment are accepted.	None
Order Dated 19.06.2015 (HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE T.S. THAKUR HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE ANIL R. DAVE HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE ARJAN KUMAR SIKRI) K. Sikri, J. Before we advert to the reliefs claimed in these applications and announce the outcome thereof, we would like to recapitulate, very briefly, the genesis for moving these applications as we feel that such a recount of the previous events would make it easy to understand the circumstances under which these applications have been filed.	None
It would also provide us the course of action that is to be taken on the prayers made in these applications.2.	Facts
The main proceedings with which we are concerned are the contempt petitions bearing Nos. 412 of 2012 and 413 of 2012 in Civil Appeal Nos. 9813 of 2011 and 9833 of 2011 as well as Contempt Petition No. 260 of 2013 in Civil Appeal No. 8643 of 2012.	Facts
These contempt petitions filed by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (for short, SEBI) have the origin in the judgments that were pronounced in the civil appeals, numbers whereof are mentioned above.	Facts
It so happened that Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Limited (SIRECL) and Sahara Housing Investment Corporation Limited (SHICL) (hereinafter referred to as the Saharas) invited and claimed to have collected deposits from general public who, allegedly, included cobblers, labourers, artisans, peasants etc.	Facts
This invitation for deposit was in the form of Optional Fully Convertible Debentures (OFCD).	Facts
SEBI found that offering of such OFCD was not legally permissible and passed orders directing Saharas not to offer their equity shares OFCDs or any other securities to the public or invite subscription in any manner whatsoever either directly or indirectly.	Facts
The High Court of Bombay dismissed their petitions and directed Sahara Companies, in particular the promoter Mr. Subrata Roy Sahara, and Directors Ms. Vandana Bhargava, Mr. Ravi Shankar Dubey and Mr. Ashok Roy Choudhary of Saharas to jointly and severely refund the amount collected by Saharas in terms of the aforesaid issue along with interest 15 per annum.	Facts
It is pertinent to mention that on the basis of these directions of the High Court, SEBI ordered that refund of the amount shall be made only through demand drafts or pay orders.	Facts
Certain other directions were also issued.	Facts
Aggrieved by these orders of SEBI, Saharas approached Securities Appellate Tribunal (for short, SAT).	Facts
SAT also declined to interfere with the view taken by SEBI and directed Saharas to refund the amount collected from the investors within a period of six weeks.	Facts
Against these orders of SAT, Civil Appeal Nos. 9813 of 2011 and 9833 of 2011 were preferred by Saharas in this Court, which were finally disposed of by order dated 31.08.2012.	Facts
While substantially maintaining the orders of SEBI and SAT, a modification was made in those orders with a direction to Saharas to deposit the amount collected by them along with interest 15 per annum with SEBI within a period of three months.	Facts
The amount when deposited was directed to be invested in a nationalised bank to earn interest.	Facts
Saharas were also directed to furnish details with supporting documents to establish whether they had refunded any amount to the investors who had subscribed through the Red Herring Prospectus (RHP) in question.	Facts
SEBI was then to examine the correctness of the details so furnished.	Facts
Failure to prove the refund of the amount by Saharas had to give rise to an inference that Saharas had not refunded the amount to the real and genuine subscribers as directed by SEBI.3.	Facts
Aforesaid directions were admittedly not complied with.	Facts
Instead, another appeal, being Appeal No. 221 of 2012, was preferred by Saharas before SAT which was dismissed as premature.	Facts
Against that order, Civil Appeal No. 8643 of 2012 was filed in this Court which was decided on 05122012.	None
The Saharas had produced before the Court, demand drafts for a total sum of Rs. 5120 crores.	None
This Court directed them to handover the same to SEBI.	Facts
Further direction was given to deposit the balance amount of Rs. 17,400 crores together with interest 15 per annum with SEBI in two installments.	Facts
First installment of Rs. 10,000 crores was to be deposited with SEBI by first week of January, 2013 and balance amount, along with interest, was to be deposited by first week of February, 2013.	Facts
However, the balance amount or the interest payable, as per the installments, was not deposited though it was to be deposited by January February, 2013.	Facts
It resulted in filing of the contempt petitions, which are the main proceedings at hand.	Facts
In these contempt petitions various opportunities were given to the contemnors to purge the contempt by depositing the amount, as directed.	Facts
The record shows that at various stages the contemnors gave the proposals for compliance with the directions which were explored from time to time, but eventually all these proposals were found to be unsatisfactory, yielding no tangible results.	Facts
This was perceived as stubborn attitude of the contemnors with sole intent to drag on the matter endlessly without complying with the orders.	Facts
This attitude of the contemnors forced this Court to issue nonbailable warrants against Mr. Subrata Roy Sahara for his production and directing personal presence of the other three Directors in the Court on the date fixed.	Facts
On 04.03.2014, when the matter was listed, and during the hearing as it transpired that no acceptable proposal was forthcoming to comply with the directions, the Court was left with no option except to commit the three out of four contemnors to judicial custody.	Facts
We would like to mention that by that time, after including the interest which had accumulated, a sum of Rs. 33,000 crores had to be deposited.4.	Facts
The matter came up for hearing on 26.03.2014 again and the three contemnors committed to judicial custody prayed for grant of bail on that day.	Facts
The Court passed conditional order of bail on that day.	Facts
The condition was that the contemnors deposit Rs. 10,000 crores  Rs. 5000 crores in cash and balance of Rs. 5000 crores in the form of bank guarantee of a nationalised bank, to be furnished in favour of SEBI.	None
It was specifically directed that upon compliance with these conditions the contemnors would be released from the custody.5.	Facts
Till date there is no full compliance of the aforesaid condition for grant of interim bail, with the result the three contemnors are still in judicial custody and 15 months have passed thereby.	Facts
We would like to point out at this stage that by orders dated 21.11.2013 passed by this Court the assets of Sahara Group of Companies were frozen, to ensure that the contemnors do not fritter away these assets without complying with the directions of this Court passed in the Civil Appeals.	Facts
However, on the request made by Sahara Group for lifting the embargo on certain properties in order to enable the Saharas to sell those properties so that the interim bail conditions are fulfilled, on 04.06.2014, this Court permitted various Sahara Group Companies to deal with sell some of their assets, but only for the purpose of complying with the order dated 26.03.2014 with further condition that whatever amount is realised by the sale of the said assets, same shall be deposited into the SEBI  Sahara Refund Account and for providing the requisite bank guarantee in favour of SEBI in the sum of Rs. 5000 crores, as per the directions.	Facts
Though this liberty was granted to Saharas one year ago and some other directions were given from time to time providing various facilities to the three contemnors in judicial custody felicitating contacts and dialogue interaction with the prospective buyers for clinching of deals, the contemnors have been able to achieve only a partial success.	Facts
They have mooted various proposals for the sale of these properties.	Facts
However, major proposals run into rough weather, hitting one or the other kind of road block and had to be terminated midday.	Facts
We would like to point out that the embargo which was lifted in respect of certain properties, the value thereof as per the books of accounts is in several thousand crores and had the Sahara group succeeded in selling even few of these properties, bail conditions would have been met long ago.	Facts
Thus, insofar as this Court is concerned it gave all necessary stimulus to enable the applicants to sell the assets, that too at reasonable market price.	Facts
If, the contemnors have still not been able to achieve the required target, it is either because of the reason that the efforts made by the contemnors as well as other officers of Sahara group in raising money from the sale encumbrance of these properties were not adequate or it was their illluck or it is the market conditions which have to be blamed.	Facts
Fact remains that by order dated 26.03.2014, this Court had granted bail, albeit with certain conditions.	Facts
However, it is the contemnors who have not been able to fulfil those conditions for one reason or the other.7.	Facts
During this period, certain properties have been sold and the amount realised therefrom stands deposited in the SEBI  	None
Sahara Refund Account.	None
Things have come to a stage where, according to the applicants, they are at the verge of fulfiling the conditions imposed by the orders dated 26.03.2014.	Facts
It is mentioned that they have certain buyers for some of the properties and the sale proceeds therefrom would meet the deficit.	Facts
It is also stated that the contemnors have been able to negotiate with a nationalised bank, through two of its Sahara group companies and the said bank has agreed to furnish the required bank guarantee.	Facts
The format of the bank guarantee is also produced at the time of hearing for the approval of the Court, so that the guarantee is given in the said format, if approved.8.	Facts
Assets of various companies of Sahara group have been frozen.	Facts
According to the applicants, by reason of the said freeze the financial and liquidity position of various Sahara group companies has been adversely affected and it has also resulted into mounting liabilities in the form of statutory liabilities, unpaid salary and wages, outstanding and overdue amounts payable to banks, etc.	Facts
Because of this reason, IA Nos. 5961 of 2015 are filed praying for the following reliefs allow the Sahara Group Companies to meet their respective statutory and other liabilities as enumerated in this application under such terms and condition as this Court may deem proper along with the compliance of the order dated 26.03.2014 passed by this Honble Court(ii) permit the Sahara Group Companies to utilise the balance, if any, of the proceeds obtained from the sale encumbrance of assets which has been specifically permitted by this Honble Court that remains after complying with the order dated 26.03.2014 passed by this Honble Court for the purpose of meeting the liabilities enumerated in this application and(iii)	Facts
For such further and other orders and directions as may appear just, necessary and appropriate to this Honble Court, in the circumstances of the case.	Facts
Insofar as permission to sell certain properties of Sahara group is concerned, it was subject to certain conditions as indicated above and one of the conditions was that sale must not be for a price lower than 5 of the estimated value for such a property.	Facts
The applicants state that in respect of one such property at Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, they have been able to find a purchaser who is ready to step into the shoes of the applicants for development maintenance of the said property.	Facts
MOU with the said party has already been entered into, which is placed on record.	Facts
It is pointed out, however, that the price being offered is Rs. 64 crores.	Facts
The price offered is lower than 5 of the estimated value.	Facts
However, according to the applicants, due to the depressed real estate market, the present estimated market value of the said property is Rs. 53.70 crores, as per the valuation report received.	Facts
This value is calculated on the basis of circle rate of the project land.	Facts
On that basis, IA Nos. 6264 of 2015 are filed with the following prayers Allow the applicants to enter into the Definitive Agreement for the property situated at Gorakhpur and(ii) pass such further or other orders as this Honble Court may deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances of the present case.	Facts
Insofar as the aforesaid prayer (i) in IA Nos. 6264 of 2015 is concerned, having regard to the reasons mentioned in paras 4 and 5 of the application, which are stated in brief above, and the fact that the MOU is entered for an area of undeveloped land of 45.71 acres out of the total land area of 146 acres, coupled with the fact that there is slump in the real estate market, we allow the applicants to enter into Definitive Agreement, making it clear that the entire amount from the aforesaid deal shall be deposited in SEBISahara Refund Account after adjusting transaction cost and taxes.11.	Facts
Insofar as prayers (i) and (ii) contained in IA Nos. 5961 of 2015 are concerned, we are of the opinion that the stage for making such prayers has not ripened as yet.	Facts
The Sahara group companies want to meet their statutory and other liabilities from the surplus that would be available after complying with order dated 26.03.2014.	Facts
As soon as there is a compliance with the said order, this Court shall consider at that stage the availability of the surplus funds along with other factors and then pass appropriate orders on these applications.	Facts
It is necessary to mention that even after order dated 26.03.2014 is complied with, there is a huge deficit in the form of balance amount that would still be required to be deposited by the applicants contemnors in order to comply with the directions contained in the orders dated 31.08.2012 and 05.12.2012 passed by this Court in the civil appeals.	Facts
Therefore, orders on the prayers made in IA Nos. 5961 of 2015 are deferred for the time being.12.	Facts
Coming to the format of the guarantee given by the applicants, on which the applicants want seal of approval from this Court in order to enable them to submit the requisite bank guarantee, we would like to reproduce the same, which reads as follows GUARANTEEWe Bank, a scheduled Bank within the meaning of the Banking Regulation Act, and having our office at do hereby grant and issue this unconditional and irrevocable guarantee of Rs. 5000 crores (rupees five thousand corres) in favour of Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) at the request made by Amby Valley (Mauritius) Ltd. on behalf of Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Ltd. and Sahara Housing Investment Corporation Ltd., in compliance with the order of the Honble Supreme Court of India dated 26th March 2014.We hereby guarantee that on the demand in writing made by SEBI, we shall, without demur, pay the amount demanded upto the maximum amount of Rupees Five Thousand Crores.	Facts
This guarantee shall remain in force initially for a period of six months and shall be extended for further periods of six months at the time, until SEBI otherwise directs pursuant to the order of Honble Supreme Court.	Facts
SEBI has given its nod to the aforesaid format.	Facts
Likewise, Mr. Shekhar Naphade, learned amicus appointed by this Court, has made a statement that the guarantee to be furnished in the aforesaid format may be accepted.	Facts
At the same time, Mr. Arvind Datar, learned senior counsel appearing for SEBI, as well as Mr. Naphade were very emphatic in pointing out that this Court should indicate in its order as to what should be the trigger point for encashing the bank guarantee.	Facts
In other words, it was their submission that insofar as balance amount payable by the applicants contemnors is concerned, this Court may give some specified time to them for this purpose and on the contemnors applicants failure to deposit the balance amount, with accrued interest with SEBI, SEBI should be allowed to encash the bank guarantee in question.	Facts
M s. Kapil Sibal, Rajeev Dhawan and S. Ganesh, learned senior counsel appearing for the applicants, on the other hand, submitted that it is not necessary to go into this aspect at this stage.	Arguments of Petitioner
They pointed out that last para of the bank guarantee categorically mentions that the guarantee is to remain in force until SEBI otherwise directs, pursuant to the orders of the Honble Court and, thus, this Court can direct at any stage as at what point of time the bank guarantee is to be encashed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Their argument was that the applicants have refunded almost Rs. 16,000 crores to the investors and voluminous record of documents in support thereof has already been handed over to SEBI.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is for the SEBI to verify the same and inform as to what would be the balance amount payable after adjustment of the amounts already paid to the investors and to the extent it is found to be genuine, the same be refunded.	Arguments of Petitioner
They submitted that it is SEBI which is not fulfilling its part of obligation by going into the verification of those documents, for which applicants cannot be blamed or prejudiced.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since this aspect was hotly debated at the Bar, we have gone into the same in some depth and detail.	None
We find that the issue of refund of Rs. 17,000 crores approximately to the depositors has been raked up by the contemnors applicants time and again, but to their dismay, this Court has not accepted their plea to this effect, so far.	Reasoning
In the writ petition (Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 57 of 2014, titled Subrata Roy Sahara v. Union of India Ors., (2014) 8 SCC 470 ), this very plea of exempting the applicants from depositing the amount already redeemed by them was considered at length and rejected.	Reasoning
In the said judgment, the Court took note of and expressed its opinion on this aspect at various places.	None
In para 55 of the judgment, the Court observed that such a plea was not accepted even earlier by a three Judge Bench while disposing of Civil Appeal No. 8643 of 2012 vide order dated 05.12.2012, in the following manner During the pendency of the contempt proceedings, we also decided to determine the veracity of the redemption theory, projected by the two companies.	None
As a matter of law, it was not open to the two companies to raise the aforesaid defence.	None
This is because, exactly the same defence was raised by the two companies, when they had approached this Court by filing Civil Appeal No. 8643 of 2012 (and Writ Petition (Civil) No. 527 of 2012).	None
In the aforesaid Civil Appeal, it was submitted on behalf of the two companies that they should be exempted from depositing the amount already redeemed by them.	None
The above contention advanced by the two companies was not accepted, by the three Judge Division Bench, when it disposed of Civil Appeal No. 8643 of 2012 (and Writ Petition (Civil)	None
No. 527 of 2012) by order dated 5.12.2012.	None
It is, therefore, apparent that the instant defence of having already redeemed most of the OFCDs was not open to the two companies (and even the contemnors).	None
Yet, so as to ensure that no injustice was done, we permitted the two companies to place material on the record of this case to substantite the factum of redemption.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The Court, thus, went into this issue again permitting the two companies to place requisite material on record to substantiate the factum of redemption and took into consideration whatever material was placed on record.	None
However, it refused to accept the plea of the two companies, which is clear from the following discussion in paras 86 and 108 of the said judgment When asked how disbursements were made to the investors, the response was that 95 of the payments made to the investors were also made by way of cash, the learned Senior Counsel representing the Contemnors (including the petitioner herein) invited our attention to the books of accounts (only general ledger entries) to demonstrate proof of the transactions under reference.	None
Details in this behalf have been recorded by us under heading IX A few words about the defence of redemption of OFCDs offered by the two Companies.	None
The above explanation may seem to be acceptable to the contemnors, but our view is quite the converse.	None
It is not possible for us to accept that the funds amounting to thousands of crores were transacted by way of cash, we would therefore, on the face of it, reject the above explanation tendered on behalf of the two Companies.	None
The Court further found that in order dated 05.12.2012 in Civil Appeal No. 8643 of 2012, balance amount of Rs. 17,400 crores, together with interest 15 per annum, was still payable even after the deposit of Rs. 5,120 crores.	None
It further mentioned that this figure has swelled up to Rs. 36,608 crores.	None
Thereafter, the position was concluded in para 154 as under Therefore, viewed from any angle, there is no substance in the contention advanced on behalf of the two companies that the moneys payable to the investors had been refunded to them.	None
Accordingly, there is no merit in the prayer, that while making payments in compliance with this Courts orders dated 31.08.2012 and 05.12.2012, the two companies were entitled to make deductions of Rs. 17,443 crores (insofar as SIRECL is concerned) and Rs. 5,442 crores (insofar as SHICL is concerned).	None
The aforesaid discussion clinchingly shows, without any cavil of doubt, that the contemnors applicants have failed to give satisfactory proof of redemption of Rs. 17,400 crores by SIRECL and Rs. 5,442 crores for SHICL.	None
Mr. Sibal, however, drew our attention to certain lines appearing in paragraph 154 of the same judgment and submitted that it is still open to the applicants to demonstrate that the aforesaid amount is redeemed to the depositors and virtually nothing more is payable.	Arguments of Petitioner
This window which was still kept open by the Court in the said paragraph is in the following form Be that as it may, we have still retained a safety valve, inasmuch as, SEBI has been directed to examine the authenticity of the documents produced by the two Companies, and in case SEBI finds that redemptions have actually been made, the two Companies will be refunded the amounts, equal to the redemptions found to have been genuinely made.	Arguments of Petitioner
No doubt, this much scope is still left for Sahara group.	Reasoning
Fact remains that a definite course of action that is to be chartered is also laid down, namely, in the first instance it is obligatory on the part of the contemnors applicants to deposit the entire balance amount along with interest accrued thereon in the SEBISahara Refund Account.	Reasoning
This obligation has to be performed in all circumstances.	Reasoning
It is only thereafter, if and when the applicants are able to substantiate the factum of redemption, they would be entitled to refund of the said amount to the extent they are able to prove in this behalf.	Reasoning
Therefore, at this stage, one thing which is more than apparent is that after the conditions for interim bail stipulated in order dated 26.03.2014 are fulfilled and pursuant thereto the three contemnors who are in judicial custody are released, the obligation or liability to deposit the balance would still remain.	Reasoning
We may remind the contemnors that as per directions dated 05.12.2012, this amount was to be deposited in two installments, first installment by the first week of January 2013 and the second by the first week of February 2013.	Reasoning
Therefore, it would be essential for the applicants contemnors to not only to deposit the balance amount in a time bound schedule but also the manner on which they propose to muster the said amount.	Reasoning
This cannot go on endlessly.	Reasoning
We are conscious of the fact that three persons are under confinement for the last fifteen months.	None
The circumstances under which orders dated 04.03.2014 were passed taking these persons into custody and sending them to jail are well known.	None
This court was virtually compelled to do so, going by the stubborn attitude of the contemnors in taking the orders dated 31.08.2012 and 05.12.2012 for granted, as if those orders were only on papers and were not meant to be complied with.	None
So many opportunities were given, showing all that leniency which could be extended, to enable the contemnors to comply with those directions.	None
It is only when the Court felt that unless some drastic action is taken there will be no desired effect, that this extreme step was taken.	None
However, this step was taken in good faith to uphold the rule of law and to ensure that dignity of this Court is maintained and there is faithful compliance with its directions.	None
The contemnors, instead of taking steps to follow and fulfil the directions, started making hue and cry.	None
Still, in the application filed immediately thereafter for release, this Court showed desired compassion and empathy by passing orders dated 26.03.2014, thereby paving a way for grant of interim bail.	None
It was, however, with a legitimate condition that out of almost Rs. 33,000 crores that had become due by that time, the contemnors deposit at least Rs. 10,000 crores, that too with relaxed provision of deposit of 50 thereof by means of bank guarantee only.	None
There was a genuine hope that for the sake of attaining their own freedom, the contemnors shall at least comply with this direction immediately.	None
Since then, though there have been attempts on the part of the contemnors to do the needful, but all in vain.	None
This is notwithstanding the fact that insofar as this Court is concerned, it has shown and extended all support in the form of giving desired facilities in jail lifting the attachments in respect of those properties chosen by the applicants themselves, for sale encumbrances etc. allowing these applicants to accept the offer of lesser amount than the book value of a particular asset, going by the fact that these were akin to distress sales in a depressed real estate market.	None
May be the applicants now see the light at the end of the tunnel as it is projected that the Sahara companies has finally found the buyers for certain assets and or financers who are ready to provide the requisite finance against some of the Sahara Companies properties and that would bridge the gap insofar as conditions of interim bail are concerned.	None
However, as mentioned above, the matter does not rest with the deposit of Rs. 5,000 crores and Rs. 5,000 crores by way of bank guarantee.	None
Total liability has swelled to more than Rs. 36,000 crores.	None
The aforesaid deposit of Rs. 10,000 crores is only a condition of interim bail.	None
It is the bounden duty of this Court to ensure that balance amount is also deposited by the applicants.	None
This Court feels concerned with the fact that three persons are deprived of their liberty for the last fifteen months and this situation is quite onerous to them.	Reasoning
On the other hand, public interest as well as public good demands that the two Sahara Companies, which had collected whopping amount of more than Rs. 22,000 crores from the public in an illegal and unauthorised manner, are made accountable for the same in the manner it is directed vide orders dated 31.08.2012 and 05.12.2012.	Reasoning
By any yardstick, this is a huge liability, which the contemnors are bound to discharge by depositing the same with SEBI.	Reasoning
It is, thus, an unprecedented situation of personal liberty of the three applicants on the one hand vis a vis majesty of law and ensuring larger public good, on the other hand.	Reasoning
It is this sense of justice, in an unprecedented kind of situation, that has compelled the Court to take such an extreme step.	Reasoning
It is this legal realism which has compelled the Court to adopt an approach which sounds more pragmatic.	Reasoning
It is doing what comes naturally approach to the problem at hand, which required such a drastic step, going by the experience of this case, giving rise to Reflection that provided Understanding.	Reasoning
This case is a burning example where the true dictate of justice is difficult to discern, and the law needed to come down on the side of practical convenience.	Reasoning
We may borrow the jurisprudential theory propounded by Ronald Dworkin, albeit in somewhat different context, viz.	Reasoning
the conventional jurisprudential wisdom which holds that in certain cases of a particularly complex or novel character the law does not provide a definite answer.	Reasoning
In denying that judges in hard cases have a discretion to determine what the law is, Dworkin has instead argued for the judicial use of public standards or principles in a way that is capable of providing the right legal answer.	Reasoning
The process of reaching a right answer in hard cases obviously differs from the process of reaching the legal answer in easy cases.	Reasoning
After all, the avowed objective of rule of law is also to ensure that the orders of this Court are respected and obeyed.	Reasoning
Therefore, its a classic case where the approach adopted is influenced by the necessity of making the law work.	Reasoning
Therefore, the orders passed may not be strictly construed as arising out of contempt jurisdiction, but in exercise of inherent jurisdiction vested in this Court to do complete justice in the matter and to ensure that the applicants render full compliance of its orders.	Reasoning
Its the unprecedented situation which has led to passing of unprecedented, but justifiable, orders.	None
This Court is not powerless as it can always direct selling the properties of the Sahara Companies to ensure recovery of the aforesaid amount as the value of those properties is stated to be much higher.	None
However, it is not done so far pursuant to the wishes of the applicants who have pleaded against the sale of these properties by the Court with repeated assurances that these companies would be taking necessary steps for generating the desired finances and the Court has accepted their request and given them opportunities and chances to do so.	None
Shri Datar, Senior Counsel for SEBI and Shri Naphade, Amicus Curiae contended and in our view rightly so, that if the format of the bank guarantee is accepted, this Court ought to indicate the circumstances in which the SEBI can seek encashment of the said guarantee.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued that the Bank Guarantee as furnished by the contemnors did not indicate a trigger point for encashment which ought to be suitably mentioned and entered either in the guarantee or in the order of this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further argued that release of the contemnors from the custody even after deposit of a sum of Rs. 5000 crores and a bank guarantee of Rs. 5000 crores pursuant to the order of this Court was meant only to enable them to deposit the balance amount.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that in case the contemnors comply with the conditions for release from custody, the next thing they must do is to comply with the directions regarding deposit of the balance amount.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court, it was argued, should not only direct the deposit of balance amount but provide for the consequences in default of such deposits.	Arguments of Respondent
The bank guarantee format does not provide for a trigger point for its encashment.	None
Furnishing the bank guarantee without stipulating the situations in which the guarantee shall become encashable, will be meaningless.	Reasoning
The Bank guarantee is actually meant to ensure that the entire amount is deposited by the contemnors once they are released from custody.	Reasoning
That is because the liability to deposit the amount does not get obliterated by furnishing the bank guarantee which is intended to grant release of the contemnors from custody to enable them to comply with the orders passed by this Court.	Reasoning
We have in that view examined several options that may provide for a trigger point for encashment.	Reasoning
We are of the view that since most of the properties owned by Sahara group remain frozen by the order of this Court, the contemnors require time to enable them to deposit the balance outstanding.	Reasoning
In case the bank guarantee is made encashable on default, the trigger point for encashment would be the default by the contemnors in depositing the balance amount in terms of the directions that we propose to issue.	Reasoning
It is in that spirit that we accept the bank guarantee format furnished by the contemnors and grant to them time to deposit the balance amount that remains to be deposited subject to the following conditions Keeping in view the total liability which according to SEBI, has risen to Rs. 36,000 crores (approximately), the contemnors shall deposit the balance outstanding amount within a period of 18 months commencing from the date of their release from custody in nine installments.	Reasoning
First eight installments shall be of Rs. 3,000 crores payable every two months from the date of their release from custody and last installment shall be of the remaining amount.(2)	Decision
In the event of the default in payment of two instalments (not necessarily consecutive) the bank guarantee furnished by the contemnors pursuant to the order of this Court shall be encashed by SEBI and the amount so received counted towards part compliance with the earlier directions given by this Court.(3)	Decision
The bank guarantee shall also be encashable in the event of failure of the contemnors to deposit the full amount outstanding against them within a period of 18 months commencing from the date of their release.(4)	Decision
In the event of failure of the contemnors to deposit three instalments (not necessarily consecutive), the contemnors shall surrender back to custody and in case they fail to do so, they shall be taken into custody and committed to jail.(5)	Decision
Since only some of the properties have been released by this Court for sale by the contemnors, the contemnors shall be free to apply for permission to sell any further property within 15 days from their release in order to enable them to raise funds for deposit of the required amount in terms of the order of this Court.(6)	Decision
Keeping in view the fact that a large amount remains to be deposited by the contemnors, we direct the contemnors to deposit their passports in this Court within 15 days from the date of this order or before their release, whichever is earlier.	Decision
They shall not leave the country without prior permission of this Court.	Decision
Insofar as their movements within the country are concerned, they shall keep police station Tilak Marg, New Delhi informed and updated about their whereabouts every fortnight.	Decision
The Interlocutory Applications stand disposed of on the aforesaid terms.	Decision
