Arijit Pasayat, J. The Custom, Excise and Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi (for short CEGAT) by the common impugned judgment held that there was no interdependence so far as the respondent no.1company and respondent nos.	None
24 companies are concerned.	None
Background facts in a nutshell are as followsRespondent no.1  M s. Modi Alkalies Chemicals Ltd. (in short MACL) is engaged in the manufacture of caustic soda of which Hydrogen gas is a byproduct.	Facts
The Central Excise Authorities noticed that in reality MACL was engaged in the manufacture of Hydrogen gas falling under subheading 2804.90 of the schedule of the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1988 (in short Tariff Act).	Issue
But with a view to evade payment of excise duty it floated three front companies, namely, respondent nos.	Issue
2 to 4 i.e. M s. Mahabaleshwar Gas Chemicals Pvt. Ltd. (for short MGCPL), Shri Chamundi Gas and Chemicals Pvt. Ltd. (for short SCGCPL) and M s. Nippon Gas and Chemicals Pvt.	Facts
Ltd. (for short NGCPL).	Facts
All the three front companies were in vicinity of the factory of MACL.	Issue
What in reality happened was that through pipelines Hydrogen gas was sent to the three front companies for compressing and bottling the gas.	Issue
The sole object was to avail benefit of exemption given to small scale industries under the Central Excise Notification No. 1/93 dated 28.2.1993 and thereby evade payment of central excise duty.	Issue
With a view to unravel the truth, Director General of AntiEvasion (for short DGAE) searched the factory and office premises of MACL and the three front companies on 27.9.1996.	Facts
It was found that all the three bottling units were located in one single shed and were separated from each other by small brick walls of about 4 ft. height.	Issue
The Directors of the three front companies were employees of either MACL or other Modi Group of companies and they were frequently changed.	Issue
They had common staff for maintenance of records, and operation of the units.	Issue
The main plant and machinery i.e. cylinders had been supplied only by MACL and the total finance was provided by MACL as unsecured loans or had been arranged by finance companies whose whereabouts were not even known to the Directors of the three front companies.	Issue
Marketing of the products was done by one Ritesh Beotra, a socalled Director of SCGCPL who was working as Deputy Manager (Marketing) in M s. Modi Gas Chemicals Sales Depot at Delhi.	Issue
He was marketing various gases manufactured by a Modi group concern and was answerable as an employee of MACL.	Issue
It was, therefore, concluded that MACL had control over Hydrogen gas even after the stage of bottling till it was sold to the customers.	Issue
The BalanceSheets and other financial statements of the three units revealed that whatever income they earned had gone to MACL in the form of lease rent of cylinders.	Issue
One Mr. Sita Ram Goswami, Accountant of MACL and Mr. Ashok Kumar, Chief Operating Officer of MACL admitted that some amount of cash was also collected by MACL over and above the invoice prices of Hyderogen gas supplied by three companies.	Issue
It was noted that while front companies were being supplied gas by MACL 0.50 per unit, till August 1996, the same gas was sold by the three companies Rs. 5/ per unit.	Issue
Keeping in view all these factors the authorities were of the view that MACL had created the three companies with the fraudulent intention to avail benefit of exemption granted under Central Excise Notification No. 1/93 dated 28.2.1993 and has misdeclared the assessable value in the invoices with the intention to evade central excise duty.3.	Facts
Showcause notice was issued requiring MACL to showcause as to why the central excise duty of Rs. 20,58,732.65 for the concerned period i.e. 9.5.1995 to 27.9.1996 should not be recovered from it under the provisions of Rule 9(2) of the Central Excise Rules, 1945 (in short the Rules) read with Section 11 of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (in short the Act) by invoking the extended period of limitation.	Facts
Further, penalty in terms of Rule 52A and 173Q of the Rules and Section 11 of the Act along with interest to be determined under Section 11 A(2) was to be levied.	Facts
It was also required to show cause as to why the land, building, plant and machinery installed in the three front units were not to be confiscated in terms of Rule 173Q of the Rules.	Facts
Three officials were asked to show cause as to why penalty should not be imposed under Rule 209A of the Rules on each of them.	Facts
On receipt of the showcause, MACL replied that the three companies were independent entities with corporate existence and were using their own machinery.	Facts
The loans have been returned and on the cylinders lease rent had also been paid.	Facts
Merely because MACL had taken the cylinders on lease and had supplied to the three companies, no adverse inference was to be drawn.	Facts
Even if common staff maintained the records and operated units that would not prove that the companies did not exist or that MACL was the company having manufacturing activities in their premises.	Facts
Similar replies were filed by the three companies who denied that they were fake units or front companies.	Facts
It was pointed out that all requisites of central excise laws were followed.	Facts
There was nothing suspicious in the transactions entered into by them with MACL.4.	Facts
After consideration the showcause reply, the Commissioner of Central Excise (Adjudication), Delhi (for short the Commissioner) analysed the factual position and found that this is a clear case where the three companies were dummies of MACL.	Facts
Documents have been created to show existence of the bottling companies, whereas in reality MACL was in full control over the units and, therefore, MACL was treated to have evaded duty by resorting to under valuation.	Facts
Duty and penalty as proposed were imposed.	Facts
Confiscation was directed of land, building, plant machinery of the three companies with option for redemption on payments of fine of Rs. 20 lakhs, Rs. 7 lakhs and Rs.	Facts
50,000/ respectively.	Facts
Penalty of Rs. 1 lakh was imposed on each of the three companies and Rs.	Facts
50,000/ on each of the three employees and the Director of the Company.5.	Facts
Eight appeals were filed before the CEGAT, which by the common judgment set aside the order of the Commissioner.	Facts
It came to hold, inter alia, that (1) there was no manufacture involved in the process and, therefore, question of evasion of duty did not arise (2) there was no interdependence as alleged by the Central Excise Authorities.	Facts
Three companies had independent existence and the factual position did not indicate that they were front companies as alleged by the authorities.	Facts
In support of the appeals, learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the CEGAT has fallen into grave error both while analyzing factual position and the applicable principles of law.	Arguments of Petitioner
Telltale features which clearly prove that the three companies were front companies have been lightly brushed aside by the CEGAT.	Arguments of Petitioner
It even failed to notice that transactions were done by companies with share capital of Rs. 200 each.	Arguments of Petitioner
The CEGAT has also recorded wrong findings as regards the management and marketing.	Arguments of Petitioner
Though the issue as to whether there was manufacture was never agitated before the Commissioner, the CEGAT on its own came to hold that there was no manufacturing.	Arguments of Petitioner
The conclusion is not supportable on facts and in law.	Arguments of Petitioner
In response, learned counsel for the respondents submitted that the CEGAT has rightly analysed the factual background and came to the right conclusions.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that the three companies have separate corporate existence, are assessed separately to sales tax and income tax and have central excise registration.	Arguments of Respondent
They submitted records to the Central Excise Authorities which were being verified by them.	Arguments of Respondent
In any event, the question of any clubbing was not permissible in view of circular no.	Arguments of Respondent
6/92 dated 25.5.1992 issued by the Government of India, Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue, Central Board of Excise and Customs, New Delhi.	Arguments of Respondent
The same was, in fact, continuation of the notification No. CER 8(5)	Arguments of Respondent
Central Excise continuation of the notification No. CER 8(5)	Arguments of Respondent
Central Excise dated 1.3.1956.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that there was no suppression or evasion for applying extended period of limitation.	Arguments of Respondent
The showcause notice was issued on 26.6.1997 and the order was passed on 23.10.1998 relating to the period from 9.5.1992 to 27.9.1996.	Arguments of Respondent
The whole proceedings were, therefore, beyond the prescribed period of of limitation.	Arguments of Respondent
Whether there is interdependence and whether another unit is, in fact, a dummy has to be adjudicated on the facts of each case.	Reasoning
There cannot be any generalization or rule or universal application.	Reasoning
Two basic features which prima facie show interdependence are pervasive financial control and management control.	Reasoning
In the present case facts clearly show financial control.	Reasoning
Undisputedly, the share capital of each of the three companies was Rs. 200/.	Reasoning
Though it was claimed that financial assistance was availed from the financial companies, it is on record that the unsecured loans advanced by MACL to the three companies were substantially heavy amounts as on 1.4.1998.	Reasoning
NGCPL received an amount of Rs.1.55 crores.	Reasoning
About 14 lakhs appeared to have been paid after the issue of show cause notice.	Reasoning
Loans advanced to NGCPL was about Rs.52 lakhs while to SCGCPL it was about Rs. 65 lakhs.	Reasoning
The finding of the Commissioner that the financial assistance from the financial institutions were availed with the aid and assistance of MACL has not been seriously disputed.	Reasoning
Apart from that, the cylinders were brought on lease by MACL from another concern and were subleased to the three companies.	Reasoning
The cylinders bore the name of MACL.	Reasoning
If the three companies had separate standing as contended it could not be explained why they could not get the cylinders directly from the lessors on lease basis and the need for introducing MACL as the lessee and then the three companies becoming sublessees.	Reasoning
As noted by the Commissioner, entire receipts were paid as lease amount to MACL.	Reasoning
Here again, the undervaluation aspect assumes importance.	Reasoning
While the supply by MACL to three companies was Rs. 0.50 per unit, the sale price by the three companies was Rs. 5 per unit.	Reasoning
It is on record that accounts were kept by common staff and marketing was done under the supervision of a person who belongs to the same group of concerns.	Reasoning
The amounts have been collected by an employee of MACL.	Reasoning
The socalled Directors of the companies were undisputedly employees of MACL.	Reasoning
Almost the entire financial resources were made by MACL.	Reasoning
The financial position clearly shows that MACL had more than ordinary interest in the financial arrangements for companies.	Reasoning
The statements of the employees Directors show that the whole show was controlled, both on financial and management aspects by MACL.	Reasoning
If these are not sufficient to show interdependence probably nothing better would show the same.	Reasoning
The factors which have weighed with CEGAT like registration of three companies under the sales tax and income tax authorities have to be considered in the background of factual position noted above.	Reasoning
When the corporate veil is lifted what comes into focus is only the shadow and not any substance about the existence of the three companies independently.	Reasoning
The circular no. 6/92 dated 29.5.1992 has no relevance because it related to notification no.	Reasoning
175/86CE dated 1.3.1986 and did not relate to notification no. 1/93.	Reasoning
The extended period of limitation was clearly applicable on the facts of the case, as suppression of material features and factors has been clearly established.	Reasoning
If in reality the three companies are front companies then the price per unit to be assessed in the hands of MACL is Rs. 5 and not Rs. 0.50 as disclosed.	Reasoning
The question whether there was manufacture or not was not in issue before the Commissioner.	Reasoning
The plea that there was no manufacture has also to be rejected in view of the fact that exemption was claimed by the three companies as manufacturers to avail the benefit of Central Excise Notification No. 1/93.	Reasoning
The inevitable conclusion is that CEGATs judgment is indefensible.	Decision
Accordingly, the same is set aside and that of the Commissioner is restored, so far as it relates on the peculiar facts of the case, to levy of duty, penalty and interest on MACL are concerned.10.	Decision
The appeals are accordingly allowed with no order as to costs.	Decision
