 Bose, J.1.	None
This appeal arises out of a writ petition for mandamus under Art.	Issue
226 of the Constitution.2.	None
the appellant was a District and Sessions Judge in the former Bikaner State.	None
He was appointed on 2911948, in the grade of Rs. 50040700 and worked as such till 741949.On that date a new State of Rajasthan was formed by the integration of a number so States (including the former State of Bikaner) by means of a Covenant signed by the High Contracting Parties.3.	Facts
Article XVI (1) of the Covenant ran thusThe United State hereby guarantees either the continuance in service of the permanent members of the public service of the former Rajasthan State and of each of the new Covenanting States on conditions which will not be less advantageous than those on which they were serving on 1111948 or the payment of reasonable compensation or retirement on proportionate pension.4.	Facts
the integration necessarily involved a reorganisation of the various services in the several integrating States.	None
On the judicial side it was found that there were as any as twenty eight Courts of District and Sessions Judges in the aggregate.	Facts
In the integrated State it was proposed to have only fifteen.	Facts
The reorganisation took time and in the interval certain interim arrangements had to be made.	Facts
These arrangements are set out in a Rajasthan Gazette Notification dated 2551950.	Facts
We append the relevant extracts4.	None
In Appendix F have been indicated the provisional positing on an ad hoc basis of the posts specified in Appendices A to E. 6.	Facts
All the appointments mentioned in the different Appendices, attached to this Order, are provisional.	Facts
The emoluments of none or these officers appointed are being affected and they will continue to draw their existing salaries until further orders.	Facts
All the appointments are without prejudice to the creation of a Judicial Service in Rajasthan to be formed in accordance with the rules which may be made therefor.	Facts
Appendix F is headedAd hoc postings of Judicial Officers to Civil and Sessions Courts.	Facts
The appellant was appointed under this heading in Part II as a civil and Additional Sessions Judge in the Jaipur Division.5.	None
But before this Notification was made, namely on 9121949, the appellant received the following order from the new Rajasthan GovernmentShri Amar Singh, District and Sessions Judge, Churn, is transferred to Ganganagar as District and Sessions Judge, Ganganagar.	Facts
Among other contentions, the appellant relies on this as an election by the new Government to continue him in his original post and contends that it could not later change its mind and make his service provisional as it purported to do in the notification just cited.6.	Facts
Two months after the notification, namely on 3171950, the appellants increment became due and Government sanctioned it in the following termsSanction is accorded to the grant of a stipulated increment of Rs. 40 p. m., in the scale of Rs. 50040700 to Shri Rajvi Amar Singh, District and Sessions Judge in Bikaner Division, with effect from 2331950, thereby raising his salary from Rs. 540 to Rs. 580 p. m.7.	Facts
When the final reorganisation was brought into force and the twenty eight Courts of District and Sessions Judges reduced to fifteen, the appellant was posted as Civil and Additional Sessions Judge on an ad hoc basis on 25519508.	None
On 1191950, the appellant made a representation to the Government of Rajasthan against his posting of 2551950, as an ad hoc Civil and Additional Sessions Judge.	Facts
He says in his writ petition to the High Court thathe was given to understand that these ad hoc postings were without prejudice to the claims of the Government servants for a suitable position in the integrated set up on permanent basis.	Facts
This allegation was admitted by the opposite party.9.	None
Later, he was appointed substantively as Civil Judge on 2341951.	None
He was placed in Group C (Civil Judges and Munsiffs) and placed at No. 18 in the list of junior posts.	Facts
His pay and emoluments were as before and he retained the same grading, namely Rs. 50040700.	Facts
His earned increments were not affected and, except for the change in name, his conditions of service were not worse than when he was in the service of the Bikaner State.	Facts
We were given the last two facts by his counsel.	Facts
They do not appear the paper book.	Facts
All that is to be found the are references to these orders but the orders themselves have not been included.10.	Facts
Being aggrieved by this, the appellant filed the writ petition out of which this appeal arises on 341954.	None
His contention was that under the guarantee given by the United State of Rajasthan, and also otherwise, he was entitled to be posted as a District and Sessions Judge in the new set up and that the posting of 2341951, reduced him in rank.	Facts
As that was done without affording him an opportunity to show cause, Art. 311 of the Constitution was violated.11.	Facts
The High Court held, that the posting of 2341951, which purports to appoint the appellant substantively as a Civil Judge, is wrong and that it must be treated as an ad hoc appointment till proper appointments are made to the Judicial Service of Rajasthan according to the Constitution of India.12.	Facts
The learned Judges held, that as there had been a clear declaration that a new Judicial Service was to be created in Rajasthan and that the existing officers from the various covenanting States were not to be taken into it as matter of course, it followed that all appointments, to it would be by way of fresh recruitment, and, as the Constitution of India was in force at that date, these recruitments must conform to its provisions.	Facts
It was admitted before the learned Judges that after the Constitution only the Rajpramkh had power to make rules regulating the recruitment and conditions of service of those appointed to public services and posts in connection with the affairs of the State until provision in that behalf is made by an Act of the Legislature, and it was also admitted that the State Public Service Commission must be consulted.	Facts
As this was not done, the learned Judges directed as followsThe petition is allowed, the postings made by notification dated 2341951, including that of the petitioner as Civil Judges, are declared to be on an ad hoc basis, and a direction is made to the Government to provide a machinery according to the provisions of the Constitution for the first recruitment to the Rajasthan Judicial Service.	Facts
The judgment was delivered on 591955, and the appellant thereupon came here and was granted special leave to appeal on 1641956.13.	None
In the meanwhile, according to the facts set out in the respondents statement of the case, the Rajasthan Government complied with the orders of the High Court, reframed their rules and made fresh appointments in accordance with them.	None
These were duly published in the Rajasthan Gazette and the appellant was finally selected to the Rajasthan Judicial Service.	Facts
He was appointed a Civil Judge.14.	None
The appellants contention is that the order of 2341951, reduced him in rank and as he was not afforded an opportunity of showing cause, Art. 311 of the Constitution was violated.	Arguments of Petitioner
If this contention is sound, it will follow that the fresh appointment as Civil Judge after the High Courts order will also be bad for the same reasons.15.	Arguments of Petitioner
Now it is well established that when one State is absorbed in another whether by accession, conquest, merger or integration, all contracts of service between the prior Government and its servants automatically terminate and thereafter those who elect to serve in the new State, and are taken on by it, serve on such terms and conditions as the new State may choose to impose.	Reasoning
This is nothing more, (though on a more exalted scale), than an application of the principle that underlies the law of Master and Servant when there is a change of masters.	None
So far as this Court is concerned, the law is settled by the decision in State of Madras v. K. M. Rajagoplan, 19552	None
SCR 541 at p. 562( (S) AIR 1955 SC 817 at p 830)(A), which follows the decisions of the Privy council and the House of Lords in Reilly v. The King, 1934 A. C. 176 (B), and Nokes v. Doncaster Amalgamated Collieries Ltd. 1940 A. C. 1014 (C).	None
The distinction between rights to properly and contractual rights when there is a change of sovereignty was pointed out in Virendra Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh 19551	None
SCR 415 at p. 427 (AIR 1954 Sc 447 at p. 451)(D).16.	None
The appellant founds on Art. XVI	Arguments of Respondent
(1) of the Covenant.	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended that he cannot rely on this because he was not a party to it	Arguments of Respondent
but we need not decide this because, even if this be assumed to be the law of the new State settling the conditions of service of those who continue in service, all that it says is that the conditions of their service will not be less advantageous than those on which they were serving on 1111948.	None
We have shown above that this condition is fulfilled.17.	None
But that apart, Article XVI (1) indicates that the old contracts terminate just as they did in 19552 SCR at p. 562 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 817 ) (A).	None
In the first place, there were three options(1) continuance in service(2) payment of reasonable compensation, and(3) retirement on proportionate Pension.	None
That shows that the old contracts terminated and that those who continued in service did so on the basis of fresh contracts, the conditions of which had yet to be determined.	Reasoning
The only guarantee (assuming that the appellant can avail himself of it) was that the new conditions were not to be less advantageous than those on which the appellant was serving on 1111948.	Reasoning
There was no guarantee that they would be the same or better.18.	None
This was emphasised in the Rajasthan Gazette Extraordinary dated 461949.	None
It first referred to the broad outlines of the programme of integration that had already been published and then outlined the procedure and principles to be observed in carrying it out.	None
Paragraph 6 is as followsAfter final orders have been passed by the Government on the Departmental reorganisation schemes and cadres and strength for different kinds of establishments in each department are fixed, the heads of departments will prepare gradation lists according to prescribed rules and put up proposals fixation of each individual Government servant in the posts on permanent, officiating or deputation basis.	None
They will also determined the revised rates of pay admissible to each Gazetted and nonGazetted officer under the new scales etc.	None
And then paragraph 15It is not the intention of Government to throw any Government servant out of employ as far as practicable.	None
If necessary, services of efficient and deserving staff will be retained temporarily on supernumerary basis in the prospect of finding work for them in connection with new development schemes.19.	None
The order of 9121949, on which the appellant relies, transferring him as District and Sessions Judge to the District Court at Ganganagar, must be read subject to the above and, if Article XVI (1) of the Covenant applies, then subject to that as well.	None
An order of transfer cannot be equated to an order of appointment and in any case, the new cadres had not been established and the new Courts under the proposed scheme of reorganisation had not been constituted, so anything done at that stage could only have been part and parcel of the temporary transitional arrangements pending the final settlement by the new State of the schemes and conditions of service.20.	None
The next set of orders published in the Gazette of 2521950, brings this out clearly,.	None
We have already set out its terms.21.	None
The order of 2531950 and 3171950, sanctioning the increment do not help the appellant, He is described thereasShri Rajvi Amar Singh, District and Sessions Judge in Bikaner Division.	None
This is merely descriptive as the endorsement on the letter indicates.	None
It runsCopy forwarded to(1)	None
Shri Amar Singh, Civil and Addl.	None
Sessions Judge, Jhunjhunu.	None
No determination to post the appellant permanently in a particular cadre and post can be spelled out of these accidental descriptions in orders dealing with a different matter.	None
Postings to a cadre and engagements of service are not made in this incidental way.22.	None
The substantive appointment gazetted on 2341951, after the new cadres and Courts had been fixed, was struck down by the High Court, and the Government of Rajasthan was directed to treat that as an ad hoc appointment.	None
According to the respondent in its statement of the case, the matter was regularised after the High Courts decision and he appellant was again appointed a Civil Judge.	Reasoning
If that is so, then this must be regarded as his first substantive appointment in the new State.	Reasoning
But whether this is first substantive appointment after the integration, or the one of 2341951, no question of reduction in rank can arise and so Art, 311 is not attracted.	Reasoning
All his previous posting in the new State were purely transitional and temporary and so far as Art. XVI(1) of the Covenant is concerned, its guarantee has been fulfilled.23.	Reasoning
The appeal is dismissed with costs.24.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
