 Arijit Pasayat, J These appeals involve identical issues and are, therefore, disposed of by this common judgment.	None
Appellant calls in question legality of the judgment rendered by a learned Single Judge of the Uttaranchal High Court.	Issue
Several writ petitions were filed by the appellant questioning correctness of the award dated 23.12.1999 holding that respondent No.2 in the writ petitions (respondent No.1 in each of these appeals) were entitled to reinstatement and compensation of Rs.5,000/ with litigation expenses of Rs.500/ each.	Issue
It was held by the Labour Court that there was clear violation of the provisions of Section 6N of the U.P. Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (in short the Act) as cessation of their work amounted to retrenchment which was in violation of the aforesaid provision.	Issue
Background facts in a nutshell are as follows M s Indian Drugs Pharmaceuticals Limited (for short IDPL), the appellant, is a public undertaking fully owned and controlled by the Government of India.	Facts
It has one of its units at Virbhadra, Rishikesh, District Dehradun.	Facts
Several workers of the unit died in harness leaving behind the widows and families.	Facts
The IDPL Workers Union took up their cause and other disputes in a meeting held on 12.8.1988.	Facts
In the said meeting as item No.3 the Union demanded that the widows dependants of deceased employees should be given employment in the plant.	Facts
Till such time the decision for their employment is received from the corporate office, the management should employ them as contract labour.	Facts
The management agreed to consider the Unions suggestion sympathetically.	None
However, appellant decided to give work to them on contract basis by appointing them as contractor for maintenance of office records, cleaning and mopping of floors etc.	None
on a consolidated amount.	Facts
As contractors they were liable to pay provident fund and other statutory liabilities for the labourers engaged by them to carry out the contracts.	Facts
The respondents were appointed as contractors from time to time.	Facts
After the meeting which was held on 12.8.1988 the Head Office vide letter dated 27.5.1998 took a decision that contract labour arrangement should cease.	Facts
It was also decided that in view of financial stringencies it has been decided to dispense with system forthwith and existing contractual agreements were to be reviewed.	Facts
With effect from 1.8.1998 contracts with the respondents were terminated.	None
Respondents raised industrial dispute which was referred to the Labour Court U.P. Dehradun who gave the award against the appellantcompany on the ground that the said respondents were the workmen and they were entitled to be regularized.	Facts
It applied the principle of lifting the veil of contract to find out the correct position.	None
Against the said order, the appellantcompany filed Writ Petitions which were dismissed on the ground that the minutes of the meeting dated 12.8.1988 was a settlement between the parties in terms of Section 2(p) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (in short the ID Act) read with Rule 58 of the Industrial Disputes (Central) Rules, 1957 (in short the Central Rules).	Facts
High Court recorded a finding that the settlement between the employer and employees acquired a statutory status, as a result of which the job contractors cannot be said to be contract labourers.	Facts
In fact they are workmen in view of their engagement.	Facts
Therefore, the respondents cannot be said to be contract labourers but were in reality workmen.	Facts
It was noted by the High Court that there was settlement arrived at between the management of the Rishikesh Unit of the appellantcompany and the office bearers of the Union and since the respondent in each appeal was given employment in furtherance of the policy of the appellantcompany, they were workmen.	None
The High Court noted that the employment was given to the dependants widows of the workmen who had died in harness.	None
Since the engagement was pursuant to a settlement in terms of Section 2(p) of the ID Act, it was binding on the parties to the agreement in terms of Section 18(1) of the ID Act.	None
It was noted that the Memorandum of Settlement was arrived at in terms of Rule 58 of the Central Rules.	None
What was projected by the appellant, according to the High Court, as job contract is nothing but employment given under dying in harness scheme.	None
Accordingly, the Labour Courts award was upheld.	None
In support of the appeals, learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the Labour Court and the High Court have clearly lost sight of various relevant factors.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant is a sick company and is before Board of Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (in short BIFR) since 1992.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no rule or scheme for providing appointment on compassionate ground.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant has never employed the concerned respondents on compassionate ground and in any event the company was not in a position to employ such persons.	Arguments of Petitioner
The bleak financial position of the company has been considered by this Court in Officers Supervisors of IDPL v. Chairman M.D., IDPL and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2003(6) SCC 490).	Arguments of Petitioner
Originally more than 6500 employees were employed and out of them 6171 have taken retirement and only 421 employees are working throughout the country.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellantcompany is not functional and is trying to further reduce the number of employees.	None
In the absence of any rule or scheme for compassionate employment, no direction could have been given by the Labour Court and the High Court erroneously held that there was a settlement arrived at.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Minutes of the meeting dated 12.8.1988 clearly show that there was no settlement.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, the minutes show that only demands of the Union and the agreement of the management to consider the suggestions sympathetically were accorded.	Arguments of Petitioner
This cannot by any stretch of imagination be considered a Memorandum of Settlement in terms of Section 2(p) of the ID Act or Rule 58 of the Central Rules.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Labour Court erroneously held that the labour contract given was in fact not a contract but an appointment of the respondents as workmen.	Arguments of Petitioner
The language of the contract is clear and unambiguous.	Arguments of Petitioner
In response, in the counter affidavit and the notes of submissions it has been mentioned by learned counsel for the respondents that the orders of the Labour Court and the High Court do not warrant interference.	Arguments of Respondent
It is stated that though contracts were purportedly entered into for all practical purposes, the respondents were detained as employees by the appellantcompany.	Arguments of Respondent
The undisputed position is that the appellantcompany does not have any rule or scheme for compassionate appointment.	None
As was observed in State of Haryana and Ors.	Reasoning
v. Rani Devi Anr.	Reasoning
(AIR 1996 SC 2445 ), it need not be pointed out that the claim of person concerned for appointment on compassionate ground is based on the premise that he was dependant on the deceasedemployee.	Reasoning
Strictly this claim cannot be upheld on the touchstone of Article 14 or 16 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
However, such claim is considered as reasonable and permissible on the basis of sudden crisis occurring in the family of such employee who has served the State and dies while in service.	Reasoning
That is why it is necessary for the authorities to frame rules, regulations or to issue such administrative orders which can stand the test of Articles 14 and 16.	Reasoning
Appointment on compassionate ground cannot be claimed as a matter of right.	None
Diein harness Scheme cannot be made applicable to all types of posts irrespective of the nature of service rendered by the deceasedemployee.	None
In Rani Devis case (supra) it was held that scheme regarding appointment on compassionate ground if extended to all types of casual or ad hoc employees including those who worked as apprentices cannot be justified on constitutional grounds.	Reasoning
In Life Insurance Corporation of India v. Asha Ramchandra Ambekar (Mrs.) and Anr.	Reasoning
(1994 (2) SCC 718) , it was pointed out that High Courts and Administrative Tribunals cannot confer benediction impelled by sympathetic considerations to make appointments on compassionate grounds when the regulations framed in respect thereof do not cover and contemplate such appointments.	Reasoning
It was noted in Umesh Kumar Nagpal v. State of Haryana and Ors.	Reasoning
(1994 (4) SCC 138) , that as a rule in public service appointment should be made strictly on the basis of open invitation of applications and merit.	Reasoning
The appointment on compassionate ground is not another source of recruitment but merely an exception to the aforesaid requirement taking into consideration the fact of the death of employee while in service leaving his family without any means of livelihood.	Reasoning
In such cases the object is to enable the family to get over sudden financial crisis.	Reasoning
But such appointments on compassionate ground have to be made in accordance with the rules, regulations or administrative instructions taking into consideration the financial condition of the family of the deceased.	Reasoning
In Smt.	None
Sushma Gosain and Ors. v. Union of India and Ors.	None
(1989 (4) SCC 468) , it was observed that in all claims of appointment on compassionate grounds, there should not be any delay in appointment.	None
The purpose of providing appointment on compassionate ground is to mitigate the hardship due to death of the breadearner in the family.	None
Such appointments should, therefore, be provided immediately to redeem the family in distress.	None
The fact that the ward was a minor at the time of death of his father is no ground, unless the scheme itself envisage specifically otherwise, to state that as and when such minor becomes a major he can be appointed without any time consciousness or limit.	None
The above view was reiterated in Phoolwati (Smt.)	None
v. Union of India and Ors.	None
(1991 Supp (2) SCC 689), and Union of India and Ors.	None
v. Bhagwan Singh (1995 (6) SCC 476) .	None
In Director of Education (Secondary) and Anr.	None
v. Pushpendra Kumar and Ors.	None
(1998 (5) SCC 192) , it was observed that in matter of compassionate appointment there cannot be insistence for a particular post.	None
Out of purely humanitarian consideration and having regard to the fact that unless some source of livelihood is provided the family would not be able to make both ends meet, provisions are made for giving appointment to one of the dependants of the deceased who may be eligible for appointment.	None
Care has, however, to be taken that provision for ground of compassionate employment which is in the nature of an exception to the general provisions does not unduly interfere with the right of those other persons who are eligible for appointment to seek appointment against the post which would have been available, but for the provision enabling appointment being made on compassionate grounds of the dependant of the deceasedemployee.	None
As it is in the nature of exception to the general provisions it cannot substitute the provision to which it is an exception and thereby nullify the main provision by taking away completely the right conferred by the main provision.	None
In State of U.P. and Ors.	None
v. Paras Nath (1998 (2) SCC 412) , it was held that the purpose of providing employment to the dependant of a Government servant dyinginharness in preference to anybody else is to mitigate hardship caused to the family of the deceased on account of his unexpected death while in service.	None
To alleviate the distress of the family, such appointments are permissible on compassionate grounds provided there are Rules providing for such appointments.	None
The above position was highlighted in Commissioner of Public Instructions and Ors.	None
v. K.R. Vishwanath (2005 (7) SCC 206)	None
.	None
Additionally, in Officers and Supervisors of IDPLs case (supra) the financial condition of the appellant company had been noted in detail.	None
No production is going on in the company since 1994.	None
These are factors which have been completely lost sight of by the Labour Court and the High Court.	None
Both the Labour Court and the High Court held that there was a settlement arrived at in the meeting dated 12.8.1988.	None
On bare reading of the minutes of the meeting it is clear that there was in fact no settlement.	None
The relevant portion reads as follows The Union demanded that the widows dependants of deceased employees should be given employment in the plant as was done earlier.	None
They have written several letters in this regard but no fruitful result has come out.	None
The widows dependants are waiting for employment for the last 2 years and are at the verge of starvation.	None
Till such time, the decision for their employment is received from the corporation office, the management should employ them as contract labour so that they may earn their bread and avoid starvation.	Facts
Further, the management should ensure payment of minimum wages.	None
The number of such needy widows dependants of deceased employees is about thirteen.	None
The management agreed to consider the Union suggestion sympathetically.	None
On the request of Union the Management informed that this will be done in a weeks time.	None
To provide sustenance to the family members of the deceased workmen certain job works were given.	None
The agreements have been placed on record.	None
The cost of the contract, the nature of the work and the time allowed have been clearly indicated in each of the contracts.	None
It also clearly indicates the number of persons who are to be engaged for carrying out the job contract work.	None
There was no material before the Labour Court to conclude that the contract was not a job contract and in fact employment had been given.	None
There is no foundation for such a conclusion.	None
Above being the position, the Labour Court and the High Court were not justified in holding that the respondent in each case was a workman and or that there was retrenchment involved.	Decision
The award of the Labour Court and the judgment of the High Court are therefore set aside The appeals are allowed but with no order as to costs.	Decision
