 Shah, J.1.	None
Civil Appeal No. 306 of 1957 Raja Syed Mohammad Saadat Ali Khan who will hereinafter be referred to as the assessee, is the owner of Taluqa Nanpura in district Bahraich and Taluqa Mohammadi in district Kheri, in the State of Uttar Pradesh.	Facts
The legislature of the United Provinces enacted the United Provinces Agricultural Income Tax Act, III of 1949, authorising imposition of a tax on agricultural income within the State.	Facts
By S. 3 of the Act, the liability to pay agricultural incometax and supertax at rates specified in the schedule therein was charged on the total agricultural income of the previous year of every person.	Facts
By S. 14, the Collector and the Assistant Collector were for the purposes of the Act declared to be the assessing authorities within their respective revenue jurisdictions.	Facts
As originally enacted, by S. 2 (4), the expression Collector was to have the same meaning as in the United Provinces Land Revenue Act, 1901.	Facts
By S. 44, the Provincial Government was empowered to make rules for carrying out the purposes of the Act, and in particular, amongst others.to prescribe the authority by whom and the place at which assessment shall be made in the case of assessee having agricultural income in the jurisdiction of more than one assessing authority.	Facts
By R. 18, Cl. 1(a) framed by the Government, in exercise of the powers under S. 44, it was provided, in so far as it is material, that subject to subS. 2 of S. 14, an assessee shall ordinarily be assessed by the Collector of the district in which he permanently resides.2.	None
The State Government of Uttar Pradesh (the former United Provinces) by Notification dated June 8, 1953, appointed one K. C. Chaudhry under subs.	Facts
1 of S. 14(A) of the U. P. Land Revenue Act III of 1901 to be the Additional Collector in district Bahraich and authorised him to exercise all the powers and perform all the duties of a Collector in all classes of cases.	Facts
Claiming to exercise the authority of the Collector under S. 14 of Act III of 1949, the Additional Collector by order dated February 25, 1954, assessed the assessees net agricultural income at Rs. 2,81,110103 and ordered him to pay Rs. 1,36,39020 as agricultural incometax and supertax.3.	Facts
The validity of this order was challenged by the assessee by an application under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution presented before the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad.	Facts
The contention of the assessee that the Additional Collector of Bahriach was not an authority competent by law to assess the agricultural incometax under Act III of 1949 was upheld by the High Court.	Facts
The High Court issued a writ of certiorari quashing the order of the Additional Collector, because in its opinion, where property of an assessee is situated in several districts, the Collector as the assessing authority under Act III of 1949 exercises extraterritorial jurisdiction, but as K. C. Chaudhry, the Additional Collector was not invested with that extraterritorial jurisdiction, the impugned proceeding assessing agricultural incometax was unauthorised.	Facts
The State of Uttar Pradesh obtained from the High Court leave to appeal to this Court against the order quashing the assessment.4.	Facts
On behalf of the State of Uttar Pradesh, it is urged that an Additional Collector by virtue of S. 14(A) of the U. P. Land Revenue Act III of 1901, is competent to exercise all such powers and perform all such duties of a Collector in cases or classes of cases as the State Government may direct, and the State Government having invested Mr. Chaudhri the Additional Collector with authority to exercise all the powers and to perform all the duties of a Collector in all classes of cases, that officer could exercise the powers of the Collector under Act III of 1901, including, what the High Court called the extraterritorial powers.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is unnecessary to express any opinion on this argument, because the legislature of the State of Uttar Pradesh has, since the judgment delivered by the High Court in this group of cases, amended the U. P. Agricultural Income Tax Act (Act III of 1949) by Act XIV of 1956, giving retrospective operation to the amending provisions.	Arguments of Petitioner
By the amendment, Cl. 4 of S. 2 of the original Act has been substituted by two clauses, Cl. 4 and Cl. 4a, and Cl. 4a enacts that the expression Collector shall have and shall be deemed always to have the meaning as in the U. P. Land Revenue Act, 1901, and will include an Additional Collector appointed under the said Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
By S. 10(1) (b), all orders made, actions or proceedings taken, directions issued or jurisdictions exercised under or in accordance with the provisions of the Principal Act or of any rule framed thereunder prior to the amendment of that Act are to be deemed always to be as good and valid in law as if the amending Act had been in force at all material dates.	Arguments of Petitioner
By S. 10, subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
1 (a) of the amending Act, it is provided that in R. 18 of the U. P. Agricultural Income Tax Rules, 1949, the expression Collector shall be deemed to have included an Additional Collector and it is enacted by subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
2 of that section that where any question arose as to the validity or legality of any assessment made by an Additional Collector in purported exercise of the powers under S. 14 or of the rules framed under Cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(o) of subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
2 of S. 44 of the Act III of 1949, the same shall be determined as if the provisions of this amending Act had been in force at all material dates.	Arguments of Petitioner
By the amending Act, the legislature has enacted in language which is clear and explicit that assessment proceedings held by an Additional Collector who is invested with the powers of a Collector under Act III of 1901 shall be deemed always to have been properly taken.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
This court is seized of an appeal from the order of the High Court quashing the assessment on the ground that the Additional Collector had no extraterritorial authority to assess agricultural incometax.	Reasoning
It is true that Act III of 1949 was amended after the High Court delivered its judgment but in dealing with this appeal, we are bound to consider the amended law as it stands today (and which must be deemed to have so stood at all material times) and to give effect to it, having regard to the clearly expressed intention of the legislature in the amended provisions.	Reasoning
Accordingly we hold that the Additional Collector was competent to assess the liability of the assessee to pay agricultural incometax and supertax under the United Provinces Agricultural Incometax Act III of 1949.6.	Reasoning
For the assessee, it is contended that before the High Court an application for review of the judgment was submitted by the State Government under S. 11 of the amending Act, and the High Court having rejected that application and no further proceeding having been initiated in this court challenging the correctness of that decision, it is not open to us to set aside the judgment under appeal.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of this plea, it is urged that an application for review of judgment is the only remedy available to a person aggrieved by a decision of a court or authority for rectification of an order inconsistent with the provisions of the amending Act, and if, for any reason, that application for review is not filed or is filed and rejected, it is not open to a court or authority exercising appellate powers against that decision to adjudicate the dispute in the light of the amending Act.7.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 11, in so far as it is material, providesWhere before the commencement of this Act, any court or authority has, in any proceedings under the Principal Act, set aside any assessment made by an Additional Collector merely on the ground that the assessing authority had no jurisdiction to make the assessment, any party to the proceedings may, at any time, within ninety days from the commencement of the Act apply to the court or authority for a review of the proceedings in the light of the provisions of this Act, and the court or authority to which the application is made, shall review the proceedings accordingly.8.	None
Relying on S. 11, the State of Uttar Pradesh, it is true, did submit an application for review of the judgment of the High Court and the High Court rejected that application observingThat section (S. 11) applies however only to cases in which the assessment has been set aside in any proceedings under the Principal Act.	None
In the cases before us, the assessment has not been set aside in any proceedings under the Principal Act but in exercise of the jurisdiction vested in this court under Art.	None
226 of the Constitution.	None
These three petitions are therefore not maintainable9.	None
We need express no opinion on the correctness of this view, because in our judgment, the contention of the assessee that for setting aside an adverse order inconsistent with the provisions of the amending Act of 1956, a proceeding for review under S. 11 is the only remedy which is open to an aggrieved party, is without force.	None
A court of appeal, in an appeal properly before it, must give effect to the law as it stands if the law has at some stage anterior to the hearing of the appeal been amended retrospectively with the object of conferring upon the authority or tribunal of first instance from the order whereof the appeal is filed jurisdiction which it originally lacked and a provision for review like the one contained in S. 11 of the amending Act does not affect the power of the appellate court to deal with the appeal in the light of the amended law.10.	Reasoning
In the view expressed by us, this appeal must be allowed.	Decision
As the appellant succeeds relying on a statute which was enacted after the date of the judgment of the High Court, we direct that there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
Civil Appeals Nos. 307 and 308 of 1957.11.	Decision
These two appeals raise questions which are identical with the questions decided in the principal appeal.	Decision
For reasons set out in the judgment in Appeal No. 306 of 1957, we allow the appeals and set aside the judgment of the High Court.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs in these two appeals.12.	None
Appeals allowed.	None
