 Wanchoo, J.1.	None
This is an appeal by special leave against the judgment of the Punjab High Court and arises in the following circumstances.	Facts
The appellant entered into a contract with the Union of India, respondent herein, for construction of certain highway bridges.	Facts
In connection with the execution of the contract, some dispute arose between the parties and were referred to the joint arbitration of Sri B. K. Guha and Shri N. P. Gurjar.	Facts
As there was difference of opinion between the two arbitrators, the matter was referred to an umpire, namely, Sri Dildar Hussain, retired Chief Engineer, Hyderabad.	Facts
The umpire recorded evidence of the parties and gave his award on May 27, 1981.	Facts
It appears that the award was made in duplicate and one copy was sent to each party.	Facts
On August 4, 1961, the appellant made a petition before the Subordinate Judge, First Class, Delhi, under Ss. 14 and 17 of the Arbitration Act, No. 10 of 1940, (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Facts
It was prayed that the umpire be directed by the Court to cause the award or a signed copy thereof together with any depositions and documents which might have been taken and proved before him to be filed in Court (S. 14).	Facts
It was further prayed that a judgment be passed in terms of the award (S. 17).2.	Facts
It appeals that on this petition the Court issued notice to the umpire to file the award and the arbitration proceedings.	Facts
On September 13, 1961, the umpire wrote to the Court that he was forwarding along with, that letter the award in the case duly signed and certified by him.	Facts
On November 1, 1961, an objection was taken on behalf of the respondent that the award said to have been filed by the umpire had not been validly and legally filed under S. 14 and as such no proceedings in pursuance of the said filing could be taken in Court.3.	Facts
This objection was considered as a preliminary objection by the Subordinate Judge.	Facts
He came to the conclusion that the document filed in Court was neither the original award nor a signed copy thereof, and as such the Court could not take any action on that document.	Facts
He therefore allowed the objection and dismissed the application under S. 17 for passing a judgment in terms of the award.	Facts
The appellant then went in session to the High Court.	Facts
The High Court dismissed the revision application holding that the document filed in court was admittedly not the original award and that it was clear from a perusal of the document itself that it was not a signed copy thereof.	Facts
Certain alternative arguments were submitted to the High Court which were rejected and the revision application thus failed.	Facts
Thereupon the appellant obtained Special leave, and that is how the matter has come up before us.4.	Facts
The main question that has been argued on behalf of the appellant is that the document in question is a signed copy of the award within the meaning of those words in S. 14 (2) and, therefore, further proceeding should have been taken under S. 17 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Now the relevant part of S. 14 (2) reads thus(2)	None
The arbitrators or umpire shall, at the request of any party to the arbitration agreement or any person claiming under such party or if so directed by the Courtcause the award or a signed copy of it, together with any depositions and documents which may have been taken and proved before them, to be filed in Court.	None
Therefore, when a notice is issued by a Court to the arbitrators or umpire it is their duty to file in Court either the award in original or a signed copy thereof as directed by the Court.	None
It is not in dispute that in the present case the original award has not been filed.	None
The dispute is whether the document filed is a signed copy of the award.	None
The main contention on behalf of the appellant is that the document is a signed copy of the award within the meaning of those words in S. 14 (2), and thus should have been acted upon by the Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, it is contended on behalf of the respondent that what has been filed is a certified copy of the award .	Arguments of Respondent
and not a signed copy thereof, and, therefore, it cannot be acted upon.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court has accepted the contention of the respondent and all that it has said in that behalf is that it is clear from a perusal of the award that it is not a signed copy of the award but it is certified as correct copy of the award, dated the 27th May 1961.	Reasoning
Unfortunately, the High Court has not considered what exactly the words signed copy of the award mean, and it is to this problem that we must now turn.5.	Reasoning
Now the word copy as such is not defined in the Indian Evidence Act, 1 of 1872.	None
But we get an idea of what a copy is from the provisions of S. 63 of the Evidence Act.	None
That Section inter alia defines what secondary evidence means and includes, namely(i) certified copies as provided in S. 76 of Evidence Act, (ii) copies made from the original by mechanical processes which in themselves insure the accuracy of the copy, and copies compared with such copies, and (iii) copies made from or compared with the original.	None
Obviously, therefore, a copy means a document prepared from the original which is an accurate or true copy of the original.	None
In Websters New World Dictionary, the word copy means a thing made just like another, full reproduction or transcription.	None
What the word copy in S. 14 (2), therefore, requires is that it must be a full reproduction of the original and that it should be accurate or true.	None
When a document is an accurate or true and full reproduction of the original it would be a copy.	None
In the present case it is not in dispute that what was produced by Sri Dildar Hussain was a true or accurate and full reproduction of the original.	Reasoning
It was, therefore, a copy of the original, and the only question that remains is whether it was signed.	Reasoning
for if it was signed, it would be a signed copy.6.	None
This brings us to the meaning of the word .sign as used in the expression signed copy.	None
In Websters New World Dictionary the word sign means to write ones name on, as in acknowledging authorship, authorising action, etc.	None
To write ones name is signature.	None
Section 3 (56) of the General Clauses Act No. 10 of 1897, has not defined the word sign but has extended its meaning with reference to a person who is unable to write his name to include mark with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions.	None
This provision indicates that signing means writing ones name on some document or paper.	None
In Mohesh Lal v. Busunt Kumaree, (1881)	None
ILR 6 Cal 340, a question arose as to what signatures meant in connection with S. 20 of the Limitation Act, No. IX of 1871.	None
It was observed that where a party to a contract signs his name in any part of it in such a way as to acknowledge that he is the party contracting, that is a sufficient signature.	None
It was further observed that the document must be signed in such a way as to make it appear that the person signing it is the author of it, and if that appears it does not matter what the form of the instrument is, or in what part of it the signature occurs.7.	Reasoning
We accept these observations and are of the opinion that so long as there is the signature of the arbitrator or umpire on the copy of the award filed in Court and it shows that the person signing authenticated the accuracy or correctness of the copy the document would be a signed copy of the award.	Reasoning
It would in such circumstances be immaterial whether the arbitrator or umpire put down the words certified to be true copy before signing the copy of the award.	Reasoning
If anything, the addition of these words (namely, certified to be true copy) would be the clearest indication of the authentication of the copy as a true copy of the award, which is what S. 14 (2) requires, so long as the authentication is under the signature of the arbitrator or the umpire himself.	Reasoning
In the present case, the document was sent by the umpire along with a letter forwarding it to the Court.	Reasoning
In the letter it was stated that he was sending the award duly signed and certified by him.	Reasoning
Then turning to the document we find that it begins with the words now I hereby reproduce a true copy of the said award which is as follows and this is signed by Sri Dildar Hussain, the umpire.	Reasoning
Then follows the copy of the award.	Reasoning
At the end we find the words certified as correct copy of the award, dated the 27th May 1961.	Reasoning
Underneath appears the signature of Sri Dildar Hussain, the umpire Clearly, therefore, the document filed is a true or accurate and full reproduction of the original award and it bears the signature of the umpire, Sri Dildar Hussain, and thus is signed copy of the award.	Reasoning
The fact that the umpire wrote the words certified as correct copy of the award, dated the 27th May 1961 above his signature does not in our opinion make any difference, and the document is still a signed copy of the award.	Reasoning
If anything, these words show that the document filed is a true copy of the award and as it bears the signature of the umpire, it is a signed copy thereof.	Reasoning
It may be added that the words now I hereby reproduce a true copy of the said award which is as fol1ows which appear at the beginning of the document and which are signed by the umpire Sri Dildar Hussain also in our opinion are sufficient to show that what was produced in Court was a signed copy of the award as required by S. 14 (2).8.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter, it is unnecessary to consider the alternative argument raised on behalf of the appellant.	Reasoning
We therefore allow the appeal and set aside the orders of the Courts below and, holding that a signed copy of the award has been filed as required by S. 14 (2), direct that further proceedings will be taken in the matter as required by law by the Subordinate Judge in whose Court the signed copy of the award was filed.	Decision
Costs of this Court will abide the final result.9.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	Decision
