 Gajendragadkar, J.1.	None
An industrial dispute in regard to the revision of the wagestructure which was raised against the appellant, the Indian Hume Pipe Company, Ltd., by the respondents, its workmen, was referred for adjudication by the Government of Bombay under S.12(5) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (hereinafter called the Act), on 30 October, 1956.	Issue
On this reference, an award was made on 22 July, 1960.	Issue
This award is challenged by the appellant in its Appeal No. 669 of 1962 which has been brought to this Court by special leave.	Issue
After the award was pronounced, the appellant applied under rule 31 of the rules framed under the Act for correction of certain clerical errors on 16 September, 1960.	Issue
The tribunal held that the applications was incompetent under rule 31 and so the said application was dismissed on 26 April, 1961.	Issue
Against this order of dismissal, the appellant has become to this Court by special leave in Appeal No. 670 of 1962.	Issue
Since the appellant is challenging the award on the grounds which it had set forth in its application under rule 31, it is unnecessary to deal with its Appeal No. 670 of 1962.	Issue
Our decision in Appeal No. 669 of 1962 will automatically govern the decision in Appeal No. 670 of 1962.2.	Issue
The appellant is a public limited company incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1913.	Facts
It carries on the business of manufacturing and selling Hume pipe and allied products and owns as many as 57 factories in India, including the factory at Wadala, Bombay.	Facts
The respondents are the dailyrated workmen employed by the appellant at its factory at Wadala.	Facts
It appears that in 1950 the respondents made various demands on the appellant and the same were referred for adjudication by the Government of Bombay on 29 May, 1950.	Facts
Amongst the demands made by the respondents was included a demand for wages.	Facts
The respondents had claimed that the occupations of the employees of the appellant should be classified into four categories, viz., unskilled, semiskilled, skilled and highly skilled.	Facts
The industrial tribunal, which heard the said dispute, decided that there should be only three categories of the employees, viz., unskilled, semiskilled and skilled.	Facts
It came to the conclusion that in regard to employees who claimed to be skilled in the higher degree, provision should be made for giving them adequately high salaries.	Facts
In fact, the categorization of the employees into three categories was substantially achieved by consent between the parties.	Facts
Consistently with the said classification, wagestructure was devised by the industrial tribunal and ultimately its award was pronounced on 21 August 1951.Subsequently, in 1956, the respondents made a fresh demand in respect of the wagestructure and contended that the wagestructure needed drastic revision, having regard to the fact that the cost of living had increased in the meanwhile.	None
By demand 1 the respondents set out the manner in which the wagestructure should be revised and they specified eight categories of employees in that behalf.	Facts
As we have already indicated, on the earlier occasion the parties had agreed that the respondents should be classified into three categories and had further consented to the inclusion of 12 categories in classification A, 22 categories in classification B and 13 categories in classification C, classification A, B, and C being unskilled, semiskilled and skilled respondents.	None
Even so, in 1956 the respondents seemed to demand that the said classifications should be revised and the wage upgraded.3.	None
It also appears that when the matter was discussed before the tribunal at the present enquiry and more particularly when the tribunal visited the factory in the company of the appellants lawyer Sri Mehta and the respondents representative Sri Ram Desai, both of them agreed that the nature of skill of the various categories would be as per the first award.	Facts
The tribunal then inspected the factory and ultimately made its award.	Facts
During the course of its inspection, the tribunal found that there were no designations like the assistant mason, assistant fitter, assistant moulder and others specified by it in Para.	Facts
16 of its award, and so, it created categories of certain assistants in respect of the job done by mason, fitter, moulder, hand welder, turner, shaper, transformer maker, carpenter, machine welder and machine driver.	Facts
The tribunal then but the different employees in the three respective categories and revised the wages payable to them.	Facts
It is against this award that the appellant has come to this Court.	Facts
Sri Shroff for the appellant has attacked the award only on one narrow point.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contends that the tribunal has committed an obvious error in changing the classes of four categories of employees, namely, mason, welder, carpenter and moulder.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also argues that in creating the post of an assistant moulder, the tribunal has overlooked that fact that there is nobody who is known as assistant moulder in the appellants concern and who satisfies the requirements of the said office.	None
In regard to the first four categories of employees, it is not disputed that the present award has made a substantial change and has differed from the earlier award.	None
Under the earlier award, masons other than those who were skilled were placed in the category of semiskilled and only masons who worked on Hume steel special were put under the category of skilled employees.	None
Indu Chottu was treated as a special case and was put under the skilled category.	None
Under the present award all masons are put in the skilled category.	None
In regard to the welder, it was only welders who were working in H. S. S. and W. shops that were skilled under the earlier award and the rest were semiskilled.	None
Under the present award, hand welders, machine welders and gas welders are all put in the skilled category.	None
Carpenters other than skilled were treated as semiskilled under the earlier award and carpenters, excepting workshop stores, were treated as skilled.	None
Under the present award, all carpenters are put under the category of skilled workmen.	None
Moulder under the earlier award was not under semiskilled category whether it was a case of a moulder H.P., R.C.C., pole lining and ourcoating.	None
A mazdoor working under a moulder was treated as unskilled.	None
Under the present award, all moulders are put under the skilled category.	None
Sri Shroff contends that in changing the categories of these workmen, the tribunal through error has failed to notice the fact that it was common ground between the parties before the tribunal that the classification and the categories prescribed by the earlier award had not to be changed and the only question which the tribunal was asked to decide in the present proceedings was one in regard to the revision of wages payable to the employees in the respective categories and classes.	Reasoning
It seems to us that the grievance made by the appellant is wellfounded.	None
There is no doubt that before the tribunal, parties had agreed to take the skill of the various categories as it was prescribed by the earlier award and it has in fact observed that in view of the admission of the parties regarding classification.	None
the categories and classification of the respective employees had to be take as it was specified in annexure A, annexure A containing the categories and the classification of the respective employees made in the earlier award.	Reasoning
It is to be regretted that the tribunal proceeded to change the classification in respect of four categories of employees to which we have just referred, overlooking the fact that by virtue of the agreement between the parties, it was not competent to the tribunal to adopt such a course.4.	Reasoning
Sri Sowani for the respondents attempted to argue that the tribunal has created a category of assistants, and so, it thought that it would be anomalous to treat an assistant mason, an assistant welder, an assistant carpenter or an assistant moulder as semiskilled, and the mason, the welder, the carpenter and the moulder also as semiskilled.	Arguments of Respondent
That may perhaps explain why the tribunal changed the classification in respect of the four categories of employees.	None
In the present appeal, no grievance is made by the appellant in regard to the creation of certain assistant in the category of semiskilled employees, and so, we are not called upon to consider whether the tribunal could have created this class of assistants, but it seems to us that the tribunal was not justified in promoting the four categories of employees into the skilled class in a manner which was inconsistent with the classification adopted by the earlier award.	Reasoning
That is why we must hold that in regard to the mason, the welder the carpenter and the moulder, the classification must be deemed to be the same as was adopted by the earlier award.	Reasoning
In regard to the assistant moulder, the appellants grievance is that there is no person who answers the description of that office.	Reasoning
We propose to express no opinion on this part of the appellants case.	Reasoning
If there are employees who can be regarded as assistant moulders under the award, their rights will not be affected, because the appellant has not seriously contended that the tribunal was not competent to create a class of assistant moulders, just as it has not been argued that a class of assistant masons, assistant fitter and other assistants could not have been created.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeal is allowed and the classification adopted by the tribunal in respect of the mason, the welder, the carpenter and the moulder is set aside and it its place is substituted the classification adopted by the earlier award (annexure A).	Decision
Under the circumstances of this case, there would be no order as to costs.	Decision
