 Sikri, J.1.	None
This appeal pursuant to a certificate granted by the Allahabad High Court under S. 66A(2) of the Income Tax Act (hereinafter referred to as the Act) is directed against the judgment of the High Court in a reference under the Act, answering the question referred to it in the negative.	Issue
The question referred by the Appellate Tribunal isWhether on a true interpretation of clause (viii) of subsection 3 of section 4 of the Indian IncomeTax Act the sum of Rs. 36396 received by the assessee as an allowance during the previous year of the assessment year 194950 is revenue income liable to tax under the Indian IncomeTax Act, 1922?2.	Issue
The relevant facts stated in the Statement of, the case are as follows The assessee is a Hindu undivided family headed by one Sri Trivikram Narain Singh who is a descendant of one Sri Babu Ausan Singh who was the original founded and owner of what is known as Ausanganj State in the district of Benares The district of Banares was formerly a part of Oudh territory.	Facts
By a Treaty between the East India Company and Nawab Asafuddaula in or about the year 1775, the province of Benares was ceded to the British Government.	Facts
The British Government granted a Sanad of Raj to Raja Chet Singh who in turn gave the Jagir of Parganas Seyedpore and Bhittery in perpetuity to Babu Ausan Singh.	Facts
It appears that in 1796 there were some disputes between Babu Ausan Singh and the Zamindars in the district and the matter was referred by the Collector of Benares to the Board of Revenue in Calcutta.	Facts
The disputes between the Jagirdars and Zamindars ultimately ended in 1837 by a compromise between the British Government and the then Jagirdar Har Narain Singh whereby the British Government granted a pension of Rs. 36,322/8/ to Babu Har Narain Singh and his heirs in perpetuity.	Facts
The quantum of this pension was calculated on the basis of 1/4th of the revenue of the Jagir.	Facts
By this arrangement the revenue or land collections of Jagir became payable by the Zamindars direct to the Government and by the grant of the pension, Babu Har Narain Singh and his successors no longer remained the proprietors of the Parganas or the Jagir and became entitled to merely a pension.	Facts
The letter by which, the amount of pension was determined at Rs. 36,322/8/. is dated 7th of July, 1837 and was from H. Ellliot Esqr., the Secretary Sadar Board of Revenue N.W.P. Allahabad, to J. Thompson Esqr., Offg.	Facts
Secretary to Lt. Governor.	Facts
N.W.P.3.	Facts
The pension was paid regularly from year to year by the Government to Babu Har Narain Singh and his heirs.	Facts
During the previous year of the assessment year 194950, the assessee received a sum of Rs. 36,396 on account of the aforesaid pension.	Facts
The Income Tax Officer, in spite of the objection of the assessee, held that it was a regular annual income of the assessee and did not fall within the category of agricultural income tax.	Facts
He observed that in fact this income arose from a statutory obligation of the Government to pay it, and although the Government recouped this from the person with whom the land was settled, land in the genealogical tree of Malikana appears in the second degree, its immediate and effective source is the Governments statutory obligation to pay it, and this obligation is not land within the meaning of Incometax Act, vide Commer of Incometax v. Kamakhya Narain Singh, (1948) 16 ITR 325 (AIR l949 PC 1).4.	Facts
The assessee appealed to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner who held that the alleged cash grant of varying and unspecified amount received by the appellant, in relation to land revenue of Seyedpur now, Tehsil of District Ghazipur, clearly fell within the definition of agricultural income under Section 2(1) of the Incometax Act.5.	Facts
The Income tax Officer appealed to the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal.	Facts
The Tribunal held that the sum of Rs. 36,396 was chargeable to tax under the Act as the Income was not agricultural income for although the pension was determined with respect to the quantum of the rent collection the rent collections or the land could not be said to be the immediate source of the pension The source of the pension was a liability undertaken by the Government for extinguishing the proprietary rights of the Jagirdar and when the immediate source of the income was not land or rent collections from land, it is difficult to hold that the receipt of the assessee was agricultural income within the meaning of Section 4(3)(vii) of the Income Tax Act.6.	Facts
The High Court held that from the language of the letter of July 7, 1837 it was manifest that the right which was conferred was a right to a share of one fourth in the net land revenue collections after deducting costs of Tehsil establishment.	Facts
It relied on the fact that the amount which had been received by the successors of Babu Har Narain Singh varied from year to year.	Facts
It observed that the language of the letter and this conduct of the parties can only lead to the inference that, by this settlement contained in the letter of 7th July, 1837, Babu Har Narain Singh and his successors were granted in perpetuity a right to onefourth of the land revenue collections themselves and not merely a right to receive a sum of money calculated on that basis.	Facts
The High Court accordingly answered the question in the negative.7.	Facts
The learned Additional SolicitorGeneral, on behalf of the appellant, contends that according to the true interpretation of the letter dated July 7, 1837, no right in the land revenue was granted to the assessee.	Arguments of Petitioner
He relies on the decision of this Court in State of Uttar Pradesh v. Trivikram Narain Singh, (1963) 3	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 213 (AIR 1963 SC 799 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
That case arose out of the writ petition filed by the present respondent in the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad for a writ in the nature of mandamus calling upon the State of Uttar Pradesh to forbear from interfering with his right to regular payment of the pension, allowance or malikana payable in lieu of the hereditary estate of Harnarain Singh in respect of parganas Syudpore Bhettree and for an order for payment of the pension, allowance or malikana as it fell due.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court interpreted the same letter, dated July 7, 1837, and came to the conclusion that the respondent did not acquire any interest in land or any land revenue.	None
Shah, J., speaking for the Court, observedBecause the annual allowance is equal to a fourth share of the net revenue of the mahals, the right of the respondent does not acquire the character of an interest in land or in land revenue.	None
Under the arrangement, the entire land revenue was to be collected by the Government and in the collection Harnarain Singh and his descendants had no interest or obligation.	None
As a consideration for relinquishing the right to the land and the revenue thereof, the respondent and his ancestors were given an allowance of Rs. 30,61213.	None
The allowance was in a sense related to the land revenue assessed on the land, i.e. it was fixed as a percentage of the land revenue but the percentage was merely a measure, and indicated the source of the right in lieu of which the allowance was given.8.	None
The learned counsel for the respondent, Mr. A. Viswanatha Sastri urges that on its true interpretation the letter dated July 7, 1837, showed an arrangement for sharing collections.	Arguments of Respondent
We are unable to agree with his contention.	Arguments of Respondent
We respectfully adopt the reasoning and conclusion of this Court in the case of, (1962) 3	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 213 (AIR 1963 SC 799 ) and hold that the respondent, under the arrangement, had no interest in land or in the land revenue payable in respect thereof.9.	Arguments of Respondent
If this is the true interpretation of the arrangement arrived at, the question arises whether the pension or allowance is agricultural income.	None
Agricultural income is defined in S. 2 of the Act as follows(1) agricultural income means (a) any rent or revenue derived from land which is used for agricultural purposes and is either assessed to land revenue in Britis India or subject to a local rate assessed and collected by officers of the Crown as such In Maharajkumar Gopal Saran Narain Singh v. Commr of Income Tax, B and O,(1935) 3 ITR 237 (AIR 1935 PC 143 ), the facts were that the assessee had conveyed the greater portion of his estate.	None
The consideration for the transfer was, inter alia, an annual payment of Rs. 2,40,000 to the assessee for life.	None
The Privy Council held that this annual payment was not agricultural income as it was not rent or revenue derived from land but money payable under a contract imposing a personal liability on the covenantor the discharge of which was secured by a charge on land.10.	None
The Privy Council in (1948) 16 ITR 325 (AIR 1949 PC 1 ), construed the word derived as followsThe word derived is not a term of art.	None
Its use in the definition indeed demands an enquiry into the genealogy of the product.	None
But the enquiry should stop as soon as the effective source is discovered.	None
In the genealogical tree of the interest land indeed appears in the second degree, but the immediate and effective source is rent, which has suffered the accident of nonpayment.	None
And rent is not land within the meaning of the definition.11.	None
This Court observed in Mrs. Bacha F. Guzdar Bombay v. Commr of IncomeTax Bombay, (1955) 27 ITR 1 (S) AIR 1955 SC 74 ) as followsAgricultural income as defined in the Act is intended to refer to the revenue received by direct association with the land which is used for agricultural purposes and not by indirectly extending it to cases where that revenue or part thereof changes hands either by way of distribution of dividends or otherwise.12.	None
The same test was adopted by this Court in Kameshwar Singh v. Commr of IncomeTax, B and O, (1961) 41 ITR 169 (AIR 1961 SC 362 ) and the Court again looked to the source of the right in order to determine whether income was agricultural income or not.	None
Shah, J., observedThe appellant has no beneficial interest in the lands which are the subjectmatter of the trust nor is he given under the trust a right to receive and appropriate to himself the income of the properties or a part thereof in lieu of any beneficial interest in that income.	None
The source of the right in which a fraction of the net income of the trust is to be appropriated by the appellant as his remuneration is not in the right to receive rent or revenue of agricultural lands, but rests in the covenant in the deed to receive remuneration for management of the trust.	None
The income of the trust appropriated by the appellant as remuneration is not received by him as rent or revenue of land the character of the income appropriated as remuneration due is again not the same as the character in which it was received by the appellant as trustee.	None
Both the source and character of the income are, therefore, altered when a part of the income of the trust is appropriated by the appellant as his remuneration, and that is so, notwithstanding that computation of remuneration is made as a percentage of the income, a substantial part whereof is derived from lands used for agricultural purposes.	None
The remuneration not being received as rent or revenue of agricultural lands under a title, legal or beneficial in the property from which the income is received, it is not income exempt under section 4(3)(viii).13.	None
It follows from the decisions of the Privy Council and the judgments of this Court cited above that if it is held in this case that the source of the allowance or pension is the arrangement arrived at in 1837, then the income cannot be held to be derived from land within the meaning of the definition in S. 2(1)(a) of the Act.	Reasoning
It seems to us that in this case the source of income is clearly the arrangement arrived at in 1837 and, therefore, it is not agricultural income as defined in the Act.14.	Reasoning
Mr. Sastri sought to distinguish those cases on the ground that the allowance here varied from year to year.	Reasoning
Assuming that the allowance varied from year to year, the source of the income still remains the arrangement and not land.15.	Reasoning
The next point that arises in this case is whether the allowance is taxable income at all.	None
Mr. Sastri contends that it is capital receipt.	Reasoning
He says that if the assessees predecessor had received compensation for relinquishing his title to the lands in dispute, that would have been a capital receipt and not taxable.	Reasoning
He further says that the allowance was in fact a payment of the compensation for relinquishing the title to those lands.	Reasoning
He says that we must consider the quality of the income and not its periodicity.	Reasoning
He refers to the following passage from the speech of Viscount Simon in Commr. of Inland Revenue v. Wesleyan and General Assurance Society, (1949) 30 TAX Cas.	Reasoning
11It may be well to repeat two propositions which are well established in the application of the law relating to Income Tax.	None
First, the name given to a transaction by the parties concerned does not necessarily decide the nature of the transaction.	Reasoning
To call a payment a law if it is really an annuity does not assist the taxpayer, any more than to call an item a capital payment would prevent it from being regarded as an income payment if that is its true nature.	Reasoning
The question always is what is the real character of the payment, not what the parties call it.	None
He, therefore, asked us to disregard the word pension in the letter dated July 7, 1837, and determine the real character of the payment.	None
Another passage from the speech of Viscount Simon is also relevant.	Reasoning
Lord Simon observedSecondly, a transaction which on its true construction, is of a kind that would escape tax, is not taxable on the ground that the same result could be brought about by a transaction in another form which would attract tax.	None
As the Master of the Rolls said in the present case In dealing with Income Tax questions it frequently happens that there are two methods at least of achieving a particular financial result.	Reasoning
If one of those methods is adopted tax will be payable.	Reasoning
If the other method is adopted, tax will not be payable. . . . . .	Reasoning
The net result from the financial point of view is precisely the same in each case, but one method of achieving it attracts tax and the other method does not.	Reasoning
There have been cases in the past where what has been called the substance of the transaction has been thought to enable the Court to construe a document in such a way as to attract tax.	Reasoning
That particular doctrine of substance as distinct from form was, I hope, finally exploded by the decision of the House of Lords in the case of Duke of Westminster v. Commrs of Inland Revenue (1935) 19 Tax Cas.	Reasoning
490.16.	Reasoning
It seems to us that where an owner of an estate exchanges a capital asset for a perpetual annuity, it is ordinarily taxable income in his hands.	Reasoning
The position will be different if he exchanges his estate for a capital sum payable in instalments.	Reasoning
The instalments when received would not be taxable income.17.	Reasoning
Mr. Sastri, relying on Perrin v. Dickson, (1929) 14 Tax Cas. 608 contends that an annuity is not always taxable as income.	None
This is true, but in this case no material has been produced to show that the allowance was in fact a payment in instalments of the value of the disputed title of the assessees predecessor in 1837.18.	Reasoning
In the result, we hold that the allowance is revenue income and not exempt from taxation as agricultural income.	Decision
Therefore we accept the appeal and answer the question referred in the affirmative.	Decision
The appellant will have his costs here and in the High Court.19.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
