 B. Shah, J. Leave granted in special leave petitions.	None
Civil Appeal No. 1843 of 1989 CA No. 18531856 of 2000 SLP(C)	Issue
No. 1547715480 of 1988.	None
The appellants, in CA No. 1843 of 1989, are all employees of the 509 Army Base Workshop, Agra, working in different offices and governed by the rules framed by the Government.	Facts
Apart from their salary and other perquisites they are getting compensatory allowance in the form of city compensatory allowance (hereinafter referred to as CCA), dearness allowance (hereinafter referred to as DA) and house rent allowance (hereinafter referred to as HRA).	Facts
Appellants filed Civil Misc.	Facts
Petn.	Facts
No. 470/1998 in the Allahabad High Court challenging the inclusion of DA, HRA and CCA paid to them in their income for the purpose of incometax Various other petitions raising similar contentions were filed by the Central Government employees, employees of Central Government undertakings, bank employees, State Government employees and general insurance employees.	Facts
One such petition is before us being Civil Appeal No. 1853 of 2000 SLP (C) Nos. 1547715480 of 1988 disputing the taxability of various allowances, namely, DA, CCA, HRA, leave encashment, linked with leave, travel concession, running allowance, night allowance, etc.	None
All the writ petitions were disposed of by common judgment and order dt.	None
12th September, 1988, by the High Court of Allahabad reported as All India Defence Accounts Association Anr.	None
vs. Union of India Ors. 1988	Facts
ALL 109 1988 ALL 109 (All) TC 58R.326.	None
The question for consideration before the High Court was whether the receipts on account of CCA, HRA and DA are in the nature of income entailing tax liability ?	None
Before deciding the above question, the Court considered the legislative intent behind the passing of relevant s. 17 which defines salary, and the addition of Explanation to subs.	None
(14) of s. 10.	Reasoning
The High Court dismissed the writ petitions holding inter alia that(1)	None
the IT Act, 1961, is a selfcontained code to judge the taxability to a particular receipt and the taxability of DA, HRA and CCA will have to be seen only within the scheme of the Act.	None
That HRA, CCA and DA are not the reimbursements of necessary disbursements.	None
It is only for determination of CCA that the Central Government will take care that grant of compensatory allowance does not become a source of profit to the employees, but it does not mean that the allowance in the nature of HRA, CCA and DA do not amount to an advantage.	None
The allowances are surely in addition to pay.	None
The tuition fees reimbursement is fully covered by s. 17(3)(ii), and the payment is not covered by any of the clauses of s. 10(3)	None
The leave encashment linked with leave travel concession is taxable, being the profits in lieu of salary within the meaning of s. 17(3)(ii)(4)	None
The running allowance and night allowance come to the employees as an advantage by virtue of their employment.	None
They are, therefore, perquisite within the meaning of s. 17(1)(iv) r w s. 17(2) and hence are taxable under the head salaries under s. 14 r w s. 17	None
The Court held that any type of reimbursement is fully covered by s. 17(3)(ii) of the IT Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) inasmuch as the payment is not covered by any of the clauses of s. 10 as mentioned in parenthetical clause of s. 17(3)(ii).	None
The Court, therefore, held that CCA, HRA and DA could be taxable income Civil Appeal Nos. 17841786 of 19883.	None
These appeals are filed by the CIT, West BengalII, Calcutta, against the judgment and order dt.	None
24th July, 1987, of the High Court of Calcutta passed in IT Ref.	None
No. 97 of 1977 reported as CIT vs. R. R. Bajoria 1987 CAL 75 1987 CAL 75 (Cal) TC 38R.340 holding that the CCA paid to the assessee did not have the character of income within the meaning and scheme of the IT Act, 1961.	None
Following three questions were referred to the High Court by the Tribunal for decision1.	None
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in holding that CCA cannot come within the charging sections and or within the meaning of income of a Government servant in accordance with s. 2(24) of the IT Act, 1961, read with the Fundamental Rules and cannot come within the ambit of meaning of total income as contained in s. 2(45) of the Act ?	None
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, when the assessees case cannot come within the provisions of ss. 15 and 17 of the Act, the Tribunal was right in not considering the applicability of the provisions of s. 16(v) of the Act ?	None
3.	None
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, upto the asst.	Issue
yr. 197475 because of the deletion of s. 16(v) of the Act w.e.f. 1st April, 1975, CCA could be allowed as an admissible deduction under s. 16(v) of the Act ?	Issue
It was contended before the High Court that the amount received by way of CCA cannot be included in the total income of the assessee inasmuch as the same was receivable by him by virtue of the Fundamental Rules which govern the terms and conditions of service of a Government employee.	None
The Fundamental Rules indicate that CCA is given not as a source of profit or gain.	None
In support of this submission counsel relied upon the decisions in CIT vs. D. R. Phatak 1974 MUM 36 (Bom) TC 32R.615, Bishambar Dayal vs. CIT 1975 MP 17 1975 MP 17 (MP) TC 58R.418 and CIT vs. S. G. Pgnatale 1980 GUJ 103 1980 GUJ 103 (Guj) TC 58R.486.	None
It was also contended that the assessee is entitled to claim exemption in respect of CCA under s. 10(14) of the IT Act and in any case, CCA cannot come either within the scope of salary or within the definition of special allowance or perquisite.	None
Hence, it cannot be termed as income and cannot be included within the total income and cannot be assessed to tax as per ss. 4 and 5 of the IT ActAfter a careful consideration of the facts, the High Court held that CCA paid to the assessee was neither an emolument nor a fee nor a profit nor perquisite but was only a payment for part reimbursement of the extra expenses incurred by the assessee as of necessity by reason of his posting.	None
The said allowance does not have the character of income within the meaning and scheme of the IT Act, 1961.	None
This is not an allowance granted to the assessee specifically to meet his personal expenses, but it is an allowance meant for part reimbursement of the extra expenditure necessarily to be incurred by him as a result of his being posted in a city.	None
Amount paid to the assessee on account of this allowance does not come within the definition of income or total income nor within the purview of the computation or charging sections under the IT Act, 1961.	None
The High Court answered question Nos. 1 and 2 in the affirmative and in favour of the assessee.	None
In view of answers to the said questions, the High Court did not consider it necessary to answer question No. 3 A. Nos.	None
6054/1994 and 6058/1994 Respondentsemployees of the LIC and GIC filed petitions under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Calcutta in Matter No. nil of 1988 praying inter alia, for issue of a writ or order directing the appellants hearin not to treat CCA paid and payable to the employees of the appellantscompanies as their taxable income and not to deduct incometax at source on CCA paid to them.	Facts
The High Court by order dt.	Facts
21st March, 1988 reported as All India Insurance Employees Association Ors.	Facts
vs. Union of India 1988 CAL 74 (Cal) TC 5R.261,	Facts
following an earlier decision given by it on 17th March, 1988, in Syndicate Bank Officers Association Ors. vs. Union of India Ors. 1988 CAL 72 (Cal) TC 38R.341 allowed the writ petitions and passed an order restraining the appellantscompanies and other insurance companies from deducting any tax on CCA or any allowance in the nature of CCA.	Facts
in computing taxable income of the employees for the year 198788 onwards.	Facts
Hence, these appeals by special leave are filed by the corporationsWhether CCA, HRA or other such payment to the employee is covered by the word income as defined under the Act ?	None
In all these appeals it is conceded that in view of the amendment of cl.	None
(24) of s. 2 of the Act, it would be difficult to say that the amount received as CCA or HRA would not be covered by the inclusive definition of the word income.	None
Relevant clauses of s. 2(24) read as under 2(24) Income includes(i) to (iii)(iiia) any special allowance or benefit, other than perquisite included under subcl.	None
(iii), specifically granted to the assessee to meet expenses wholly, necessarily and exclusively for the performance of the duties of an office or employment of profit(iiib) any allowance granted to the assessee either to meet his personal expenses at the place where the duties of his office or employment of profit are ordinarily performed by him or at a place where he ordinarily resides or to compensate him for the increased cost of living The said clauses are added by Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989, w.e.f. 1st April, 1962.	None
In CIT vs. R. R. Bajoria 1987 CAL 75 1987 CAL 75 (Cal) TC 38R.340, the Calcutta High Court considered this argument in detail and arrived at the conclusion that considering r. 44 of Fundamental Rules applicable to the Central Government employees, CCA paid to them is neither an emolument nor a fee nor a profit nor even a perquisite but was only a payment for part of the reimbursement of the extra expenses incurred by the assessee as of necessity by reason of his posting.	None
The Court observed the said allowance does not have the character of income within the meaning and scheme of the IT Act, 1961.	None
This is not an allowance granted to the assessee specifically to meet his personal expenses but it is an allowance meant for part reimbursement of the assessee for the extra expenditure necessarily to be incurred by him as a result of his being posted in a cityIn view of the aforequoted amendment of the word income , any special allowance or benefit specifically granted to the assessee to meet expenses wholly, necessarily and exclusively for the purpose of the duties of an office would be included in the word income.	None
It has also been pointed out that under subcl.	None
(iiib) any allowance granted to the assessee either to meet his personal expenses at the place where the duties of his office are ordinarily performed by him or a place where he ordinarily resides or to compensate him for the increased cost of living is also to be included in income.	None
Therefore, it is conceded that the payment of HRA or CCA would be covered by the word income.	None
Hence, the basis of the decision rendered by the Calcutta High Court would not survive Whether such amount is taxable ?	None
Once it is conceded that receipt of such amount is income of the assessee, the only question would be whether it is taxable under the head salary.	None
For that purpose, we have to refer to s. 17 of the Act to find out as to what meaning can be given to the phrase profits in lieu of salary.	None
For appreciating the contentions raised by the learned counsel for the parties, we would straightway refer to the relevant part of s. 17 of the Act, which is as under For the purposes of ss. 15 and 16 and of this section(1)	None
Salary includes(i) wages(ii) any annuity or pension(iii) any gratuity(iv) any fees, commissions, perquisites or profits in lieu of or in addition to any salary or wages(v) any advance of salary(va) any payment received by an employee in respect of any period of leave not availed of by him(vi)	None
the annual accretion of the balance at the credit of an employee participating in a recognised provident fund, to the extent to which it is chargeable to tax under r. 6 of Part A of the Fourth Schedule and(vii)	None
the aggregate of all sums that are comprised in the transferred balance as referred to in subr.	None
(2) of r. 11 of Part A of the Fourth Schedule of an employee participating in a recognised provident fund, to the extent to which it is chargeable to tax under subr.	None
(4) thereof(2) perquisites include(3)	None
Profit in lieu of salary includes(i) the amount of any compensation due to or received by an assessee from his employer or former employer at or in connection with the termination of his employment or the modification of the terms and conditions relating thereto(ii) any payment (other than any payment referred to in cl.	None
(10) cl.	Reasoning
(10A), cl.	Reasoning
10(B)	Reasoning
, cl.	Reasoning
(11), cl.	Reasoning
(12) cl.	Reasoning
(13) or cl.	Reasoning
(13A) of s. 10, due to or received by an assessee from an employer or a former employer or from a provident or other fund, to the extent to which it does not consist of contributions by the assessee or interest on such contributions or any sum received under a Keyman insurance policy including the sum allocated by way of bonus on such policyExplanation For the purposes of this subclause, the expression Keyman insurance policy shall have the meaning assigned to it in cl.	None
(10D) of s. 10.	None
Reading of subs.	None
(1) of s. 17 of the Act makes it abundantly clear that the word salary is given exhaustive meaning as stated in cls.	None
(i) to (vii).	None
The inclusive definition of the word salary given in s. 17 provides that apart from salary received by the employee, it includes wages, any annuity or pension, any gratuity, any fees, commissions, perquisites or profits in lieu of or in addition to any salary or wages, any advance of salary, any payment received by an employee in respect of any period of leave not availed by him and other payments mentioned in cls.	None
(va), (vi) and (vii).	None
These cls.	None
(i) to (vii) of subs.	None
(1) indicate that legislature intended to include in salary the specified or named amount paid to the employee in respect of services rendered by him.	None
Clause (iv) of subs.	None
(1) provides inclusion of four types of payments in the word salary(i) fees, (ii) commissions (iii) perquisites and (iv) profits in lieu of or in addition to salary.	None
In common parlance, fees, commissions, perquisites or payments of profits in lieu of salary may not be considered to be salary.	None
But by this inclusive definition, it has been provided so.	None
After giving this exhaustive definition of the word salary, further inclusive definition is given to the word perquisite, with which we are not concerned in these appeals.	None
Thereafter, subs.	None
(3) provides for inclusive definition of the phrase profits is lieu of salary.	None
Clause (i) of subs.	None
(3) inter alia includes the amount of any compensation received by an assessee from his employer or former employer at or in connection with the termination of his employment or the modification of the terms and conditions relating thereto.	None
Inclusion of this amount of compensation has direct connection with the employment or terms and conditions relating thereto.	None
In the context of the aforesaid subss.	None
(1), (2) and (3), appropriate meaning to the words and phraseography used in cl.	None
(ii) is to be given.	None
It has been contended by the learned counsel for the Revenue that cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(ii) of subs.	None
(3), inter alia, provides that profits in lieu of salary includes any payment received by an assessee from an employer.	Arguments of Petitioner
He, therefore, submitted that city compensatory allowance (CCA), house rent allowance (HRA) and dearness allowance (DA) would be covered by cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(ii) of subs.	None
(3).	None
Learned counsel submitted that salary includes profits in lieu of salary and profits in lieu of salary includes any payment received by the assessee from the employer except which are excluded.	Arguments of Petitioner
As against this, the learned counsel for the assessee submitted that the contention raised by the Revenue is without any substance.	Arguments of Respondent
If any payment de hors the profits was to be included then legislature would not have given such exhaustive definition of the word salary and thereafter would not have given further meanings to the word perquisite and the phrase profits in lieu of salary.	Arguments of Respondent
Legislature, without anything more, could have easily provided that salary would include any payment due to or received by an assessee from an employer except the payments which are exempted under the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The contention is, if the legislature wanted to include any payment received by the employee in its widest sense, there was no necessity to give such an exhaustive definition of the word salary in s. 17 of the Act and to connect it with profits in lieu of salary.	Arguments of Respondent
If such a simple definition that salary includes any payment received by the employee from the employer was intended to be given, the legislature would not have given inclusive meaning to the expression profits in lieu of salary and the phrase any payment received by the employee would be sufficient for all the purposes.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, the legislature could have easily avoided giving of not only such exhaustive definition but number of amendments and additions to the said section.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant further made it clear that the D.A., he is not pressing the contention that it is not included in the word salary.	None
He submitted that CCA and HRA cannot be included in the word salary as defined under s. 17 of the ActHence, the question would be, what does the expression profits in lieu of salary signify ?	Arguments of Petitioner
Whether profits in lieu of salary would include any payment received from the employer relatable to or out of profits or it has nothing to do with the profits as understood in common parlance ?	Arguments of Petitioner
Or whether profits is to be understood as any gain or advantage in lieu of salary or in addition to salary for which any payment is received by the assessee.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that salary includes any payment out of profit in lieu of salary.	Arguments of Petitioner
Instead of salary any amount is paid in terms of profits, then the same is included in salary as it is profits in lieu of salary.	Arguments of Petitioner
The basis for payment of such amount is profits.	Arguments of Petitioner
So the expression any amount received by the employee is relatable to the profits of employer and that payment out of profit is considered to be the salary by inclusive definition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference is made to Earl Jowitts The Dictionary of English Law which mentions profits as  an arrangement whereby an employer agrees that his employees shall receive a share, fixed beforehand, in the profits of the undertaking .	None
Hence, it is submitted that payment received by the employee should be relatable to profits and whatever amount is paid to an employee is paid in lieu of salary out of profits.	None
Instead of paying salary, if percentage out of the profits is paid by the employer, it would be included in the word salary and it would be considered to be profits in lieu of salary.	Arguments of Petitioner
It may be in addition to the salary or only profits in lieu of salary.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that this would be the natural meaning of the phrase profits in lieu of salary and in the present case as there is no question of payment of CCA or HRA out of profits earned by the Government or statutory corporations, receipt of such amount would not be covered by the phrase profit in lieu of salaryFor this purpose, it is submitted that the word profits is not defined, but s. 28 of the Act provides that the income mentioned therein shall be chargeable to incometax under the head of profits and gains of business or profession and hence, the word profits is to be understood under the Act in its natural and proper sense and as understood since years in commercial terms.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance is placed on the following passage referred to by the Privy Council in Pondicherry Railway Co. Ltd. vs. CIT 1931 AIR(PC) 165 dealing with the word profits under the IT Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Privy Council relied upon the principle laid down by Lord Chancellor Halsburry in Gresham Life Assurance Society vs. Styles 1971 SC 354 (HL) 1892 AC 309 by stating that it is of general application unaffected by the specialities of the English tax system, existing as under The thing to be taxed, said his Lordship, is the amount of profits or gains.	None
The word profits I think is to be understood in the natural and proper sensein a sense which no commercial man would misunderstand.	None
But when once an individual or a company has in that proper sense ascertained, what are the profits of his business or his trade, the destination of those profits or the charge which has been made on those profits by previous agreement or otherwise is perfectly immaterial.	None
The tax is payable upon the profits realized and the meaning to my mind is rendered plain by the words payable out of profits.	None
Further, the meaning of the word profit as given in Blacks Law Dictionary is as under Profit.  	None
Most commonly, the gross proceeds of a business transaction less the cost of the transaction, i.e. net proceeds.	None
Excess of revenue over expenses for a transaction sometimes used synonymously with net income for the period.	None
Gain realized from business of investment over and above expendituresProfit means accession of goods, valuable results, useful consequences, avail, gain, as an office of profit, excess of returns over expenditures or excess of income over expenditure.	None
S. vs. Mintzes, D.C. Md., 304 F. Supp.	None
1305, 1312	None
The benefit, advantage, or pecuniary gain accruing to the owner or occupant of land from its actual use as in the familiar phrase rents, issues and profits, or in the expression mesne profits.	None
Profitsharing plan.  	None
A plan established and maintained by an employer to provide for the participation in the profits of the company by the employees or their beneficiaries.	None
In order to qualify for tax benefits, the plan must provide a definite predetermined formula for allocating the contributions made to the plan among the participants and for distributing the funds accumulated under the plan after a fixed number of years, the attainment of a stated age, or upon the prior occurrence of some event such as layoff, illness, disability, retirement, death, or severance of employment.	None
Such plans are regulated by the federal.	None
Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA).	None
See also Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)	None
Qualified profit sharing plan.  	None
An employersponsored plan that meets the requirements of IRC 401.	None
If these requirements are met, none of the employers contribution to the plan will be taxed to the employee until distributed to him or her (402).	None
The employer will be allowed a deduction in the year the contributions are made.	None
(404) It is submitted that similar should be the interpretation of s. 17(1)(iv) r w subs.	None
(3)(ii) of the Act.	None
This clause is for taxing salary payable out of the profits realized by the employer and the said meaning is rendered plain by the words profits in lieu of salary.	Arguments of Petitioner
Foundation of any such payment is the profits.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is, therefore, submitted that the result would be salary includes profits in lieu of salary, which includes any payment, but such payment should have connection with or referable to profits of the employerThe learned counsel for the assessee further submitted that the legislature in subss.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1), (2) and (3) of s. 17 has used the word includes to give wider meaning than natural meaning which is given to the said word or phrase and, therefore, the definition given by the legislature is to be accepted as it is without any further enlargement.	None
It is contended that the word include is generally used in interpretation clauses in order to enlarge the meaning of words or phrases occurring in the body of the statute and when it is so used, these words or phrases must be construed as comprehending, not only such things as they signify according to their natural import but also things which the interpretation clause declares that they shall include.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel referred to The Regional Director, Employees State Insurance Corporation vs. M s High Land Coffee Works of P.F.X. Saldanha Sons Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
1991	Arguments of Petitioner
SC 714 wherein this Court considered the inclusive definition of the word seasonal factory given under s. 2(12) of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948, and held that what is included in the meaning of seasonal factory is a factory which is engaged for the purpose mentioned therein.	Arguments of Petitioner
That is to say, it is first a factory and then it would be considered to be a seasonal factory.	Arguments of Petitioner
Relying on the aforesaid observations, learned counsel for the employees submitted that by the inclusive definition of the phrase profits in lieu of salary what is included is any payment which must be out of the profits i.e., sharing of the profits by the employer.	Arguments of Petitioner
For this purpose, he further referred to the words any fee, commission, perquisites of profits used in cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(17)(1)(iv) and pointed out that in the inclusive definition the legislature wanted to include fee, commission or perquisites which normally cannot be included in the word salary by specifically mentioning the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also submitted that similarly what is included in the word salary is only profits in lieu of salary.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, any payment received by the employee from the employer would have limited meaning and is referable to only payments received out of profits As against this, learned counsel for the Revenue submitted that salary includes profits in lieu of salary which in turn includes any payment received by an assessee from an employer.	Arguments of Respondent
The word profits is to be given its plain meaning to mean any benefit, advantage or pecuniary gain accruing to the assessee.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, any payment received by an assessee from an employer would be profits in lieu of salary or in addition to salary.	Arguments of Respondent
For the purpose of incometax, even if the payment is made towards the additional expenses incurred by the employee for the purpose of service, yet it is taxable income, unless there is an exemption as provided under different clauses of s. 10 In our view, even though there is much substance in the contentions raised by the learned counsel for the assessee yet it is to be stated that the Act is a selfcontained Code and the taxability of the receipt of any amount or allowance is to be determined on the basis of meaning given to the words or phrases in the Act.	None
Sec.	None
2(24) of the Act gives wide inclusive definition to the word income.	None
Similarly, for levying tax on salary income, exhaustive definition is given under s. 17, which includes perquisites and profits in lieu of salary.	Reasoning
Only exclusion provided under subs.	None
(3) is any payment referable to cl.	None
(10), cl.	Reasoning
(10A), cl.	Reasoning
10(B)	Reasoning
, cl.	Reasoning
(11), cl.	Reasoning
(12), cl.	Reasoning
(13) or cl.	Reasoning
(13A) of s. 10.	Reasoning
In view of this specific inclusion and exclusion in the meaning of the word income and salary, it is rightly submitted that payment received by the assessee has no connection with the profits of the employer.	Reasoning
The word profits is used only to convey any advantage or gain by receipt of any payment by the employeeWebsters Comprehensive Dictionary gives meaning of the word profit inter alia, to mean advantage or benefit.	Reasoning
It states Profit  Synonyms advantage, avail, benefit, emolument, expediency, gain, good, improvement, proceeds, receipts, return, returns, service, utility, value Advantage is that which gives one a vantage ground, either for coping with competitors or with difficulties, needs, or demands as, to have the advantage of a good education it is frequently used to what one has beyond another or secures at the expense of another, as, to have the advantage in argument, or to take advantage in a bargain.	Reasoning
Applying the aforesaid general meaning of the word profits and considering the dictionary meaning given to it under s. 17(1)(iv) and (3)(ii), it can be said that advantage in terms of payment of money received by the employee from the employer in relation or in addition to any salary or wages would be covered by the inclusive definition of the word salary.	Reasoning
Because of the inclusive meaning given to the phrase profits in lieu of salary would include any payment due to or received by an assessee from an employer, even though it has no connection with the profits of the employer.	Reasoning
It is true that legislature might have avoided giving of inclusive meaning to the word salary by stating that any payment received by the employee from an employer would be considered to be salary except the payments which are excluded by s. 17(3)(ii), i.e. cls.	Reasoning
(10), (10A), (10B), (11), (12), (13) or (13A) of s. 10.	Reasoning
However, it is for the legislature to decide the same.	Reasoning
This would not mean that by giving exhaustive and inclusive meaning, the word profits can be given a meaning only when it pertains to sharing of profits by the employer.	Reasoning
For the assessee, the receipt of such amount would be a profit, gain or advantage in addition to salary, even though it is not named as salary.	Reasoning
Therefore, the word profits in context is required to be understood as gain or advantage to the assessee.	Reasoning
Hence, it is not possible to accept the contention of the learned counsel for the employees that as the CCA amount is paid to meet the additional expenditure as contemplated by the statutory Service Rules, it cannot be said to be profit, gain or additional salary.	Reasoning
Under the Act, such receipt of the amount as conceded is covered by the definition of the word income and as provided it would be in addition to salary.	Reasoning
Hence, it would be part and parcel of income by way of salary, which would be taxable one12.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant further submitted that assuming for the purpose of profits in lieu of salary, employer is not required to give any share out of the profits, yet even in the hands of the employees, receipt of the amount must be profits.	None
It is his contention that whatever CCA, Government or statutory corporations pay to the employees, cannot be termed as profits by any standard because the amount is calculated in such a manner that it reimburses less than extra cost incurred by them at a station where they are posted.	Reasoning
It is further submitted that by including these payments as taxable, it would cause hardship to the honest employees whose source of income is limited and are required to meet extra expenses at the station where they are transferred and posted for which service rules provide for reimbursement of extra cost.	Reasoning
He referred to the decision rendered by the Bombay High Court in CIT vs. D. R. Pathak (supra) wherein the Court considered whether CCA was taxable as perquisite as contended by the Revenue.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Court negatived it by holding that payment of taxable allowance under the order of the Government is neither an emolument nor fee nor profit, but it is a reimbursement of personal expenses required by the Government servant to be incurred on account of expenses of living at a particular place.	Arguments of Petitioner
May be that this is true to the extent that Government or statutory corporations do pay something less than what is required to be reimbursed and the receipt of CCA cannot be termed as profit in common parlance.	None
However, for income, salary and its taxability under the Act, the dictionary meaning given by the legislature is to be taken into consideration as for that purpose, it is a complete Code.	Reasoning
Incometax is attracted at the point when the income is earned.	None
Taxation of income is not dependent upon its destination or the manner of its utilisation.	Reasoning
Re Tuticorin Alkali Chemicals Fertilizers Ltd.	Reasoning
Madras vs. CIT 1997 SC 2601 (SC)	Reasoning
TC S38.3460.	Reasoning
Therefore, there is no question of referring to the Fundamental Rules framed by the Central Government or by the statutory authorities for payment of CCA, HRA or other such allowance for reimbursing the expenditure incurred by the employees.	Reasoning
Further, equity or hardship would hardly be relevant ground for interpretation of tax law.	Reasoning
It is for the Government or the statutory bodies to do the needful.	Reasoning
However, equitable it may be that CCA cannot be held to be profit in the hands of the assessee or it is not share out of profit, yet it cannot be helped in view of inclusive and exclusive meaning given under the ActIn the result, we held that DA, CCA and HRA would be taxable income.	Reasoning
Since, counsel for the employees did not make any submission with regard to other allowances like, night allowance, tuition fee, leave encashment linked with leave travel concession, running allowance, etc.	Reasoning
we do not pass any order with regard to those allowances Accordingly, Civil Appeal Nos. 178486 of 1988, 6054/1994 and 6058/1994 filed by the Revenue and General Insurance Corporation and others respectively are allowed and Civil Appeal No. 1843/1989 and C.A. No. 18531856 of 2000 SLP (C) No. 1547780 of 1988 filed by Karamchari Union, Agra, and All India Defence Accounts Association, Poona, and others respectively are dismissed.	None
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
