 RANGANATH MISRA, J. 1.	None
Special leave granted.	None
2. Respondent No. 1, a partnership firm, held a coking coal mine known as Tariya Colliery within the State of Bihar the management where of was taken over under the Coking Coal Mines (Emergency Provisions) Ordinance of 1971 with effect from October 17, 1971, along with several other coking coal mines and some coke oven plants.	Facts
The ordinance was in due course replaced by a statute bearing the same title (hereinafter referred to as the Management Act).	Facts
Then came the Coking Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1971 (Nationalisation Act for short) which received Presidential assent on August 17, 1982, but under section 1, subsection (2) there of, the statute was deemed to have come into force with effect from May 1, 1972.	Facts
Under s. 3 subs.	Facts
(a) of the Nationalisation Act, May, 1, 1972 was the appointed day.	Facts
Under the provisions of the Ordinance followed by the Management Act, ownership of the mines was not disturbed but management was taken over.	Facts
Under the Nationalisation Act, the right, title and interest of the owner in the mines extinguished and became vested in the Central Government with effect from May 1, 1972.	Facts
Under the Management Act, the Custodian carried on the management on behalf of the owner while under the Nationalisation Act ownership was abolished and payment of a sum to the owner by way of compensation was contemplated.	Facts
So far as the period between October 17, 1971 and April 30, 1972 when title in the colliery continued to vest in the owner but only management had been taken over under the provisions of the first statute, was concerned, the business was run by the Custodian on account of the owner.	Facts
Therefore, the Nationalisation Act provided that upon accounts being taken, either the owner was to be paid the surplus or if there had been excess expenditure, the same had to be recovered from the owner.	Facts
In the instant case there was a stock of 5650 tons of coking coal and 602 tons of soft coke when management was taken over on October 17, 1971 and on April 30, 1972 at the end of which ownership was extinguished, there was a stock of 30, 411 to ns of coking coal and 956 tons of soft coke.	Facts
A total expenditure of about eight lak rupees had been incurred for raising the said quantity of coal during the period of management.	Facts
This stock was not taken into account and credit for it was not given to the owner but expenses of extraction amounting to Rs. 7, 95, 071.94 were raised against the owner.	Facts
The owner laid claim to a sum of Rs. 1, 01, 755.37 as its entitlement under the Nationalisation Act on the ground that if credit was given to the stock in trade on the basis of the closing balance, it would be entitled to that amount.	Facts
3.	None
Claim having been laid for the recovery of the aforesaid amount from the owner under the Nationalisation Act, that amount was certified to be recoverable.	None
The owner Respondent No. 1 challenged the order of the statutory authority by filing a writ petition before the Patna High Court impleading, inter alia, the Central Coal Fields Ltd. as also M s. Bharat Coking Coal Ltd.	Facts
two Government companies as respondents.	Facts
The High Court after hearing the parties came to the conclusion that the owner was entitled to credit for the coal lying in stock when the closing balance was drawn up and accordingly directed the accounts to be recast and payments to be made on the basis of the recast accounts.	Facts
Central Coal Fields Ltd. and M s. Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. moved this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution separately for leave to appeal against the said decision of the High Court.	Facts
4.	None
We have heard parties at length and detailed written arguments have been furnished by Mr. Lal Narain Sinha on behalf of the two appellants.	None
The main plank of Mr. Sinhas argument against the decision of the High Court is the definition of mine contained in the two statutes.	Arguments of Petitioner
Admittedly, the definition of mine occurring in s. 2 of both the Acts does specifically include all coal in stock but obviously that inclusive definition is for the purpose of either take over of management or abolition of right, title and interest for the purpose of nationalisation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Shanti Bhushan appearing for the respondent 1 does not dispute the position that the stock of coal, at the time when the title was abolished and vesting took place, was a part of the mine and that title in the stock got extinguished as a result of the nationalisation and vested in the Central Government from the appointed day.	Arguments of Respondent
He concedes that the High Court was wrong in taking a contrary view.	Arguments of Respondent
While there is no dispute that the stock in trade at the commencement of the appointed day vested in the Central Government as a result of nationalisation, the question for examination is whether that stock was liable to be taken into account for the purpose of determining the amount payable to the owner in respect of the period when the mine was under the management of the Custodian.	Arguments of Respondent
This necessitates reference to some of the provisions of the Nationalisation Act and the relevant provisions are sections 4, 10, 21 and 22.	None
Under section 4 (1), on the appointed day the right, title and interest of the owner in relation to the coking coal mines specified in the First Schedule stood transferred to, and vested absolutely in the Central Government free from all encumbrances.	None
Section 10 contemplates that the owner of every coking coal mine specified in the second column of the First Schedule, shall be given by the Central Government in cash and in the manner specified in s. 21, for vesting in it under s. 4, the right, title and interest of the owner in relation to such coking coal mine, an amount equal to the amount specified against it in the corresponding entry in the fifth column of the said Schedule.	None
Section 21, to which reference has been made in s. 10, makes provision for payment.	None
The first two subsections of this section may be extracted21.	None
(1) The Central Government shall within thirty days from the specified date.	None
pay, in cash to the Commissioner, for payment to the owner of a coking coal minea sum equal to the sum specified against the coking coal minein the First Schedule or the Second Schedule together with the amount and interest, if any, referred to in s. 12.	None
21.	None
(2) In addition to the sum referred to in subs.	None
(1), the Central Government shall pay, in cash, to the Commissioner, such amount as may become due to the owner of a coking coal mine in relation to the period during which the management of the coking coal mineremained vested in the Central Government.	None
The present dispute is within the ambit of subs.	None
(2) of s. 21.	None
Section 22 provides the procedure for the statement of accounts to be drawn up in regard to the period of management Subs.	None
(1), so far as relevant, runs thus22.	None
(1) The Central Government or the Government company, (the appellants before us are Government companies), as the case may be, shall cause the books in relation to each coking coal mine the management of which has vested in it under the Coking Coal Mines (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1971, to be closed and balanced as on the 30th day of April, 1972, and shall cause a statement of accounts, as on that day, to be prepared, within such time, in such from an d in such manner as may be prescribed, in relation to each such minein respect of the transactions effected by it during the period for which the management of such coking coal mineremained vested in it (underlining ours) 5.	None
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (e) of subs. 12) of s.34 of the Nationalisation Act, the Central Government have made a set of Rules known as the Coking Co al Mines (Statement of Account) Rules, 1972.	None
The Rules prescribe the form in which the accounts are to be prepared and reference to this form we shall presently make.	None
A policy decision to nationalise the coking coal companies was taken by the Central Government and with a view to facilitating nationalisation, the management was first taken over under the Management Ordinance followed by the statute with effect from October 17, 1971.	None
This position continued till the Nationalisation Act came into force with effect from May 1, 1972.	None
The Nationalisation Act contemplated two types of payments to be made to the ownerone, a sum of money contemplated under s. 10 of the Act for the extinguishment of title, and twothe due s, if any, payable in respect of the period of management as contemplated under s. 21 (2) of the Act and arrived at on the basis of accounts prepared in the manner prescribed.	None
The Management Act did not contemplate any kind of curtailment of the normal incidents of ownership except the right of management.	None
Very appropriately, therefore, the Nationalisation Act contemplated the books of account to be closed and a statement of accounts, as on April 30, 1972, to be prepared, with a view to determining the final position for the period of managementpayment to be made to the owner if there was a surplus fund and recovery to be made from him in case of shortfall.	None
We find force in the submission of Mr. Shanti Bhushan that t he accounting for the period between October 17, 1971 and April 30, 1972, in the absence of any particular prescribed mode in the statute or the Rules made thereunder, had to be done according to the normal commercial practice.	None
Since the statute contemplated the books to be closed and balanced, a balance sheet according to the normal commercial practice had to be drawn up.	None
The observations of this Court in Commissioner of Income tax, Madras v. A. Krishna Swami Mudaliar Ors., are worth quoting.	None
Shah, J. (as he then was), spoke for the Court thusBut whichever method of bookkeeping is adopted in the case of a trading venture, for computing the true profits of the year the stockintrade must be taken into account.	None
If the value of stockintrade is not taken into account, in the ultimate result the profit or loss resulting from trading is bound to get absorbed or reflected in the stockintrade unless the value of the stockintrade remains unchanged at the commencement of the year and the end of the year.	None
6.	None
Under the Incometax Act profits have to be ascertained for the purpose of computing tax liability.	Reasoning
Under the Nationalisation Act the books had to be balanced with a view to finding out whether the Government company which was in management for the relevant period on behalf of the owner was to pay anything to the owner or the Government company having spent for the owner was entitled to recover any sum from the owner.	Reasoning
Therefore, we accept the submission of Mr. Shanti Bhushan that the Nationalisation Act contemplated a balancesheet according to the commercial procedure to be drawn up which necessarily require d stock in trade to be reflected.	Reasoning
7.	None
Admittedly the amount claimed from the owner represents the cost of extraction of the coal from the mine.	None
The appellants had conceded before the High Court and Mr. Sinha appearing for them before us accept ed the position that if the extracted coal had been sold before the appointed day, the owner would have been entitled to the price.	Reasoning
The mere fact that the extracted coal remained in stock at the commencement of the appointed date can make no difference to the position.	Reasoning
The expenses were to be set off against the sale price of the stock to be received at the time of disposal.	Reasoning
Therefore, the stock of coal had to be taken into account for balancing the position.	Reasoning
Reliance on the definition of mine and S. 10 of the Nationalisation Act to counteract this conclusion cannot avail the appellants.	Reasoning
Indeed, the submission advanced on behalf of the appellants is so much opposed to common sense logic of the matter that in the absence of a legislative mandate we have no hesitation in rejecting it.	Reasoning
Much of the controversy could have been avoided if reference had been made to the statutory form.	Reasoning
Statement 8 in the prescribed form clearly indicates that the stock as on April 30, 1972, had to be taken into account.	Reasoning
We are sorry to observe that the High Court omitted to make a reference to it, and are equally sorry to note that the Government companies have failed to do their duty as cast on them by law and driven the owner to unnecessary litigation 8.	Reasoning
In view of what we have said, there is absolutely no substance in the stand taken by the appellants before us.	Decision
Both the appeals fail and they are dismissed with costs.	Decision
Consolidate d hearing fee is assessed at Rs. 10, 000. 9.	Decision
Appeal Dismissed.	Decision
