 Banumathi, J. Leave granted.	None
This appeal is preferred against the judgment dated 16.04.2014 passed by the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad dismissing the appellants First Appeal No.282 of 2014 observing that the Insurance Company was not liable to indemnify him, thereby confirming the order dated 11.11.2013 passed by the Commissioner for Workmens Compensation Labour Court, Rajkot.	None
The brief facts which led to the filing of this appeal are as follows Proforma respondents 24/claimants, namely, Lalmani Yadavfather, Dashmiya Lalmani yadavmother and Janaki alias Babli Ramesh Yadavwife of the deceased, Ramesh Lalmani Yadav filed a claim petition before Commissioner for Workmens Compensation Labour Court, Rajkot, claiming compensation for the death of deceased Ramesh Lalmani Yadav on 20.05.2002 in the course of his employment.	Facts
On the fateful day of 20.05.2002, deceased Ramesh Lalmani Yadav was working as a cleaner in the vehicle bearing No.GJ3V7785, in the employment of the appellant and respondent No.5.	Facts
In the afternoon at about 12.30 p.m., deceased was filling water in the radiator of the vehicle when suddenly the bonnet of the vehicle fell down on the head of the deceased, as a result of which he fell down and died.	Facts
Stating that Ramesh Lalmani Yadav died in the course of his employment, respondents No.2 to 4 filed the claim petition claiming compensation of Rs.4,15,093/ and that appellant and respondent No.5Insurance Company are liable to pay the compensation of Rs.4,15,093/. Before the Commissioner, both the parties adduced oral and documentary evidence.	Facts
Upon consideration of the records, the Commissioner held that FIR dated 20.05.2002 was lodged by the driver of the vehicle bearing No. GJ3V7785 in which it was mentioned that on the fateful day while reversing the said vehicle he saw deceased putting water in the radiator of another vehicle bearing no.	Facts
GJ3U5391 and that he slipped on the bonnet of vehicle, fell on his head and deceased Ramesh Lalmani Yadav sustained injuries and died.	Facts
The Labour Court Commissioner held that the insurance policy produced before him was in respect of the vehicle GJ3V7785 which was not involved in the vehicular accident and therefore Insurance Companyfirst respondent is not liable to pay the compensation.	Facts
However, the learned Commissioner held that the appellant and respondent No.5 being the owner of the vehicle, were jointly and severally liable to pay the compensation of Rs.3,25,365/ along with 10 penalty and annual interest at the rate of 6.	Facts
Being aggrieved, the appellantowner of the vehicle preferred the first appeal in the High Court of Gujarat.	Facts
Vide order dated 16.04.2014, the High Court dismissed the appeal filed by the appellant observing that since vehicle No.GJ3V7785 was not involved in the accident and that only vehicle No.GJ3U5391 was involved and since the deceased was employed as a cleaner was only in vehicle No. GJ3V7785, the insurance company is not liable to indemnify the appellant for the accident caused by the vehicle bearing No.GJ3U5391.	Facts
In this appeal, the appellant seeks to assail the said judgment.	Facts
Learned counsel for the appellant contended that both the vehicles, namely, GJ3V7785 and GJ3U5391 were duly owned by the appellant and both the vehicles were insured with the same insurance company viz.	Arguments of Petitioner
the first respondentUnited India Insurance company and while so, the courts below are not justified in holding that the first respondentinsurance company is not liable to indemnify the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the deceased was an employee of the appellant in vehicle	Arguments of Petitioner
No.GJ3V7785 and died during the course of the employment and as such, the fact that he was employed in another vehicle cannot exonerate the insurance company from indemnifying the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that under Section 147 of the Motor Vehicles Act 1988, being a beneficial legislation and both the vehicles being insured with the first respondent, the courts below erred in observing that the insurance company is not responsible for any liability even though under Section 147 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The insurance company is bound to indemnify the appellant for the loss occurring on account of the death of workman in the course of his employment.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his contention, reliance was placed upon Ved Prakash Garg vs. Premi Devi Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1997) 8 SCC 1 Learned counsel for the first respondentinsurance company submitted that the deceasedRamesh Lalmani Yadav was employed as a cleaner only in the vehicle GJ3V7785 and since only GJ3U5391 was involved in the accident, insurance company does not have any responsibility to pay any compensation and to indemnify the insurer and the courts below rightly exonerated the insurance company from indemnifying the insurer.	Arguments of Respondent
It is an admitted fact that the deceased was employed as a cleaner in vehicle	Reasoning
No. GJ3V7785 and on perusal of the statement of Ramlallu D. Patel, the driver of the abovesaid vehicle, it emerged that the deceased was actually filling water in the radiator of the another dumper bearing No.	Reasoning
GJ3U5391 and met with an accident and died due to the injuries sustained by him.	Reasoning
The same is substantiated by the panchnama of the scene of the accident.	Reasoning
From the written statement filed by fifth respondent  Viraj Krishna Techtonics Pvt.	Reasoning
Ltd.	Reasoning
Vijayrath, it is apparent that the employer has admitted that the death of Ramesh Lalmani Yadav was caused while he was filling water in the radiator of the vehicle bearing No.	Reasoning
GJ3U5391 owned by him.	Reasoning
Taking into consideration the facts of the case, it is evident that vehicle GJ3V7785 was not involved in the accident.	None
Vehicle No.	None
GJ3V7785 was insured with the first respondentinsurance company under Section 147 of the Act.	None
The insurance policy of a public service vehicle is deemed to cover an employee engaged in the said vehicle and the liability of the insurance company to pay compensation for the death or injuries sustained by the workman.	None
Payment of compensation for the death of workman or injuries sustained by the workman is limited to the liability arising in the Employers Compensation Act, 1923.	None
Since vehicle No.GJ3V7785 was not involved in the accident, insurance company was not liable to indemnify the owner of the vehicle towards the compensation payable to his employee  deceasedcleaner Ramesh Lalmani Yadav under Workmens Compensation Act, 1923.	Arguments of Respondent
As noticed earlier, only the dumper bearing No.GJ3U5391 was involved in the accident.	None
The insurance policy of the vehicle	None
No.	Reasoning
GJ3U5391 was not produced either before the Commissioner or before the High Court.	None
Insurance policy of the said vehicle No.	None
GJ3U5391 for the period from 13.09.2001 to 12.09.2002 was produced before this Court.	None
The accident was on 20.05.2002 during which period the vehicle No.	None
GJ3U5391 had a valid insurance policy.	None
The point falling for consideration is that even if the vehicle No.	None
GJ3U5391 had a valid insurance policy, whether the first respondentinsurance company is liable to indemnify the owner of the vehicle for death of a person who was employed by him in another vehicle.	Issue
Insofar as vehicle dumper No.GJ3U5391, admittedly deceasedRamesh Lalmani Yadav was not an employee and he was only a third party.	Reasoning
Onbehalf of the appellant, an argument was advanced that since both the vehicles were insured with the same insurance company viz., United India Insurance Company and since Section 147 of the Motor Vehicles Act is a beneficial legislation, the insurance company ought to have been held liable to indemnify the insured.	Reasoning
As contended by the appellant, both the vehicles were insured with the respondentinsurance company and both the vehicles are one and the same.	Reasoning
Considering the facts of the case, both the vehicles were parked in the same space and it can be safely stated that the deceased cleaner was filling the water in the radiator of vehicle	Reasoning
no.	Reasoning
GJ3U5391 only on the direction of the employer and thus the cleaner was working in the course of employment.	Reasoning
The High Court rejected the claim of the appellant on the ground that the insurance policy of vehicle	Reasoning
No.	Reasoning
GJ3V7785 was not produced but now since the appellant has produced the insurance policy which covers the vehicle involved in the accident which provides to indemnify the owner of the vehicle in case of any accident caused to the workman limited to the extent of liability under Workmens Compensation Act.	Reasoning
Both the vehicles were insured with the first respondentinsurance company and the owner being one and the same and since the deceased being the cleaner and the claimants hailing from the lowest strata of society, in our considered view, in exercise of our extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, it is appropriate to direct the first respondentinsurance company to indemnify the appellant for the death of deceased.	Reasoning
In a situation of this nature for doing complete justice between the parties, this Court has always exercised the jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
In Oriental Insurance Company Ltd. vs. Brij Mohan And Ors.	None
(2007) 7 SCC 56 , this Court has held as under However, Respondent 1 is a poor labourer.	None
He had suffered grievous injuries.	None
He had become disabled to a great extent.	None
The amount of compensation awarded in his favour appears to be on a lower side.	None
In the aforementioned situation, although we reject the other contentions of Ms Indu Malhotra, we are inclined to exercise our extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India so as to direct that the award may be satisfied by the appellant but it would be entitled to realize the same from the owner of the tractor and the trolley wherefor it would not be necessary for it to initiate any separate proceedings for recovery of the amount as provided for under the Motor Vehicles Act.	None
It is well settled that in a situation of this nature this Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India read with Article 136 thereof can issue suit directions for doing complete justice to the parties.	Reasoning
In Deddappa Ors.	None
vs. National Insurance Company Ltd. (2008)	None
2 SCC 595 , it was observed as under However, as the appellant hails from the lowest strata of society, we are of the opinion that in a case of this nature, we should, in exercise of our extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, direct Respondent 1 to pay the amount of claim to the appellants herein and recover the same from the owner of the vehicle viz.	None
Respondent 2, particularly in view of the fact that no appeal was preferred by him.	None
We direct accordingly.	None
Labour Court awarded compensation of Rs.6,42,921/ along with 10 penalty and 6 interest per annum.	Reasoning
As per Section 4A (3)(a) of the Workmens Compensation Act, where any employer commits default in paying the compensation due under the Act within one month from the date it fell due, the Commissioner shall direct the employer to pay simple interest thereon at the rate of 12 per annum or at such higher rate not exceeding maximum of the lending rates of any scheduled bank as may be specified by the Central Government.	Reasoning
As per Section 4A (3)(b), in addition to the amount of arrears and the interest thereon, the Commissioner shall direct the employer to pay further sum not exceeding 50 of such amount by way of penalty.	Reasoning
The legal representatives of the deceased employee are thus entitled to the statutory interest at the rate of 12 and penalty not exceeding 50 of the amount of compensation.	Reasoning
The Commissioner for Workmens Compensation has awarded only 6 interest and 10 penalty as against the statutory entitlement of the dependents of the deceased employee in terms of Section 4A(3) of the Act.	Reasoning
Having regard to the passage of time and in the interest of justice, in our considered view, statutory rate of penalty i.e. 15 is to be ordered in addition to the statutory interest payable at the rate of 12 per annum.	Reasoning
The appellant has deposited Rs.3,25,365/ i.e. the principal amount with the Labour Court Commissioner for Workmens Compensation, Rajkot on 18.2.2014.	Reasoning
The matter was listed before the Supreme Court Lok Adalat on 6.12.2014 wherein the appellant was directed to deposit the balance amount.	Reasoning
The 1st respondentinsurance company shall deposit the balance compensation being 15 penalty and the interest at the rate of 12 after one month from the date when the compensation amount fell due and also 15 penalty with the Labour Court Commissioner for Workmens Compensation within a period of six weeks from today.	Reasoning
On such deposit, the same shall be disbursed to respondents No.2 to 4.	Decision
The amount of Rs.3,25,365/ already deposited by the appellant with the Commissioner for Workmens Compensation shall also be disbursed to respondents No. 2 to 4 if not already disbursed.	Decision
After disbursing the amount to the dependents No.2 to 4, the Commissioner for Workmens Compensation, Rajkot shall submit a report to this Court regarding compliance at an early date preferably not exceeding four months from today.	Decision
The 1st respondentinsurance company shall pay the amount of Rs.3,25,365/ to the appellant which it has already deposited towards compensation within a period of six weeks.	Decision
The impugned judgment of the High Court is set aside and the appeal is allowed in terms of the above directions.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of the case, we make no order as to costs.	Decision
