 RAVINDRA BHAT, J. Leave granted.	None
With consent, the appeal was heard.	None
This appeal is directed against a judgment of the High Court of Gujarat dated 24.07.2015.	Issue
The respondent (hereafter Asiatic Steel) had filed a writ petition before the High Court seeking refund of contract consideration of Rs.	Issue
3,61,20,000/ paid by them to the appellant (hereafter the Board).	Issue
The High Court allowed the writ petition, in view of its earlier interim order, and directed the Board to pay interest for the period from 08.11.1994 to 19.05.1998.	Issue
The brief facts that arise for consideration are as follows.	Facts
The Board issued a tender notice on 02.08.1994 for allotment of plots at Sosiya (near Bhavnagar, Gujarat) for shipbreaking of very large crude carriers ultra large crude carriers (VLCC ULCC).	Facts
Asiatic Steel made the highest bid, which was accepted and confirmed by the Board on 08.11.1994, for Rs. 3, 61, 20,000/ (hereafter the Principal).	Facts
Asiatic Steel was allotted Plot V10.	Facts
The bid payment was made on 22.03.1995 in foreign currency, to the tune of 1,153,000, while the earnest money deposit of Rs. 5,00,000/ was paid on 08.11.1994.	Facts
On 23.02.1995, Asiatic Steel and other allottees approached the Board citing difficulties in commencing commercial operations, on account of the connectivity to the plots and the existence of rocks inhibiting beaching of ships on the plot for the purpose of shipbreaking.	Facts
Through a letter dated 19.05.1998, Asiatic steel intimated the Board that it wished to abandon the contract and demanded that the payment be refunded (an amount of 1,153,000), with interest at 10 per annum from the date of remittance.	Facts
The Board, through a notice dated 19.05.1998, stated that an amount of Rs. 3, 61, 20,000/ would be refunded, but without interest.	Facts
The Board also clarified that the refund would be directed to the original allottee of the plot (i.e. the second respondent, i.e. M s Ganpatrai Jaigopal hereafter referred to as Ganpatrai).	Facts
Asiatic Steel then filed a writ petition before the High Court, seeking (i) refund of USD 1,153,000 with interest of 12 per annum compounded quarterly, to the third respondent, M s Industeel Investment Holdings (hereafter Industeel, which had made the payment originally on behalf of Asiatic Steel) and (ii) refund of earnest money of Rs. 5,00,000/ with interest of 12 per annum, compounded quarterly to Asiatic Steel.	Facts
Through an interim order dated 26.02.2002, the High Court held that prima facie, Asiatic Steel was entitled to a refund with interest at 10 per annum.	Facts
Accordingly, the Board was directed to deposit the admitted amount, i.e., the Principal, with interest at 10 p.a.	Facts
with the courts Registry on or before 15.04.2002.	Facts
The interest was to be calculated from 19.05.1998 up to 15.04.2002.	Facts
The amount was permitted to be withdrawn by Respondent No. 3, with the consent of the other respondents.	Facts
The Board made this deposit, as directed by the court.	Facts
On 17.09.2014, the High Court determined that the following issues survived to be determined Whether interest on payment should be calculated from 24.03.1995 to 15.04.2002, or from 19.05.1998 Whether the earnest money of Rs. 5,00,000 should be refunded Whether interest should be calculated at 10 p.a. or 12 p.a.	Facts
The Board resolved, through a resolution dated 17.12.2014, to refund the earnest money deposit with interest of 10 calculated from 19.05.1998.	Facts
On account of this development, the High Court examined the issue of quantification of interest, and held that so far as the amount that had already been refunded with interest at 10 was concerned, no grievance could be raised by Asiatic Steel, as it had initially claimed an interest of 10, in the letter to the Board dated 19.05.1998.	Facts
In the case of the refund already made of the Principal and the earnest money deposit, it was held that Asiatic Steel was not justified in claiming more than 10 interest.	Facts
Neither party raised any grievance against the High Courts interim order dated 26.02.2002 fixing the interest at 10.	Facts
The only question then left to be decided was with respect to the date from which interest on the Principal was to be calculated, and what the rate of interest was to be.	Facts
The High Court held that the Board never claimed that it suffered any damage or loss due to Asiatic Steels termination of the contract.	Facts
The reasoning of the impugned judgment was that hence, the Board was under a liability to compensate or pay reasonable interest for the period during which the money was retained by it.	Facts
The High Court took into consideration that Indusind was a Singaporean company, and that the rate of interest was lower in developed countries.	Facts
Accordingly, the rate of interest was altered to 6 p.a., for the period during which the money was enjoyed by the Board.	Facts
The Board was directed to (i) refund the earnest money of Rs. 5,00,000/ with interest at 10 p.a., in accordance with the resolution of 17.12.2014 and (ii) pay interest of 6 on the Principal from 08.11.1994 to 19.05.1998.	Facts
This interest amount works out to Rs. 76,47,544/.	Facts
The Board is, hence, aggrieved by the impugned judgment.	Facts
Arguments Advanced	None
It was contended on behalf of the Board that the subject matter of the present dispute was a contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
To determine whether the Board had to pay compensation for any benefit received under the contract, it was imperative that breach of such contract should have been proved.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sections 64 and 65 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 (hereinafter the Contract Act), contemplate return of benefit for a void voidable contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that these provisions do not apply when there is no allegation as to the contract being void.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any case, the Board had already refunded the entire amount to Asiatic Steel.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel for the Board went on to submit that Section 73 and 75 of the Contract Act were inapplicable, as breach was not proven or found, and neither did the high court make a finding of rightful rescission of contract by Asiatic Steel.	Arguments of Petitioner
9.	Arguments of Petitioner
The sole basis of the High Courts direction to pay interest for the period from 08.11.1994 to 19.05.1998 was the Courts view that the Board had an obligation to compensate Asiatic Steel for its enjoyment of the principal during this period, and because the Board had not shown that it suffered any loss on account of termination of the contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel urged that Asiatic Steel accepted and provided an undertaking of their satisfaction of the site, in the contract entered into between the parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
They then went on to abandon the contract on grounds of the site being rocky unsuitable for their commercial activities.	Arguments of Petitioner
10. Counsel for Asiatic Steel, on the other hand, submitted that the Board took about 4 years to take action on its promise to create surrounding infrastructure and clear the rocks as well as the rocky island near plot V10, which made it unviable for Asiatic Steel to commence business.	Arguments of Respondent
The Board had agreed, through its board meeting on 23.03.1995, to develop infrastructure and remove the rocks Asiatic Steel once again appraised the Board of the importance of removing the rocks, through a letter dated 26.04.1996.	Arguments of Respondent
Asiatic Steel even stated that it could take up the task of removing the rocks, if the Board so desired.	Arguments of Respondent
The request for removal of the rocks and the rocky formation near plot V10 was repeated through another letter dated 22.05.1996.	Arguments of Respondent
The other successful bidders for plots V6 to V9 also raised similar issues, and approached the courts for relief.	Arguments of Respondent
Asiatic Steel did not join those bidders, and sought to deal with the matter amicably.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel submitted that since the Board did not actually carry out the promised work, Asiatic Steel could not commence commercial production they were left with no option but to abandon the project and seek a refund.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that Asiatic Steel incurred heavy losses on account of interest costs from the date of remittance, as well as losses on account of depreciation of the rupee over a period of three years.	Arguments of Respondent
When the Board failed to make the refund or discharge its duties, Asiatic Steel filed a petition before the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
A civil suit claiming damages was also preferred at the City Civil Court, Ahmedabad, which was unconditionally withdrawn, after seeking permission from the High Court, which was granted through the order dated 26.02.2002.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel submitted that on account of the Boards failure to remove the rocks, Asiatic Steel could not take possession of the plot, and therefore, that interest is due from the date of deposit till the date of payment.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued that the very fact that the Board agreed to refund the premium and the earnest money shows their acceptance that they have been unable to provide the promised plots.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted that all the other allottees had been paid interest on the amounts deposited by them.	Arguments of Respondent
It was urged that the Board enjoyed the Principal amount from 08.11.1994 to 19.05.1998, and it was not a case where the possession of the plot was handed over and the contract was concluded.	Arguments of Respondent
Asiatic Steel was deprived of a substantial amount that could not be utilized elsewhere during that period.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that interest was essentially compensation for denial of the right to utilize the money due.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance was placed on Union of India, Tr. Dir.	Arguments of Respondent
of IT	Arguments of Respondent
v. M s Tata Chemicals Ltd. (2014) 6 SCC 335.	Arguments of Respondent
, where this court held that interest is a kind of compensation of use and retention of money collected unauthorizedly by the Department.	Arguments of Respondent
When the collection is illegal, there is corresponding obligation on the revenue to refund such amount with interest in as much as they have retained and enjoyed the money deposited.	Arguments of Respondent
With regard to the question of whether Asiatic Steel raised objections regarding the unsuitability of the land for the purpose for which it had been tendered, it was contended on its behalf that objections were raised, prior to remitting a major part of the upset premium.	Arguments of Respondent
The first objection on record was immediately after payment of the earnest money deposit after the allotment of the plot on 08.11.1994, through letter dated 23.02.1995.	Arguments of Respondent
The payment of the premium was made on 22.03.1995.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued that no time period under the lease, was consumed for any activity whatsoever on the plot, and Asiatic Steel did not derive any benefit at all.	Arguments of Respondent
It was categorically acknowledged and admitted in board meetings and letters that the plot was unusable and the contract was to be mutually abandoned.	Arguments of Respondent
Considering that the Board agreed to refund the amount with interest, it was argued, that the consequence was that the money should be returned with interest from the date when it was enjoyed by the Board.	Arguments of Respondent
Asiatic Steel urged that the limited issue to be determined by this court is that of interest payment from when the remittance was made, i.e., 22.03.1995 to 19.05.1998, when the contract was abandoned.	Arguments of Respondent
Finally, they submitted that this amount works out to Rs.	Arguments of Respondent
1,32,44,729/ (at 10 interest p.a.),	Arguments of Respondent
Rs.1,06,95,783/ (at 8 interest p.a.), and Rs. 81,46,837 (at 6 interest p.a.).	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted that the successful bidders of plots V8 (Svaminarayan Ship Breaking Pvt. Ltd.) and V9 (M s Mazz Marine Pvt. Ltd.) who were similarly situated to Asiatic Steel, had approached courts for a decree, and been refunded their deposits with interest, pursuant to orders dated 14.08.1996 and 08.07.2002 respectively.	Arguments of Respondent
With this courts permission, Asiatic Steel filed copies of RTI queries which had sought specific information with regard to (i) amount paid to similarly placed bidders plot holders during settlement with the Board (ii) whether interest was paid to the bidders plot holders along with the principal, and from what date this was paid and (iii) the percentage of interest paid along with principal.	Arguments of Respondent
A response to the RTI query was received on 20.02.2020, in respect of the bidders for plots V7, V8 and V9.	Arguments of Respondent
The bidder for V7 was paid an interest at 12, amounting to Rs. 22,80,743/, for the period from 23.03.1995 30.11.1995.	Arguments of Respondent
The bidder for V8 was paid interest at 12, amounting to Rs. 3,55,068/, for the period from 27.03.1995 30.11.1995.	Arguments of Respondent
The bidder for V9 was paid interest at 9 amounting to Rs. 2,12,500/, for the period from 23.03.1995 30.11.1995.	Arguments of Respondent
It was urged that in accordance with tender conditions, the primary obligation to provide a suitable plot for ship breaking was that of the Board.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel for Asiatic Steel submitted that the as is where is clause cannot be interpreted to mean that the Board can allot any piece of land that is of no utility to the bidder, and be absolved of liability.	Arguments of Respondent
20.	Arguments of Petitioner
In response to Asiatic Steels contentions that identically situated bidders were paid interest at 1012 were unsustainable, it was contended on behalf of the Board, in a response, that interest was not payable under the terms of the contract with the present respondents.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, Asiatic Steel had allowed the plot to remain unused for almost half of the license concession period before rescinding the contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
It had verified the site before casting a bid it took a conscious decision to make the bid and pay the upset premium.	Arguments of Petitioner
21.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that the Board had written to Asiatic Steel on 28.11.1995, informing them that the plot was ready in all respects and possession was required to be taken before 30.11.1995.	Arguments of Petitioner
The bidders for V7 and V8 were given interest only up till the date the plot holders were to take possession 30.11.1995.	Arguments of Petitioner
Asiatic Steel did not take possession.	Arguments of Petitioner
22.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that the present case is a contractual dispute where, without breach being proved against the Board, interest was ordered as a compensatory measure, that too under writ jurisdiction.	Arguments of Petitioner
Analysis The Guidelines for Permission to Utilize Ship breaking Plots at Sosiya provided that permission shall be granted for a period of ten years from the date of issue of the permission letter, after which, the permission shall cease.	None
The conditions applicable for grant of permission are provided under Clause 13 Clause 13(d) mandates that plot charges be paid in advance, before issuance of the permission letter, and plot charges for the next year are to be paid before the commencement of the relevant year.	None
Asiatic Steel was the highest bidder in an auction for five shipbreaking plots, held on 08.11.1994.	Reasoning
The Board received payment of the earnest money deposit of Rs. 5,00,000/ on this day.	Reasoning
Plot V10 was allotted to Respondent No. 1 (Asiatic Steel Industries Ltd.).	Reasoning
M s Ganpatrai were the Indian shareholders of Asiatic Steel, while M s Industeel was a foreign shareholder based in Singapore.	Reasoning
The upset premium was remitted by Industeel in US currency (dollars ), on 22.03.1995.	Reasoning
The minutes of the meeting dated 23.02.1995 record that the shipbreakers (including Asiatic Steel herein), informed the Board that certain rocks were required to be removed along plots V6 to V10, which hinder the beaching of ships.	Reasoning
The Board agreed to prepare an estimate and invite tenders for the removal of these rocks.	Reasoning
The record shows that the notice inviting tenders issued by the Board expressly stated in para 14 that The tenderer may inspect the site at his own cost and shall be deemed to have acquainted himself, fully with all the site conditions.	None
Tenderer shall be deemed to have read and understood the guidelines at Annexure one and the terms and conditions at annexure to.	None
Such being the position, it was nobodys case that Asiatic Steel was unaware about the site conditions.	Reasoning
This is particularly important because it was willing to commit a substantial amount in foreign exchange for the plot which it bid for and was eventually granted.	Reasoning
Likewise, the requisite undertaking too was furnished on its behalf.	Reasoning
It is in this background of circumstances, that the claim for interest for the period in question requires examination.	Reasoning
The record relied upon by Asiatic Steel is in the form of three office orders issued by the Board.	Reasoning
The first office order is dated 06.05.1996.	Reasoning
This order relates to Nyankaran Investment and Leasing Pvt.	Reasoning
Ltd.	Reasoning
This company had successfully bid for Plot Number V7 and paid Rs. 2.74 crores.	Reasoning
This company had deposited the entire amount on 23.03.1995.	Reasoning
Upon being dissatisfied with the plot, the company filed CA 8287/1995, in proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, before the Gujarat High Court.	Reasoning
Having regard to the observations made by the High Court, the board sanctioned refund of the entire amount along with 12 interest, by its order dated 06.05.1996.	Reasoning
The amount paid by the Board as interest was Rs. 22.80 lakhs.	Reasoning
The second instance relates to Svaminarayan Shipbreaking (P) Ltd, Surat, which had bid for a plot (V8) and paid Rs. 50 lakhs in two equal instalments.	Reasoning
This company filed proceedings before the Gujarat High Court, (i.e. CA 3122/1995).	Reasoning
The Board, therefore decided to refund the principal along with interest at 12 per annum for two different periods, based on the deposit of the two payments of Rs. 25 lakhs.	Reasoning
The total interest sanctioned on 08.08.1996 (and later paid) was Rs.3.55 lakhs.	Reasoning
The last instance is of Maaz Marine (P) Ltd, Surat, which had bid for a plot (V9) and paid the instalments.	Reasoning
This company filed proceedings before the Gujarat High Court, (i.e. CA 3211/1995).	Reasoning
The Board, therefore decided to refund the principal along with interest 9 per annum for the period, based on the deposit of the payment of Rs. 25 lakhs.	Reasoning
The total interest sanctioned on 08.08.1996 (and later paid) was Rs. 2.12 lakhs.	Reasoning
This amount was sanctioned by office order dated 27.03.2000, even though the Board had decided to refund earlier (on 21.03.1996, due to the court proceedings and orders) however, the amount was sanctioned later, awaiting the decision of the civil court, in an inter se dispute between the directors of Mazz Marine, (i.e. in Suit No. 1200/1997).	Reasoning
Upon the decision in that case, the amount was released, including the interest at 9 p.a. for one year.	Reasoning
The correspondence on the record reveals that the last payment towards the plot was tendered by Asiatic Steel under cover of a letter dated 22.03.1995 for an amount of US 1,153,000/.	Reasoning
The other letters placed on record are the one dated 23.04.1995, to the Board indicating that the full payment for the consideration of Rs.	Reasoning
3,61,20,000/ had been made towards a plot.	Reasoning
Other than this, in the writ petition, Asiatic Steel argued that it made efforts several times to ask the board to clear the beachfront rocks to make the plot functional.	Reasoning
It was also argued that three other entities which had bid for and secured different plots were dissatisfied by the Boards inaction and had approached the High Court.	Reasoning
As a result, the High Court passed orders which led to refund of the amounts deposited by those concerns, with some interest.	Reasoning
On the record, the minutes of a discussion presided over by the Chief Minister of the state regarding outstanding amounts of premium payable by plot holders in the shipbreaking yard, dated 29.04.1998, would show that the state authorities were pressing for payment of overdue premium instalments.	Reasoning
It is after these events, that Asiatic Steel claimed refund of the amount through a letter dated 19.05.1998.	None
In that letter, Asiatic Steel stated as follows there were 4 other successful bidders for plots V 6 to V9.	None
These 4 bidders similarly complained of nonavailability of basic infrastructure.	None
They subsequently approached the High Court of Gujarat for interim relief and for directions to GMB to develop basic infrastructure and to remove rocks in front of lots V6 to V9.	None
They approach the High Court to direct GMB to fulfil all these obligations before asking for payment of upset premium.	None
We understand that the Honble High Court granted them some relief.	None
We may point out that we did not join the actions of these 4 bidders in the High Court.	None
Instead prefer to deal with the matter amicably via discussions directly with GMB.	None
Asiatic Steels letter dated 26.04.1996, a copy of which has been placed on the record, shows that it expressed willingness to remove the beachfront rocks, provided the Board bore the expenses.	None
The Board, however, was silent.	None
The contemporaneous situation, and the correspondence between Asiatic Steel and the Board after the entire amount was deposited, reveals that other concerns approached the court seeking refund of their principal amounts, with interest, which forced the Board to take a decision and comply.	Reasoning
The final decision by Asiatic Steel demanding refund was later, in May, 1998.	Reasoning
In the meanwhile, the other concerns, which had bid successfully for three plots had approached the court (in 1995) and the Board had decided to refund the amounts with one years interest.	Reasoning
Asiatic Steel, therefore, for reasons best known to it, approached the court for refund (which it was undoubtedly entitled) to and interest, first by filing a suit in 2001.	Reasoning
In this courts opinion, the claim for interest by Asiatic Steel and the response of the Board, on that issue, is to be judged in the light of both parties conduct and what was expected of the Board as a state instrumentality.	Reasoning
The claim in this case is essentially a monetary one, and would ordinarily be premised upon breach of contract.	Reasoning
Asiatic Steel, therefore, correctly approached the civil court by filing a suit (Suit No. 2961/2001) .	Reasoning
Later, apparently it was advised to resort to proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
When its writ petition was considered, the suit was permitted to be withdrawn the High Court directed the Board to deposit the entire principal amount, with interest at 10 per annum.	Reasoning
(By its order dated 26.02.2002)	Reasoning
By the final impugned judgment, that order was confirmed.	Reasoning
In an earlier order, the court had in fact crystallized the precise issue, to be whether interest was payable from 24.03.1995 or from 19.05.1998, or whether it was payable from the latter date, till the date of deposit in court, i.e., 15.04.2002.	Reasoning
Two important aspects need to be noticed at this stage first, on the one hand, that Asiatic Steel was aware of the condition of the plot, at an early stage, when it bid for it.	Reasoning
In this regard, its conduct is to be judged in the light of the Boards inaction in regard to the unfitness of the allotted site, as in the case of the other concerns.	Reasoning
Two, Asiatic Steel was no better and no worse than the other plot lessees, who demanded refund of their amounts.	Reasoning
The difference between them, and Asiatic Steel was that the latter chose to demand refund on 19.05.1998.	Reasoning
Asiatic Steels final letter discloses its awareness that the other concerns approached the court earlier, but that it waited as it wished to have the issue resolved amicably, rather than moving the court for relief.	Reasoning
In the opinion of this court, that fact that Asiatic Steel and other concerns bid for the plots knowing the state they were in, cannot be disputed.	Reasoning
However, the conduct of all the successful bidders consistently suggests that they expected that the plots would be given in usable condition, within reasonable time.	Reasoning
Clearly, the Board could not and most certainly did not rectify the conditions by removing the beachfront rocks.	Reasoning
The Board is not forthcoming about the reasons for its inaction.	Reasoning
It urged two defences in its reply to the writ petition one, that the dispute was in the realm of contract and two, that even though like in other cases, the Board was prepared to consider a refund, Asiatic Steel was a joint venture company.	Reasoning
These, in the opinion of this court are wholly insubstantial reasons.	Reasoning
It is clear from the Boards conduct that it never responded to the letters written by Asiatic Steel at least, no reply has been placed on record.	Reasoning
Even Asiatic Steels request for permission to carryout the necessary clearance work at the cost of the board, was not responded to  either positively or negatively.	Reasoning
Further, whenever any bidder approached the court complaining that the plot allotted was unusable, the Board decided, mostly contemporaneously, to refund the amount, even with interest.	Reasoning
In the case of Asiatic Steel, however, when the demand was made for refund on 19.05.1998, the Board did not act, forcing the company to approach the court, firstly through a civil suit which was later withdrawn, and then in a writ petition.	Reasoning
In the opinion of this court, the Boards complete silence in responding to Asiatic Steels demand for refund, coupled with the absence of any material placed on record by it suggesting that the complaints had no substance leaves it vulnerable to the charge of complete arbitrariness.	Reasoning
The Boards conduct or indifference in regard to the refund sought (in respect of which there was no meaningful argument on its part before the High Court) can be only on the premise that it wished the parties to approach the court, till a decision could be taken to refund the amounts received by it.	Reasoning
In this courts considered view, the Boards action is entirely unacceptable.	Reasoning
As a public body charged to uphold the rule of law, its conduct had to be fair and not arbitrary.	Reasoning
If it had any meaningful justification for withholding the amount received from Asiatic Steel, such justification has not been highlighted ever.	Reasoning
On the other hand, its conduct reveals that it wished that the parties should approach the court, before it took a decision.	Reasoning
This behavior of deliberate inaction to force a citizen or a commercial concern to approach the court, rather than take a decision, justified on the anvil of reason (in the present case, a decision to refund) means that the Board acted in a discriminatory manner.	Reasoning
Long ago, in Dilbagh Rai Jarry v. Union of India (1974) 3 SCC 554 this court had quoted from a decision of the Kerala High Court, approvingly P.P. Abubacker v. Union of India, AIR 1972	None
Ker 103	None
But it must be remembered that the State is no ordinary party trying to win a case against one of its own citizens by hook or by crook for the States interest is to meet honest claims, vindicate a substantial defence and never to score a technical point or overreach a weaker party to avoid a just liability or secure an unfair advantage, simply because legal devices provide such an opportunity.	None
The State is a virtuous litigant and looks with unconcern on immoral forensic successes so that if on the merits the case is weak, Government shows a willingness to settle the dispute regardless of prestige and other lesser motivations which move private parties to fight in court.	None
The layout on litigation costs and executive time by the State and its agencies is so staggering these days because of the large amount of litigation in which it is involved that a positive and wholesome policy of cutting back on the volume of law suits by the twin methods of not being tempted into forensic showdowns where a reasonable adjustment is feasible and ever offering to extinguish a pending proceeding on just terms, giving the legal mentors of Government some initiative and authority in this behalf.	None
Again, in Gurgaon Gramin Bank v. Khazani 2012 (8) SCC 781 this court stated that The number of litigations in our country is on the rise, for small and trivial matters, people and sometimes the Central and the State Governments and their instrumentalities like banks, nationalised or private, come to courts may be due to ego clash or to save the officers skin.	None
The judicial system is overburdened which naturally causes delay in adjudication of disputes.	None
Mediation Centres opened in various parts of our country have, to some extent, eased the burden of the courts but we are still in the tunnel and the light is far away.	None
On more than one occasion, this Court has reminded the Central Government, the State Governments and other instrumentalities as well as to the various banking institutions to take earnest efforts to resolve the disputes at their end.	None
At times, some giveandtake attitude should be adopted or both will sink.	None
Unless serious questions of law of general importance arise for consideration or a question which affects a large number of persons or the stakes are very high, the courts jurisdiction cannot be invoked for resolution of small and trivial matters.	None
We are really disturbed by the manner in which those types of matters are being brought to courts even at the level of the Supreme Court of India and this case falls in that category.	None
In State of A.P. v. Pioneer Builders (2006) 12 SCC 119 this Court referred to the 27th Report of the Law Commission on the Code of Civil Procedure, and held as follows From a bare reading of subsection (1) of Section 80, it is plain that subject to what is provided in subsection (2) thereof, no suit can be filed against the Government or a public officer unless requisite notice under the said provision has been served on such Government or public officer, as the case may be.	None
It is well settled that before the amendment of Section 80 the provisions of unamended Section 80 admitted of no implications and exceptions whatsoever and are express, explicit and mandatory.	Reasoning
The section imposes a statutory and unqualified obligation upon the court and in the absence of compliance with Section 80, the suit is not maintainable.	Reasoning
(See Bhagchand Dagadusa v. Secy. of State for India in Council Bhagchand Dagadusa v. Secy. of State for India in Council, 1927 SCC OnLine PC 48 (192627) 54 IA 338 AIR 1927 PC 176 Sawai Singhai Nirmal Chand v. Union of India Sawai Singhai Nirmal Chand v. Union of India, (1966) 1	Reasoning
SCR 986 AIR 1966 SC 1068 and Bihari Chowdhary v. State of Bihar Bihari Chowdhary v. State of Bihar, (1984) 2 SCC 627 .)	Reasoning
The service of notice under Section 80 is, thus, a condition precedent for the institution of a suit against the Government or a public officer.	Reasoning
The legislative intent of the Section is to give the Government sufficient notice of the suit, which is proposed to be filed against it so that it may reconsider the decision and decide for itself whether the claim made could be accepted or not.	Reasoning
As observed in Bihari Chowdhary Bihari Chowdhary v. State of Bihar, (1984) 2 SCC 627 , the object of the Section is the advancement of justice and the securing of public good by avoidance of unnecessary litigation.	Reasoning
It seems that the provision did not achieve the desired results inasmuch as it is a matter of common experience that hardly any matter is settled by the Government or the public officer concerned by making use of the opportunity afforded by the said provisions.	Reasoning
In most of the cases, notice given under Section 80 remains unanswered.	Reasoning
In its 14th Report (reiterated in the 27th and 54th Reports), the Law Commission, while noting that the provisions of this section had worked a great hardship in a large number of cases where immediate relief by way of injunction against the Government or a public officer was necessary in the interests of justice, had recommended omission of the Section.	Reasoning
However, the Joint Committee of Parliament, to which the Amendment Bill, 1974 was referred, did not agree with the Law Commission and recommended retention of Section 80 with necessary modifications relaxations.	Reasoning
Thus, in conformity therewith, by the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1976 the existing Section 80 was renumbered as Section 80(1) and subsections (2) and (3) were inserted with effect from 121977.	Reasoning
Subsection (2) carved out an exception to the mandatory rule that no suit can be filed against the Government or a public officer unless two months notice has been served on such Government or public officer.	Reasoning
The provision mitigates the rigours of subsection (1) and empowers the court to allow a person to institute a suit without serving any notice under subsection (1) in case it finds that the suit is for the purpose of obtaining an urgent and immediate relief against the Government or a public officer.	Reasoning
But, the court cannot grant relief under the subsection unless a reasonable opportunity is given to the Government or public officer to show cause in respect of the relief prayed for.	Reasoning
The proviso to the said subsection enjoins that in case the court is of the opinion that no urgent and immediate relief should be granted, it shall return the plaint for presentation to it after complying with the requirements of subsection (1).	Reasoning
Subsection (3), though not relevant for the present case, seeks to bring in the rule of substantial compliance and tends to relax the rigour of subsection (1).	Reasoning
In this case, conduct of the Board betrays a callous and indifferent attitude, which in effect is that if Asiatic Steel wished for its money to be returned, it had to approach the court.	Reasoning
This was despite its knowledge that at least three other identically placed entities had asked for return of money and, upon approaching the court, were refunded the amounts given by them promptly.	Reasoning
In view of these facts, nothing prevented the Board from deciding to refund the amount, without forcing Asiatic Steel to approach the court.	Reasoning
This court notes that the High Court directed payment of interest for the entire period (i.e. starting from 08.11.1994 and ending on 19.05.1998).	Decision
However, it is evident that Asiatic Steel had not paid the entire amount on 08.11.1994 in fact the sum of 1,153,000  i.e. the principal consideration, excluding the earnest money deposit, was deposited on 24.03.1995.	Decision
Therefore, the impugned judgment erred in directing payment of interest on the entire amount from 08.11.1994 instead, the direction to pay interest on Rs.	Decision
3,61,20,000/ shall operate with effect from 22.03.1995 to 19.05.1998.	Decision
The appeal is dismissed, subject to the modification indicated above, to the impugned judgment of the High Court.	Decision
