 Alagiriswami, J.1.	None
This is an appeal against the judgment of the High Court of Mysore striking down Rule 216 (2) of the Mysore Motor Vehicles Rules, 1963, introduced on 7th October, 1969, on the ground that it violates Art. 19	Issue
(1) (g) of the Constitution.2.	None
The respondent, who is a transport operator plying buses between Doddaballapur and Tumkur, wanted to replace one of his buses running on that route with a new one.	Facts
Under the permit granted to him, which was valid up to 30101975, his bus had a seating capacity of 30.	Facts
On 2111970 he applied to the Regional Transport Officer.	None
Bangalore Region, for permission to alter the seating capacity of the new bus.	Facts
which he had acquired, from 40 to 30.	Facts
This application having been rejected he filed a petition for issue of a writ of mandamus directing the Regional Transport Officer to grant the necessary permission, and that petition having been allowed the State of Mysore has come on appeal to this Court by special leave.3.	Facts
The contention of the operator was that the impugned rule which fixed the minimum seating capacity of buses is really intended indirectly to compel the operators to pay more taxes, that he is already operating on a narrow margin of profit and if he is compelled to increase the number of seats in his bus he would incur losses because of the additional tax which he will have to pay and this is an interference with his right to carry on his business.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the State the impugned Rule was intended to eliminate the evil of stagecarriage operators carrying passengers in excess of the seating capacity specified in the registration certificate and the permit, to the serious inconvenience and discomfort of the travelling public, in addition to causing loss of revenue to the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no dispute that the bus in question can have a seating capacity of 40.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
The impugned Rule, in so far as it is relevant, reads as follows216 (1)(2)	None
The minimum seating capacity Of a Public Service Vehicle shall be directly proportionate to the wheel base of the vehicle.	None
In all Public Service Vehicles other than motor cabs the minimum number of seats to be provided shall be as specified in column (2) of the Table belowWheel baseNo. of seats (Minimum seating capacity)(1)(2)254 to 293 cm.16294 to 305 cm.20306 to 343 cm.25344 to 407 cm.30408 to 432 cm.35433 to 496 cm.45497 to 534 cm.50above 535 cm.55Provided that the operator may increase the capacity consistent with the other rules relating to seating capacity and with due regard to the type of the chassis on which the body is fitted (3) Nothing in subrule (2) shall apply to,(i) stage carriages proposed to be operated exclusively in towns and cities and(ii) stage carriages registered prior to the coming into force of the Mysore Motor Vehicles (V Amendment) Rules, 1969Provided that when the body of a stage carriage specified in item (ii) is reconstructed, the seats shall be so arranged as to face the front and maximum number of seats to the satisfaction of the Registering Authority, shall be provided.	None
It is agreed by both the parties that there are only four manufacturers of bus chassis in the country with wheel bases and number of seats as given below TABLEIt will he noticed that the smallest bus available in the market can carry 35 passengers.5.	None
Section 70 of the Motor Vehicles Act enables rules to be made regulating the construction, equipment and maintenance of motor vehicles.	None
In addition there is power to make rules regarding the seating arrangements in public service vehicles.	None
Under S.48 (3) of the Act there is provision for fixing the maximum number of passengers that may be carried on any specified vehicle or on any vehicle of a specified type.	None
One of the conditions that may be attached to a permit under clause (xx) of that section is that the conditions of the permit shall not be departed from, save with the approval of the Regional Transport Authority.	None
Under Section 60 of the Act a permit may be cancelled or suspended if the holder of the permit uses or causes or allows a vehicle to be used in any manner not authorised by the permit.	None
Under Section 123 whoever drives a motor vehicle or causes or allows a motor vehicle to be used in contravention of any conditions of a permit in regard to the maximum number of passengers that may be carried on the vehicle is also liable to punishment with a fine which may extend to one thousand rupees for the first offence and imprisonment that may extend to six months or with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, or with both for subsequent offences.	None
Under Rule 137 of the Mysore Motor Vehicles Rules any of the conditions of the permit (which naturally includes the condition regarding the maximum number of passengers that might be carried) can be varied only after following the prescribed procedure.	None
In view of these circumstances it is contended on behalf of the respondents that it is not possible for the transport operator to overload his buses in contravention of the conditions of his permit and that that cannot be a reason for fixing a minimum number of seats in a bus.	None
It is also argued that while there is a specific section which enables the maximum number of passengers that can be carried on a bus to be prescribed, there is no such power to prescribe the minimum number of passengers that can be carried in a bus.6.	Arguments of Respondent
It must be made clear that all that is insisted upon under the impugned Rule is the minimum number of seats to be provided in the bus.	Reasoning
It has been urged on behalf of the State that the intention behind providing buses with bigger bodies with lesser number of seats than they can be provided with is really intended to carry a larger number of passengers and pay a lesser tax.	Reasoning
Though it is true that the State has the necessary machinery to check such contravention it cannot always succeed in doing so.	Reasoning
However, we do not consider that the mere possibility of such overloading can justify the making of the impugned rule.	Reasoning
It has been urged on behalf of the State that the demand for transport has been rising by leaps and bounds every year, whereas on behalf of the respondent It has been contended that the average number of passengers carried in his bus on this route is about 25.	Reasoning
The great demand for transport and the rush for seats in buses is too well known to need emphasis.	Reasoning
It appears to us that when a certain chassis is capable of having a body constructed on it so that it can carry a certain number of passengers, to construct on that body a lesser number of seats is a waste of valuable transportation facility.	Reasoning
Even on this route there are 14 buses plying between the two points in addition to longer distance buses, of which the stage between Doddaballapur and Tumkur forms a section.	Reasoning
So it cannot be said that the demand here is as little as is urged on behalf of the respondent.	Reasoning
There is no reason to disbelieve the averment made on behalf of the State on this point.7.	Reasoning
The difference in taxation between a bus which carries 30 passengers and a bus carrying 40 passengers is about R. 4001 per quarter or Rs. 1600/ per year whereas the difference is Rs. 225/ per quarter between a bus carrying 30 and one carrying 35 passengers.	Reasoning
That is because only five standing passengers are allowed in a bus with a carrying capacity of 30 and 10 standing passengers are allowed in a bus with a carrying capacity of 40 and above.	Reasoning
The tax payable in respect of standing passengers is Rs. 10 per quarter.	Reasoning
The tax payable under the Mysore Motor Vehicles (Taxation on Passengers and Goods) Act, l961 need not detain us for long because under that Act the operator is enabled to pass on the tax to the passengers.8.	Reasoning
The difficulty mentioned on behalf of the respondent about the need to get the permit amended in order to allow for the increased capacity imposed by Rule 137 and provision of Section 48 (3) (xxi) regarding the variation of the conditions of the permit need not detain us for long because under the new Section 59 (2), as amended by Act 56 of 1969, the holder of a permit may, with the permission of the authority by which the permit was granted replace any vehicle covered by the permit by any other vehicle of the same nature.	Reasoning
Under Rule 131 the procedure for replacing any vehicle covered by a permit by a vehicle of a different type or of a different capacity is also made clearly very simple and where it is of the same type or capacity the variation has to be granted within a week.	Reasoning
We are also of opinion that the power conferred by Section 70 of the Act is wide enough to enable the making of the impugned Rule.9.	Reasoning
The validity of the Rule at present has to be considered not merely from the point of view of the effect it has on a particular individual like the respondent.	Reasoning
It has to be looked at from the point of view of the generality of the motor vehicles operators as well as the public.	Reasoning
We have shown above that the vehicles with the minimum capacity available in this country can carry 35 passengers and if, as is alleged by the respondent, the average number of passengers in buses over this route is only 25 the proper thing to do in due course is to reduce the number of vehicles plying on this route.	Reasoning
Otherwise, it would mean unnecessary waste of valuable transport space and facility.	Reasoning
Buses so released could be used elsewhere to much greater advantage to the travelling public.	Reasoning
There are many areas and many routes crying for transport facilities and they would be better served.	Reasoning
We are unable to place any weight on the basis of an argument which affects one or two individuals, where by insisting upon this provision of a minimum seating capacity the larger public interest will be served.	Reasoning
If it causes some inconvenience to a few individuals like the respondent they have got to face the situation.	Reasoning
It appears from the additional affidavit filed by the petitioner (respondent herein) that he has got four buses running between Doddaballapur and Tumkur If it is found that the average number of passengers is only 25, the proper thing to do would be for him to cut down his buses on this route from four to three.	Reasoning
In that case there can be no question of his suffering any losses or his being affected in any way in the matter of his carrying on his business.10.	None
Though it is not in evidence it may be presumed that the cost of operation of a bus whether it is provided with 30 or 40 seats may not be very much different and there will be the additional facility available to the public if the bus has more seats.	None
Moreover, as traffic grows, as it has a tendency to grow everywhere the public will be better served.	None
We are unable to accept the contention that the Rule providing for minimum number of seats is, intended to secure more revenue indirectly.	None
The State can do it directly by increasing the rate of tax.	None
It is really a rule intended for the ? benefit of the travelling public.	None
We see no reason not to accept the statement made on behalf of the State that the passenger traffic on every route in the State has increased by leaps and bounds, that generally it was found that the stage carriage operators were carrying passengers in excess of the seating capacity specified in the Registration Certificate and the permit to the serious inconvenience and discomfort of the travelling public in addition to causing loss of revenue to the State, and it was with a view to eliminate the above evils that the impugned Rule has been framed.11.	Reasoning
We are unable to agree with the High Court that as usually there are only regulations regarding the maximum number of seats, any regulation regarding the minimum number of seats being very uncommon has to be specially defended.	Reasoning
We have shown above that the regulation is really in the interest of the general travailing public.	Reasoning
Nor are we able to agree with the High Court that the State has not taken into account the prevailing conditions in the country with regard to the manufacture and availability of bus chassis.	Reasoning
The minimum number of seats insisted upon depends upon the chassis.	Reasoning
In this very case itself as we have seen the respondent really wants to provide 30 seats in the chassis which can provide 40 seats.	Reasoning
It is not necessary to say anything regarding the luxury buses which were considered by the High Court because that matter was not argued before us.	Reasoning
Apparently the State has decided to make the necessary provision in this regard.	Reasoning
Stage carriage operators exclusively in cities and towns form a class by themselves and the exemption in their case has a direct relation to the objective sought to be achieved.	Reasoning
There is no question here of any arbitrary or excessive invasion of the respondents rights.	Reasoning
The Rule is one of general application which can be justified as being in the interest of the general travelling public.12.	Reasoning
The appeal is, therefore, allowed and the order of the Mysore High Court is set aside.	Decision
The respondent will pay the appellants costs.13.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	Decision
