 Venkatachalliah, M.N. (J) By this petition, Messrs Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilisers Limited, a registered dealer under the Karnataka Sales Tax Act, 1957, (Act) seeks special leave to appeal to this Court from the judgment and order dated August 14, 1990 of the High Court of Karnataka in W.P. No. 3436 of 1980 We have heard Shri Harish Salve, learned counsel for the petitioner and Shri R. N. Narasimhamurthy, learned Senior Counsel for the respondentRevenue.	None
Special leave granted On June 30, 1969, State Government issued a notification in exercise of powers referable to Section 8A of the Act providing certain incentives to entrepreneurs starting new industries in the State, pursuant to States policy for rapid industrialisation.	None
The notification contains a package of reliefs and incentives including one concerning relief from payment of sales tax with which this appeal is concerned4.	None
The clause in the said Notification of 1969 relevant for the present purpose reads (SCC p. 571, para 1)(1) Sales Tax.  	Facts
A cash refund will be allowed on all sales tax paid by a new industry on raw material purchased by it for the first 5 (five) years from the date of the industry goes into production, eligibility to the concessions being determined on the basis of a certificate to be issued by the Department of Industries and Commerce.	Facts
5.	Facts
This was followed by a further Notification dated August 11, 1975 envisaging certain modified procedures for effectuating the reliefs contemplated by the earlier exemption Notification of June 30, 1969.	Facts
The relevant portions of the Preamble and the body of the notification say Preamble The Commissioner of Commercial Taxes has suggested that New Industries covered by the above scheme might be permitted to adjust the refunds to which they would be eligible against the sales tax payable by themOrder.	Facts
In partial modification of the government order cited (2) above, government are pleased to prescribe the following procedure for claiming refund of sales tax by new industries2.	None
The new industries intending to take advantage of the system of adjustment shall apply to the Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes (Administration) of the Division concerned through the assessing authority.	Facts
The application must contain the following particulars(i) Name and address of the new industry(ii) Date of commencement of the industry(iii) Reference number of the certificate issued by the Director of Industries and Commerce, Bangalore(iv)	Facts
Year for which the permission to withhold tax amount is related(v) The description of finished products in which the materials are used3.	Facts
The Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes (Administration) of the concerned Division, after scrutinising the application filed by the new industry and after satisfying himself that the industry is covered by the scheme sanctioned in G.O. No.	Facts
OI 58 FMI 69 dated June 30, 1969 will permit the industry to withhold the amount of tax payable on raw materials purchased and used in the manufacture of goods4.	Facts
(Omitted as unnecessary)5.	Facts
The new industry may apply for permission at any time during the year subject to its renewal every subsequent year.	Facts
Until permission of renewal is granted by the Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, the new industry should not be allowed to adjust the refunds.	Facts
At the end of the assessment year, particulars should be formulated in the annual return of the total amount adjusted during the entire year.	Facts
Along with the return, details prescribed in Government Order No. FD 428 CSL 70 dated February 1, 1971 should be furnished6.	Facts
(Omitted as unnecessary)7.	Facts
(Omitted as unnecessary)8.	Facts
(Omitted as unnecessary).6.	Facts
Appellant, it is not in dispute, had the necessary eligibility under the original exemption Notification of 1969.	Facts
The controversy is confined only to the question of the manner of effectuating the refund of sales tax that appellant, admittedly, was entitled to7.	Facts
Some particulars as to the application made by the appellant for grant of permission might, perhaps, be necessary here.	Facts
For the assessment year 197677, the appellant made such an application to the Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax (Administration) on November 10, 1976 for adjustment of the refunds against sales tax due.	Facts
This permission was granted with retrospective effect from May 1, 1976, validating the adjustments which the appellant had made during the interregnum8.	Facts
However, for the three subsequent years viz., 197778, 197879 and 197980, similar applications which were made on March 29, 1977, March 20, 1978 and March 8, 1979, respectively, remained undisposed of.	Facts
In the meanwhile, in anticipation of the permission appellant adjusted the refund against tax payable for these years and filed its monthly returns setting out adjustments so effected9.	Facts
There is, as set out earlier, no dispute that the appellant was entitled to the benefit of the Notification dated June 30, 1969.	Facts
There is also no dispute that the refunds were eligible to be adjusted against sale tax payable for respective years.	Facts
The only controversy is whether the appellant, not having actually secured the prior permission would be entitled to adjustment having regard to the words of the Notification of August 11, 1975, that until permission of renewal is granted by the Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, the new industry should not be allowed to adjust the refunds.	Facts
The contention virtually means this No doubt you were eligible and entitled to make the adjustments.	Facts
There was also no impediment in law to grant you such permission.	Facts
But see language of clause 5.	Facts
Since we did not give you the permission you cannot be permitted to adjust.	Facts
Is this the effect of the law ?10.	Facts
The sales tax already paid by the appellant on the raw materials procured by it is the subjectmatter of the refunds.	Facts
The sales tax against which the refund is sought to be adjusted is the sales tax payable by appellant on the sales of goods manufactured by it.	Facts
If the contention of the Revenue is correct, the position is that while the appellant is entitled to the refund it cannot, however, adjust the same against current dues of the particular year but should pay the tax working out its refunds separately.	Facts
The situation may well have been such but the snag comes here.	Facts
If the adjustments made by the appellant in its monthly statements are disallowed, the sales tax payable would be deemed to be in default and would attract a penalty ranging from 1 1/2 per cent to 2 1/2 per cent per month from the date it fell due.	Facts
That penalty, in the facts of this case would be very much more than the amounts of refund11.	Facts
What emerges from the undisputed facts is that appellant was entitled to the benefit of these adjustments in the respective years.	Facts
It had done and carried out all that was necessary for it to do and carry out in that behalf.	Facts
The grant of permission remained pending on account of certain outstanding interdepartmental issues as to which of the departments  the Department of Sales Tax or the Department of Industries  should absorb the financial impact of these concessions.	Facts
Correspondence indicates that on account of these questions, internal to administration, the request for permission to adjust was not processed.	Facts
On March 27, 1979, the Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes wrote to the appellant to say that the orders on appellants application for permission would be passed only on receipt of the clarification from the government on these matters12.	Facts
While the matter stood thus, on January 9, 1980, the Commercial Tax Officer of the concerned jurisdiction issued three demand notices demanding payment of the sales tax.	Facts
He said prior permission to adjust had not been considered by the Deputy Commissioner of Mangalore Division, Mangalore, and, therefore, the Commercial Tax Officer was obliged to proceed to recover the taxes.	Facts
Steps for recovery of the penalties were also initiated.	Facts
Thereafter, in February 1980, the appellant moved the High Court for issue of writ of mandamus to quash the demand notices and the proceedings initiated for recovery of penalty under Section 13 of the Act13.	Facts
The contentions in the High Court was somewhat different from those urged before us.	Facts
Before the High Court the Revenue asserted that the very conditions of eligibility for entitlement to these concessions stood modified under a subsequent Notification of January 12, 1977 and that appellant did not satisfy the altered conditions of eligibility.	Facts
The question, therefore, was whether entrepreneurs who had commenced their ventures prior to January 12, 1977, could be held to be governed by the terms of the later Notification of January 12, 1977.	Facts
This question, in principle, had been settled by a decision of this Court in Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes (Asst.), Dharwar v. Dharmendra Trading Co. 1988 (3) SCC 570 1988 SCC(Tax) 432.	Facts
The question that arose there pertained to another condition stipulated in the same Notification of January 12, 1977.	Facts
This Court held that industries established prior to that date were not governed by those altered conditions.	Facts
Though in the present case the altered condition set up against appellant was a different one, on the principle decided in Dharmendra Trading Company case 1988 (3) SCC 570 1988 SCC(Tax) 432 the altered condition would not be attracted.	Facts
But the High Court took a different view of the matter.	Facts
It held, in our opinion quite erroneously, that the principle of the earlier decision of this Court was not applicable because it was rendered in the context of another condition in the 1977 notification.	Facts
What fell for decision was not whether a particular condition was or was not applicable but the very basic question was whether a subsequent notification could undo the eligibility for the concession stipulated and conferred under the 1969 notification Shri Narasimhamurthy with his usual fairness said that he found it difficult to support the approach of the High Court to the question.	Facts
The main point on which the case turned is thus settled in favour of the appellant15.	Facts
But a subsidiary question arose whether the grant of permission for adjustment could at all be made after the period to which such adjustment related had itself expired.	Facts
On this, the High Court said But under Ex. B, the 1975 notification, a clear procedure was provided in order to claim the benefit of refund on the sales tax paid on raw materials purchased by the industrialists.	Facts
The industrialists claiming the benefit had to secure the prior permission of the assessing authority to withhold the tax subject to the governments permission.	Facts
In other words, prior permission was a condition precedent.	Facts
In the instant case, Mr. Kumar was not able to satisfy us, permission had indeed been granted.	Facts
On the other hand, he fairly conceded that though an application was made, no permission was actually granted to withhold the payment.	Facts
Therefore, in view of the 1975 notification prescribing the procedure for claiming the benefit under 1969 notification as at Ex.	Facts
A, there has been no compliance and as such, the petitioner will not be entitled to withhold the tax.	Facts
With the result, the demand at Annexure R, S and T would be justifiable and legal.	Facts
This is the only ground on which the appellants right to adjustment is contested by the Revenue Shri Harish Salve urged that indisputably the permission for the three years had been sought well before the commencement of the respective years but had been withheld for reasons which were demonstrably extraneous.	None
Learned counsel emphasised that the basic eligibility was conditioned by the Notification of June 30, 1969, which required a certificate from the Department of Industries and Commerce.	Arguments of Petitioner
Both the eligibility and the fact that there was such certification from the Department of Industries were not disputed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Indeed, the requirement of the annual permission for adjustment envisaged by the Notification of August 11, 1975 was, says counsel, merely procedural as clause 3 of the notification stipulated that if the conditions were satisfied  there was no dispute they were  the Deputy Commissioner will permit the adjustment.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel says that if, in these circumstances, the Deputy Commissioner withheld the permission law treats that as done which ought to have been done Shri Narasimhamurthy, however, sought to contend that the requirement of the prior permission was held  and rightly  by the High Court to be a condition precedent and that nonsatisfaction of that condition precedent, whatever be the reason for the nonsatisfaction, automatically entailed the logical consequences.	None
Learned counsel further submitted that it was not as if the right to the refund was denied or defeated by the inaction of the Deputy Commissioner but only one made of the refund  by adjustment  became unavailable Learned counsel urged that the benefit envisaged by the Notification of August 11, 1975 was in the nature of a concession and that the appellant in order to avail itself of its benefit had to show strict compliance with conditions subject to which it was available.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel placed reliance on Kedarnath Jute Manufacturing Co. v. CTO 1965 (3) SCR 626 , 62830 1966 AIR(SC) 12 1965 (16) STC 607 and Collector of Central Excise v. Parle Exports (P) Ltd. 1989	None
(1) SCC 345 1989 SCC(Tax) 84 to support his contention that where exemptions were concerned, the conditions thereof ought to be strictly construed and strict compliance with them exacted before a person can lay claim to the benefit of the exemptions Learned counsel submitted that the point was not whether there was any justification for delaying the permission but, more importantly, whether appellant at the relevant point of time had such prior permission or not and that if, in the meanwhile, the period itself expired, no relief was possible as, quite obviously, the requirements of prior permission became impossible of compliance19.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Narasimhamurthy relied on the following observations of this Court in Kedarnath Jute Manufacturing Co. case 1965 (3) SCR 626 , 62830 1966 AIR(SC) 12 1965 (16) STC 607 to support this contention (SCR pp. 62830)	Arguments of Respondent
But the said exemption is made subject to proviso.	None
Under that proviso, in the case of such sales a declaration form duly filled up and signed by the registered dealer to whom the goods are sold and containing the prescribed particulars on a prescribed form obtainable from the prescribed authority has to be furnished in the prescribed by the dealer who sells the goods The provision prescribing the exemption shall, therefore, be strictly construed To accept the argument of the learned counsel for the appellant is to ignore the proviso altogether, for if his contention be correct it will lead to the position that if the declaration form is furnished, well and good but, if not furnished, other evidence can be produced.	None
That is to rewrite the clause and to omit the proviso.	None
That will defeat the express intention of the legislature.	None
We have given our careful consideration to these submissions.	None
We are afraid the stand of the Revenue suffers from certain basic fallacies, besides being wholly technical.	Reasoning
In Kedarnath case 1965 (3) SCR 626 , 62830 1966 AIR(SC) 12 1965 (16) STC 607 , the question for consideration was whether the requirement of the declaration under the proviso to Section 5(2)(a)(ii) of the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941, could be established by evidence aliened.	Reasoning
The Court said that the intention of the legislature was to grant exemption only upon the satisfaction of the substantive condition of the provision and the condition in the proviso was held to be of substance embodying considerations of policy.	Reasoning
Shri Narasimhamurthy would say the position in the present case was no different.	Reasoning
He says that the Notification of August 11, 1975 was statutory in character and the condition as to prior permission for adjustment stipulated therein must also be held to be statutory.	Reasoning
Such a condition must, says counsel, be equated with the requirement of production of the declaration form in Kedarnath case 1965	Reasoning
(3) SCR 626 , 62830 1966 AIR(SC) 12 1965 (16) STC 607 and thus understood the same consequences should ensue for the noncompliance.	Reasoning
Shri Narasimhamurthy says that there was no way out of this situation and no adjustment was permissible, whatever be the other remedies of the appellant.	Reasoning
There is a fallacy in the emphasis of this argument.	Reasoning
The consequence which Shri Narasimhamurthy suggests should flow from the noncompliance would, indeed, be the result if the condition was a substantive one and one fundamental to the policy underlying the exemption.	Reasoning
Its stringency and mandatory nature must be justified by the purpose intended to be served.	Reasoning
The mere fact that it is statutory does not matter one way or the other.	Reasoning
There are conditions and conditions.	Reasoning
Some may be substantive, mandatory and based on considerations of policy and some others may merely belong to the area of procedure.	Reasoning
It will be erroneous to attach equal importance to the nonobservance of all conditions irrespective of the purposes they were intended to serve In Kedarnath case 1965 (3) SCR 626 , 62830 1966 AIR(SC) 12 1965 (16)	None
STC 607 itself this Court pointed out that the stringency of the provisions and the mandatory character imparted to them were matters of important policy.	None
The Court observed (SCR p. 630)	None
The object of Section 5(2)(a)(ii) of the Act and the rules made thereunder is selfevident.	None
While they are obviously intended to give exemption to a dealer in respect of sales to registered dealers of specified classes of goods, it seeks also to prevent fraud and collusion in an attempt to evade tax.	None
In the nature of things, in view of innumerable transactions that may be entered into between dealers, it will well nigh be impossible for the taxing authorities to ascertain in each case whether a dealer has sold the specified goods to another for the purposes mentioned in the section.	None
Therefore, presumably to achieve the twofold object, namely, prevention of fraud and facilitating administrative efficiency, the exemption given is made subject to a condition that the person claiming the exemption shall furnish a declaration form in the manner prescribed under the section.	None
The liberal construction suggested will facilitate the commission of fraud and introduce administrative inconveniences, both of which the provisions of the said clause seek to avoid.	None
Such is not the scope or intendment of the provisions concerned here.	None
The main exemption is under the 1969 notification.	Reasoning
The subsequent notification which contains condition of prior permission clearly envisages a procedure to give effect to the exemption.	Reasoning
A distinction between the provisions of statute which are of substantive character and were built in with certain specific objectives of policy on the one hand and those which are merely procedural and technical in their nature on the other must be kept clearly distinguished.	Reasoning
What we have here is a pure technicality.	Reasoning
Clause 3 of the notification leaves no discretion to the Deputy Commissioner to refuse the permission if the conditions are satisfied.	Reasoning
The words are that he will grant.	Reasoning
There is no dispute that appellant had satisfied these conditions.	Reasoning
Yet the permission was withheld  not for any valid and substantial reason but owing to certain extraneous things concerning some interdepartmental issues.	Reasoning
Appellant had nothing to do with those issues.	Reasoning
Appellant is now told, We are sorry.	Reasoning
We should have given you the permission.	Reasoning
But now that the period is over, nothing can be done.	Reasoning
The answer to this is in the words of Lord Denying See Wells v. Minister of Housing and Local Government, 1967 (1) WLR 1000, 1007 1967 (2) ALLER 1041	Reasoning
Now I know that a public authority cannot be estopped from doing its public duty, but I do think it can be estopped from relying on a technicality and this is a technicality Francis Bennion in his Statutory Interpretation, (1984 edn.) says at page 683 Unnecessary technicality Modern courts seek to cut down technicalities attendant upon a statutory procedure where these cannot be shown to be necessary to the fulfilment of the purposes of the legislation.	Reasoning
Shri Narasimhamurthy again relied on certain observations in CCE v. Parle Exports (P) Ltd. 1989	None
(1) SCC 345 1989 SCC(Tax) 84, in support of strict construction of a provision concerning exemptions.	None
There is support of judicial opinion to the view that exemptions from taxation have a tendency to increase the burden on the other unexempted class of tax prayers and should be construed against the subject in case of ambiguity.	None
It is an equally well known principle that a person who claims an exemption has to establish his case.	None
Indeed, in the very case of Parle Exports (P) Ltd. 1989 (1) SCC 345 1989 SCC(Tax) 84 relied upon by Sri Narasimhamurthy, it was observed (SCC p. 357, para 17) While interpreting an exemption clause, liberal interpretation should be imparted to the language thereof, provided no violence is done to the language employed.	None
It must, however, be borne in mind that absurd results of construction should be avoided.	None
The choice between a strict and a liberal construction arises only in case of doubt in regard to the intention of the legislature manifest on the statutory language.	None
Indeed, the need to resort to any interpretative process arises only where the meaning is not manifest on the plain words of the statute.	None
If the words are plain and clear and directly convey the meaning, there is no need for any interpretation.	None
It appears to us the true rule of construction of a provision as to exemption is the one stated by this Court in Union of India v. Wood Papers Ltd. 1990 (4) SCC 256 1990 SCC(Tax) 422 1991 (1) JT 151 Truly speaking liberal and strict construction of an exemption provision are to be invoked at different stages of interpreting it.	None
When the question is whether a subject falls in the notification or in the exemption clause then it being in nature of exception is to be construed strictly and against the subject but once ambiguity or doubt about applicability is lifted and the subject falls in the notification then full play should be given to it and it calls for a wider and liberal construction It appears to us that the view taken of the matter by the High Court does not acknowledge the essential distinction between what was a matter of form and what was one of substance.	None
There was no other disentitling circumstance which would justify the refusal of the permission.	Reasoning
Appellant did not have prior permission because it was withheld by the Revenue without any justification.	Reasoning
The High Court took the view that after the period to which the adjustment related had expired no permission could at all be granted.	Reasoning
A permission of this nature was a technical requirement and could be issued making it operative from the time it was applied for We, therefore, allow the appeal set aside the judgment of the High Court under appeal and direct the Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax (Admn.) to grant the permission for the said three years operative from the dates of the application.	Decision
The permission shall entitle the appellant to the adjustment of the refunds against the taxes due for the respective years.	Decision
We issue these directions in view of the admitted position that, apart from the technical objection that periods to which the applications related had since expired, there was no other impediment for the grant of permission.	Decision
It also follows that the demand notices which proceed on the premise that adjustment of refunds against taxes due was unavailable cannot also stand.	Decision
They are quashed27.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs.	Decision
