 Vaidialingam, J.1.	None
By order, dated January 25, 1969, the State of Maharashtra referred to the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, for adjudication three disputes between the appellant and its workmen.	Issue
The said disputes were registered by the Tribunal as Reference (I. T.)	Issue
No. 42 of 1969, The appellant filed in the Bombay High Court Special Civil Application No. 799 of 1969 under Article 226 of the Constitution to quash the order of reference.	Issue
The High Court by its judgment and order dated 31st July/1st August, 1969, dismissed the Writ Petition holding that the reference made by the State Government was valid.	Issue
The appellant has filed the above appeal, by special leave, challenging the decision of the High Court.2.	Issue
The facts leading up to the filing of the Writ Petition may now be stated.	Facts
On July 6, 1963, there was a settlement between the appellant and the workmen represented by the Secretaries of two unions  the Chemical Engineering and Metal Workers Union, Poona and the Association of Engineering Workers, Poona.	Facts
Under clause 1 of this settlement, the appellant, agreed to pay dearness allowance on the basis of 75 neutralisation of the Sholapur Cost of Living Index computed for a month of 26 working days in substitution of the rate of dearness allowance that was then being paid.	Facts
On July 7, 1964, a charter of demands was submitted by the workmen represented by the General Secretary, Association of Engineering Workers, Poona.	Facts
The demands related to various items including wage scales and dearness allowance.	Facts
On April 1, 1965, the appellant and the said Association entered into a settlement.	Facts
From the said settlement, it is seen that though the company conceded certain demands, it was not agreeable to accede in respect of the wages and dearness allowance, on the ground that the Poona Working Class Consumer Price Index was likely to be introduced at an early date, when a change in the wage pattern and dearness allowance in the region will be effected.	Facts
Another reason given by the appellant was that the demands, as made by the union, involved heavy financial liability.	Facts
The Association agreed that all demands made by it on July 7, 1964, in respect of which no settlement has been reached, will be treated as withdrawn for the time being.	Facts
Liberty was reserved to the Association to raise those demands again after the Poona Working Class Consumer Price Index was declared.	Facts
With this reservation, came the demand for wage scales, adjustment and dearness allowance.3.	Facts
On January 23, 1965, the Association, the 2nd respondent, was recognised by the appellant under the code of discipline.	Facts
In June 1965, the Poona Working Class Consumer Price Index was declared.	Facts
The second respondent again raised a demand on August 3, 1965, Demand No. 2 related to dearness allowance.	Facts
The demand was that the then existing Sholapur Working Class Consumer Cost of Living Index Number should be replaced by the Poona Working Class Consumer Cost of Living Index Number and the linking of old and new series, its multiplier and its rate should be jointly decided between the management and the Association.	Facts
The Association further required that after such a decision, the workmen should be given 100 neutralisation of the Poona Index.4.	Facts
It should be stated at this stage that on December 12, 1964, the Central Government had set up the Central wage Board for engineering industries.	Facts
After the Wage Board was set up, the labour agitated for grant of interim relief.	Facts
Accordingly the Wage Board recommended to the Government a scheme of interim relief.	Facts
The Central Government also accepted, by its resolution dated July 22, 1966, the majority recommendations of the Wage Board regarding the grant of interim relief with effect from April 1, 1966.	Facts
The Central Government further requested all the employers in the engineering industries to implement the recommendations of the Wage Board regarding the interim relief with effect from April 1, 1966.5.	Facts
When the Governments acceptance of the recommendations of the Wage Board was known, the second respondent made a demand on July 28, 1966, for payment of the interim relief.	Facts
After mutual discussions, the appellant and the second respondent entered into a settlement on November 1, 1966.	Facts
The entire settlement related to the payment of the interim relief, as laid down by the Wage Board.	Facts
It was further provided that the interim relief granted shall be adjustable in any rise in wages as a result of the final recommendations made by the Wage Board in due course.	Facts
Clauses 11 and 12 of this settlement were as follows 11.	None
The Union agrees to treat as withdrawn the Charter of demands regarding wage scales and or Dearness Allowance made by it under its letter dated 3rd August 1965.12.	Facts
The Union further agrees that pending the deliberations and the final recommendations of the Wage Board it will not raise any dispute regarding Wages and or Dearness Allowance.6.	Facts
On August 3, 1965, the second respondent again submitted a charter of demands regarding wage scales, dearness allowance and various other matters.	Facts
After negotiations, the appellant and the second respondent entered into a settlement on May 13, l967.	Facts
There is a reference to the settlement of November 1, 1966.	Facts
Under clause (2) of the settlement, the Association withdrew all demands made under its charters of demands dated August 3, 1965, January 22, 1966 and February 26, 1966 relating to wage scales, dearness allowance and certain other matters.	Facts
The Association further agreed not to raise any demands regarding wage scales and or dearness allowance pending the deliberations and the final recommendations of the Wage Hoard in view of the settlement dated November 1, l966, already entered into between the parties.7.	Facts
On May 16, 1967, the third respondent, Sarva Shramik Sanghatana, through its General Secretary, made a demand that all workmen should be paid dearness allowance at the rate 6 paise per day for every point of rise over 17 points of the Poona Consumer Price Index Number with effect from January 1, 1967.	Facts
On October 3, 1967, the third respondent issued two notices to the appellantcompany.	Facts
By the first notice, its terminated the settlement dated July 6, 1963, entered into between the appellant and the Chemical Engineering and Metal Workers Union and the second respondent, representing the workmen.	Facts
The second notice terminated the settlements dated February 4, 1965, April 1, 1965, November 1, 1966 and May 13, 1967 entered into between the appellant and the second respondent.	Facts
Both the notices stated that the previous settlements are terminated under Section 19 (2) read with Rule 83 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.	Facts
It was also mentioned that the letters of October 3, 1967, are to be treated as two months notice.	Facts
It will be seen that by these two notices, the settlements dated July 6, 1963, November 1, 1966 and May 13, 1967 have been terminated.8.	Facts
Conciliation proceedings appear to have been initiated.	Facts
The appellant in its letter to the Deputy Commissioner of Labour dated July 2, 1968, has stated that the interim relief granted by the Wage Board has been already implemented by the appellant.	Facts
It gave a further assurance that it will implement the final recommendations of the Wage Board, as accepted by the Central Government.	Facts
On November 30, 1968, fresh demands for dearness allowance were made by the third respondent.	Facts
The Wage Board made its final recommendations to the Central Government.	Facts
The exact date is not very clear, but it is given differently as December 23, 1968 or 311969.	Facts
As the appellant did not comply with the demands of the third respondent and as conciliation proceedings failed, the State Government referred the dispute for adjudication on January 25, 1969.	Facts
Item 1 related to the dearness allowance to be paid to the monthly rated staff.	Facts
Demand No. 2 related to the dearness allowance regarding the daily rated workmen.	Facts
The third question referred related to the dismissal of the fourteen workmen mentioned in the order and payment of dearness allowance to them.9.	Facts
It was this order of reference that was challenged by the appellant before the High Court in proceedings under Article 226.	None
We have fairly exhaustively given the details about the various settlements to give the background of the dispute between the appellant and its workmen.	None
The first contention of Mr. Shroff, learned counsel for the appellant, was that the third respondent, which represents only a minority of the workmen, has no right to terminate agreements dated November 1, 1966 and May 13, 1967, entered into by the Association, the second respondent representing the majority of the workmen.	Arguments of Petitioner
As these agreements were subsisting and operating and were binding on all the workmen, they can be terminated only as contemplated under Section 19 (7) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (hereinafter to be referred to as the Act).	Arguments of Petitioner
When the settlements were subsisting, the order passed by the State Government referring the disputes covered by those settlements, is invalid.10.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the State Government, Mr. Bhandare, learned counsel, has stated that the question whether the third respondent represented, on the relevant date, the majority of the workmen bound by the settlements, can be investigated only by the Tribunal, the State Government had taken the view that the entire settlement relates only to the interim relief and, therefore, the question of terminating the agreements by any union does not arise.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel further pointed out that the view taken by the State Government regarding the nature of the settlements was a possible view and, therefore, it has power to refer the disputes for adjudication under S. 10 of the Act.11.	Arguments of Respondent
Though there has been a very elaborate consideration by the High Court regarding the competency of the third respondent to terminate the settlements, its ultimate decision is rested on a construction of the two settlements dated November 1, 1966 and May 13, 1967.	Reasoning
According to the High Court, it is abundantly clear on a reading of the various clauses in the two settlements that they related to payment of wages including dearness allowance, which had the character of an interim relief, as awarded by the Wage Board.	Reasoning
It is the further view of the High Court that when the final recommendations of the Wage Board are made, the workmen were at liberty to raise demands regarding wages and dearness allowance legally payable to them.	Reasoning
The agreement, if at all, was not to raise any dispute pending the final recommendations of the Wage Board.12.	Reasoning
We have ourselves gone rough the various clauses in the two statements and we are in entire agreement with the view of the High Court.	Reasoning
As there has been a very elaborate discussion by the High Court and as we entirely agree with its reasoning, we do not propose to cover the ground over again.	Reasoning
As we are now on the limited question regarding the competency of the State Government to make the reference, it must be held that the State Governments view that the settlements related only to the interim relief is a possible one in the circumstances of this case.	Reasoning
Hence, we cannot say that the reference made by the State Government was incompetent.13.	Reasoning
We express no opinion on the question regarding the right of the third respondent to terminate the two agreements in question because there is a controversy as to whether, at the relevant date, the third respondent represented the majority of the workmen bound by these agreements The claim of the third respondent is that it represented the majority of such workmen.	Reasoning
The Tribunal, when it adjudicates the dispute, will have to investigate the question when considering the points covered by the settlements as well as the question whether those settlements have been properly terminated, when the reference was made by the State Government.14.	Reasoning
In this view, we are not referring on the relevant provisions of the Act nor do we deal with the decisions cited on both sides.15.	None
The further contention that is taken by Mr. Shroff is based upon the decisions of this Court in Union of India v. M s. Anglo Afghan Agencies Ltd., (1968) 2	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 366 (AIR 1968 SC 718 ) and Century Spg. and Mfg. Co. Ltd. v. The Ulhasnagar Municipal Council, (1973)	Arguments of Petitioner
3 SCR 854 (AIR 1971 SC 1021 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Shroff, the Minister for Labour of Maharashtra, at a meeting of the employers and representative of the employees, held on September 9, 1968, statedThe Govt.	Arguments of Petitioner
of Maharashtra would not refer disputes on wages and dearness allowance to adjudication in the case of engineering establishments covered by the Wage Board, if the concerned employer agreed to implement the recommendations, interim as well as final, of the Central Wage Board, as accepted by the Government of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the, basis of this statement of the Minister, the appellant implemented the interim relief and also assured the authorities concerned that it will implement the final recommendations of the Wage Board, as the appellant has acted on the representations made by the Minister to its prejudice, the reference of the dispute for adjudication was not justified.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Shroff referred us to the letter dated September 24, 1965, written to the concerned Minister for Labour by the Indian Engineering Association (Western Region and Engineering Association of India (Western Region) Bombay.	Arguments of Petitioner
This letter refers to the statement made by the Minister on September 9, 1965.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also invited our attention to the letter dated July 2, 1968, written by the appellant to the Deputy Commissioner of Labour, Poona.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that letter, the appellant had stated that it had agreed with its workers to implement the interim relief granted by the wage Board.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant gave an assurance to the Deputy Commissioner of Labour, Bombay, that it will implement the recommendations of the Wage Board.	Arguments of Petitioner
for engineering industries, as accepted by the Central Government.16.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Act gives power to the State Government to refer a dispute for adjudication.	None
As to how far, by a Minister making a statement the Government can be relieved of its obligation under the Act, is a debatable question.	None
It is, however, not necessary for us to go into this aspect in this particular case.	None
None of the settlements entered into by the appellant with its workmen gives any indication that the said settlements were being made in view of the statement made by the Minister.	None
On the other hand, we have already pointed out that every one of the settlements entered is preceded by a demand made by the union concerned.	None
It is really in the interest of industrial peace that the appellant appears to have entered into those settlements.	None
Therefore, the decisions relied on by Mr. Shroff do not apply in this case.17.	None
Lastly Mr. Shroff contended that the State Government declined to make a reference in the case of the Indian Hume Pipe Co. Ltd. specifically on the ground that the said company had implemented the interim recommendations of the Wage Board and that it was also prepared to implement its final recommendations.	Arguments of Petitioner
But in the case of the appellant, the State Government made the reference and as such there has been discrimination.18.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is no doubt true that in the letter dated June 8, 1968, sent by the State Government to Indian Hume Pipe Co. Ltd., the Government states that it is not making a reference regarding the dispute between the said company and its workmen.	Reasoning
The reason for not making the reference is also stated to be the implementation by the company of the interim recommendations of the Wage Board and its preparedness to implement the final recommendations also.19.	Reasoning
We find, however, from the judgment of the High Court that this question of, discrimination with special reference to the Indian Hume Pipe Company Ltd. has not been argued by the appellant.	Reasoning
The inference under such circumstances is that such a contention was not pressed before the High Court.	Reasoning
Hence we decline to go into that question.20.	None
In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs.	Decision
As the reference is of the year 1969, the Tribunal is directed to dispose of the matter expeditiously.21.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
