 Hegde, J.1.	None
The only question that arises for decision in this appeal is whether the exclusion of government servants from the exemption given under Section 4 (3) (xxi) of the Indian Incometax Act 1922 and later on under Section 10 (26) of the Incometax Act 1961 is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Issue
For our present purpose it may be taken that the said two provisions are similar.2.	Issue
The respondent who is a government servant serving in the State of Assam has been assessed to income tax for the assessment years 195960, 196061, 196162 and 196263.	Facts
He challenged the legality of his assessments in civil rule No. 127 of 1963 on the file of the High Court of Judicature of Assam.	Facts
The Assam High Court accepted his petition and quashed the assessments in question holding that Section 4 (3) (xxi) of the Indian Income Tax Act 1922 as well as Section 10 (26) of the Income Tax Act 1961 to the extent they excluded government servants from the benefit of the exemption given thereunder are void.	Facts
The incometax authorities as well as the Union of India have come up to this Court in appeal by special leave.3.	Facts
The facts of this case lie within a narrow compass.	Facts
The respondent belongs to Mikir Scheduled Tribe and is a permanent inhabitant of United KhasiJaintia Hills District, an autonomous District included in part A of the Table appended to Paragraph 20 of the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution of India.	Facts
He is a government servant.	Facts
All these are admitted facts.4.	Facts
The respondent in his petition before the High Court averred (in pare.	None
7 of the petition)) thatin all the autonomous districts under Table, Part A of paragraph 26 of the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution of India, there are a large number of persons belonging to Scheduled Tribe who derive considerable income from trade, commerce and business and other sources and employment and immovable properties In the return filed by the appellants those allegations were not denied.	None
Adverting to those allegations this is what was stated in the affidavit filed by Shri S. K. Dutta, Incometax Officer (the first appellant in the appeal)With reference to the statements made in paragraph 7 of the petition I say that the petitioner being a government servant his case stands on a different footing other than the genera public of the Scheduled Tribe.5.	None
It may be remembered till 15th August, 1947, Khasi and Jaintia Hills were not parts of British India.	None
They were under native States.	None
They merged with British India only after this country got independence.	None
Till their merger, none of the Indian laws applied to those areas.	None
The Finance Act of 1955 incorporated into the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, S. 4 (3) (xxi)	None
The relevant portion of Section 4 (3) reads thus4 (3).	None
Any income, profits or gains falling within the following classes shall not be included in the total income of the person receiving them(xxi).	None
Any income of a member of a Scheduled Tribe, as defined in clause (25) of Article 366 of the Constitution, residing in any area specified in Part A or Part B of the table appended to paragraph 20 of the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution, provided that such member is not in the service of Government.6.	None
Section 10 (26) of the Incometax Act of 1961 which corresponds to Section 4 (3) (xxi) of the India Incometax Act 1922, reads thus In the case of member of a Scheduled Tribe as defined in clause (25) of Art.	None
366 of the Constitution, residing in any area specified in Part A or Part B of the Table appended to paragraph 20 of the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution or in the Union Territories of Manipur and Tripura, who is not in the service of Government, any income which accrues or arises to him, (a) from any source in the area or Union Territories aforesaid, or (b) by way of dividend or interest on securities.7.	None
Part of the impugned assessments were made under the Indian Income Tax Act 1922 and the rest, under the Incometax Act l961.	None
If the aforementioned provisions are valid, then the assessments in question are beyond challenge.	None
Therefore the only question for decision is whether the legislature had no power to exclude government servants from the benefit of the exemptions given under the aforementioned Sections 4 (3) (xxi) and 10 (26).8.	None
It is seen that the income of the members of a scheduled tribe included in Clause (25) of Article 366 of the Constitution and residing in any area specified in Part A or Part B of the Table appended to Para graph 20 of the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution, excepting that of government servants is exempt from incometax.	None
In other words, the government servant alone is excluded from the benefit of the exemption, given under the provisions quoted above.	None
It is agreed that the respondent is a member of the Scheduled tribe included in Cl.	None
(25) of Article 366 of the Constitution, residing in an area specified in Part A of the Table appended to para.	None
20 of the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution, but yet he had been denied the benefit of the exemption in question on the sole ground that he is in the service of the government.	None
It may be noted that exemption both under Section 4 (3) (xxi) of the Indian Income Tax Act 1922 and under Section 10 (26) of the Incometax Act 1961 was given to the members of certain scheduled tribes.	None
For the purpose of the exemption in question the classification was made on the basis of persons being members of a particular tribe.	None
That being so, some of the members of that tribe cannot be excluded from the benefit of those provisions unless they can be considered as belonging to a well defined class for the purpose of incometax.	None
The respondents contention which has been accepted by the High Court is that the government servants cannot be considered as a separate class for the purpose of incometax.	None
On the other hand, it is contended on behalf of the Department that the classification made is a reasonable one, taking into consideration administrative convenience as well as the past legislative practice and history.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not in dispute that taxation laws must also pass the test of Article 14.	None
That has been laid down by this Court in Moopil Nair v. State of Kerala, 19613 SCR 77 (AIR l961 SC 552).But as observed by this Court in East India Tobacco Co. v. State of Andhra.	None
Pradesh, 19631 SCR 404 at p. 409 (AIR 1962 SC 1733 at p. 1735) in deciding whether a taxation law is discriminatory or not it is necessary to bear in mind that the State has a wide discretion in selecting persons or objects it will tax, and that a statute is not open to attack on the ground that it taxes some person or objects and not others it is only when within the range of its selection, the law operates unequally, and that cannot be justified on the basis of any valid classification, that it would be violative of Article 14.	None
It is well settled that a State does not have to tax everything in order to tax something.	None
It is allowed to pick and choose districts, objects, persons, methods and even rates for taxation if it does so reasonably.10.	None
The complaint in this case is that within the range of the selection made by the State for the purpose of exemption, namely, members of certain scheduled tribes residing in specified areas, the law operates unequally and the inequality in question cannot be justified on the basis of any valid classification.11.	None
There can be no distinction between the income earned by a government servant and that earned by a person serving in a company or under a private individual.	Reasoning
More or less similar is the case in respect of the income earned by persons practicing one or more of the professions.	Reasoning
Admittedly the income earned by the members of the scheduled tribes residing in KhasiJaintia Hills excepting in the case of government servants is exempt from incometax be it as salaried officers, lawyers, doctors or persons in other walks of life.	Reasoning
Is there any legal basis for this differentiation?	Reasoning
Prima facie it appears that government servants have been discriminated against and the discrimination in question is writ large on the face of the provisions in questions.12.	Reasoning
The learned SolicitorGeneral contended that the classification in question can be justified on administrative grounds.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ho urged that a classification based on administrative convenience is a just classification in the matter of levying taxes.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him it is easy to collect taxes from government servants.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, it was permissible for the legislature to deny them the exemption extended to the other members of their tribes.	Arguments of Petitioner
This contention appears to be without merit.	None
It may be that for the purpose of taxation a classification can be made on the basis of administrative convenience.	Reasoning
But we fail to see how the case of the government servants stands on a footing different from that of the employees in statutory corporations or even wellrecognised firms.	Reasoning
That apart, administrative convenience which can afford a just basis for classification must be a real and substantial one.	Reasoning
We see no such administrative convenience.	Reasoning
The learned SolicitorGeneral next contended that the classification can be justified on the basis of past legislative practice and history.	Reasoning
In this connection he invited our attention to the fact that before this country got independence, the income of the persons in the service of the government but serving outside British India such as in Baluchistan, or native States was subject to tax under the Indian Income Tax Laws though other persons residing in these places were not subject to the incometax laws in force in British India.	Reasoning
The reason for the same is that the Indian legislature had no legislative competence to tax the residents of those areas, but it hail competence to tax the income of the persons in government service though they might be serving outside British India.13.	Reasoning
The reamed SolicitorGeneral next invited our attention to a notification issued by the Government of India as long back as 6th June, 1890, under which the income earned by members of certain scheduled tribes other than those service under the government was exempted from incometax.	None
He also invited our attention to Finance Department Notification No.	None
788F. dated 1st March 1922 under which the income of indeginous hillmen other than persons in the service of government, residing in certain areas were exempt from tax.	None
On the basis of those notifications, he wanted to spell out a wellrecognised legislative practice and history under which the government servants as a class were excluded from the benefit of income tax exemption extended to other Persons similarly situated.14.	None
In this connection be placed reliance on the decision of this Court in Narottam Kishore Dev Verma v. Union of India, (1964) 7	None
SCR 55 (AIR 1964 SC 1590 ).	None
Therein this court was called upon to consider the validity of Section 87B of the Code of Civil Procedure which prescribed that a Ruler of a former Indian State cannot be sued in any court otherwise competent to try the suit except with the consent of the Central Government certified in writing by a secretary to the government.	None
The validity of that provision was challenged on the basis of Article 14.	None
This court upheld the validity of that provision having regard to the legislative and historical background of that provision, but at the same time observed that considered in the light of basic principles of equality before law, it would be odd to allow the section to continue prospectively for all time to come.	None
After setting out the legislative background of that provision, this court observed The legislative background to which we have referred cannot be divorced from the historical background which is to be found for instance, in Article 362.	None
This Article provides that in the exercise of the power of Parliament or of any legislature of any State to make laws or in exercise of executive power of the Union or of a State, due regard shall be had to the guarantee or assurance given under any such covenant or agreement as is referred to in clause (1) of Article 291 with respect to the personal rights, privileges and dignities of a Ruler of an Indian State.	None
This has reference to the covenants and agreements which had been entered into between the Central Government and the Indian Princes before all the Indian States were politically completely assimilated with the rest of India.	None
The privilege conferred on the Rulers of former Indian States has its origin in these agreements and covenants.	None
One of the privileges is that of extraterritoriality and exemption from civil jurisdiction except with the sanction of the Central Government.	None
It was thought that the privilege which was claimed by foreign Rulers and Rulers of Indian States prior to the Independence of the country should be continued even after independence was attained and the States had become part of India, and that is how in l951, the Civil Procedure Code was amended and present sections 86, 87, 87A and 87A came to be enacted in the present form.	None
In the background set out above this Court upheld the validity of Section 87B of the Code of Civil Procedure.15.	None
We know of no legislative practice or history treating government servants as a separate class for the purpose of incometax.	None
The government servants income has tall along been treated in the same manner as the income of other salaried officers.	Reasoning
We 30 not know under what circumstances the notifications dated 661890 and 2131922, referred to earlier, tame to be issued.	Reasoning
But they are insufficient to prove a we11estahtished legislative practice.	Reasoning
At the time those notifications were issued) the power of the legislature to grant or withhold an, exemption from tax was not subject to any constitutional limitation.	Reasoning
Hence the validity of the impugned provisions cannot be tested from what our legislatures or governments did or omitted to do before the Constitution came into force.	Reasoning
If that should he considered as a true test then Article 13 (1) would become otiose and most, if not all, of our constitutional guarantees would lose their contents.	Reasoning
Sri Setalvad learned counsel for the respondent is justified in his comment that classification based on past legislative practice and history does not mean that because in the past the legislature was enacting arbitrary laws it could do so now.16.	Reasoning
It was the contention of the learned SolicitorGeneral that exemption from incometax was given to members of certain scheduled tribes due to their economic and social backwardness, it is not possible to consider a government servant as socially and economically backward and hence the Exemption was justly denied to him.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the SolicitorGeneral, once a tribal becomes a government servant he is lifted out of his social environment and assimilated into the forward sections of the society and therefore he needs no more any crutch to lean on.	Arguments of Petitioner
This argument appears to us to be wholly irrelevant.	Arguments of Petitioner
The exemption, in question was not given to individuals either on the basis of their social status or economic resources.	None
It was given to a class.	Reasoning
Hence individuals as individuals do not come into the picture.	Reasoning
We fail to see in what manner the social status and economic resources of a government servant can be different from that of another holding a similar position in a corporation or that of a successful medical practitioner, lawyer architect.	Reasoning
etc.	Reasoning
To overpaint the picture of a government servant as the embodiment of all power and prestige would sound ironical.	Reasoning
Today his position in the society to put it at the highest is no higher than that of others who in other walks of life leave the same income.	Reasoning
For the purpose of valid classification what is required is not some imaginary difference but a reasonable and substantial distinction having regard to the purpose of the law.17.	Reasoning
It was lastly contended by the learned SolicitorGeneral  a contention which was not taken either in the return or before the High Court or in the appeal memo  that it is not possible to strike down only a portion of Section 4 (3) (xxi) of the Indian Incometax Act 1922, and Section 10 (26) of the Incometax Act I961, namely,the words provided that such member is not in the service of government found in S. 4 (3) (xxi) of the Indian Income Tax Act 1922 and the words who is not in the service of government in Section 10 (26) of the Income Tax Act 1961, as those words are not severable from the rest of the provisions in which they appear.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further according to him it can not be definitely predicted that the legislature would have granted the exemption incorporated in those provisions without the exception made in the case of government servants.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, if we hold that those provisions as they stand are violative of Article 14, then we must strike down the aforementioned Sections 4 (3) (xxi) and 10 (26) in their entirety.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to accept the contention that the words mentioned above are not severable from the rest of the provision in which they appear.	None
They are easily severable.	Reasoning
Taking into consideration the reasons which persuaded the legislature to grant the exemption in question we have no doubt that it would have granted that exemption even if it was aware of the fact that it was beyond its competence to exclude government servants from the exemption in question.18.	Reasoning
For the reasons mentioned above this appeal is dismissed with costs.19.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
