 By majority judgment dated 28.10.2020, (hereinafter referred to as the Judgment) Civil Appeal No.3559 of 2020 was dismissed with certain directions.	Facts
Paragraphs 20 to 22 of the Judgment, for facility, are quoted hereunder In view of the aforesaid discussion, we consider it just and appropriate that the custody of Aditya Vikram Kansagra is handed over by his mother Smriti Madan Kansagra, to the father Perry Kansagra, subject to the following directions, which will take effect in supersession of the Orders passed by the Courts below We direct Perry Kansagra to obtain a mirror order from the concerned court in Nairobi to reflect the directions contained in this judgment, within a period of 2 weeks from the date of this judgment.	Facts
A copy of the Order passed by the court in Nairobi must be filed before this Court After the mirror order is filed before this Court, Perry shall deposit a sum of INR 1 Crore in the Registry of this Court, which shall be kept in an interest bearing fixed deposit account (on autorenewal basis), for a period of two years to ensure compliance with the directions contained in this judgment.	Facts
If this Court is satisfied that Perry has discharged all his obligations in terms of the aforesaid directions of this Court, the aforesaid amount shall be returned with interest accrued, thereon to the Respondent Perry will apply and obtain a fresh Kenyan passport for Aditya, Smriti will provide full cooperation, and not cause any obstruction in this behalf Within a week of the mirror order being filed before this Court, Smriti shall provide the Birth Certificate and the Transfer Certificate from Delhi Public School, to enable Perry to secure admission of Aditya to a School in Kenya Smriti will be at liberty to engage with Aditya on a suitable videoconferencing platform for one hour over the weekends further, Aditya is at liberty to speak to his mother as and when he desires to do so Smriti would be provided with access and visitation rights for 50 once in a year during the annual vacations of Aditya, either in New Delhi or Kenya, wherever she likes, after due intimation to Perry Perry will bear the cost of one trip in a year for a period of one week to Smriti and her mother to visit Aditya in Kenya during his vacations.	Facts
The costs will cover the air fare and expenses for stay in Kenya Smriti will not be entitled to take Aditya out of Nairobi, Kenya without the consent of Perry We direct Perry and Smriti to file Undertakings before this Court, stating that they would abide and comply with the directions passed by this Court without demur, within a period of one week from the date of this judgment.	None
As an interim measure, we direct that till such time that Perry is granted full custody of the child, he will be entitled to unsupervised visitation with overnight access during weekends when he visits India, so that the studies of Aditya are not disturbed.	Facts
Perry and his parents would be required to deposit their passports before the Registrar of this Court during such period of visitation.	Facts
After the visitation is over, the passports shall be returned to them forthwith.	Facts
This appeal shall be listed before the Court after a period of four weeks to ensure compliance with the aforesaid directions, and on being satisfied that all the aforestated directions are duly complied with, the custody of Aditya Vikram Kansagra shall be handed over by his mother Smriti Kansagra to the father Perry Kansagra.	Facts
Direction (C) issued in paragraph 20 as stated above, was modified by a subsequent Order dated 03.11.2020 passed in M.A. No.2066 of 2020 moved by the respondent, who was permitted to take Aditya to Kenya on the strength of a one time travel document issued by the High Commission of Kenya in New Delhi, and to apply for and obtain a Kenyan Passport for Aditya after his arrival in Kenya.	Facts
On 30.10.2020, the respondent filed an undertaking in this Court stating that he would abide by and comply with all the directions contained in the Judgement, without demur, and in letter and spirit.	Facts
Similarly, the appellant has filed an undertaking dated 05.11.2020 to abide by and comply with the directions passed by this Court without demur.	Facts
On 30.10.2020, the respondent moved an application in the High Court of Kenya at Nairobi seeking registration of the Judgment and for obtaining Mirror Order.	Facts
The title of the application and the opening recitals were  REPUBLIC OF KENYA IN THE HIGH COURT OF KENYA AT NAIROBI FAMILY DIVISION MISCELLANEOUS APPLICATION	Facts
NO.	Facts
OF 2020	None
IN THE MATTER OF FOREIGN JUDGMENTS (RECIPROCAL ENFORCEMENT) ACT, CAP 43 OF THE LAWS OF KENYA IN THE MATTER OF AN ORDER OF THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA ISSUED ON 28th OCTOBER 2020 AN IN THE MATTER OF AVK (A CHILD)	Facts
AND	None
IN THE MATTER OF SECTION4, 22, 113 OF THE CHILDREN ACT AND ARTICLE 53 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF KENYA 2010 FOR AN APPLICATION FOR MIRROR ORDERS BY PERRY KANSAGRA EX PARTE APPLICANT Originating Summons Under Sections 3, 4, 5 6 of the Foreign Judgments (Reciprocal Enforcement) Sections 4, 22, 113 of the Children Act and Articles 53 of The Constitution of Kenya 2010, the Inherent Powers of the Court and all Enabling Provisions of the Law.	Facts
LET ALL PARTIES CONCERNED attend the Honourable Judge in Chambers for the hearing of this application which is issued on the application of PERRY KANSAGRA of Post Office Box Number 76817 00620, Nairobi for orders THAT this application be certified as urgent, deserving priority hearing and directions ex parte in the first instance.	Facts
THAT the judgment delivered by the Supreme Court of India in Supreme Court Civil Appeal No.3559 of 2020	Facts
Smriti Madan Kangagra V. Perry Kansagra be registered.	Facts
THAT further, or other orders, be granted so as to give effect to the orders of and in compliance with judgment of the Supreme Court of India made on 28th October 2020.	Facts
After referring to the directions issued by this Court, the application stated That the application is brought in the best interest of the child and to facilitate his return to Kenya to be reunited with his father and family.	Facts
That the orders sought are necessary to facilitate the taking of such other steps and proceedings as ordered by the Supreme Court in India.	Facts
The Order dated 09.11.2020 passed by the High Court of Kenya at Nairobi on the aforestated application was REPUBLIC OF KENYA IN THE HIGH COURT OF KENYA AT NAIROBI MILIMANI LAW COURTS FAMILY DIVISION HCFOS EO31 OF 2020 IN THE MATTER OF FOREIGN JUDGMENTS (RECIPROCAL ENFORCEMENT) ACT, CAP, 43 OF THE LAWS OF KENYA IN THE MATTER OF AN ORDER OF THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA ISSUED ON 28th OCTOBER 2020 AND IN THE MATTER OF ADITYA VIKRAM KANSAGRA (A CHILD) AND IN THE MATTER OF SECTION 4, 22, 113, OF THE CHILDREN ACT, AND ARTICLE 53 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF KENYA, 2010 FOR AN APPLICATION FOR MIRROR ORDERS BY PERRY KANSAGRA Exparte APPLICANT IN COURT ON 9th DAY OF NOVEMBER 2020 BEFORE HON.	Facts
MR.	Facts
JUSTICE A.O. MUCHELULE O R D E R THIS MATTER coming up for hearing UNDER CERTIFICATE OF URGENCY before Hon.	Facts
Justice A.O. Muchelule AND UPON READING the application IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT application certified urgent.	Facts
THAT the order of the Supreme Court of India issued on 28.10.2020 is hereby registered as prayed.	Facts
GIVEN under my hand and the seal of this Court this 9 th day of November, 2020.	None
ISSUED at Nairobi this 11th day of November 2020	None
I CERTIFY	None
THIS IS TRUE COPY OF THE ORIGINAL DEPUTY REGISTRAR DATED 11/11/2020 HIGH COURT OF KENYA, NAIROBI	Facts
The appellant has now filed Miscellaneous Application No.2140 of 2020 seeking modification of the directions issued by this Court in para 20 of the Judgment.	Issue
In Paragraph 19 of this Application, the appellant has sought various modifications which are encapsulated in a Note circulated on 30.11.2020, and confined and crystalised her case under following five segments Protections and directions by the High Court and Family Court which were not appealed a.	Arguments of Petitioner
Smriti be granted temporary custody visitation of Aditya during summer and winter vacation.	Arguments of Petitioner
b.	Arguments of Petitioner
Smriti be permitted to freely exchange emails, letters, and other correspondence with Aditya without any hindrance by Respondent or his family.	Arguments of Petitioner
c. Smriti shall be entitled to talk to Aditya over video call audio calls for at least 10 minutes everyday at mutually agreed time.	Arguments of Petitioner
d. Perrys undertaking dated 02.03.2020 pg.	Arguments of Petitioner
30 of Application that he shall continue to submit to the jurisdiction of the Indian Courts, duly filed by Perry in the High Court and relied upon by him in Supreme Court, kindly be accepted.	Arguments of Petitioner
e. Perrys mothers undertaking dated 27.02.2020 pg.	Arguments of Petitioner
33 of Application given before the High Court and duly relied upon in Supreme Court, may kindly be accepted.	Arguments of Petitioner
II.	Arguments of Petitioner
Directions in the best interest of Aditya Re schooling and education a.	Arguments of Petitioner
Perry be directed to furnish Adityas school reports and activity reports to Smriti.	Arguments of Petitioner
b. Perry to inform Smriti about the Parent Teacher Meetings and other functions and activities in school and Smriti to have liberty to visit Adityas school, attend school events and interact with the school teachers.	Arguments of Petitioner
Smritis contact details to be furnished to Adityas school.	Arguments of Petitioner
c. Smriti be consulted informed if Adityas school is changed.	Arguments of Petitioner
III.	Arguments of Petitioner
Directions in the best interest of Aditya Re Continuance of emotional connection with Mother a. Smriti be permitted to have the temporary custody visitation of Aditya during easter vacation in addition to the summer and winter vacation and Smriti be permitted to take Aditya abroad for holidays.	Arguments of Petitioner
Perry or grandparents to drop Aditya to India and pick him up.	Arguments of Petitioner
b.	Arguments of Petitioner
Smriti be allowed to visit Kenya every two months and stay with Aditya for a week.	Arguments of Petitioner
Cost of Smritis stay and travel be taken care of by Perry.	Arguments of Petitioner
c. Smriti to have liberty to meet Aditya on his birthday.	Arguments of Petitioner
d. Aditya to have a video call with extended family members on the maternal side, cousins and friends twice a month.	Arguments of Petitioner
IV.	Arguments of Petitioner
Directions in best interest of Aditya Re Welfare and Health a. Perry to keep Smriti informed about Adityas health and medical issues and share medical reports with Smriti.	Arguments of Petitioner
In case of medical emergency, Perry to immediately inform Smriti.	Arguments of Petitioner
All medical decisions regarding Aditya be taken in consultation with Smriti.	Arguments of Petitioner
b.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Honble Court may keep the matter pending and Aditya be produced before the Honble Court for an evaluation every six months for the next 4 years Vivek Singh vs. Romani Singh (2017) 3 SCC 231 , Page 57/See Page 72 V. Miscellaneous Directions a. Perry to get the OCI renewed and keep the same valid till Aditya turns 18.	Arguments of Petitioner
b.	Arguments of Petitioner
Both parties to file undertakings incorporating the directions of the Court and an appropriate mirror order may be filed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Smriti be provided with the advance copy of the paper work being filed in Kenya for obtaining mirror order in Kenya.	Arguments of Petitioner
We will deal with the matter mentioned at placitum a under the first segment after having dealt with other aspects under said segment.	Reasoning
With regard to the matter at placitum b, the learned counsel for the respondent has fairly accepted the suggestion.	None
With regard to the matter at placitum c, as against 10 minutes a day, what has been granted is one hour over the week end.	None
Thus, as against 70 minutes in a week, what has been granted is 60 minutes over the weekends which will be sufficiently long and a comprehensive interaction.	Reasoning
It has also been directed that the child will be at liberty to speak to his mother, as and when he desires to do so.	Reasoning
Therefore, in our view, the directions issued by this Court with regard to this issue do not call for any modification.	Reasoning
With regard to the issue at placitum d, the learned counsel for the respondent has accepted that having given an undertaking to this Court, the respondent has subjected himself to the jurisdiction of this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Shyam Divan, learned Senior Advocate for the appellant however relied upon paragraph 3 of the undertaking dated 02.03.2020 given to the High Court to emphasize the absence of such clear stipulation in the present undertaking regarding submission to the jurisdiction of the Indian Courts.	Arguments of Petitioner
Though, we accept the submission made by the learned counsel for the respondent, it is hereby clarified that paragraph 3 of the undertaking given by respondent dated 02.03.2020 to the High Court shall continue to be operative, in addition to the undertaking given to this Court.	Reasoning
In the context of the matter mentioned against placitum e, it must be stated that this Court did not deem it appropriate to bind the paternal grandmother of Aditya, because of the various other directions issued in the Judgment, including the one requiring the respondent to obtain a Mirror Order.	Reasoning
The High Court had not insisted upon furnishing of any Mirror Order and, therefore, the direction to have the affidavit of the grandmother who is an Indian citizen, was issued.	Reasoning
However, the direction to obtain a Mirror Order was taken to be sufficient security by this Court, to take care of any apprehension that the respondent may not fulfil the obligations cast upon him by the Judgment.	Reasoning
We now turn to the issue regarding Mirror Order.	None
It is submitted by Mr. Divan, learned Senior Advocate for the appellant that what is contemplated by the directions issued in the Judgment is a binding and valid Mirror Order.	Arguments of Petitioner
In his submission, the Mirror Order must, in all respects, be one which is fully enforceable, and on which complete reliance can be placed by this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has invited our attention to the Foreign Judgments (Reciprocal Enforcement) Act, CAP, 43 enacted by the Parliament of Kenya (the Act, for short) to make provisions for the enforcement of judgments given in countries outside Kenya which accord reciprocal treatment to judgments given in Kenya and for other purposes in connection therewith The submissions of Mr. Divan on this issue are India and Kenya are not reciprocating countries and, as such, the provisions of the Act will not be applicable.	Arguments of Petitioner
B)	Decision
In any case, by virtue of Section 3(3) of the Act, nothing in the Act will apply to proceedings in connection with the custody or guardianship of children.	Arguments of Petitioner
C)	Decision
In terms of Section 6(1) of the Act, the registration of a judgment rendered by a foreign court can be granted, if the High Court is satisfied as to the proof of matters required by this Act and any rules of court.	Arguments of Petitioner
D)	Decision
Since the Act itself will not apply to proceedings in connection with the custody or guardianship of children, the registration of the Judgment under the Act will be without any consequence in law.	Arguments of Petitioner
E) Any submission about validity of registration can be taken by a judgment debtor in terms of Section 10 of the Act and have the registration set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is thus submitted that mere registration of the Judgment will not make it enforceable.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance is placed on a legal opinion given by Ms. Rubeena Dar a practising lawyer in Kenya.	Arguments of Petitioner
A copy of Mirror Order dated 14.05.2018 issued by Superior Court, J.D. of Stamford, Norwalk pursuant to the directions of the High Court of Delhi in Dr. Navtej Singh vs. State of NCT and another (2018) SCC OnLine Del 7511 which was affirmed by this Court in (2019) 17 SCALE 672 is also relied upon to submit what a Mirror Order must normally contemplate and provide.	Arguments of Petitioner
The relevant portion of said Order dated 14.05.2018 reads Plaintiffs Motion for Order is granted on the application to Show Cause, docketed at 114.00.	Arguments of Petitioner
2.	Arguments of Petitioner
The prior orders for sole physical and legal custody in favour of the Plaintiff shall be recalled.	Arguments of Petitioner
3.	Arguments of Petitioner
The prior orders remain in place that Jasmeet Kaur is to return immediately to Connecticut with the minor children.	Arguments of Petitioner
4.	Arguments of Petitioner
The minor children shall remain in the custody of Jasmeet Kaur, and the Plaintiff shall have reasonable interim visitation with the minor children as agreed or Court ordered upon the minor childrens return with Jasmeet Kaur to Connecticut, until further custody orders are determined by the Connecticut Superior Court after granting adequate opportunity of hearing to both the parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
5. That the Affidavit of Undertaking of the Plaintiff, confirming how he has conformed his conduct to the Order of the High Court of Delhi at New Delhi on March 6, 2018, submitted as Exhibit B to the Motion for Order (Tab 2 of Exhibit 2) is hereby approved and so ordered.	Arguments of Petitioner
6.	Arguments of Petitioner
That Attorney William Taylor is hereby appointed as escrow agent pursuant to Exhibit C to the Motion for Order (Tab 3 of Exhibit 2).	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Mr. Anunaya Mehta, learned Advocate for the respondent has relied upon the provisions of the Judicature Act of Kenya which empower the High Court of Kenya to exercise jurisdiction in accordance with common law principles and doctrine of equity and upon Article 2(5) of the Constitution of Kenya, 2010, which recognises the general rules of international law as forming part of laws of Kenya.	Arguments of Respondent
The opinion given by M s. GMC Advocates is also relied upon, the relevant portion of which reads as under Reference may additionally be had to the provisions of Sections 4, 22 and 113 of the Childrens Act 2010 and Article 53 of the Constitution of Kenya 2010 which provide that the best interest and welfare of the child is paramount which would justify grant of orders in the nature of mirror orders.	Arguments of Respondent
A Mirror Order is issued by another Court which contains the same terms as those that are contained in the Order being mirrored.	Arguments of Respondent
It is the practice in Courts in Kenya that a Mirror Order is granted by registration of entire Judgment of the Foreign Court by the Court in Kenya.	Arguments of Respondent
This is done so as to avoid any variation in context, form or substance.	Arguments of Respondent
The registration of the Foreign Judgment by the Court of Kenya is itself the Mirror Order.	Arguments of Respondent
Nothing further is required.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference may be had to Judgment In Re Matter of I W P (Infant) 2013 3KLR) where in a matter concerning a judgment passed by foreign court in relation to custody and guardianship of a minor, the High Court of Kenya at Nairobi had granted a mirror order.	Arguments of Respondent
Having regard to the law applicable in Kenya, the application for grant of a mirror order in accordance with the directions contained in the judgment dated 28102020 passed by supreme Court of India in case titled as Smriti Madan Kansagra vs. Perry Kansagra CA No. 3559/2020 was made on 09112020 before the High Court of Kenya at Nairobi.	Arguments of Respondent
The application was an ExParte application, as the orders sought were noncontentious in nature, given the fact that the matter was extensively and conclusively dealt with by the Supreme Court of India and only Mirror Order was sought from High Court of Kenya at Nairobi.	Arguments of Respondent
The application for grant of a mirror order was allowed by the High Court and the judgment dated 28102020 passed by Supreme Court of India in case titled as Smriti Madan Kansagra vs. Perry Kansagra CA No.3559/2020 was registered in its entirety by order dated 09112020.	Arguments of Respondent
Accordingly, the order dated 09112020 issued by High Court of Kenya at Nairobi in case bearing No. HCFOS E031 of 2020 whereby the judgment dated 2810 2020 passed by Honble Supreme Court of India in case titled as Smriti Madan Kansagra vs. Perry Kansagra CA No. 3559/2020 has been registered is a mirror order in compliance with the said judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
Having considered the rival submissions, in our view, the Order passed by the High Court of Kenya respectfully deserves and must be shown due deference.	Reasoning
Nothing turns on the form and format of the Order, so long as the High Court of Kenya was apprised of all the facts, and the context in which it was approached, for compliance of the directions passed by this Court in the Judgment.	Reasoning
Since the registration of the Judgment passed by this Court has been done under the orders of the High Court of Kenya, we accept the submissions made by the respondent.	Reasoning
In our view, the registration of the Judgment is sufficient compliance of the direction to obtain a Mirror Order issued from a competent court in Kenya.	Reasoning
The fact that the registration was given at the instance of the respondent and the unconditional undertaking given by the respondent to this Court, are sufficient compliance of the directions issued by this Court.	Reasoning
11.	Arguments of Petitioner
Insofar as the matter mentioned at placitum a is concerned, it is submitted by Mr. Divan, learned Senior Advocate that the Family Court and the High Court had granted certain reliefs to the appellant even while granting custody to the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
A comparative chart of the directions issued by the High Court and those in the Judgment has also been presented as under table 12.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the entitlement of the appellant in terms of the order issued by the High Court was not under challenge before this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Neither any substantive appeal was filed by the respondent nor any cross objections were preferred and, as such, said entitlement could not be reduced or whittled down.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the appellant was entitled in terms of the directions of the High Court, to have the temporary custody of Aditya throughout the winter and summer vacations.	Arguments of Petitioner
But, that entitlement is now reduced to only 50 of one of the vacations.	Arguments of Petitioner
13.	None
It is true that there was no appeal or any challenge on part of the respondent insofar as the temporary custody during two vacations are concerned.	Reasoning
However, that direction was modified by this Court exercising parens patriae jurisdiction which is why the expression in supersession of the Orders passed by the courts below was used in paragraph 20 of the Judgment.	Reasoning
Requiring Aditya to travel to India and spend the entirety of his two vacations spreading over a period of three months, was considered to be causing hindrance to his normal educational and other activities.	Reasoning
Aditya is a bright child of 11 years.	Reasoning
In the coming years, his activities on the academic side are likely to increase substantially since he will be required to study under the I.B. curriculum, and learn the local language.	Reasoning
As he grows, his horizons are going to be wider.	Reasoning
In child custody matters, rather than the entitlement of either of the parents, what is of paramount importance is the wellbeing and welfare of the child.	Reasoning
Therefore, considering the totality of circumstances, including his age at present, it was considered appropriate to grant half of one vacation with the appellant, which is sufficient and serves the desired purpose.	Reasoning
In terms of the directions issued by this Court, the appellant along with maternal grandmother of Aditya will be entitled, at the expense of the respondent to spend seven days in Kenya once a year.	Reasoning
The directions thus contemplated that in a year, the appellant will have sufficient physical contact and interaction as well as benefit of stay with Aditya.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, subject to the discussion with regard to the matter at Placitum b, the submissions under first segment are rejected.	Reasoning
Insofar as the directions sought under the second segment are concerned, Mr. Mehta, learned Counsel for the respondent has welcomed the suggestions of furnishing school report and activities report of Aditya to the appellant.	Reasoning
It is also accepted that the respondent shall keep the appellant informed about parentsteachers meetings, and about other functions and activities in the school, and that the appellant will be at liberty to visit Adityas school, and attend school events and interact with school teachers.	Reasoning
In order to facilitate the interaction of the appellant on these aspects, the email Id. of the appellant as well as her mobile details shall be furnished to Adityas school, so that the appellant shall be kept in touch with the developments.	Reasoning
It is also agreed that appellant shall be informed in case Adityas school is changed on any future date.	Reasoning
Placitum a of directions sought under the third segment is in addition to the one prayed for under placitum a of the first segment.	Reasoning
On one hand, the appellant desires the temporary custody of Aditya all through Easter, Winter and Summer vacations, and seeks directions that she be allowed to visit Kenya every two months at the expenses of the respondent while on the other hand, the anxiety and apprehension expressed by the respondent is that repeated visits to India all through the vacations will not allow Aditya sufficient time for his activities and pursuits.	Reasoning
Since we have rejected the case of the appellant for having temporary custody all through the summer and winter vacations, we do not accept the present suggestion which is, therefore, rejected.	Reasoning
Similarly, it will not be possible to pass a direction that the appellant be allowed to visit Kenya every two months at the cost and expense of the respondent.	Reasoning
If the appellant chooses on her own to go to Kenya, she will certainly be free to do so.	Reasoning
But, putting an obligation upon the respondent to finance her trips, would not be appropriate.	Reasoning
We, therefore, reject the submission.	Reasoning
With regard to placitum c, the matter will be dealt with separately hereafter With regard to the matter at placitum d, it must be stated that in accordance with the directions issued in paragraph 20 of the Judgment, Aditya will be at liberty to speak to his relations and friends.	Reasoning
Therefore, no further directions in that behalf are called for.	Reasoning
We now turn to the directions sought under the fourth segment.	Reasoning
It is accepted by Mr. Mehta, learned counsel for the respondent that the respondent will always keep the appellant informed about Adityas health and medical issues, and will certainly share his medical reports with the appellant and that in case of any medical emergency, the appellant shall always be kept informed.	Reasoning
Placitum b under this segment prays that the matter be kept pending and Aditya be directed to be produced before this Court for an evaluation every six months for next four years.	Reasoning
We do not think it appropriate to call Aditya to Court every six months.	Decision
But we accept the suggestion of having an interaction with him to see the progress.	Decision
It is, therefore, clarified that as and when Aditya is in India during any of his vacations, the learned counsel for the appellant may mention the matter so that an interaction with Aditya can be arranged.	Decision
Moving on to the last set of directions sought under the fifth segment, it is not necessary to pass any direction to keep the OCI Card Status renewed as suggested.	Decision
Similarly, no orders are called for in connection with placitum b of this segment, as the order passed by the High Court of Kenya in registering the Judgment has already been found to be in sufficient compliance with the direction issued by this Court.	Decision
However, in the context of direction sought at placitum c of the third segment, we see force in the submission that the appellant be given liberty to meet Aditya on his Birthdays.	Decision
We, therefore, direct that in addition to direction (g) in para 20 of the Judgment, the appellant shall be allowed every year, one more trip for a week financed by the respondent, coinciding with the Birthday of Aditya (which falls on 2nd of December).	Decision
Thus, the appellant will have the benefit of two trips to Kenya in a year, out of which one will be with her mother as well.	Decision
These two visits will be in addition to 50 of the annual vacation as granted in direction (f) of Para 20 of the Judgment.	Decision
Apart from the opportunity of enjoying the company of Aditya, these interactions will help in maintaining the bond between the son and the mother.	Decision
In the circumstances we hold and direct Except for direction issued earlier in paragraph 20 of this Order, and matters accepted by the learned counsel for the respondent, no orders are called for in respect of any of the directions sought for by the appellant.	Decision
All the directions issued in paragraph 20 of the Judgment hold good, with the addition of the one issued in paragraph 20 of this Order.	Decision
A further affidavit shall be filed by the respondent within three days of this Order, that he shall abide by this Order and the additional direction issued in paragraph 20 of this Order.	Decision
The respondent is not required to obtain any fresh Mirror Order in respect of the aforesaid additional direction, before Aditya is taken to Kenya, and it shall be sufficient if an appropriate application to have this Order registered, in the same manner as the Judgment was registered, is preferred within two weeks of Aditya reaching Kenya, and the copy of such registration is thereafter filed in this Court at the earliest.	Decision
After filing of the further affidavit as stated above, the respondent shall be at liberty to take Aditya to Kenya as directed earlier in the Judgment.	Decision
Miscellaneous Application No.2140 of 2020 stands disposed of accordingly without any order as to costs.	Decision
Miscellaneous Application No.2170 of 2020 in Civil Appeal No.3559 of 2020 (Office Report for Directions) does not call for any further directions and also stands disposed of.	Decision
