 NAGESWARA RAO, J. The Appellant was enrolled in the Indian Army on 27.07.2000 in the Corps of Signals.	Facts
When he was posted with the 9 th Corps Air Support Signal Unit (CASSU), he was charged for disobedience of lawful command given by his Company Havaldar Major (CHM) Pramod Kumar.	Facts
The charges communicated to the Appellant are as follows First charge Army Act Section 41(2) Cantonment, on 30 July 2009, when ordered by his Section Non Commissioned Officer Number 15361 420F Company Havaldar Major (Operator Cipher) Parmod Kumar of the same unit to perform the duties as Detachment In charge of the unit Radio Monitoring Detachment from 1900 hrs.	Facts
to 2359 hrs.	Facts
on 30 July 2009 did not do so.	Facts
Second charge Army Act Section 41 (2) Cantonment, on 03 August 2009, when his Section Non Commissioned Officer Number 15361 420F Company Havaldar Major (Operator Cipher)	Facts
Parmod Kumar of the same unit ordered him to perform the duties as the Detachment Incharge of the unit Radio Monitoring Detachment from 1900 hrs.	Facts
to 2359 hrs.	Facts
on 03 August 2009, failed to report to the Radio Department.	Facts
The Appellant denied the charges.	Facts
Proceedings were initiated before the Summary Court Martial.	Facts
Company Havaldar Major Pramod Kumar of Operation Section, 9 th Corps deposed before the Summary Court Martial that the Appellant failed to perform the duty of Operatorcum Detachment Incharge of the Radio Monitoring Detachment Unit from 1900 hrs.	Facts
to 2359 hrs.	Facts
on 30.07.2009.	Facts
As the Appellant did not report for duty as directed by him, Company Havaldar Major Pramod Kumar went to the Barrack and directed the Appellant to explain the reason for not reporting for duty.	Facts
Thereafter, Pramod Kumar himself performed the duties of Detachment In Charge during that night.	Facts
The Appellant again absented himself from duty in spite of directions issued on 03.08.2009.	Facts
The Appellant was marched up to the Commanding Officer, Colonel Rajiv Sud on 06.08.2009.	Facts
T entative charges were framed and explained to the Appellant.	Facts
The Appellant refused to sign Appendix A as directed by the Commanding Officer.	Facts
By an order dated 26.08.2009, the service of the Appellant was terminated on the basis of the findings recorded in the Summary Court Martial.	Issue
He preferred an appeal to Respondent No.4 which was dismissed by an order dated 16.02.2010.	Issue
Thereafter, the Appellant filed a Writ Petition in the Calcutta High Court which was transferred to the Armed Forces Tribunal, Kolkata Bench.	Facts
By the impugned order, the Armed Forces Tribunal upheld the order of termination of service of the Appellant.	Issue
4.	None
The learned counsel for the Appellant submitted that there is no truth in the allegations that he willfully disobeyed the orders of his superior.	Arguments of Petitioner
He justified his absence from duty on the ground that he suffered an injury in his little finger of the right hand.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also submitted that the penalty of termination of service is disproportionate to the charges framed against him.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Senior Counsel for the Respondents stated that the Appellant was not a raw soldier, having served the Army for a period of 9 years prior to the date of incident.	Arguments of Respondent
Disobeying lawful command deliberately and intentionally is a serious charge.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Senior Counsel for the Respondent also stated that the Appellant refused to sign any documents, cross examine the witnesses or make a statement in his defence.	Arguments of Respondent
He deliberately did not summon any defence witness.	Arguments of Respondent
The Armed Forces personnel are different from civil services.	Reasoning
Not being present at his detachment unit and disobeying the lawful command cannot be ignored lightly.	Reasoning
There is abundant material to show that the Appellant is guilty of disobeying the lawful command of his superiors not once but on two occasions.	Reasoning
The Appellant is also guilty of deliberately not cooperating with the Summary Court Martial.	Reasoning
It is also clear from the record that he did not utilize the opportunity to defend himself.	Reasoning
The penalty of termination of service of the Appellant cannot be said to be incommensurate with the delinquency.	Reasoning
In view of the above, we are of the opinion that the Armed Forces Tribunal did not commit any error in affirming the termination of service of the Appellant.	Decision
The appeal is dismissed.	Decision
