 Wanchoo, J.1.	None
These four appeals on certificates granted by the High Court of Calcutta arise out of the same land acquisition proceedings and raise the same points and will be dealt with together.	Issue
There ware two petitions before the High Court under Art.	Issue
226 of the Constitution challenging the land acquisition proceedings which were dealt with together.	Issue
The learned Single Judge who originally dealt with the matters dismissed the petitions.	Issue
Then followed two appeals to the Division Bench of the High Court, which were allowed.	Issue
Four applications were then made for certificates to appeal to this Court, two of them by the State of West Bengal and two by the Ramakrishna Mission (hereinafter referred to as the Mission) in whose favour the acquisition proceedings ware taken.	Issue
That is why we have four appeals before us, two by the State of West Bengal and two by the Mission.	Issue
We propose to deal with them together in the judgment.2.	None
The Mission is a society registered under the Societies Registration Act of 1860 and the object of the society inter alia, is to impart and promote the study of Vedanta and its principles as propounded by Sri Ramakrishna and of comparative theology in its widest form and also to propagate religious, social and educational teachings and activities for the benefit of the public.	Facts
In that connection the Mission had acquired by private purchase or acquisition under the Land Accusation Act No. 1 of 1894, (hereinafter referred to as the Act) a large tract of land at a place called Narendrapur.	Facts
In order to carry out its objects, the Mission, inter alia establishes, maintains and carries on schools, colleges, orphanages, workshops, laboratories, hospitals, dispensaries, houses for the infirm, the invalid and the afflicted, famine relief works and other educational and charitable works and institutions of a like nature.	Facts
For that purpose it constructs, maintains or alters any house buildings or works necessary or convenient therefor.	Facts
In the recent past the Mission had started various public works in the locality known as Narendrapur and established there (a) a residential degree college with hostel building and staff quarters, (b) a residential multipurpose school, (c) a residential senior basic school and an institution for the blind with similar amenities, (d) a students home for the residence of students who study in the University or other colleges, and an institution for the promotion of adult and social education with hostels etc., (e) a school of shorthand and typewriting, (f) a dairy farm, (g) a poultry farm and fishery for training purposes, (h) a centre for training carpentry and book binding etc.	Facts
(i) a fully equipped hospital, (j) a library, a gymnasium, workshops for the boys of schools and colleges, agricultural farms for the multipurpose schools.3.	Facts
In October 1960 the Mission applied to the Land Acquisition Collector, Alipore, for acquisition of certain lands as the land at its disposal at Narendrapur was not sufficient for its purpose.	Facts
The Land Acquisition Collector was requested to start proceedings beginning with S.4 read with S.38 of the Act for the acquisition of 14.11 acres of land and most of this land was in the shape, of pockets in the existing land of the Mission or adjacent to it.	Facts
The Mission informed the Collector that it was willing and ready to enter into necessary agreement with the Government as provided for in the Act for purposes of this acquisition and pay also all reasonable costs in respect thereof.	Facts
Thereafter a notification was issued under S. 4 of the Act on July 24, 1961, in which it was recited that the land was likely to be needed for a public purpose, namely for the construction of staff quarters, hostel building and playground of the Mission and that the area needed was about 14.11 acres.	Facts
Notice was given to persons interested in the land specified in the notification to file objection, if any, within thirty days.4.	Facts
It appears that thereafter proceedings were taken under S. 5A of the Act and a report was made to Government.	Facts
It further appears that as the land was required for the Mission which was to pay the entire expenses and as the Mission came within the definition of the word company as given in S. 3(e) of the Act being a society registered under the Societies Registration Act of 1860, proceedings were taken under Part VII of the Act Sections 39 and 40 lay down that land acquisition proceedings under Part VII will only be taken with the previous consent of the appropriate government, and that such consent shall not be given unless the appropriate government is satisfied either on the report of the Collector under S. 5A or by an enquiry held as provided in S.40 that the purpose of the acquisition is to obtain land for the erection of dwelling houses for workmen employed by the company or for the provision of amenities directly connected therewith or that the acquisition is needed for the construction of a work, and that such work is likely to prove useful to the public.	Facts
Under S. 41 of the Act an agreement is required to be executed in favour of the State Government by the company, and it is after the consent has been given and the agreement executed that notification under S.6 can be issued in view of the provisions of S.39.	Facts
It appears that an enquiry was made under S. 5A of the Act and a further enquiry was made under S.40 of the Act later on and thereafter the notification under S. 6 was issued on October 4, 1962.	Facts
In the meantime the Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act (No. XXXI of 1962) had been passed by whish Ss. 40 and 41 had been amended by insertion of cl.	Facts
(aa) in S. 40 and of cl.	Facts
(4A) in S. 41.	Facts
The notification under S. 6 having been issued after the amendment, the additions in Ss. 40 and 41 made by Amendment Act will have to be taken into account in judging the validity of the proceedings.	Facts
As an argument has been raised as lo the efficacy of the notification under S. 6, it is necessary to set it out in full as under Whereas the Governor is satisfied that land is needed for a public purpose not being a purpose of the Union, namely for the construction of staffquarters, hostel building and playground of Ramkrishna Mission at Narendrapur in the village of Ukhila Paikpara, jurisdiction list No. 56, P. S. Sonarpur, pranas Maidanmal Zilla 24 Parganas, it is hereby declared that a piece of land comprising portion of cadastral plot No. and measuring more or less 14.05 acres is needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the public expenses of the Ramakrishna Mission within the aforesaid village of Ukhila Paikpara.	Facts
The declaration is made under the provisions of section 6 of Act 1 of 1894, to all whom it may concern.	Facts
A plan of the land may be inspected in the office of the Special Acquisition Officer, Alipore 24 Parganas.5.	Facts
After this notification possession was taken of most of the land by the Mission in November 1962.	Facts
Then followed the two petitions under Art. 226, one on November, 16 and the other on November 17, 1962.	Facts
A large number of points were raised in the petitions to attack the validity of the land acquisition proceedings.	Facts
We do not think it necessary however to refer to all those points, particularly those which have been decided against the respondents.	Facts
But the main argument before the learned Single Judge was that the land acquisition proceedings were bad because the agreement between the State and the Mission was not in compliance with the conditions mentioned in S. 41, inasmuch as the terms on which the public would be entitled to use the work to be erected on the acquired land were not set out therein and therefore there could be no issue of a notification in view of S. 39 of the Act.	Facts
The learned Single Judge held that the notification was covered by cl.	Facts
(b) of S. 40(1).	Facts
As to the provision in the agreement for the use of the work by the public, the learned Single Judge felt bound by Division Bench decision of his own court, where a similar provision had been held to be within the fifth term of S. 41.	Facts
He therefore dismissed the petitions.6.	Facts
The respondents then went it appeal to the Division Bench.	Facts
The main contention before the appeal court again was that the land Acquisition proceedings were bad inasmuch as the agreement between the State and the Mission was invalid as the terms on which the public was entitled to use the work were not set out in the agreement and the provision in cl.	Facts
8 of the agreement in that behalf was not a sufficient compliance with the fifth term in S. 41 of the Act.	Facts
It was also contended before the appeal court that consent could be given on any one of the three grounds provided in S. 40(1) and that it was not open to the State Government to give consent on a combination of the grounds provided in cls.(a) (aa) and (b) of S.40(1).	Facts
Certain other points were raised before the appeal court but they were rejected and we shall refer to them in appropriate places while dealing with arguments raised in this Court.7.	Facts
The two learned Judges composing the appeal court gave separate judgments, though in the result both allowed the appeals.	Facts
Bose C. J. held that though the construction of playgrounds and hostels might fall within cl.	Facts
(b) of S.40(1), the construction of staffquarters could not fall within that clause.	None
He repelled the contention that acquisition could not be made for the combined purpose of cl.	Facts
(a), cl.	Facts
(aa) or cl.	Facts
(b) of S. 40(1).	Facts
But he was of the view that there was nothing to show that the State Government applied its mind to cl.	Facts
(a) or cl.	Facts
(aa) of S. 40(1) when giving consent.	Facts
He therefore held that as the State Government had applied its mind only to cl.	Facts
(b) of S. 40(1) and as construction of staffquarters did not come within that clause and as there was noting to show what part of the land to be acquired was meant for staffquarters and what for hostels and playgrounds, the entire acquisition must be held to be bad.	Facts
On the question whether the fifth term of S. 41 had been complied with, the learned Chief Justice relied on the view he had takenin earlier case and held that it did.	Facts
Eventually he allowed the appeals.8.	Facts
Mitter J., who was the other learned Judge of the appeal court, also held that the consent of the State Government was given only under cl.	Facts
(b) of S. 40(1).	Facts
He then went on to hold that the fifth term of S. 41 was not complied with and therefore the acquisition must be struck down on that ground.	Facts
He further held that the notification under S. 6 said that the acquisition was for a public purpose, but as the entire compensation was to be paid by the Mission and no part of it was to be paid by the State Government, the notification itself was bad.	Facts
He therefore agreed with learned Chief Justice that the appeals should be allowed.	Facts
Then followed present four appeals on certificates granted by the High Court.9.	Facts
The law on the subject relating to land acquisition whether for a public purpose or for a company is now well settled after the decisions of this court in Babu Barkya Thakur v. State of Bombay, (1961) 1	None
SCR 128 (AIR 1960 SC 1203 ) Jhandu Lal v. State of Punjab, (1962)	None
2 SCR 459 (AIR 1961 SC 343 ) R. L. Arora v. State of .U.P., (1962) Supp 2 SCR 149 (AIR 1962 SC 764 ) and Smt.	None
Somawanti v. State of Punjab, (1963) 2	None
SCR 774 (AIR 1963 SC 151 ).	Reasoning
We may refer to the gist of these decisions as given in Aroras case, (1962)	None
Supp 2 SCR 149 at p. 155 ( Al R 1962 SC 764 at p. 767) with respect to the notification under S. 6 of the Act, whether acquisition is for a public purpose or for a companyIn one case, the notification under S. 6 will say that the acquisition is for a public purpose, in the other case the notification will say that it is for a company.	None
The proviso to S. 6 (1) shows that where the acquisition is for a public purpose, the compensation has to be paid wholly or partly out of public revenues or some fund controlled or managed by local authority.	None
Where however the acquisition is for a company, the compensation would be paid wholly by the company.	None
Though therefore this distinction is there where the acquisition is either for a public purpose or for a company, there is not a complete dichotomy between acquisitions for the two purposes and it cannot be maintained that where the acquisition is primarily for a company it must always be preceded by action under Part VII and compensation must always be paid wholly by the company.	None
A third class of cases is possible where the acquisition may be primarily for a company but it may also be at the same time for a public purpose and the whole or part of compensation may be paid out to public revenues or some fund controlled on managed by local authority.	None
In such a case though the acquisition may look as if it is primarily for a company it will be covered by that part of S. 6 which lays down that acquisition may be made for a public purpose if the whole or part of the compensation is to be paid of the revenues or some fund controlled or managed by a local authority.10.	None
The first question that falls for consideration is whether the acquisition in this case was for a public purpose in which case the whole or part of the compensation is to come out of public revenues etc.	Issue
or for a company in which case the whole of the compensation has to be paid by the company.	Issue
The argument an behalf of the respondents is that as one reads the notification under Section 6 issued in this case, it appears that the acquisition is for a public purpose and not for a company and therefore, in order that the notification may be valid the whole or part of the compensation had to come out of public revenues or some fund controlled or managed by a local authority.	Arguments of Respondent
It is urged that it is clear in this case that the entire compensation was to be paid by the Mission and therefore when the notification said that the acquisition was for a public purpose it must be held to be invalid.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance in this connection has been placed on a decision of this Court in Shyam Behari v. State of Madhya Pradesh, C.A. No. 177 of 1963 D 321964 (AIR 1965 SC 427 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
That decision referred to the law on the subject which we have quoted above from R. L. Aroras case, (1962)	Reasoning
Supp 2 SCR 149 (AIR 1962 SC 764 ) and then turned to the interpretation of the particular notification under challegle in that case.	Reasoning
It is therefore of no help in the present case where we have to consider the interpretation of the notification quoted above.	Reasoning
The notification here says that the land is needed for, a public purpose, namely, for construction of staffquarters, hostel buildings and playground of Ramakrhishna Mission at Narendrapur.	Reasoning
Though therefore the notification begins by saying that the land is needed for a public purpose and does not say that it is needed for a company it does specify for what particular purpose the land is needed, namely, for construction of staff, quarters, hostel buildings and playground of the Mission which as we have already said is a company.	Reasoning
The notification therefore, indicate that the land is needed for a company, though it does not say so in so many words.	Reasoning
Finally, the notification says that the land is needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the public expenses of the Ramakrishna Mission.	Reasoning
We must say that this language is rather curious, for if the compensation was to be paid by the Mission it could not be at the public expenses, and in any case the words the public expenses of the Ramakrishna Mission are a contradiction in terms.	Reasoning
The reasonable interpretation these words therefore is that the acquisition will be at the expense of the Mission.	Reasoning
This is borne out by the fact that the agreement under section 41 which preceded the notification and which must precede it in view of section 39 provides in clause (1) thereof that all and every compensation in respect of the said land shall be paid by the Mission.	Reasoning
There is no doubt that the notification under section 6 is very clumsily drafted and we cannot fail to condemn such clumsy drafting where the notification is the basis of all subsequent proceedings.	Reasoning
But on a fair and reasonable reading of the notification under Section in this case there can be no doubt that it means that the land is required for a company (namely, the Mission) and that it is to be acquired at the expense of the company (namely, the Mission).	Reasoning
Therefore the contention on behalf of the respondents that the notification is bad inasmuch as it says that the land is needed for a public purpose and there is no provision for payment of compensation in part or in whole from the public revenues or some fund managed or controlled by a local authority, must fail.11.	Reasoning
A contrary contention has been raised on behalf of the Mission on the basis of this notification under section 6, and it is urged that in fact no proceedings under Part VII were necessary in this case because the notification was for a public purpose as recited therein and not for a company.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also urged that compensation in whole or in part was to be paid in the particular case out of public revenues.	None
It may be mentioned that this contention was not urged on behalf of the State of West Bengal for it is not the States case that part of the compensation was to be payable out of the public revenues.	None
Learned counsel for the Mission, however, relied on the presumption contained in section 6 (3) of the Act which lays down that the declaration shall be conclusive evidence that the land is needed for a public purpose or for a company, as the case may be.	None
It is urged that in view of this presumption the notification is conclusive evidence of the fact that the land is needed for a public purpose as it says so in the opening part.	Arguments of Petitioner
That however in our opinion does not mean that the court is precluded from enquiring whether the notification that the land was needed for a public purpose was made in fraud of the Act, namely, against the proviso to S. 6(1), which requires that such a notification cannot be made unless part or whole of the compensation comes out of public revenues or some fund managed or controlled by a local authority.	Reasoning
In the present case there is evidence in the notification itself that compensation was to be paid by the Mission and not out of public revenues to which we have already referred while dealing with the contention on behalf of the respondents that this was not a notification for acquisition of land for a company.	Reasoning
Besides we cannot overlook the agreement which immediately preceded the notification, and that shows that the entire compensation money is to be paid by the Mission.	Reasoning
There is on the other hand no evidence that any part of the compensation is to be paid out of public revenues as stated by learned counsel for the Mission.	Reasoning
We have no doubt that if such was the case learned counsel for the State would have immediately supported the validity of the notification and of subsequent proceedings on this simple ground on the bais of the decision in Jhandu Lals case (1961) 2	Reasoning
SCR 459 (AIR 1961 SC 343 ).	Reasoning
We have no doubt therefore that this clumsily drafted notification is really a notification for acquisition of land for company, the compensation for which acquisition is wholly to, come from the company.	Reasoning
Therefore it was necessary to comply with Part VII of the Act, and the argument on behalf of the Mission that no proceedings under Part VII of the Act were necessary and what was done under that Part was entirely redundant, must fail.12.	None
The next question that requires consideration is whether the acquisition is valid and whether the terms of Sections 40 and 41 of he Act were complied with.	Issue
Consent can be given under Section 40 of the Act for any of the three purposes provided therein, namely, (a) that the purpose of the acquisition is to obtain land for the erection of dwelling houses for workmen employed by the company or for the provision of amenities directly connected therewith, (aa) that such acquisition is needed for the construction of some building or work for a company which is engaged or is taking steps for engaging itself in any industry or work which is for a public purpose or (b) that such acquisition is needed for the construction of some work, and that such work is likely to prove useful to the public.	None
It has been held by the appeal court that in the present case the State Government only considered clause (b) before giving its consent and did not apply its mind to clauses (a) and (aa), though the appeal court turned down the argument that it was not possible when giving consent to consider more than one clause out of the three mentioned above.	Reasoning
Now generally speaking the appropriate government would not state in so many words whether it was proceeding under clause (a), or clause (aa) or clause (b).	Reasoning
The question whether consent has been given under one clause or the other or more than one clause has to be decided on the basis of the agreement and the notification under Section 6.	Reasoning
We have also no doubt that it is open to the appropriate government to give consent on being satisfied as to one of the three clauses only or as to more than one clause.	Reasoning
In the present case reliance has been placed on behalf of the State Government on all the three clauses and particularly on clauses (aa) and (b), to show that the consent was given after keeping in mind all the three clauses of Section 40(1).	Reasoning
The question as to which clause of Section 40(1) was acted upon by the State Government to give consent is important because on that will depend the nature of the agreement which has to be made under Section 41.	Reasoning
Where the purpose of the acquisition is as mentioned in clause (a), the agreement has to provide for the time within which, the conditions on which and the manner in which the dwelling houses or amenities shall be erected or provided where the consent is based on clause (aa), the agreement is to provide for the time within which and the conditions on which, the building or work shall be constructed or executed.	Reasoning
Where the consent is given on the basis of cl.	Reasoning
(b), the agreement is to specify the time within which and the conditions on which the work shall be executed and maintained, and the terms on which the public shall be entitled to use the work.	Reasoning
It will be seen from the above that there are bound to be differences in the terms to be embodied in an agreement under S. 41 depending upon whether the consent was given.	Reasoning
In this connection we have already mentioned that (we) have therefore to scrutinise the agreement to find out under which clause the consent was given.	Reasoning
In this connection we have already mentioned that in the view of the appeal court the consent was given only under cl.	Reasoning
(b) of S. 40(1).13.	Facts
Now the three purposes which are specified in the notification under Section 6 for which the land is to be acquired are construction of (i) staffquarters, (ii) hostel buildings and (iii) playground.	None
The appeal Court, and in particular the learned Chief Justice, has held that construction of hostel buildings and playground comes within cl.	Reasoning
(b) of S.40(1), but that construction of staffquarters cannot come under that clause.	None
We are of opinion that this view is correct.	Reasoning
Hostel buildings and playground are obviously meant for the students of the institution and such students as a body are a section of the public and therefore the hostels and playground can be directly useful to this section of the public and may in certain circumstances be used by other sections of the public also, as, for example, the parents or guardians of the students concerned, they are meant for occupation of individual members of the staff.	Reasoning
We cannot accept the argument that an invidual member of the staff must also be held to be a section of the public and therefore staffquarters would be useful to the public.	Reasoning
That would in our opinion be reducing the idea of what is useful or can be used by a section of the public to absurdity.	Reasoning
When we speak of a section of the public we must exclude from it an individual and what can be used by an individual cannot be said to be used by a section of the public which must always be more than one.	Reasoning
We therefore agree with the High Court that construction of staffquarters cannot be brought within the ambit of cl.	None
(b) of S. 40(1).14.	Facts
The next question then is whether construction of staffquarters can be brought within the ambit of cl.	None
(a) or cl.	Facts
(aa).It is urged that it can come under cl.	None
(aa) which provides that acquisition is needed for the construction of some building or work for a company which is engaged or is taking steps for engaging itself in any industry or work which is for a public purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged that the Mission is a company.	None
Staffquarters are obviously buildings.	None
The question however is whether the Mission is engaged or is taking steps for engaging itself in a work which is for a public purpose.	Issue
In this connection it is urged that the word work used in cl.	None
(aa) is much wider than the word industry used in the same clause, and that if the Mission is engaged in any work which is for a public purpose and the land is required for staffquarters in connection with that work the case would be covered by cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(aa).	Reasoning
We do not think it necessary for present purposes to decide whether the word work used in cl.	None
(aa) in the phrase industry or work refers to some kind of productive activity which would result in production of goods useful to the public.	Reasoning
We shall assume it is wider.	Reasoning
But the Mission did not lay any foundation for the argument that the case was covered by cl.	Reasoning
(aa) in its reply.	Reasoning
If the case is to be covered by cl.	Reasoning
(aa) and the word work in the phrase industry or work has a wider meaning, it was the duty of the Mission to explain what was the work within this wide meaning for which staffquarters were required, so that the court may be in a position to judge whether the work was of such as nature a to come within the words any industry or work which is for a public purpose.	Reasoning
We do not know for what particular work the staffquarters were required and therefore it is in our opinion impossible to accept the contention on behalf of the Mission that the case is covered by cl.	Reasoning
(aa).	Reasoning
Further it does not appear that any such material was supplied to Government either, as the application of October 5, 1960 merely mentions that the Mission was in urgent need of land for construction of staffquarters, without further mentioning what was the work in connection with which land was required for such construction.	Reasoning
Nor does the agreement show that this aspect of the matter was considered by the Government.	Reasoning
We are therefore not prepared to hold in the absence of the necessary material that the land was required for construction of buildings by a company which was engaged in any industry or work which is for a public purpose.	Reasoning
We may refer in this connection to the decision of this Court in R. L. Arora v. Sate of Uttar Pradesh, W.P. No. 137 of 1962, D .	None
1421964	None
(AIR1964 SC 1230) in which this Court has held that it is not only to be shown that the company is engaged in any work or industry which is for a public purposes but that it must also be shown that the building or work which is to be constructed on the land to be acquired subserves the same public purpose.	None
It is impossible to hold this unless one knows what is the particular work for which the land is needed.	None
We have already pointed out that the Mission is engaged in a large number of activities and we do not know for what work, out of its so many activities, staffquarters are required.	None
What we have said above is reinforced by the preamble to the agreement which says that the land is needed for the aforesaid purpose, namely, construction of staffquarters, hostel buildings and playground, and that the said work is likely to be useful to the public, which clearly indicates that it was cl.	Reasoning
(b) which was under consideration of the Government and not cl (aa), as otherwise would be appropriate to cl.	Reasoning
(aa) also and not merely appropriate to,cl.	Reasoning
(b).15.	None
Then it is urged that the case is covered by cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(a) in any case because that provides for erection of dwelling houses for workmen employed by the company.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is said that staffquarters are meant for the employees of the Mission and they would be covered by the general words i.e., workmen employed by the company.	None
It may be conceded that building of staffquarters by the Mission may be included within cl.	None
(a) of S. 40(1).	Facts
The High Court has however found that there was nothing to show that this aspect of the matter was considered by the State Government.	Reasoning
But, as we have said earlier, one would not generally find the appropriate government saying when giving consent whether it is acting under one clause or the other of S. 40(1), and that has to be gathered from the agreement and the notification under S. 6 following thereon.	Reasoning
When we look at the agreement which preceded the notification we do not find specific mention of hostel buildings, playground and staffquarters for the Ramakrishna Mission.	Reasoning
As the construction of staffquarters may very well come within clause (a) of Section 40(1), it cannot necessarily be said that the Government only considered clause (b) of Section 40(1) and did not consider clause (a) at all	None
But if one looks at the preamble to the Agreement there is in our opinion justification for the view taken by the High Court.	Reasoning
The preamble puts all the three purposes together and makes no distinction between them.	Reasoning
The State Government apparently thought that construction of staffquarters stands on the same footing as construction of hostel buildings and playground and considered the necessity of giving consent on the basis of cl.(b) only.	Reasoning
This is clear from that part of the preamble which says that the State Government being satisfied by an enquiry held under Section 40 of the Act what the proposed acquisition is needed for the purpose of constructing staffquarters, hostel buildings and playground, and that the said work is likely to prove useful to the public, has consented to acquire the land on behalf of the Mission.	Reasoning
The said work in this part of the preamble includes all three, namely, staff quarters, hostel buildings and playground, and all that the State Government says in connection with the giving of consent is that the laid work is likely to prove useful to the public, which are the very words to be found in cl.	Reasoning
(b).	Reasoning
If the State Government was considering cl, (a) we would have found words in the preamble which would be appropriate to cl.	Reasoning
(a).	Reasoning
In the circumstances the view taken by the learned Chief Justice that cl.	Reasoning
(a) was not considered at all by the State Government appears to be correct.	Reasoning
His further conclusion that if that is so and the land required for the construction of staffquarters cannot be brought under cl.	None
(b) and the extent of such land is not known, the whole of the notification must be struck down, is in our view correct.	Reasoning
On this view of the matter the appeals must fail and it is unnecessary to consider the other two points raised before us.16.	Reasoning
The appeals therefore fail and are dismissed with costs  one set of hearing fee.17.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	Decision
