 Dipak Misra, CJI (for himself and A.M. Khanwilkar, J.) INDEX CHART Introduction Not for nothing, the great German thinker, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, had said, I am what I am, so take me as I am and similarly, Arthur Schopenhauer had pronounced, No one can escape from their individuality.	None
In this regard, it is profitable to quote a few lines from John Stuart Mill But society has now fairly got the better of individuality and the danger which threatens human nature is not the excess, but the deficiency of personal impulses and preferences.	None
The emphasis on the unique being of an individual is the salt of his her life.	None
Denial of selfexpression is inviting death.	None
Irreplaceability of individuality and identity is grant of respect to self.	None
This realization is ones signature and selfdetermined design.	None
One defines oneself.	None
That is the glorious form of individuality.	None
In the present case, our deliberation and focus on the said concept shall be from various spectrums.	None
Shakespeare through one of his characters in a play says Whats in a name?	None
That which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet.	None
The said phrase, in its basic sense, conveys that what really matters is the essential qualities of the substance and the fundamental characteristics of an entity but not the name by which it or a person is called.	None
Getting further deeper into the meaning, it is understood that the name may be a convenient concept for identification but the essence behind the same is the core of identity.	None
Sans identity, the name only remains a denotative term.	None
Therefore, the identity is pivotal to ones being.	None
Life bestows honour on it and freedom of living, as a facet of life, expresses genuine desire to have it.	None
The said desire, one is inclined to think, is satisfied by the conception of constitutional recognition, and hence, emphasis is laid on the identity of an individual which is conceived under the Constitution.	None
And the sustenance of identity is the filament of life.	None
It is equivalent to authoring ones own life script where freedom broadens everyday.	None
Identity is equivalent to divinity.	None
The overarching ideals of individual autonomy and liberty, equality for all sans discrimination of any kind, recognition of identity with dignity and privacy of human beings constitute the cardinal four corners of our monumental Constitution forming the concrete substratum of our fundamental rights that has eluded certain sections of our society who are still living in the bondage of dogmatic social norms, prejudiced notions, rigid stereotypes, parochial mindset and bigoted perceptions.	None
Social exclusion, identity seclusion and isolation from the social mainstream are still the stark realities faced by individuals today and it is only when each and every individual is liberated from the shackles of such bondage and is able to work towards full development of his her personality that we can call ourselves a truly free society.	None
The first step on the long path to acceptance of the diversity and variegated hues that nature has created has to be taken now by vanquishing the enemies of prejudice and injustice and undoing the wrongs done so as to make way for a progressive and inclusive realisation of social and economic rights embracing all and to begin a dialogue for ensuring equal rights and opportunities for the less than equal sections of the society.	None
We have to bid adieu to the perceptions, stereotypes and prejudices deeply ingrained in the societal mindset so as to usher in inclusivity in all spheres and empower all citizens alike without any kind of alienation and discrimination.	None
The natural identity of an individual should be treated to be absolutely essential to his being.	None
What nature gives is natural.	None
That is called nature within.	None
Thus, that part of the personality of a person has to be respected and not despised or looked down upon.	None
The said inherent nature and the associated natural impulses in that regard are to be accepted.	None
Nonacceptance of it by any societal norm or notion and punishment by law on some obsolete idea and idealism affects the kernel of the identity of an individual.	None
Destruction of individual identity would tantamount to crushing of intrinsic dignity that cumulatively encapsulates the values of privacy, choice, freedom of speech and other expressions.	None
It can be viewed from another angle.	None
An individual in exercise of his choice may feel that he she should be left alone but no one, and we mean, no one, should impose solitude on him her.	None
The eminence of identity has been luculently stated in National Legal Services Authority v. Union of India and others (2004) 5 SCC 438, popularly known as NALSA case, wherein the Court was dwelling upon the status of identity of the transgenders.	None
Radhakrishnan, J., after referring to catena of judgments and certain International Covenants, opined that gender identity is one of the most fundamental aspects of life which refers to a persons intrinsic sense of being male, female or transgender or transsexual person.	None
A persons sex is usually assigned at birth, but a relatively small group of persons may be born with bodies which incorporate both or certain aspects of both male and female physiology.	None
The learned Judge further observed that at times, genital anatomy problems may arise in certain persons in the sense that their innate perception of themselves is not in conformity with the sex assigned to them at birth and may include preand postoperative transsexual persons and also persons who do not choose to undergo or do not have access to operation and also include persons who cannot undergo successful operation.	None
Elaborating further, he said Gender identity refers to each persons deeply felt internal and individual experience of gender, which may or may not correspond with the sex assigned at birth, including the personal sense of the body which may involve a freely chosen, modification of bodily appearance or functions by medical, surgical or other means and other expressions of gender, including dress, speech and mannerisms.	None
Gender identity, therefore, refers to an individuals selfidentification as a man, woman, transgender or other identified category.	None
Adverting to the concept of discrimination, he stated The discrimination on the ground of sex under Articles 15 and 16, therefore, includes discrimination on the ground of gender identity.	None
The expression sex used in Articles 15 and 16 is not just limited to biological sex of male or female, but intended to include people who consider themselves to be neither male nor female.	None
Dealing with the legality of transgender identity, Radhakrishnan, J. ruled The selfidentified gender can be either male or female or a third gender.	None
Hijras are identified as persons of third gender and are not identified either as male or female.	None
Gender identity, as already indicated, refers to a persons internal sense of being male, female or a transgender, for example hijras do not identify as female because of their lack of female genitalia or lack of reproductive capability.	None
This distinction makes them separate from both male and female genders and they consider themselves neither man nor woman, but a third gender.	None
Sikri, J., in his concurring opinion, dwelling upon the rights of transgenders, laid down that gender identification is an essential component which is required for enjoying civil rights by the community.	None
It is only with this recognition that many rights attached to the sexual recognition as third gender would be available to the said community more meaningfully viz.	None
the right to vote, the right to own property, the right to marry, the right to claim a formal identity through a passport and a ration card, a drivers licence, the right to education, employment, health and so on.	None
Emphasising on the aspect of human rights, he observed there seems to be no reason why a transgender must be denied of basic human rights which includes right to life and liberty with dignity, right to privacy and freedom of expression, right to education and empowerment, right against violence, right against exploitation and right against discrimination.	None
The Constitution has fulfilled its duty of providing rights to transgenders.	None
Now it is time for us to recognise this and to extend and interpret the Constitution in such a manner to ensure a dignified life for transgender people.	None
All this can be achieved if the beginning is made with the recognition of TG as third gender.	None
The aforesaid judgment, as is manifest, lays focus on inalienable gender identity and correctly connects with human rights and the constitutionally guaranteed right to life and liberty with dignity.	None
It lays stress on the judicial recognition of such rights as an inextricable component of Article 21 of the Constitution and decries any discrimination as that would offend Article 14, the fon juris of our Constitution.	None
It has to be borne in mind that search for identity as a basic human ideal has reigned the mind of every individual in many a sphere like success, fame, economic prowess, political assertion, celebrity status and social superiority, etc.	None
But search for identity, in order to have apposite space in law, sans stigmas and sans fear has to have the freedom of expression about his her being which is keenly associated with the constitutional concept of identity with dignity.	None
When we talk about identity from the constitutional spectrum, it cannot be pigeonholed singularly to ones orientation that may be associated with his her birth and the feelings he she develops when he she grows up.	None
Such a narrow perception may initially sound to subserve the purpose of justice but on a studied scrutiny, it is soon realized that the limited recognition keeps the individual choice at bay.	None
The question that is required to be posed here is whether sexual orientation alone is to be protected or both orientation and choice are to be accepted as long as the exercise of these rights by an individual do not affect anothers choice or, to put it succinctly, has the consent of the other where dignity of both is maintained and privacy, as a seminal facet of Article 21, is not dented.	None
At the core of the concept of identity lies selfdetermination, realization of ones own abilities visualizing the opportunities and rejection of external views with a clear conscience that is in accord with constitutional norms and values or principles that are, to put in a capsule, constitutionally permissible.	None
As long as it is lawful, one is entitled to determine and follow his her pattern of life.	None
And that is where the distinction between constitutional morality and social morality or ethicality assumes a distinguished podium, a different objective.	None
Nonrecognition in the fullest sense and denial of expression of choice by a statutory penal provision and giving of stamp of approval by a twoJudge Bench of this Court to the said penal provision, that is, Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, in Suresh Kumar Koushal and another v. Naz Foundation and others (2014) 1 SCC 1 overturning the judgment of the Delhi High Court in Naz Foundation v. Government of NCT of Delhi and others (2009) 111 DRJ 1, is the central issue involved in the present controversy.	None
The Reference Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 76 of 2016 was filed for declaring right to sexuality, right to sexual autonomy and right to choice of a sexual partner to be part of the right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India and further to declare Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code (for short, IPC) to be unconstitutional.	Facts
When the said Writ Petition was listed before a threeJudge Bench on 08.01.2018, the Court referred to a twoJudge Bench decision rendered in Suresh Koushal (supra) wherein this Court had overturned the decision rendered by the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court in Naz Foundation (supra).It was submitted by Mr. Arvind Datar, learned senior counsel appearing for the writ petitioners, on the said occasion that the twoJudge Bench in Suresh Koushal (supra) had been guided by social morality leaning on majoritarian perception whereas the issue, in actuality, needed to be debated upon in the backdrop of constitutional morality.	Facts
A contention was also advanced that the interpretation placed in Suresh Kumar (supra) upon Article 21 of the Constitution is extremely narrow and, in fact, the Court has been basically guided by Article 14 of the Constitution.	Facts
Reliance was placed on the pronouncement in NALSA case wherein this Court had emphasized on gender identity and sexual orientation.	Facts
Attention of this Court was also invited to a nineJudge Bench decision in K.S. Puttaswamy and another v. Union of India and others (2017) 10 SCC 1 wherein the majority, speaking through Chandrachud, J., has opined that sexual orientation is an essential component of rights guaranteed under the Constitution which are not formulated on majoritarian favour or acceptance.	Facts
Kaul, J, in his concurring opinion, referred to the decision in Mosley v. News Group Newspapers Ltd. (2008) EWHC 1777 (QB) to highlight that the emphasis for individuals freedom to conduct his sex life and personal relationships as he wishes, subject to the permitted exceptions, countervails public interest.	None
The further submission that was advanced by Mr. Datar was that privacy of the individual having been put on such a high pedestal and sexual orientation having been emphasized in the NALSA case, Section 377 IPC cannot be construed as a reasonable restriction as that would have the potentiality to destroy the individual autonomy and sexual orientation.	Facts
It is an accepted principle of interpretation of statutes that a provision does not become unconstitutional merely because there can be abuse of the same.	Facts
Similarly, though a provision on the statute book is not invoked on many occasions, yet it does not fall into the sphere of the doctrine of desuetude.	Facts
However, Suresh Koushals case has been guided by the aforesaid doctrine of desuetude.	Facts
Appreciating the said submissions, the threeJudge Bench stated that Certain other aspects need to be noted.	None
Section 377 IPC uses the phraseology carnal intercourse against the order of nature.	Facts
The determination of order of nature is not a constant phenomenon.	Facts
Social morality also changes from age to age.	Facts
The law copes with life and accordingly change takes place.	Facts
The morality that public perceives, the Constitution may not conceive of.	Facts
The individual autonomy and also individual orientation cannot be atrophied unless the restriction is regarded as reasonable to yield to the morality of the Constitution.	Facts
What is natural to one may not be natural to the other but the said natural orientation and choice cannot be allowed to cross the boundaries of law and as the confines of law cannot tamper or curtail the inherent right embedded in an individual under Article 21 of the Constitution.	Facts
A section of people or individuals who exercise their choice should never remain in a state of fear.	Facts
When we say so, we may not be understood to have stated that there should not be fear of law because fear of law builds civilised society.	Facts
But that law must have the acceptability of the Constitutional parameters.	Facts
That is the litmus test.	None
It is necessary to note, in the course of hearing on a query being made and Mr. Datar very fairly stated that he does not intend to challenge that part of Section 377 which relates to carnal intercourse with animals and that apart, he confines to consenting acts between two adults.	Facts
As far as the first aspect is concerned, that is absolutely beyond debate.	Facts
As far as the second aspect is concerned, that needs to be debated.	Facts
The consent between two adults has to be the primary precondition.	None
Otherwise the children would become prey, and protection of the children in all spheres has to be guarded and protected.	None
Taking all the apsects in a cumulative manner, we are of the view, the decision in Suresh Kumar Koushals case (supra) requires reconsideration.	None
The threeJudge Bench expressed the opinion that the issues raised should be answered by a larger Bench and, accordingly, referred the matter to the larger Bench.	None
That is how the matter has been placed before us.	None
Submissions on behalf of the petitioners We have heard Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned senior counsel assisted by Mr. Saurabh Kirpal, learned counsel appearing for the petitioners in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 76 of 2016, Ms. Jayna Kothari, learned counsel for the petitioner in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 572 of 2016, Mr. Arvind P. Datar, learned senior counsel for the petitioner in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 88 of 2018, Mr. Anand Grover, learned senior counsel for the petitioners in Writ Petition (Criminal) Nos. 100 of 2018 and 101 of 2018 and Dr. Menaka Guruswamy, learned counsel for the petitioner in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 121 of 2018.	None
We have also heard Mr. Ashok Desai, Mr. Chander Uday Singh, Mr. Shyam Divan and Mr. Krishnan Venugopal, learned senior counsel appearing for various intervenors in the matter.	None
A compilation of written submissions has been filed by the petitioners as well as the intervenors.	None
We have heard Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Additional Solicitor General for the Union of India, Mr. K. Radhakrishnan, learned senior counsel appearing in Interlocutory Application No. 94284 of 2018 in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 76 of 2016, Mr. Mahesh Jethmalani, learned senior counsel appearing in Interlocutory Application No. 91147 in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 76 of 2016, Mr. Soumya Chakraborty, learned senior counsel appearing in Interlocutory Application No. 94348 of 2018 in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 76 of 2016, Mr. Manoj V. George, learned counsel appearing for Apostolic Alliance of Churches Utkal Christian Council and Dr. Harshvir Pratap Sharma, learned counsel appearing in Interlocutory Application No. 93411 of 2018 in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 76 of 2016.	None
It is submitted on behalf of the petitioners and the intervenors that homosexuality, bisexuality and other sexual orientations are equally natural and reflective of expression of choice and inclination founded on consent of two persons who are eligible in law to express such consent and it is neither a physical nor a mental illness, rather they are natural variations of expression and free thinking process and to make it a criminal offence is offensive of the well established principles pertaining to individual dignity and decisional autonomy inherent in the personality of a person, a great discomfort to gender identity, destruction of the right to privacy which is a pivotal facet of Article 21 of the Constitution, unpalatable to the highly cherished idea of freedom and a trauma to the conception of expression of biological desire which revolves around the pattern of mosaic of true manifestation of identity.	Arguments of Petitioner
That apart, the phrase order of nature is limited to the procreative concept that may have been conceived as natural by a systemic conservative approach and such limitations do not really take note of inborn traits or developed orientations or, for that matter, consensual acts which relate to responses to series of free exercise of assertions of ones bodily autonomy.	None
It is further argued that their growth of personality, relation building endeavour to enter into a livein relationship or to form an association with a sense of commonality have become a mirage and the essential desires are crippled which violates Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.	None
It is urged that the American Psychological Association has opined that sexual orientation is a natural condition and attraction towards the same sex or opposite sex are both naturally equal, the only difference being that the same sex attraction arises in far lesser numbers.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners have highlighted that the rights of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community, who comprise 78 of the total Indian population, need to be recognized and protected, for sexual orientation is an integral and innate facet of every individuals identity.	Arguments of Petitioner
A person belonging to the said community does not become an alien to the concept of individual and his individualism cannot be viewed with a stigma.	Arguments of Petitioner
The impact of sexual orientation on an individuals life is not limited to their intimate lives but also impacts their family, professional, social and educational life.	None
As per the petitioners, such individuals (sexual minorities in societies) need protection more than the heterosexuals so as to enable them to achieve their full potential and to live freely without fear, apprehension or trepidation in such a manner that they are not discriminated against by the society openly or insidiously or by the State in multifarious ways in matters such as employment, choice of partner, testamentary rights, insurability, medical treatment in hospitals and other similar rights arising from livein relationships which, after the decision in Indra Sarma v. V.K.V. Sarma (2013) 15 SCC 755 , is recognized even by the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 for various kinds of livein relationships.	Arguments of Petitioner
The same protection, as per the petitioners, must be accorded to same sex relationships.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged by the learned counsel for the petitioners that individuals belonging to the LGBT group suffer discrimination and abuse throughout their lives due to the existence of Section 377 IPC which is nothing but a manifestation of a mindset of societal values prevalent during the Victorian era where sexual activities were considered mainly for procreation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said community remains in a constant state of fear which is not conducive for their growth.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that they suffer at the hands of law and are also deprived of the citizenry rights which are protected under the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
The law should have treated them as natural victims and sensitized the society towards their plight and laid stress on such victimisation, however, the reverse is being done due to which a sense of estrangement and alienation has developed and continues to prevail amongst the members belonging to the LGBT group.	Arguments of Petitioner
Compulsory alienation due to stigma and threat is contrary to the fundamental principle of liberty.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners have referred to the decision of this Court in NALSA case wherein transgenders have been recognized as a third gender apart from male and female and have been given certain rights.	Arguments of Petitioner
Yet, in view of the existence of Section 377 in the IPC, consensual activities amongst transgenders would continue to constitute an offence.	Arguments of Petitioner
Drawing inspiration from the NALSA case, the petitioners submit that the rights of the LGBT group are not fully realized and they remain incomplete citizens because their expression as regards sexuality is not allowed to be pronounced owing to the criminality attached to the sexual acts between these persons which deserves to be given a burial and, therefore, the rights of the LGBT community also need equal, if not more, constitutional protection.	None
Accordingly, the petitioners are of the view that Section 377 of the IPC be read down qua the LGBT community so as to confine it only to the offence of bestiality and nonconsensual acts in view of the fact that with the coming into force of the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013 and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act), the scope of sexual assault has been widened to include non penovaginal sexual assault and also criminalize nonconsensual sexual acts between children thereby plugging important gaps in the law governing sexual violence in India.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners have also submitted that Section 377, despite being a preconstitutional law, was retained post the Constitution coming into effect by virtue of Article 372 of the Constitution, but it must be noted that the presumption of constitutionality is merely an evidentiary burden initially on the person seeking to challenge the vires of a statute and once any violation of fundamental rights or suspect classification is prima facie shown, then such presumption has no role.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the case at hand, the petitioners face a violation of their fundamental rights to an extent which is manifestly clear and it is a violation which strikes at the very root or substratum of their existence.	Arguments of Petitioner
The discrimination suffered at the hands of the majority, the onslaught to their dignity and invasion on the right to privacy is demonstrably visible and permeates every nook and corner of the society.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the argument of the petitioners that Section 377, if retained in its present form, would involve the violation of, not one but, several fundamental rights of the LGBTs, namely, right to privacy, right to dignity, equality, liberty and right to freedom of expression.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners contend that sexual orientation which is a natural corollary of gender identity is protected under Article 21 of the Constitution and any discrimination meted out to the LGBT community on the basis of sexual orientation would run counter to the mandate provided under the Constitution and the said view has also gained approval of this Court in the NALSA case.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners have also relied upon the view in K.S. Puttaswamy (supra) to advance their argument that sexual orientation is also an essential attribute of privacy.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, protection of both sexual orientation and right to privacy of an individual is extremely important, for without the enjoyment of these basic and fundamental rights, individual identity may lose significance, a sense of trepidation may take over and their existence would be reduced to mere survival.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further urged that sexual orientation and privacy lie at the core of the fundamental rights which are guaranteed under Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution and in the light of the decision in Puttaswamy (supra), it has become imperative that Section 377 be struck down.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that the right to privacy has to take within its ambit and sweep the right of every individual, including LGBTs, to make decisions as per their choice without the fear that they may be subjected to humiliation or shunned by the society merely because of a certain choice or manner of living.	Arguments of Petitioner
Having canvassed with vehemence that sexual orientation is an important facet of the right to privacy which has been raised to the pedestal of a cherished right, the learned counsel for the petitioners have vigorously propounded that sexual autonomy and the right to choose a partner of ones choice is an inherent aspect of the right to life and right to autonomy.	Arguments of Petitioner
In furtherance of the said view, they have relied upon the authorities in Shakti Vahini v. Union of India and others (2018) 7 SCC 192 and Shafin Jahan v. Asokan K.M. AIR 2018 SC 1933 wherein it has been clearly recognized that an individuals exercise of choice in choosing a partner is a feature of dignity and, therefore, it is protected under Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the petitioners, there is no difference between persons who defy social conventions to enter into interreligious and intercaste marriages and those who choose a same sex partner in the sense that the society may disapprove of intercaste or interreligious marriages but this Court is for enforcing constitutional rights.	Arguments of Petitioner
Similarly, as per the petitioners, even if there is disapproval by the majority of the sexual orientation or exercise of choice by the LGBT persons, the Court as the final arbiter of the constitutional rights, should disregard social morality and uphold and protect constitutional morality which has been adverted to by this Court in several cases, including Manoj Narula v. Union of India (2014) 9 SCC 1 , for that is the governing rule.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is argued that the Delhi High Court in Naz Foundation (supra) has referred to and analysed the concept of constitutional morality and ultimately struck down Section 377 IPC clearly stating that carnal intercourse between homosexuals and heterosexuals with consent cannot be an offence.	Arguments of Petitioner
The LGBT persons cannot, according to the petitioners, be penalized simply for choosing a same sex partner, for the constitutional guarantee of choice of partner extends to the LGBT persons as well.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the petitioners and the supporting intervenors have submitted that sexual orientation, being an innate facet of individual identity, is protected under the right to dignity.	Arguments of Petitioner
To bolster the said argument, reliance has been placed upon Francis Coralie Mullin v. Administrator, Union Territory of Delhi and others (1981) 1 SCC 608 and Common Cause (A Registered Society) v. Union of India and another (2018) 5 SCC 1 wherein it was held that the right to life and liberty, as envisaged under Article 21, is meaningless unless it encompasses within its sphere individual dignity and right to dignity includes the right to carry such functions and activities as would constitute the meaningful expression of the human self.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that Section 377 is an anathema to the concept of fraternity as enshrined in the Preamble to our Constitution and the Indian Constitution mandates that we must promote fraternity amongst the citizens sans which unity shall remain a distant dream.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners have further contended that Section 377 is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution as the said Section is vague in the sense that carnal intercourse against the order of nature is neither defined in the Section nor in the IPC or, for that matter, any other law.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is, as per the petitioners, no intelligible differentia or reasonable classification between natural and unnatural sex as long as it is consensual in view of the decision of this Court in Anuj Garg and others v. Hotel Association of India and others (2008) 3 SCC 1 which lays down the principle that classification which may have been treated as valid at the time of its adoption may cease to be so on account of changing social norms.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 377, as argued by the petitioners, is manifestly arbitrary and overbroad and for the said purpose, immense inspiration has been drawn from the principles stated in Shayara Bano v. Union of India and others (2017) 9 SCC 1 , for making consensual relationship a crime on the ground that it is against the order of nature suffers from manifest arbitrariness at the fulcrum.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the case of the petitioners that Section 377 violates Article 15 of the Constitution since there is discrimination inherent in it based on the sex of a persons sexual partner as under Section 376(c) to (e), a person can be prosecuted for acts done with an opposite sex partner without her consent, whereas the same acts if done with a samesex partner are criminalized even if the partner consents.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners have drawn the attention of this Court to the Justice J.S Verma Committee on Amendments to Criminal Law which had observed that sex occurring in Article 15 includes sexual orientation and, thus, as per the petitioners, Section 377 is also violative of Article 15 of the Constitution on this count.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is argued with astuteness that Section 377 has a chilling effect on Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution which protects the fundamental right of freedom of expression including that of LGBT persons to express their sexual identity and orientation, through speech, choice of romantic sexual partner, expression of romantic sexual desire, acknowledgment of relationships or any other means and that Section 377 constitutes an unreasonable exception and is thereby not covered under Article 19(2) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
To buttress the said stance, reliance is placed upon the decision in S. Khushboo v. Kanniammal and another (2010) 5 SCC 600 wherein it has been held that law should not be used in such a manner that it has a chilling effect on the freedom of speech and expression.	Arguments of Petitioner
Additionally, the view in NALSA case has also been strongly pressed into service to emphasize that the said decision clearly spells out that the right under Article 19(1)(a) includes ones right to expression of his her selfidentified gender which can be expressed through words, action, behaviour or any other form.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners have also contended that Section 377 violates the rights of LGBT persons under Article 19(1)(c) and denies them the right to form associations.	Arguments of Petitioner
Similarly, such persons are hesitant to register companies to provide benefits to sexual minorities due to the fear of state action and social stigma.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, a conviction under Section 377 IPC renders such persons ineligible for appointment as a director of a company.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is averred that Section 377 IPC, by creating a taint of criminality, deprives the LGBT persons of their right to reputation which is a facet of the right to life and liberty of a citizen under Article 21 of the Constitution as observed by this Court in Kishore Samrite v. State of U.P. and others (2013) 2 SCC 398 and Umesh Kumar v. State of Andhra Pradesh and another (2013) 10 SCC 591 to the effect that reputation is an element of personal security and protected by the Constitution with the right to enjoyment of life and liberty.	Arguments of Petitioner
This right, as per the petitioners, is being denied to the LGBT persons because of Section 377 IPC as it makes them apprehensive to speak openly about their sexual orientation and makes them vulnerable to extortion, blackmail and denial of State machinery for either protection or for enjoyment of other rights and amenities and on certain occasions, the other concomitant rights are affected.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners have advanced their argument that Section 377 IPC impedes the ability of the LGBTs to realize the constitutionally guaranteed right to shelter.	Arguments of Petitioner
To illustrate the same, the petitioners have drawn the attention of the Court to the fact that LGBTs seek assistance of private resources such as Gay Housing Assistance Resources (GHAR) in order to access safe and suitable shelter and this is an indication that the members of this community are in need of immediate care and protection of the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
The decision in Suresh Koushal (supra), as per the petitioners, is per incuriam as the view observed therein has failed to take into account the amendment to Section 375 IPC which has rendered sexual carnal intercourse against the order of nature between man and woman as permissible.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 377, on the other hand, has continued to render same sex carnal intercourse as an offence, even if it is consensual.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, the petitioners have assailed the decision of this Court in Suresh Koushals case on the ground that the view in the said decision on classification is contrary to the impact or effect test, for the result, in ultimate eventuality, leads to discrimination.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, the petitioners have contended that after Puttaswamy (supra), the view in Suresh Koushal (supra) needs to be overruled and the proper test would be whether Section 377 IPC can be enacted by the Parliament today after the decisions of this Court in NALSA (supra) and Puttaswamy (supra) and other authorities laying immense emphasis on individual choice.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further contended that LGBT persons are deprived of their rights due to the presence of Section 377 as they fear prosecution and persecution upon revealing their sexual identities and, therefore, this class of persons never approached this Court as petitioners, rather they have always relied upon their teachers, parents, mental health professionals and other organizations such as NGOs to speak on their behalf.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged that the appellants in Suresh Koushal (supra) led this Court to assume that LGBT persons constitute only a minuscule fraction whereas most of the studies indicate that they constitute at least 78 of the population and that apart, rights are not determined on the basis of percentage of populace but on a real scrutiny of the existence of right and denial of the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the stand of the petitioners that majority perception or view cannot be the guiding factor for sustaining the constitutionality of a provision or to declare a provision as unconstitutional.	None
Submissions on behalf of the respondents and other intervenors The respondent, Union of India, has, vide affidavit dated 11th July, 2018, submitted that the matter at hand was referred to a Constitution Bench to decide as to whether the law laid down in Suresh Koushal (supra) is correct or not and the only question referred to this Bench is the question of the constitutional validity of criminalizing consensual acts of adults in private falling under Section 377 IPC.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, the Union has submitted that so far as the constitutional validity of Section 377 IPC, to the extent it applies to consensual acts of adults in private, is concerned, the respondent leaves the same to the wisdom of this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent has also contended that in the event Section 377 IPC so far as consensual acts of adults in private is declared unconstitutional, other ancillary issues or rights which have not been referred to this Bench for adjudication may not be dealt with by this Bench as in that case, the Union of India expresses the wish to file detailed affidavit in reply, for consideration of other issues and rights would have far reaching and wide ramifications under various other laws and will also have consequences which are neither contemplated in the reference nor required to be answered by this Honble Bench.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent has submitted that allowing any other issue (other than the constitutional validity of Section 377 IPC) to be argued and adjudicating the same without giving an opportunity to the Union of India to file a counter affidavit may not be in the interest of justice and would be violative of the principles of natural justice.	Arguments of Respondent
Another set of written submissions has been filed by Shri K. Radhakrishnan, senior counsel, on behalf of intervenorNGO, Trust God Ministries.	Arguments of Respondent
The said intervenor has submitted that the observations of this Court in Puttaswamy (supra), particularly in Para 146, virtually preempt and forestall the aforesaid NGO from raising substantial contentions to the effect that there is no uncanalised and unbridled right to privacy and the said right cannot be abused.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, the intervenor has contended that there is no personal liberty to abuse ones organs and that the offensive acts proscribed by Section 377 IPC are committed by abusing the organs.	Arguments of Respondent
Such acts, as per the intervenor, are undignified and derogatory to the constitutional concept of dignity and if any infraction is caused to the concept of dignity, then it would amount to constitutional wrong and constitutional immorality.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also the case of the intervenor that issues pertaining to the constitutional and other legal rights of the transgender community, their gender identity and sexual orientation have been exhaustively considered in the light of the various provisions of the Constitution and, accordingly, reliefs have been granted by this Court in NALSA (supra).	Arguments of Respondent
It is contended by the intervenor that no further reliefs can be granted to them and the prayers made by them is only to abuse privacy and personal liberty by transgressing the concepts of dignity and public morality.	Arguments of Respondent
As per the intervenor, Section 377 rightly makes the acts stated therein punishable as Section 377 has been incorporated after taking note of the legal systems and principles which prevailed in ancient India and now in 2018, the said Section is more relevant legally, medically, morally and constitutionally.	Arguments of Respondent
To illustrate this, the intervenor has drawn the attention of this Court to W. Friedmann from Law in a Changing Society wherein he has observed that to prohibit a type of conduct which a particular society considers worthy of condemnation by criminal sanctions is deeply influenced by the values governing that society and it, therefore, varies from one country to another and one period of history to another.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, it has been contended by the intervenor that persons indulging in unnatural sexual acts which have been made punishable under Section 377 IPC are more susceptible and vulnerable to contracting HIV AIDS and the percentage of prevalence of AIDS in homosexuals is much greater than heterosexuals and that the right to privacy may not be extended in order to enable people to indulge in unnatural offences and thereby contact AIDS.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also the case of the intervenor that if Section 377 is declared unconstitutional, then the family system which is the bulwark of social culture will be in shambles, the institution of marriage will be detrimentally affected and rampant homosexual activities for money would tempt and corrupt young Indians into this trade.	Arguments of Respondent
Written submissions have also been filed on behalf of Mr. Suresh Kumar Koushal, intervenor, submitting therein that the argument of the petitioners that consensual acts of adults in private have been decriminalized in many parts of the world and, therefore, it deserves to be decriminalized in India as well does not hold good for several reasons inasmuch as the political, economic and cultural heritage of those countries are very different from India which is a multicultural and multilinguistic country.	Arguments of Respondent
The intervenor has contended that since fundamental rights are not absolute, there is no unreasonableness in Section 377 IPC and decriminalizing the same would run foul to all religions practised in the country, and, while deciding the ambit and scope of constitutional morality, Article 25 also deserves to be given due consideration.	Arguments of Respondent
Another application for intervention, being I.A No. 91250 of 2018, was filed and the same was allowed.	Arguments of Respondent
It has been contended by the said intervenor that in the attempt that Section 377 is struck down, it would render the victims complaining of forced acts covered under the existing Section 377 IPC remediless as the said Section not only impinges on carnal intercourse against the order of nature between two consenting adults but also applies to forced penile non vaginal sexual intercourse between adults.	Arguments of Respondent
This, as per the intervenor, would be contrary to the decision of this Court in Iqbal Singh Marwah and another v. Meenakshi Marwah and another (2005) 4 SCC 370 .	None
The applicant has also submitted that in the event consenting acts between two same sex adults are excluded from the ambit of Section 377 IPC, then a married woman would be rendered remediless under the IPC against her bisexual husband and his consenting male partner indulging in any sexual acts.	Arguments of Respondent
The intervenor has suggested that the alleged misuse of Section 377 IPC as highlighted by the petitioners can be curbed by adding an explanation to Section 377 IPC defining aggrieved person which shall include only nonconsenting partner or aggrieved person or wife or husband or any person on their behalf on the lines of Section 198(1) of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.	Arguments of Respondent
This, as per the applicant, would curb any mala fide complaint lodged by authorities and vindictive or mischievous persons when the act complained of is consenting act between two persons.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, the applicant has submitted that this Court may be pleased to identify that the courts shall take cognizance of an offence under Section 377 IPC only on a complaint made by an aggrieved person.	Arguments of Respondent
Such an approach, as per the applicant, inherently respects consent and also protects from interference and safeguards the privacy and dignity of an individual under Article 21 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
The applicant has also contended that the constitutionality of any legislation is always to be presumed and if there is any vagueness in the definition of any section, the courts have to give such a definition which advances the purpose of the legislation and that the courts must make every effort to uphold the constitutional validity of a statute if that requires giving a stretched construction in view of the decisions of this Court in K.A. Abbas v. Union of India and another (970) 2 SCC 780 and Rt.	Arguments of Respondent
Rev. Msgr.	None
Mark Netto v. State of Kerala and others (1979) 1 SCC 23 .	None
The applicant, through his learned counsel Mr. Harvinder Chowdhury, submits that if the right to privacy as recognized in Puttaswamy (supra) is allowed its full scope and swing, then that itself would rule out prosecution in all cases of consensual unnatural sex between all couples, whether heterosexual or homosexual, and without having to engage in reading down, much less striking down of, the provisions of Section 377 IPC in its present form.	Arguments of Respondent
This is so because the State cannot compel individuals engaging in consensual sexual acts from testifying against one another as it involves a breach of privacy unless the consent itself is under challenge and one cannot be a consenting victim of a crime so long as the consent is legally valid.	Arguments of Respondent
Submissions have also been advanced on behalf of Raza Academy, intervenor, through its learned counsel Mr. R.R Kishore, who has contended that homosexuality is against the order of nature and Section 377 rightly forbids it.	Arguments of Respondent
Prohibition against carnal intercourse involving penetration into nonsexual parts of the body does not constitute discrimination as laws based on biological reality can never be unconstitutional, for if a male is treated as a male, a female as a female and a transgender as a transgender, it does not amount to discrimination.	Arguments of Respondent
The applicant has submitted that the purpose of criminal law is to protect the citizens from something that is injurious and since carnal intercourse between two persons is offensive and injurious, it is well within the States jurisdiction to put reasonable restrictions to forbid such aberrant human behaviour by means of legislation, for it is the duty of the State that people with abnormal conduct are prohibited from imperiling the life, health and security of the community.	Arguments of Respondent
Unrestrained pleasure, and that too of a lascivious nature, is not conducive for the growth of a civilized society, such inordinate gratification needs to be curbed and, thus, prohibition against carnal intercourse as defined in Section 377 IPC does not violate the constitutional rights of a person.	Arguments of Respondent
Another application for intervention, being I.A No. 9341 of 2011, was filed and allowed.	Arguments of Respondent
The applicant, in his written submissions, after delineating the concept of immorality, has submitted that the doctrine of manifest arbitrariness is of no application to the present case as the law is not manifestly or otherwise arbitrary, for Section 377 criminalizes an act irrespective of gender or sexual orientation of the persons involved.	Arguments of Respondent
The universal application of the said provision without any gender bias is the touchstone of Part III of the Constitution and is not arbitrary as there is no intentional or unreasonable discrimination in the provision.	Arguments of Respondent
The applicant has drawn the attention of this Court to the case of Fazal Rab Choudhary v. State of Bihar (1982) 3 SCC 9 wherein this Court held that the offence under Section 377 IPC implies sexual perversity.	None
Further, it is the case of the applicant that there should not be identical transplantation of Western ideology in our country which has also been a matter of concern for this Court in Jagmohan Singh v. State of U.P. (1973) 1 SCC 20	None
The applicant, after citing the case of State of Gujarat v. Mirzapur Moti Kureshi Kassab Jamat and others (2005) 8 SCC 534 , has stressed upon the fact that the interest of a citizen or a section of the society, howsoever important, is secondary to the interest of the country or community as a whole and while judging the reasonability of restrictions imposed on fundamental rights, due consideration must also be given to the Directive Principles stated in Part IV.	None
In view of these aforesaid submissions, the applicant has submitted that fundamental rights may not be overstretched and the Directive Principles of State Policy which are fundamental in the governance of the country cannot be neglected, for they are not less significant than what is fundamental in the life of an individual as held in Kesavananda Bharati v. Union of India (1973) 4 SCC 225 Another application for intervention, being I.A. No. 76790 of 2018, has been filed by Apostolic Alliance of Churches and the Utkal Christian Council.	None
The applicants have submitted that the Court, while interpreting Section 377 IPC, has to keep in mind that there can be situations where consent is obtained by putting a person in fear of death or hurt or consent can also be obtained under some misconception or due to unsoundness of mind, intoxication or inability to understand the nature and the consequences of the acts prohibited by Section 377 IPC.	Arguments of Respondent
The applicant has also advanced the argument that Section 377 IPC in its present form does not violate Article 14 of the Constitution as it merely defines a particular offence and its punishment and it is well within the power of the State to determine who should be regarded as a class for the purpose of a legislation and this, as per the applicant, is reasonable classification in the context of Section 377 IPC.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, the applicant has contended that Section 377 IPC is not violative of Article 15 of the Constitution as the said Article prohibits discrimination on the grounds of only religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them but not sexual orientation.	Arguments of Respondent
The word sexual orientation, as per the applicant, is alien to our Constitution and the same cannot be imported within it for testing the constitutional validity of a provision or legislation.	Arguments of Respondent
As per the applicant, if the word sex has to be replaced by sexual orientation, it would require a constitutional amendment.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also the case of the applicant that the Yogyakarta principles which have been heavily relied upon by the petitioners to bolster their stand have limited sanctity inasmuch as they do not amount to an international treaty binding on the State parties and there are no intergovernmentally negotiated international instruments or agreed human rights treaties on the issue of LGBTs.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, the applicant has submitted that there is no requirement to reconsider the decision of this Court in Suresh Koushal (supra) wherein it was held that there is a presumption of constitutionality of a legislation and the Court must adopt selfrestraint and thereby refrain from giving birth to judicial legislation.	Arguments of Respondent
In the applicants view, the legislative wisdom of the Parliament must be respected and it must be left to the Parliament to amend Section 377 IPC, if so desired.	Arguments of Respondent
The applicant has contended that if the prayers of the petitioners herein are allowed, it would amount to judicial legislation, for the Courts cannot add or delete words into a statute.	Arguments of Respondent
It is stated that the words consent and or without consent are not mentioned in Section 377 IPC and, therefore, the Courts cannot make such an artificial distinction.	Arguments of Respondent
To buttress this stand, the applicant has relied upon the decision of this Court in Sakshi v. Union of India and others (2004) 5 SCC 518 wherein it was observed that the attention of the Court should be on what has been said and also on what has not been said while interpreting the statute and that it would be wrong and dangerous for the Court to proceed by substituting some other words in a statute since it is well settled that a statute enacting an offence or imposing a penalty has to be strictly construed.	None
The applicant has also drawn the attention of this Court to the decision in Union of India and another v. Deoki Nandan Aggarwal 1992 Supp.	None
(1) SCC 323 wherein it was observed that the Court cannot rewrite, recast or reframe the legislation for the good reason that it has no power to legislate since the power to legislate has not been conferred upon the Court and, therefore, the Courts cannot add words to a statute or read words into it which are not there.	None
The Courts are to decide what the law is and not what it should be.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also the case of the applicant that the decriminalization of Section 377 IPC will open a floodgate of social issues which the legislative domain is not capable of accommodating as same sex marriages would become social experiments with unpredictable outcome.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, it is the contention of the applicant that decriminalization of Section 377 IPC will have cascading effect on existing laws such as Section 32(d) of the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act, 1936 Section 27(7)(1A) A of the Special Marriage Act, 1954 which permits a wife to present a petition for divorce to the district court on the ground,(i) that her husband has, since the solemnization of the marriage, been guilty of rape, sodomy or bestiality Section 10(2) of the Indian Divorce Act, 1869 and Section 13(2) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955.	Arguments of Respondent
Decisions in Naz Foundation and Suresh Koushal We shall now advert to what had been stated by the Delhi High Court in Naz Foundation and thereafter advert to the legal base of the decision in Suresh Koushals case.	None
The Delhi High Court had taken the view that Article 15 of the Constitution prohibits discrimination on several enumerated grounds including sex.	None
The High Court preferred an expansive interpretation of sex so as to include prohibition of discrimination on the ground of sexual orientation and that sexdiscrimination cannot be read as applying to gender simpliciter.	None
Discrimination, as per the High Courts view, on the basis of sexual orientation is grounded in stereotypical judgments and generalization about the conduct of either sex.	None
Another facet of the Indian Constitution that the High Court delineated was that of inclusiveness as the Indian Constitution reflects this value of inclusiveness deeply ingrained in the Indian society and nurtured over several generations.	None
The High Court categorically said that those who are perceived by the majority as deviants or different are not to be, on that score, excluded or ostracised.	None
In the High Courts view, where a society displays inclusiveness and understanding, the LGBT persons can be assured of a life of dignity and nondiscrimination.	None
It has been further opined by the High Court that the Constitution does not permit any statutory criminal law to be held captive of the popular misconceptions of who the LGBTs are, as it cannot be forgotten that discrimination is the antithesis of equality and recognition of equality in its truest sense will foster the dignity of every individual.	None
That apart, the High Court had taken the view that social morality has to succumb to the concept of constitutional morality.	None
On the basis of the aforesaid reasons, the High Court declared Section 377 IPC violative of Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution in so far as it criminalises consensual sexual acts of adults in private, whereas for nonconsensual penile nonvaginal sex and penile nonvaginal sex involving minors, the High Court ruled that Section 377 IPC was valid.	Facts
The Delhi High Court judgment was challenged in Suresh Koushal (supra) wherein this Court opined that acts which fall within the ambit of Section 377 IPC can only be determined with reference to the act itself and to the circumstances in which it is executed.	None
While so opining, the Court held that Section 377 IPC would apply irrespective of age and consent, for Section 377 IPC does not criminalize a particular people or identity or orientation and only identifies certain acts which, when committed, would constitute an offence.	None
Such a prohibition, in the Courts view in Suresh Koushal (supra), regulates sexual conduct regardless of gender identity and orientation.	None
The Court further observed that those who indulge in carnal intercourse in the ordinary course and those who indulge in carnal intercourse against the order of nature constitute different classes and the people falling in the latter category cannot claim that Section 377 IPC suffers from the vice of arbitrariness and irrational classification.	None
The Court further observed that while reading down Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, it cannot be overlooked that only a minuscule fraction of the countrys population constitutes lesbians, gays, bisexuals or transgenders and in last more than 150 years, less than 200 persons have been prosecuted under Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code which cannot, therefore, be made a sound basis for declaring Section 377 IPC ultra vires the provisions of Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution.	None
The submission advanced by the respondents therein to the effect that the provision had become a pernicious tool for perpetrating harassment, blackmail and torture on those belonging to the LGBT community was repelled by stating that such treatment is neither mandated by the Section nor condoned by it and the mere fact that the Section is misused by police authorities and others is not a reflection of the vires of the Section, though it might be a relevant factor for the Legislature to consider while judging the desirability of amending Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code.	None
Other judicial pronouncements on Section 377 IPC Presently, we may refer to some of the judgments and the views taken therein by this Court as well as by the High Courts on Section 377 IPC so as to have a holistic perspective.	None
While interpreting the said provision, the Courts have held that the provision stipulates certain acts, which when committed, would constitute a criminal offence.	None
In Childline India Foundation and another v. Allan John Waters and others (2011) 6 SCC 261 the Court was dealing with carnal intercourse against the order of nature when the material on record showed that the accused Nos. 2 and 3 used to have sex and fellatio with PWs 1 and 4.	None
The Court opined that the ingredients of Section 377 IPC were proved and, accordingly, restored the conviction and sentence of 6 years rigorous imprisonment and confirmed the imposition of fine.	None
In Fazal Rab Choudhary (supra), although the Court convicted the accused under Section 377 IPC, yet it took note of the absence of any force in the commission of the act.	None
The Court also took into account the prevalent notions of permissive society and the fact that homosexuality has been legalized in some countries.	None
In view of the same, the Court reduced the sentence of 3 years imposed on the accused to 6 months opining that the aforesaid aspects must also be kept in view as they have a bearing on the question of offence and quantum of sentence.	None
A reference may be made to Khanu v. Emperor	None
AIR 1925 Sind 286 which was also alluded to in Suresh Koushals case.	None
We deem it appropriate to reproduce a part of Khanus decision to understand how the courts in India had understood the word carnal intercourse against the order of nature.	None
The said passage reads thus The principal point in this case is whether the accused (who is clearly guilty of having committed the sin of Gomorrah coitus per os) with a certain little child, the innocent accomplice of his abomination, has thereby committed an offence under Section 377 of the Penal Code.	None
Section 377 punishes certain persons who have carnal intercourse against the order of nature with inter alia human beings.	None
Is the act here committed one of carnal intercourse?	None
If so, it is clearly against the order of nature, because the natural object of carnal intercourse is that there should be the possibility of conception of human beings which in the case of coitus per os is impossible.	None
Intercourse may be defined as mutual frequent action by members of independent organisation.	None
Commercial intercourse is thereafter referred to emphasis is made on the reciprocity.	None
By a metaphor the word intercourse like the word commerce is applied to the relations of the sexes.	None
Here also there is the temporary visitation of one organism by a member of other organisation, for certain clearly defined and limited objects.	None
The primary object of the visiting organisation is to obtain euphoria by means of a detent of the nerves consequent on the sexual crisis.	None
But there is no intercourse unless the visiting member is enveloped at least partially by the visited organism, for intercourse connotes reciprocity.	None
Looking at the question in this way it would seem that sin of Gomorrah is no less carnal intercourse than the sin of sodomy.	None
It is to be remembered that the Penal Code does not, except in Section 377, render abnormal sexual vice punishable at all.	None
In England indecent assaults are punishable very severely.	None
It is possible that under the Penal Code, some cases might be met by prosecuting the offender for simple assault, but that is a compoundable offence and in any case the patient could in no way be punished.	None
It is to be supposed that the legislature intended that a Tigellinus should carry on his nefarious profession perhaps vitiating and depraving hundreds of children with perfect immunity?	None
I doubt not, therefore, that coitus per os is punishable under Section 377 of the Penal Code.	None
In Suresh Koushals case, there has also been a reference to the decision of the Gujarat High Court in Lohana Vasantlal Devchand v. State AIR 1968	None
Guj 252 wherein the issue presented before the High Court was whether an offence under Section 377 read with Section 511 IPC had been committed on account of the convict putting his male organ in the mouth of the victim, if the act was done voluntarily by him.	None
A contention was raised that there was no penetration and, therefore, there could not have been any carnal intercourse.	None
The High Court referred to a passage from the book Pyschology of Sex authored by Mr. Havelock Ellis which reads thus While the kiss may be regarded as the typical and normal erogenic method of contrectation for the end of attaining tumescene, there are others only less important.	None
Any orifical contact between persons of opposite sex is sometimes almost equally as effective as the kiss in stimulating tumescene all such contacts, indeed, belong to the group of which the kiss is the type, Cunnilinctus (often incorrectly termed cunnilingus) and fellatio cannot be regarded as unnatural for they have their prototypic forms among animals, and they are found among various savage races.	None
As forms of contrecttion and aides to tumescene they are thus natural and are sometimes regarded by both sexes as quintessential forms of sexual pleasure, though they may not be considered aesthetic.	None
They become deviations, however, and this liable to be termed perversions, when they replace the desire of coitus After referring to the definition of sodomy, the pronouncement in Khanu (supra), Strouds Judicial Dictionary, 3rd Edition and Websters New 20th Century Dictionary, unabridged, 2nd Edition, the Gujarat High Court opined thus In the instant case, there was an entry of a male penis in the orifice of the mouth of the victim.	None
There was the enveloping of a visiting member by the visited organism.	None
There was thus reciprocity intercourse connotes reciprocity.	None
It could, therefore, be said without any doubt in my mind that the act in question will amount to an offence, punishable under Section 337 of the Indian Penal Code.	None
The decision in State of Kerala v. Kundumkara Govindan and another 1969 Cri LJ 818 (ker) has also been reproduced in Suresh Koushals case.	None
The High Court of Kerala held thus Even if I am to hold that there was no penetration into the vagina and the sexual acts were committed only between the thighs, I do not think that the respondents can escape conviction under Section 377 of the Penal Code.	None
The counsel of the respondents contends (in this argument the Public Prosecutor also supports him) that sexual act between the thighs is not intercourse.	None
The argument is that for intercourse there must be encirclement of the male organ by the organ visited and that in the case of sexual act between the thighs, there is no possibility of penetration.	None
The word intercourse means sexual connection (Concise Oxford Dictionary).	None
In Khanu v. Emperor the meaning of the word intercourse has been considered (AIR p. 286)	None
Intercourse may be defined as mutual frequent action by members of independent organisation.	None
Then commercial intercourse, social intercourse, etc. have been considered and then appears By a metaphor the word intercourse, like the word commerce, is applied to the relations of the sexes.	None
Here also there is the temporary visitation of one organism by a member of the other organisation, for certain clearly defined and limited objects.	None
The primary object of the visiting organisation is to obtain euphoria by means of a detent of the nerves consequent on the sexual crisis.	None
But there is no intercourse unless the visiting member is enveloped at least partially by the visited organism, for intercourse connotes reciprocity.	None
Therefore, to decide whether there is intercourse or not, what is to be considered is whether the visiting organ is enveloped at least partially by the visited organism.	None
In intercourse between the thighs, the visiting male organ is enveloped at least partially by the organism visited, the thighs the thighs are kept together and tight.	None
Then about penetration.	None
The word penetrate means in the Concise Oxford Dictionary find access into or through, pass through.	None
When the male organ is inserted between the thighs kept together and tight, is there no penetration?	None
The word insert means place, fit, thrust.	None
Therefore, if the male organ is inserted or thrust between the thighs, there is penetration to constitute unnatural offence.	None
Unnatural offence is defined in Section 377 of the Penal Code whoever voluntarily has carnal intercourse against the order of nature with any man, woman or animal commits unnatural offence.	None
The act of committing intercourse between the thighs is carnal intercourse against the order of nature.	None
Therefore committing intercourse by inserting the male organ between the thighs of another is an unnatural offence.	None
In this connection, it may be noted that the act in Section 376 is sexual intercourse and the act in Section 377 is carnal intercourse against the order of nature.	None
The position in English law on this question has been brought to my notice.	None
The old decision of R. v. Samuel Jacobs 168 ER 830 (CCR) lays down that penetration through the mouth does not amount to the offence of sodomy under English law.	None
The counsel therefore argues that sexual intercourse between the thighs cannot also be an offence under Section 377 of the Penal Code.	None
In Sirkar v. Gula Mythien Pillai Chaithu Maho Mathu (1908) 14	None
TLR Appendix 43 (Ker) a Full Bench of the Travancore High Court held that having connection with a person in the mouth was an offence under Section 377 of the Penal Code.	None
In a short judgment, the learned Judges held that it was unnecessary to refer to English Statute Law and English text books which proceeded upon an interpretation of the words sodomy, buggery and bestiality and that the words used in the Penal Code were very simple and wide enough to include all acts against the order of nature.	None
My view on the question is also that the words of Section 377 are simple and wide enough to include any carnal intercourse against the order of nature within its ambit.	None
Committing intercourse between the thighs of another is carnal intercourse against the order of nature.	None
In Calvin Francis v. State of Orissa 1992 (1) OLR 316 , the Orissa High Court had reproduced certain passages from Corpus Juris Secundum, Vol. 81, pp. 36870.	None
We may reproduce the same A statute providing that any person who shall commit any act or practice of sexual perversity, either with mankind or beast, on conviction shall be punished, is not limited to instances involving carnal copulation, but is restricted to cases involving the sex organ of at least one of the parties.	None
The term sexual perversity does not refer to every physical contact by a male with the body of the female with intent to cause sexual satisfaction to the actor, but the condemnation of the statute is limited to unnatural conduct performed for the purpose of accomplishing abnormal sexual satisfaction for the actor.	None
Under a statute providing that any person participating in the act or copulating the mouth of one person with the sexual organ of another is guilty of the offence a person is guilty of violating the statute when he has placed his mouth on the genital organ of another, and the offence may be committed by two persons of opposite sex.	None
Referring to the said decision, the twoJudge Bench in Suresh Koushals case has opined However, from these cases no uniform test can be culled out to classify acts as carnal intercourse against the order of nature.	None
In our opinion the acts which fall within the ambit of Section 377 IPC can only be determined with reference to the act itself and the circumstances in which it is executed.	None
All the aforementioned cases refer to nonconsensual and markedly coercive situations and the keenness of the Court in bringing justice to the victims who were either women or children cannot be discounted while analysing the manner in which the section has been interpreted.	None
We are apprehensive of whether the court would rule similarly in a case of proved consensual intercourse between adults.	None
From the aforesaid analysis, it is perceptible that the twoJudge Bench has drawn a distinction between the class and the act that has been treated as an offence.	None
On a plain reading of the provision, it is noticeable that the act covers all categories of persons if the offence is committed.	None
Thus, the seminal issue that emerges for consideration, as has been understood by various High Courts and this Court, is whether the act can be treated as a criminal offence if it violates Articles 19(1)(a) and 21 of the Constitution.	None
Therefore, the provision has to be tested on the anvil of the said constitutional provisions.	None
Additionally, it is also to be tested on the touchstone of Article 14 especially under the scanner of its second limb, that is, manifest arbitrariness.	None
For adjudging the aforesaid facets, certain fundamental concepts which are intrinsically and integrally associated with the expression of a person who enjoys certain inalienable natural rights which also have been recognized under the Constitution are required to be addressed.	None
In this context, the individuality of a person and the acceptance of identity invite advertence to some necessary concepts which eventually recognize the constitutional status of an individual that resultantly brushes aside the act and respects the dignity and choice of the individual.	None
The Constitution  an organic charter of progressive rights A democratic Constitution like ours is an organic and breathing document with senses which are very much alive to its surroundings, for it has been created in such a manner that it can adapt to the needs and developments taking place in the society.	None
It was highlighted by this Court in the case of Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh and others v. L.V.A. Dixitulu and others (1979) 2 SCC 34 that the Constitution is a living, integrated organism having a soul and consciousness of its own and its pulse beats, emanating from the spinal cord of its basic framework, can be felt all over its body, even in the extremities of its limbs.	None
In the case of Saurabh Chaudri and others v. Union of India and others (2003) 11 SCC 146 , it was observed Our Constitution is organic in nature, being a living organ, it is ongoing and with the passage of time, law must change.	None
Horizons of constitutional law are expanding.	None
Thus, we are required to keep in view the dynamic concepts inherent in the Constitution that have the potential to enable and urge the constitutional courts to beam with expansionism that really grows to adapt to the everchanging circumstances without losing the identity of the Constitution.	None
The idea of identity of the individual and the constitutional legitimacy behind the same is of immense significance.	None
Therefore, in this context, the duty of the constitutional courts gets accentuated.	None
We emphasize on the role of the constitutional courts in realizing the evolving nature of this living instrument.	None
Through its dynamic and purposive interpretative approach, the judiciary must strive to breathe life into the Constitution and not render the document a collection of mere dead letters.	None
The following observations made in the case of Ashok Kumar Gupta and another v. State of U.P. and others (1997) 5 SCC 201 further throws light on this role of the courts Therefore, it is but the duty of the Court to supply vitality, blood and flesh, to balance the competing rights by interpreting the principles, to the language or the words contained in the living and organic Constitution, broadly and liberally.	None
The rights that are guaranteed as Fundamental Rights under our Constitution are the dynamic and timeless rights of liberty and equality and it would be against the principles of our Constitution to give them a static interpretation without recognizing their transformative and evolving nature.	None
The argument does not lie in the fact that the concepts underlying these rights change with the changing times but the changing times illustrate and illuminate the concepts underlying the said rights.	None
In this regard, the observations in Video Electronics Pvt. Ltd. and another v. State of Punjab and another (1990) 3 SCC 87 are quite instructive Constitution is a living organism and the latent meaning of the expressions used can be given effect to only if a particular situation arises.	None
It is not that with changing times the meaning changes but changing times illustrate and illuminate the meaning of the expressions used.	None
The connotation of the expressions used takes its shape and colour in evolving dynamic situations.	None
Our Constitution fosters and strengthens the spirit of equality and envisions a society where every person enjoys equal rights which enable him her to grow and realize his her potential as an individual.	None
This guarantee of recognition of individuality runs through the entire length and breadth of this dynamic instrument.	None
The Constitution has been conceived of and designed in a manner which acknowledges the fact that change is inevitable.	None
It is the duty of the courts to realize the constitutional vision of equal rights in consonance with the current demands and situations and not to read and interpret the same as per the standards of equality that existed decades ago.	None
The judiciary cannot remain oblivious to the fact that the society is constantly evolving and many a variation may emerge with the changing times.	None
There is a constant need to transform the constitutional idealism into reality by fostering respect for human rights, promoting inclusion of pluralism, bringing harmony, that is, unity amongst diversity, abandoning the idea of alienation or some unacceptable social notions built on medieval egos and establishing the cult of egalitarian liberalism founded on reasonable principles that can withstand scrutiny.	None
In Ashok Kumar Gupta (supra), the Court had observed that common sense has always served in the courts ceaseless striving as a voice of reason to maintain the blend of change and continuity of order which are sine qua non for stability in the process of change in a parliamentary democracy.	None
The Court ruled that it is not bound to accept an interpretation which retards the progress or impedes social integration.	None
The Court further observed that it is required to adopt such interpretation which would give the ideals set out in the Preamble to the Constitution aided by Part III and Part IV a meaningful and living reality for all sections of the society.	None
It is through this armoury of expansive dynamism that the courts have been able to give an allinclusive interpretation to the fundamental rights enshrined in Part III of our Constitution.	None
This is borne testimony by the decisions of the constitutional courts which have evolved views for extending the protection of fundamental rights to those who have been deprived of the enjoyment of the same.	None
If not for such an approach adopted by the courts, our Constitution and its progressive principles would have been rendered ineffective and the dynamic charter would be reduced to a mere ornate document without any purpose or object.	None
The Court, as the final arbiter of the Constitution, has to keep in view the necessities of the needy and the weaker sections.	None
The role of the Court assumes further importance when the class or community whose rights are in question are those who have been the object of humiliation, discrimination, separation and violence by not only the State and the society at large	Decision
but also at the hands of their very own family members.	None
The development of law cannot be a mute spectator to the struggle for the realisation and attainment of the rights of such members of the society.	None
The authority in NALSA is one such recent illustration where the rights of transgenders as a third sex was recognized which had been long due in a democracy like ours.	None
This Court ruled  It is now very well recognized that the Constitution is a living character its interpretation must be dynamic.	None
It must be understood in a way that intricate and advances modern realty.	None
The judiciary is the guardian of the Constitution and by ensuring to grant legitimate right that is due to TGs, we are simply protecting the Constitution and the democracy inasmuch as judicial protection and democracy in general and of human rights in particular is a characteristic of our vibrant democracy.	None
As we have pointed out above, our Constitution inheres liberal and substantive democracy with rule of law as an important and fundamental pillar.	None
It has its own internal morality based on dignity and equality of all human beings.	None
Rule of law demands protection of individual human rights.	None
Such rights are to be guaranteed to each and every human being.	None
These TGs, even though insignificant in numbers, are still human beings and therefore they have every right to enjoy their human rights.	None
The living document concept finds place in several international authorities as well.	None
The courts in other jurisdictions have endorsed the view that the Constitution is forever evolving in nature and that a progressive approach is mandated by the principles inherent in the Constitution itself.	None
The Supreme Court of Canada, while giving an expansive interpretation to marriage by including samesex unions within its encompass, in Re Same Sex Marriage (2004) 3 S.C.R. 698, has observed The frozen concepts reasoning runs contrary to one of the most fundamental principles of Canadian constitutional interpretation that our Constitution is a living tree which, by way of progressive interpretation, accommodates and addresses the realities of modern life.	None
As early as the 1920s, the Supreme Court of the United States in the case of State of Missouri v. Holland 252 U.S. 416 (1920) , while making a comparison between the instrument in dispute and the Constitution, had made the following observations with regard to the nature of the Constitution When we are dealing with words that also are a constituent act, like the Constitution of the United States, we must realize that they have called into life a being the development of which could not have been foreseen completely by the most gifted of its begetters.	None
It was enough for them to realize or to hope that they had created an organism it has taken a century and has cost their successors much sweat and blood to prove that they created a nation.	None
In one of his celebrated works, Judge Richard Posner made certain observations which would be relevant to be reproduced here A constitution that did not invalidate so offensive, oppressive, probably undemocratic, and sectarian law as the Connecticut law banning contraceptives would stand revealed as containing major gaps.	None
Maybe that is the nature of our, or perhaps any, written Constitution but yet, perhaps the courts are authorized to plug at least the most glaring gaps.	None
Does anyone really believe, in his heart of hearts, that the Constitution should be interpreted so literally as to authorize every conceivable law that would not violate a specific constitutional clause?	None
This would mean that a state could require everyone to marry, or to have intercourse at least once a month, or it could take away every couples second child and place it in a foster home We find it reassuring to think that the courts stand between us and legislative tyranny even if a particular form of tyranny was not foreseen and expressly forbidden by framers of the Constitution.	None
Thus, it is demonstrable that expansive growth of constitutional idealism is embedded in the theory of progress, abandonment of status quoist attitude, expansion of the concept of inclusiveness and constant remembrance of the principle of fitting into the norm of change with a constitutional philosophy.	None
Transformative constitutionalism and the rights of LGBT community For understanding the need of having a constitutional democracy and for solving the million dollar question as to why we adopted the Constitution, we perhaps need to understand the concept of transformative constitutionalism with some degree of definiteness.	None
In this quest of ours, the ideals enshrined in the Preamble to our Constitution would be a guiding laser beam.	None
The ultimate goal of our magnificent Constitution is to make right the upheaval which existed in the Indian society before the adopting of the Constitution.	None
The Court in State of Kerala and another v. N.M.	None
Thomas and others AIR 1976 SC 490 observed that the Indian Constitution is a great social document, almost revolutionary in its aim of transforming a medieval, hierarchical society into a modern, egalitarian democracy and its provisions can be comprehended only by a spacious, socialscience approach, not by pedantic, traditional legalism.	None
The whole idea of having a Constitution is to guide the nation towards a resplendent future.	None
Therefore, the purpose of having a Constitution is to transform the society for the better and this objective is the fundamental pillar of transformative constitutionalism.	None
The concept of transformative constitutionalism has at its kernel a pledge, promise and thirst to transform the Indian society so as to embrace therein, in letter and spirit, the ideals of justice, liberty, equality and fraternity as set out in the Preamble to our Constitution.	None
The expression transformative constitutionalism can be best understood by embracing a pragmatic lens which will help in recognizing the realities of the current day.	None
Transformation as a singular term is diametrically opposed to something which is static and stagnant, rather it signifies change, alteration and the ability to metamorphose.	None
Thus, the concept of transformative constitutionalism, which is an actuality with regard to all Constitutions and particularly so with regard to the Indian Constitution, is, as a matter of fact, the ability of the Constitution to adapt and transform with the changing needs of the times.	None
It is this ability of a Constitution to transform which gives it the character of a living and organic document.	None
A Constitution continuously shapes the lives of citizens in particular and societies in general.	None
Its exposition and energetic appreciation by constitutional courts constitute the lifeblood of progressive societies.	None
The Constitution would become a stale and dead testament without dynamic, vibrant and pragmatic interpretation.	None
Constitutional provisions have to be construed and developed in such a manner that their real intent and existence percolates to all segments of the society.	None
That is the raison detre for the Constitution.	None
The Supreme Court as well as other constitutional courts have time and again realized that in a society undergoing fast social and economic change, static judicial interpretation of the Constitution would stultify the spirit of the Constitution.	None
Accordingly, the constitutional courts, while viewing the Constitution as a transformative document, have ardently fulfilled their obligation to act as the sentinel on qui vive for guarding the rights of all individuals irrespective of their sex, choice and sexual orientation.	None
The purpose of transformative constitutionalism has been aptly described in the case of Road Accident Fund and another v. Mdeyide 2008 (1) SC 535 (CC) wherein the Constitutional Court of South Africa, speaking in the context of the transformative role of the Constitution of South Africa, had observed Our Constitution has often been described as transformative.	None
One of the most important purposes of this transformation is to ensure that, by the realisation of fundamental socioeconomic rights, people disadvantaged by their deprived social and economic circumstances become more capable of enjoying a life of dignity, freedom and equality that lies at the heart of our constitutional democracy.	None
In Bato Star Fishing (Pty) Ltd v. Minister of Environmental Affairs and Tourism and others (2004) ZACC 15, the Constitutional Court of South Africa opined The achievement of equality is one of the fundamental goals that we have fashioned for ourselves in the Constitution.	None
Our constitutional order is committed to the transformation of our society from a grossly unequal society to one in which there is equality between men and women and people of all races.	None
In this fundamental way, our Constitution differs from other constitutions which assume that all are equal and in so doing simply entrench existing inequalities.	None
Our Constitution recognises that decades of systematic racial discrimination entrenched by the apartheid legal order cannot be eliminated without positive action being taken to achieve that result.	None
We are required to do more than that.	None
The effects of discrimination may continue indefinitely unless there is a commitment to end it.	None
Davies understands transformation as follows Transformation which is based on the continuing evaluation and modification of a complex material and ideological environment cannot be reduced to a scientific theory of change, like those of evolution or the halflife of radioactive substances practical change occurs within a climate of serious reflection, and diversity of opinion is in my view absolutely essential as a stimulus to theory.	None
A J Van der Walt has metaphorically, by comparing constitutional transformation to dancing, described the art of constitutional transformation to be continually progressive where one does not stop from daring to imagine alternatives and that the society could be different and a better place where the rights of every individual are given due recognition However, even when we trade the static imagery of position, standing, for the more complex imagery of dancing, we still have to resist the temptation to see transformation as linear movement or progress  from authoritarianism to justification, from one dancing code to another, or from volkspele jurisprudence to toyitoyi jurisprudence I suggest that we should not only switch to a more complex metaphorical code such as dancing when discussing transformation, but that we should also deconstruct the codes we dance to pause to reflect upon the language in terms of which we think and talk and reason about constitutionalism, about rights, and about transformation, and recognize the liberating and the captivating potential of the codes shaping and shaped by that language.	None
Again, the Supreme Court of South Africa in President of the Republic of South Africa v. Hugo (1997) 6 B.C.L.R. 708 (CC) observed that the prohibition on unfair discrimination in the interim Constitution seeks not only to avoid discrimination against people who are members of disadvantaged groups but also that at the heart of the prohibition of unfair discrimination lies a recognition that the purpose of our new constitutional and democratic order is the establishment of a society in which all human beings will be accorded equal dignity and respect, regardless of their membership of particular groups.	None
Equality does not only imply recognition of individual dignity but also includes within its sphere ensuring of equal opportunity to advance and develop their human potential and social, economic and legal interests of every individual and the process of transformative constitutionalism is dedicated to this purpose.	None
It has been observed by Albertyn Goldblatt	None
The challenge of achieving equality within this transformation project involves the eradication of systemic forms of discrimination and material disadvantage based on race, gender, class and other forms of inequality.	None
It also entails the development of opportunities which allow people to realise their full human potential within positive social relationships.	None
In Investigating Directorate Serious Economic Offences and others v. Hyundai Motor Distributors (Pty) Ltd and others In Re Hyundai Motor Distributors (Pty) Ltd and others v. Smit	None
NO and others 2001 (1) SA 545 (CC) the Constitutional Court of South Africa observed The Constitution is located in a history which involves a transition from a society based on division, injustice and exclusion from the democratic process to one which respects the dignity of all citizens and includes all in the process of governance.	None
As such, the process of interpreting the Constitution must recognise the context in which we find ourselves and the Constitutions goal of a society based on democratic values, social justice and fundamental human rights.	None
This spirit of transition and transformation characterises the constitutional enterprise as a whole.	None
The Constitution requires that judicial officers read legislation, where possible, in ways which give effect to its fundamental values.	None
Consistently with this, when the constitutionality of legislation is in issue, they are under a duty to examine the objects and purport of an Act and to read the provisions of the legislation, so far as is possible, in conformity with the Constitution.	None
The society has changed much now, not just from the year 1860 when the Indian Penal Code was brought into force but there has also been continuous progressive change.	Reasoning
In many spheres, the sexual minorities have been accepted.	Reasoning
They have been given space after the NALSA judgment but the offence punishable under Section 377 IPC, as submitted, creates a chilling effect.	Reasoning
The freedom that is required to be attached to sexuality still remains in the pavilion with no nerves to move.	Reasoning
The immobility due to fear corrodes the desire to express ones own sexual orientation as a consequence of which the body with flesh and bones feels itself caged and a sense of fear gradually converts itself into a skeleton sans spirit.	Reasoning
The question of freedom of choosing a partner is reflective from a catena of recent judgments of this Court such as Shafin Jahan (supra) wherein the Court held that a person who has come of age and has the capability to think on his her own has a right to choose his her life partner.	None
It is apposite to reproduce some of the observations made by the Court which are to the following effect It is obligatory to state here that expression of choice in accord with law is acceptance of individual identity.	None
Curtailment of that expression and the ultimate action emanating therefrom on the conceptual structuralism of obeisance to the societal will destroy the individualistic entity of a person.	None
The social values and morals have their space but they are not above the constitutionally guaranteed freedom.	None
The said freedom is both a constitutional and a human right.	None
Deprivation of that freedom which is ingrained in choice on the plea of faith is impermissible.	None
Recently, in Shakti Vahini (supra), the Court has ruled that the right to choose a life partner is a facet of individual liberty and the Court, for the protection of this right, issued preventive, remedial and punitive measures to curb the menace of honour killings.	None
The Court observed When the ability to choose is crushed in the name of class honour and the persons physical frame is treated with absolute indignity, a chilling effect dominates over the brains and bones of the society at large.	None
An argument is sometimes advanced that what is permissible between two adults engaged in acceptable sexual activity is different in the case of two individuals of the same sex, be it homosexuals or lesbians, and the ground of difference is supported by social standardization.	Reasoning
Such an argument ignores the individual orientation, which is naturally natural, and disrobes the individual of his her identity and the inherent dignity and choice attached to his her being.	Reasoning
The principle of transformative constitutionalism also places upon the judicial arm of the State a duty to ensure and uphold the supremacy of the Constitution, while at the same time ensuring that a sense of transformation is ushered constantly and endlessly in the society by interpreting and enforcing the Constitution as well as other provisions of law in consonance with the avowed object.	Decision
The idea is to steer the country and its institutions in a democratic egalitarian direction where there is increased protection of fundamental rights and other freedoms.	None
It is in this way that transformative constitutionalism attains the status of an ideal model imbibing the philosophy and morals of constitutionalism and fostering greater respect for human rights.	Decision
It ought to be remembered that the Constitution is not a mere parchment it derives its strength from the ideals and values enshrined in it.	None
However, it is only when we adhere to constitutionalism as the supreme creed and faith and develop a constitutional culture to protect the fundamental rights of an individual that we can preserve and strengthen the values of our compassionate Constitution.	None
Constitutional morality and Section 377 IPC The concept of constitutional morality is not limited to the mere observance of the core principles of constitutionalism as the magnitude and sweep of constitutional morality is not confined to the provisions and literal text which a Constitution contains, rather it embraces within itself virtues of a wide magnitude such as that of ushering a pluralistic and inclusive society, while at the same time adhering to the other principles of constitutionalism.	None
It is further the result of embodying constitutional morality that the values of constitutionalism trickle down and percolate through the apparatus of the State for the betterment of each and every individual citizen of the State.	None
In one of the Constituent Assembly Debates, Dr. Ambedkar, explaining the concept of constitutional morality by quoting the Greek historian, George Grote, said By constitutional morality, Grote meant a paramount reverence for the forms of the constitution, enforcing obedience to authority and acting under and within these forms, yet combined with the habit of open speech, of action subject only to definite legal control, and unrestrained censure of those very authorities as to all their public acts combined, too with a perfect confidence in the bosom of every citizen amidst the bitterness of party contest that the forms of constitution wall not be less sacred in the eyes of his opponents than his own.	None
Our Constitution was visualized with the aim of securing to the citizens of our country inalienable rights which were essential for fostering a spirit of growth and development and at the same time ensuring that the three organs of the State working under the aegis of the Constitution and deriving their authority from the supreme document, that is, the Constitution, practise constitutional morality.	None
The Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary all have to stay alive to the concept of constitutional morality.	None
In the same speech50, Dr. Ambedkar had quoted George Grote who had observed The diffusion of constitutional morality, not merely among the majority of any community, but throughout the whole is the indispensable condition of a government at once free and peaceable since even any powerful and obstinate minority may render the working of a free institution impracticable, without being strong enough to conquer ascendance for themselves.	None
This statement of Dr. Ambedkar underscores that constitutional morality is not a natural forte for our country for the simple reason that our country had attained freedom after a long period of colonial rule and, therefore, constitutional morality at the time when the Constituent Assembly was set up was an alien notion.	None
However, the strengthening of constitutional morality in contemporary India remains a duty of the organs of the State including the Judiciary.	None
The society as a whole or even a minuscule part of the society may aspire and prefer different things for themselves.	None
They are perfectly competent to have such a freedom to be different, like different things, so on and so forth, provided that their different tastes and liking remain within their legal framework and neither violates any statute nor results in the abridgement of fundamental rights of any other citizen.	None
The Preambular goals of our Constitution which contain the noble objectives of Justice, Liberty, Equality and Fraternity can only be achieved through the commitment and loyalty of the organs of the State to the principle of constitutional morality.	None
It is the concept of constitutional morality which strives and urges the organs of the State to maintain such a heterogeneous fibre in the society, not just in the limited sense, but also in multifarious ways.	Decision
It is the responsibility of all the three organs of the State to curb any propensity or proclivity of popular sentiment or majoritarianism.	None
Any attempt to push and shove a homogeneous, uniform, consistent and a standardised philosophy throughout the society would violate the principle of constitutional morality.	None
Devotion and fidelity to constitutional morality must not be equated with the popular sentiment prevalent at a particular point of time.	None
Any asymmetrical attitude in the society, so long as it is within the legal and constitutional framework, must at least be provided an environment in which it could be sustained, if not fostered.	None
It is only when such an approach is adopted that the freedom of expression including that of choice would be allowed to prosper and flourish and if that is achieved, freedom and liberty, which is the quintessence of constitutional morality, will be allowed to survive.	None
In Government of NCT of Delhi v. Union of India and others 2018 (8) SCALE 72 , one of us (Dipak Misra, CJI) observed Constitutional morality, appositely understood, means the morality that has inherent elements in the constitutional norms and the conscience of the Constitution.	None
Any act to garner justification must possess the potentiality to be in harmony with the constitutional impulse.	None
We may give an example.	None
When one is expressing an idea of generosity, he may not be meeting the standard of justness.	None
There may be an element of condescension.	None
But when one shows justness in action, there is no feeling of any grant or generosity.	None
That will come within the normative value.	None
That is the test of constitutional justness which falls within the sweep of constitutional morality.	None
It advocates the principle of constitutional justness without subjective exposition of generosity.	None
The duty of the constitutional courts is to adjudge the validity of law on wellestablished principles, namely, legislative competence or violations of fundamental rights or of any other constitutional provisions.	None
At the same time, it is expected from the courts as the final arbiter of the Constitution to uphold the cherished principles of the Constitution and not to be remotely guided by majoritarian view or popular perception.	None
The Court has to be guided by the conception of constitutional morality and not by the societal morality.	None
We may hasten to add here that in the context of the issue at hand, when a penal provision is challenged as being violative of the fundamental rights of a section of the society, notwithstanding the fact whether the said section of the society is a minority or a majority, the magna cum laude and creditable principle of constitutional morality, in a constitutional democracy like ours where the rule of law prevails, must not be allowed to be trampled by obscure notions of social morality which have no legal tenability.	None
The concept of constitutional morality would serve as an aid for the Court to arrive at a just decision which would be in consonance with the constitutional rights of the citizens, howsoever small that fragment of the populace may be.	None
The idea of number, in this context, is meaningless like zero on the left side of any number.	None
In this regard, we have to telescopically analyse social morality visvis constitutional morality.	None
It needs no special emphasis to state that whenever the constitutional courts come across a situation of transgression or dereliction in the sphere of fundamental rights, which are also the basic human rights of a section, howsoever small part of the society, then it is for the constitutional courts to ensure, with the aid of judicial engagement and creativity, that constitutional morality prevails over social morality.	None
In the garb of social morality, the members of the LGBT community must not be outlawed or given a stepmotherly treatment of malefactor by the society.	Reasoning
If this happens or if such a treatment to the LGBT community is allowed to persist, then the constitutional courts, which are under the obligation to protect the fundamental rights, would be failing in the discharge of their duty.	Reasoning
A failure to do so would reduce the citizenry rights to a cipher.	Reasoning
We must not forget that the founding fathers adopted an inclusive Constitution with provisions that not only allowed the State, but also, at times, directed the State, to undertake affirmative action to eradicate the systematic discrimination against the backward sections of the society and the expulsion and censure of the vulnerable communities by the socalled upper caste sections of the society that existed on a massive scale prior to coming into existence of the Constituent Assembly.	None
These were nothing but facets of the majoritarian social morality which were sought to be rectified by bringing into force the Constitution of India.	None
Thus, the adoption of the Constitution, was, in a way, an instrument or agency for achieving constitutional morality and means to discourage the prevalent social morality at that time.	None
A country or a society which embraces constitutional morality has at its core the wellfounded idea of inclusiveness.	None
While testing the constitutional validity of impugned provision of law, if a constitutional court is of the view that the impugned provision falls foul to the precept of constitutional morality, then the said provision has to be declared as unconstitutional for the pure and simple reason that the constitutional courts exist to uphold the Constitution.	None
Perspective of human dignity While discussing about the role of human dignity in gay rights adjudication and legislation, Michele Finck observes As a concept devoid of a precise legal meaning, yet widely appealing at an intuitive level, dignity can be easily manipulated and transposed into a number of legal contexts.	None
With regard to the rights of lesbian and gay individuals, dignity captures what Nussbaum described as the transition from disgust to humanity.	None
Once looked at with disgust and considered unworthy of some rights, there is increasing consensus that homosexuals should no longer be deprived of the benefits of citizenship that are available to heterosexuals, such as the ability to contract marriage, on the sole ground of their sexual orientation.	None
Homosexuals are increasingly considered as full humans disposing of equal rights, and dignity functions as the vocabulary that translates such sociocultural change into legal change The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1948 became the Magna Carta of people all over the world.	None
The first Article of the UDHR was uncompromising in its generality of application All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights.	None
Justice Kirby succinctly observed This language embraced every individual in our world.	None
It did not apply only to citizens.	None
It did not apply only to white people.	None
It did not apply only to good people.	None
Prisoners, murderers and even traitors were to be entitled to the freedoms that were declared.	None
There were no exceptions to the principles of equality.	None
The fundamental idea of dignity is regarded as an inseparable facet of human personality.	None
Dignity has been duly recognized as an important aspect of the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution.	None
In the international sphere, the right to live with dignity had been identified as a human right way back in 1948 with the introduction of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.	None
The constitutional courts of our country have solemnly dealt with the task of assuring and preserving the right to dignity of each and every individual whenever the occasion arises, for without the right to live with dignity, all other fundamental rights may not realise their complete meaning.	Decision
To understand a persons dignity, one has to appreciate how the dignity of another is to be perceived.	None
Alexis de Tocqueville tells us  Whenever I find myself in the presence of another human being, of whatever station, my dominant feeling is not so much to serve him or please him as not to offend his dignity.	None
Every individual has many possessions which assume the position of his her definitive characteristics.	None
There may not be any obsession with them	None
but he she may abhor to be denuded of them, for they are sacred to him her and so inseparably associated that he she may not conceive of any dissolution.	None
He she would like others to respect the said attributes with a singular acceptable condition that there is mutual respect.	None
Mutual respect abandons outside interference and is averse to any kind of interdiction.	None
It is based on the precept that the individuality of an individual is recognized, accepted and respected.	None
Such respect for the conception of dignity has become a fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution and that ushers in the right of liberty of expression.	None
Dignity and liberty as a twin concept in a society that cares for both, apart from painting a grand picture of humanity, also smoothens the atmosphere by promoting peaceful coexistence and thereby makes the administration of justice easy.	None
In such a society, everyone becomes a part of the social engineering process where rights as inviolable and sacrosanct principles are adhered to individual choice is not an exception and each one gets his her space.	None
Though no tower is built, yet the tower of individual rights with peaceful coexistence is visible.	None
In Common Cause (A Regd.	None
Society) (supra), one of us has observed that human dignity is beyond definition and it may, at times, defy description.	None
To some, it may seem to be in the world of abstraction and some may even perversely treat it as an attribute of egotism or accentuated eccentricity.	None
This feeling may come from the roots of absolute cynicism, but what really matters is that life without dignity is like a sound that is not heard.	None
Dignity speaks, it has its sound, it is natural and human.	None
It is a combination of thought and feeling.	None
In Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India and another (1978) 1 SCC 248 , Krishna Iyer, J. observed that life is a terrestrial opportunity for unfolding personality and when any aspect of Article 21 is viewed in a truncated manner, several other freedoms fade out automatically.	None
It has to be borne in mind that dignity of all is a sacrosanct human right and sans dignity, human life loses its substantial meaning.	None
Dignity is that component of ones being without which sustenance of his her being to the fullest or completest is inconceivable.	Decision
In the theatre of life, without possession of the attribute of identity with dignity, the entity may be allowed entry to the centre stage but would be characterized as a spineless entity or, for that matter, projected as a ruling king without the sceptre.	None
The purpose of saying so is that the identity of every individual attains the quality of an individual being only if he she has the dignity.	None
Dignity while expressive of choice is averse to creation of any dent.	None
When biological expression, be it an orientation or optional expression of choice, is faced with impediment, albeit through any imposition of law, the individuals natural and constitutional right is dented.	None
Such a situation urges the conscience of the final constitutional arbiter to demolish the obstruction and remove the impediment so as to allow the full blossoming of the natural and constitutional rights of individuals.	None
This is the essence of dignity and we say, without any inhibition, that it is our constitutional duty to allow the individual to behave and conduct himself herself as he she desires and allow him her to express himself herself, of course, with the consent of the other.	None
That is the right to choose without fear.	None
It has to be ingrained as a necessary prerequisite that consent is the real fulcrum of any sexual relationship.	None
In this context, we may travel a little abroad.	None
In Law v. Canada (Minister of Employment and Immigration) 1999 1 S.C.R. 497 capturing the essence of dignity, the Supreme Court of Canada has made the following observations Human dignity means that an individual or group feels selfrespect and selfworth.	None
It is concerned with physical and psychological integrity and empowerment.	None
Human dignity is harmed by unfair treatment premised upon personal traits or circumstances which do not relate to individual needs, capacities, or merits.	None
It is enhanced by laws which are sensitive to the needs, capacities, and merits of different individuals, taking into account the context underlying their differences.	None
Human dignity is harmed when individuals and groups are marginalized, ignored, or devalued, and is enhanced when laws recognise the full place of all individuals and groups within Canadian society.	None
It is not only the duty of the State and the Judiciary to protect this basic right to dignity, but the collective at large also owes a responsibility to respect one anothers dignity, for showing respect for the dignity of another is a constitutional duty.	None
It is an expression of the component of constitutional fraternity.	None
The concept of dignity gains importance in the present scenario, for a challenge has been raised to a provision of law which encroaches upon this essential right of a severely deprived section of our society.	None
An individuals choice to engage in certain acts within their private sphere has been restricted by criminalising the same on account of the age old social perception.	None
To harness such an essential decision, which defines the individualism of a person, by tainting it with criminality would violate the individuals right to dignity by reducing it to mere letters without any spirit.	None
The European Court of Justice in P v. S in the context of rights of individuals who intend to or have undergone sex reassignment has observed that where a person is dismissed on the ground that he or she intends to undergo or has undergone gender reassignment, he or she is treated unfavorably by comparison with persons of the sex to which he or she was deemed to belong before undergoing gender reassignment.	None
To tolerate such discrimination would tantamount, as regards such a person, to a failure to respect the dignity and freedom to which he or she is entitled and which the Court has a duty to safeguard.	None
In Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pa. v. Casey 505 U.S. 833 (1992) the United States Supreme Court had opined that such matters which involve the most intimate and personal choices a person may make in a lifetime, choices central to personal dignity and autonomy, are central to the liberty protected by the Fourteenth Amendment.	None
From the aforesaid pronouncements, some in different spheres but some also in the sphere of sexual orientation, the constitutional courts have laid emphasis on individual inclination, expression of both emotional and physical behaviour and freedom of choice, of course, subject to the consent of the other.	None
A biological engagement, in contradistinction to going to a restaurant or going to a theatre to see a film or a play, is founded on company wherein both the parties have consented for the act.	None
The inclination is an expression of choice that defines the personality to cumulatively build up the elevated paradigm of dignity.	None
Be it clarified that expression of choice, apart from being a facet of dignity, is also an essential component of liberty.	None
Liberty as a concept has to be given its due place in the realm of dignity, for both are connected with the life and living of a persona.	None
Sexual orientation After stating about the value of dignity, we would have proceeded to deal with the cherished idea of privacy which has recently received concrete clarity in Puttaswamys case.	None
Prior to that, we are advised to devote some space to sexual orientation and the instructive definition of LGBT by Michael Kirby, former Judge of the High Court of Australia Homosexual People of either gender who are attracted, sexually, emotionally and in relationships, to persons of the same sex.	None
Bisexual Women who are attracted to both sexes men who are attracted to both sexes.	None
Lesbian Women who are attracted to women.	None
Gay Men who are attracted to men, although this term is sometimes also used generically for all samesex attracted persons.	None
Gender identity A phenomenon distinct from sexual orientation which refers to whether a person identifies as male or female.	None
This identity may exist whether there is conformity or nonconformity between their physical or biological or birth sex and their psychological sex and the way they express it through physical characteristics, appearance and conduct.	None
It applies whether, in the Indian subcontinent, they identify as hijra or kothi or by another name.	None
Intersex Persons who are born with a chromosomal pattern or physical characteristics that do not clearly fall on one side or the other of a binary malefemale line.	None
LGBT or LGBTIQ Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transsexual, Intersex and Queer minorities.	None
The word Queer is sometimes used generically, usually by younger people, to include the members of all of the sexual minorities.	None
I usually avoid this expression because of its pejorative overtones within an audience unfamiliar with the expression.	None
However, it is spreading and, amongst the young, is often seen as an instance of taking possession of a pejorative word in order to remove its sting.	None
MSM Men who have sex with men.	None
This expression is common in United Nations circles.	None
It refers solely to physical, sexual activity by men with men.	None
The expression is used on the basis that in some countries  including India  some men may engage in sexual acts with their own sex although not identifying as homosexual or even accepting a romantic or relationship emotion.	None
Presently, we shall focus on the aspect of sexual orientation.	None
Every human being has certain basic biological characteristics and acquires or develops some facets under certain circumstances.	None
The first can generally be termed as inherent orientation that is natural to his her being.	None
The second can be described as a demonstration of his her choice which gradually becomes an inseparable quality of his her being, for the individual also leans on a different expression because of the inclination to derive satisfaction.	None
The third one has the proclivity which he she maintains and does not express any other inclination.	None
The first one is homosexuality, the second, bisexuality and third, heterosexuality.	None
The third one is regarded as natural and the first one, by the same standard, is treated to be unnatural.	None
When the second category exercises his her choice of homosexuality and involves in such an act, the same is also not accepted.	None
In sum, the act is treated either in accord with nature or against the order of nature in terms of societal perception.	None
The Yogyakarta Principles define the expression sexual orientation thus Sexual Orientation is understood to refer to each persons capacity for profound emotional, affectional and sexual attraction to and intimate and sexual relations with, individuals of a different gender or the same gender or more than one gender.	None
In its study, the American Psychological Association has attempted to define sexual orientation in the following manner Sexual orientation refers to an enduring pattern of emotional, romantic and or sexual attractions to men.	None
women or both sexes.	None
Sexual orientation also refers to a persons sense of identity based on those attractions, related behaviors, and membership in a community of others who share those attractions.	None
Research over several decades has demonstrated that sexual orientation ranges along a continuum, from exclusive attraction to the other sex to exclusive attraction to the same sex.	None
From the aforesaid, it has to be appreciated that homosexuality is something that is based on sense of identity.	None
It is the reflection of a sense of emotion and expression of eagerness to establish intimacy.	None
It is just as much ingrained, inherent and innate as heterosexuality.	None
Sexual orientation, as a concept, fundamentally implies a pattern of sexual attraction.	None
It is as natural a phenomenon as other natural biological phenomena.	None
What the science of sexuality has led to is that an individual has the tendency to feel sexually attracted towards the same sex, for the decision is one that is controlled by neurological and biological factors.	None
That is why it is his her natural orientation which is innate and constitutes the core of his her being and identity.	None
That apart, on occasions, due to a sense of mutuality of release of passion, two adults may agree to express themselves in a different sexual behaviour which may include both the genders.	None
To this, one can attribute a bisexual orientation which does not follow the rigidity but allows room for flexibility.	None
The society cannot remain unmindful to the theory which several researches, conducted both in the field of biological and psychological science, have proven and reaffirmed time and again.	None
To compel a person having a certain sexual orientation to proselytize to another is like asking a body part to perform a function it was never designed to perform in the first place.	None
It is pure science, a certain manner in which the brain and genitals of an individual function and react.	None
Whether ones sexual orientation is determined by genetic, hormonal, developmental, social and or cultural influences (or a combination thereof), most people experience little or no sense of choice about their sexual orientation.	None
The statement of the American Psychological Association on homosexuality which was released in July 1994 reiterates this position in the following observations The research on homosexuality is very7 clear.	None
Homosexuality is neither mental illness nor moral depravity.	None
It is simply the way a minority of our population expresses human love and sexuality.	None
Study after study documents the mental health of gay men and lesbians.	None
Studies of judgment, stability, reliability, and social and vocational adaptiveness all show that gay men and lesbians function every bit as well as heterosexuals.	None
Nor is homosexuality a matter of individual choice.	None
Research suggests that the homosexual orientation is in place very early in the life cycle, possibly even before birth.	None
It is found in about ten percent of the population, a figure which is surprisingly constant across cultures, irrespective of the different moral values and standards of a particular culture.	None
Contrary to what some imply, the incidence of homosexuality in a population does not appear to change with new moral codes or social mores.	None
Research findings suggest that efforts to repair homosexuals are nothing more than social prejudice garbed in psychological accouterments.	None
(Emphasis is ours)	None
In the said context, the observations made by Leonard Sax to the following effect are relevant and are reproduced below Biologically, the difference between a gay man and a straight man is something like the difference between a lefthanded person and a righthanded person.	None
Being left handed isnt just a phase.	None
A lefthanded person wont someday magically turn into a righthanded person Some children are destined at birth to be lefthanded, and some boys are destined at birth to grow up to be gay.	None
The Supreme Court of Canada in the case of James Egan and John Norris Nesbit v. Her Majesty The Queen in Right of Canada and another(1995) 2	None
SCR 513 , while holding that sexual orientation is one of the grounds for claiming the benefit under Section 15(1) as it is analogous to the grounds already set out in the list in Section 15(1) and the said list not being finite and exhaustive can be extended to LGBTs on account of the historical, social, political and economic disadvantage suffered by LGBTs, has observed Sexual orientation is a deeply personal characteristic that is either unchangeable or changeable only at unacceptable personal costs, and so falls within the ambit of s. 15 protection as being analogous to the enumerated grounds.	None
It is worth noting that scientific study has, by way of keen analysis, arrived at the conclusion as regards the individuals inherent orientation.	None
Apart from orientation, as stated earlier, there can be situations which influence the emotional behaviour of an individual to seek intimacy in the same gender that may bring two persons together in a biological pattern.	None
It has to be treated as consensual activity and reflective of consensual choice.	None
Privacy and its concomitant aspects While testing the constitutional validity of Section 377 IPC, due regard must be given to the elevated right to privacy as has been recently proclaimed in Puttaswamy (supra).	None
We shall not delve in detail upon the concept of the right to privacy as the same has been delineated at length in Puttaswamy (supra).	None
In the case at hand, our focus is limited to dealing with the right to privacy visvis Section 377 IPC and other facets such as right to choice as part of the freedom of expression and sexual orientation.	None
That apart, within the compartment of privacy, individual autonomy has a significant space.	None
Autonomy is individualistic.	Decision
It is expressive of selfdetermination and such selfdetermination includes sexual orientation and declaration of sexual identity.	None
Such an orientation or choice that reflects an individuals autonomy is innate to him her.	None
It is an inalienable part of his her identity.	None
The said identity under the constitutional scheme does not accept any interference as long as its expression is not against decency or morality.	None
And the morality that is conceived of under the Constitution is constitutional morality.	None
Under the autonomy principle, the individual has sovereignty over his her body.	Decision
He she can surrender his her autonomy wilfully to another individual and their intimacy in privacy is a matter of their choice.	Decision
Such concept of identity is not only sacred but is also in recognition of the quintessential facet of humanity in a persons nature.	Decision
The autonomy establishes identity and the said identity, in the ultimate eventuate, becomes a part of dignity in an individual.	None
This dignity is special to the man woman who has a right to enjoy his her life as per the constitutional norms and should not be allowed to wither and perish like a mushroom.	None
It is a directional shift from conceptual macrocosm to cognizable microcosm.	None
When such culture grows, there is an affirmative move towards a more inclusive and egalitarian society.	None
Nonacceptance of the same would tantamount to denial of human rights to people and one cannot be oblivious of the saying of Nelson Mandela to deny people their human rights is to challenge their very humanity.	None
Article 12 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, (1948) makes a reference to privacy by stating No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence nor to attacks upon his honour and reputation.	None
Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks.	None
Similarly, Article 17 of the International Covenant of Civil and Political Rights, to which India is a party, talks about privacy thus No one shall be subjected to arbitrary or unlawful interference with his privacy, family, home and correspondence, nor to unlawful attacks on his honour and reputation.	None
The European Convention on Human Rights also seeks to protect the right to privacy by stating Everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life, his home and his correspondence.	None
There shall be no interference by a public authority except such as is in accordance with law and is necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national security, public safety or the economic well being of the country, for the protection of health or morals or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.	None
In the case of Dudgeon v. United Kingdom (1981) 4 EHRR 149, privacy has been defined as under Perhaps the best and most succinct legal definition of privacy is that given by Warren and Brandeis  it is the right to be let alone.	None
In R. Rajagopal v. State of Tamil Nadu and others (1994) 6 SCC 632 , while discussing the concept of right to privacy, it has been observed that the right to privacy is implicit in the right to life and liberty guaranteed to the citizens of this country by Article 21 and it is a right to be let alone, for a citizen has a right to safeguard the privacy of his her own, his her family, marriage, procreation, motherhood, childbearing and education, among other matters.	None
The above authorities capture the essence of the right to privacy.	None
There can be no doubt that an individual also has a right to a union under Article 21 of the Constitution.	None
When we say union, we do not mean the union of marriage, though marriage is a union.	None
As a concept, union also means companionship in every sense of the word, be it physical, mental, sexual or emotional.	None
The LGBT community is seeking realisation of its basic right to companionship, so long as such a companionship is consensual, free from the vice of deceit, force, coercion and does not result in violation of the fundamental rights of others.	None
Justice Blackmun, in his vigorous dissent, in the case of Bowers, Attorney General of Georgia v. Hardwick et al. 478 U. 186 (1986) , regarding the right to be let alone, referred to Paris Adult Theatre I v. Slaton 413 U 49 (1973) wherein he observed that only the most willful blindness could obscure the fact that sexual intimacy is a sensitive, key relationship of human existence, central to family life, community welfare and the development of human personality.	None
Justice Blackmun went on to observe The fact that individuals define themselves in a significant way through their intimate sexual relationships with others suggests, in a Nation as diverse as ours, that there may be many right ways of conducting those relationships, and that much of the richness of a relationship will come from the freedom an individual has to choose the form and nature of these intensely personal bonds.	None
In a variety of circumstances, we have recognized that a necessary corollary of giving individuals freedom to choose how to conduct their lives is acceptance of the fact that different individuals will make different choices.	None
In A.R. Coeriel and M.A.R. Aurik v. The Netherlands the Human Rights Committee observed that the notion of privacy refers to the sphere of a persons life in which he or she can freely express his or her identity, be it by entering into relationships with others or alone.	None
The Committee was of the view that a persons surname constitutes an important component of ones identity and that the protection against arbitrary or unlawful interference with ones privacy includes the protection against arbitrary or unlawful interference with the right to choose and change ones own name.	None
We may also usefully refer to the views of the Human Rights Committee in Toonen v. Australia69 to the effect that the introduction of the concept of arbitrariness is intended to guarantee that every interference provided for by the law should be in accordance with the provisions, aims and objectives of the Covenant and should be, in any event, reasonable in the circumstances.	None
The requirement of reasonableness implies that any interference with privacy must be proportional to the end sought and be necessary in the circumstances of any given case.	None
The South African Constitutional Court in National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Equality and another v. Minister of Justice and others 1998 (12) BCLR 1517 (CC) has arrived at a theory of privacy in sexuality that includes both decisional and relational elements.	None
It lays down that privacy recognises that we all have a right to a sphere of private intimacy and autonomy which allows us to establish and nurture human relationships without interference from the outside community.	None
The way in which we give expression to our sexuality is at the core of this area of private intimacy.	None
If, in expressing our sexuality, we act consensually and without harming one another, invasion of that precinct will be a breach of our privacy.	None
The Court admitted that the society had a poor record of seeking to regulate the sexual expression of South Africans.	None
It observed that in some cases, as in this one, the reason for the regulation was discriminatory the law, for example, outlawed sexual relationships among people of different races.	None
The fact that a law prohibiting forms of sexual conduct is discriminatory does not, however, prevent it at the same time from being an improper invasion of the intimate sphere of human life to which protection is given by the Constitution in Section 14.	None
The Court emphasized that the importance of a right to privacy in the new constitutional order should not be denied even while acknowledging the importance of equality.	None
In fact, emphasising the breach of both these rights in the present case highlights just how egregious the invasion of the constitutional rights of gay persons has been.	None
The offence which lies at the heart of the discrimination in this case constitutes, at the same time and independently, a breach of the rights of privacy and dignity which, without doubt, strengthens the conclusion that the discrimination is unfair.	None
At home, the view as to the right to privacy underwent a seachange when a nineJudge Bench of this Court in Puttaswamy (supra) elevated the right to privacy to the stature of fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution.	None
One of us, Chandrachud, J., speaking for the majority, regarded the judgment in Suresh Koushal as a discordant note and opined that the reasons stated therein cannot be regarded as a valid constitutional basis for disregarding a claim based on privacy under Article 21 of the Constitution.	None
Further, he observed that the reasoning in Suresh Koushals decision to the effect that a minuscule fraction of the countrys population constitutes lesbians, gays, bisexuals or transgenders is not a sustainable basis to deny the right to privacy.	None
It was further observed that the purpose of elevating certain rights to the stature of guaranteed fundamental rights is to insulate their exercise from the disdain of majorities, whether legislative or popular, and the guarantee of constitutional rights does not depend upon their exercise being favourably regarded by majoritarian opinion.	None
The test of popular acceptance, in view of the majority opinion, was not at all a valid basis to disregard rights which have been conferred with the sanctity of constitutional protection.	None
The Court noted that the discrete and insular minorities face grave dangers of discrimination for the simple reason that their views, beliefs or way of life does not accord with the mainstream, but in a democratic Constitution founded on the Rule of Law, it does not mean that their rights are any less sacred than those conferred on other citizens.	None
As far as the aspect of sexual orientation is concerned, the Court opined that it is an essential attribute of privacy and discrimination against an individual on the basis of sexual orientation is deeply offensive to the dignity and selfworth of the individual.	None
The Court was of the view that equality demands that the sexual orientation of each individual in the society must be protected on an even platform, for the right to privacy and the protection of sexual orientation lie at the core of the fundamental rights guaranteed by Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution.	None
Regarding the view in Suresh Koushals case to the effect that the Delhi High Court in Naz Foundation case had erroneously relied upon international precedents in its anxiety to protect the socalled rights of LGBT persons, the nineJudge Bench was of the opinion that the aforesaid view in Suresh Koushal (supra) was unsustainable.	None
The rights of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender population, as per the decision in Puttaswamy (supra), cannot be construed to be socalled rights as the expression socalled seems to suggest the exercise of liberty in the garb of a right which is illusory.	None
The Court regarded such a construction in Suresh Koushals case as inappropriate of the privacy based claims of the LGBT population, for their rights are not at all socalled but are real rights founded on sound constitutional doctrine.	None
The Court went on to observe that the rights of the LGBT community inhere in the right to life, dwell in privacy and dignity and they constitute the essence of liberty and freedom.	None
Further, the Court observed that sexual orientation being an essential component of identity, equal protection demands equal protection of the identity of every individual without discrimination.	None
Speaking in the same tone and tenor, Kaul, J., while concurring with the view of Chandrachud, J., observed that the right to privacy cannot be denied even if there is a minuscule fraction of the population which is affected.	None
He was of the view that the majoritarian concept does not apply to constitutional rights and the Courts are often called upon to take what may be categorized as a nonmajoritarian view.	None
Kaul, J. went on to opine that ones sexual orientation is undoubtedly an attribute of privacy and in support of this view, he referred to the observations made in Mosley (supra) which read thus 130	None
It is not simply a matter of personal privacy v. the public interest.	None
The modern perception is that there is a public interest in respecting personal privacy.	None
It is thus a question of taking account of conflicting public interest considerations and evaluating them according to increasingly well recognized criteria.	None
When the courts identify an infringement of a persons Article 8 rights, and in particular in the context of his freedom to conduct his sex life and personal relationships as he wishes, it is right to afford a remedy and to vindicate that right.	None
The only permitted exception is where there is a countervailing public interest which in the particular circumstances is strong enough to outweigh it that is to say.	None
because one at least of the established limiting principles comes into play.	None
Was it necessary and proportionate for the intrusion to take place, for example, in order to expose illegal activity or to prevent the public from being significantly misled by public claims hitherto made by the individual concerned (as with Naomi Campbells public denials of drug taking)?	None
Or was it necessary because the information, in the words of the Strasbourg court in Von Hannover at (60) and (76).	None
would make a contribution to a debate of general interest?	None
That is, of course, a very high test, it is yet to be determined how far that doctrine will be taken in the courts of this jurisdiction in relation to photography in public places.	None
If taken literally, it would mean a very significant change in what is permitted.	None
It would have a profound effect on the tabloid and celebrity culture to which we have become accustomed in recent years.	None
After the nineJudge bench decision in Puttaswamy (supra), the challenge to the vires of Section 377 IPC has been stronger than ever.	None
It needs to be underscored that in the said decision, the nineJudge Bench has held that sexual orientation is also a facet of a persons privacy and that the right to privacy is a fundamental right under the Constitution of India.	None
The observation made in Suresh Koushal (supra) that gays, lesbians, bisexuals and transgenders constitute a very minuscule part of the population is perverse due to the very reason that such an approach would be violative of the equality principle enshrined under Article 14 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The mere fact that the percentage of population whose fundamental right to privacy is being abridged by the existence of Section 377 in its present form is low does not impose a limitation upon this Court from protecting the fundamental rights of those who are so affected by the present Section 377 IPC.	Reasoning
The constitutional framers could have never intended that the protection of fundamental rights was only for the majority population.	Reasoning
If such had been the intention, then all provisions in Part III of the Constitution would have contained qualifying words such as majority persons or majority citizens.	Reasoning
Instead, the provisions have employed the words any person and any citizen making it manifest that the constitutional courts are under an obligation to protect the fundamental rights of every single citizen without waiting for the catastrophic situation when the fundamental rights of the majority of citizens get violated.	Reasoning
Such a view is well supported on two counts, namely, one that the constitutional courts have to embody in their approach a telescopic vision wherein they inculcate the ability to be futuristic and do not procrastinate till the day when the number of citizens whose fundamental rights are affected and violated grow in figures.	None
In the case at hand, whatever be the percentage of gays, lesbians, bisexuals and transgenders, this Court is not concerned with the number of persons belonging to the LGBT community.	None
What matters is whether this community is entitled to certain fundamental rights which they claim and whether such fundamental rights are being violated due to the presence of a law in the statute book.	None
If the answer to both these questions is in the affirmative, then the constitutional courts must not display an iota of doubt and must not hesitate in striking down such provision of law on the account of it being violative of the fundamental rights of certain citizens, however minuscule their percentage may be.	None
A second count on which the view in Suresh Koushal (supra) becomes highly unsustainable is that the language of both Articles 32 and 226 of the Constitution is not reflective of such an intention.	Reasoning
A cursory reading of both the Articles divulges that the right to move the Supreme Court and the High Courts under Articles 32 and 226 respectively is not limited to a situation when there is violation of the fundamental rights of a large chunk of populace.	Reasoning
Such a view is also fortified by several landmark judgments of the Supreme Court such as D.K. Basu v. State of W.B. (1997) 1 SCC 416 wherein the Court was concerned with the fundamental rights of only those persons who were put under arrest and which again formed a minuscule fraction of the total populace.	None
Another recent case wherein the Supreme Court while discharging its constitutional duty did not hesitate to protect the fundamental right to die with dignity is Common Cause (A Regd.	None
Society) (supra) wherein the SupremeCourt stepped in to protect the said fundamental right of those who may have slipped into permanent vegetative state, who again form a very minuscule part of the society.	None
Such an approach reflects the idea as also mooted by Martin Luther King Jr. who said, Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.	None
While propounding this view, we are absolutely conscious of the concept of reasonable classification and the fact that even single person legislation could be valid as held in Chiranjit Lal Chowdhury v. Union of India (1950) 1	None
SCR 869 which regarded the classification to be reasonable from both procedural and substantive points of view.	None
175.	None
We are aware that the legislature is fully competent to enact laws which are applicable only to a particular class or group.	None
But, for the classification to be valid, it must be founded on an intelligible differentia and the differentia must have a rational nexus with the object sought to be achieved by a particular provision of law.	None
That apart, since it is alleged that Section 377 IPC in its present form violates a fundamental right protected by Article 21 of the Constitution, that is, the right to personal liberty, it has to not only stand the test of Article 21	None
but it must also stand the test of Article 19 which is to say that the restriction imposed by it has to be reasonable and also that of Article 14 which is to say that Section 377 must not be arbitrary.	None
Whether Section 377 stands the trinity test of Articles 14, 19 and 21 as propounded in the case of Maneka Gandhi (supra) will be ascertained and determined at a later stage of this judgment when we get into the interpretative dissection of Section 377 IPC.	Issue
Doctrine of progressive realization of rights When we talk about the rights guaranteed under the Constitution and the protection of these rights, we observe and comprehend a manifest ascendance and triumphant march of such rights which, in turn, paves the way for the doctrine of progressive realization of the rights under the Constitution.	Decision
This doctrine invariably reminds us about the living and dynamic nature of a Constitution.	None
Edmund Burke, delineating upon the progressive and the perpetual growing nature of a Constitution, had said that a Constitution is evergrowing and it is perpetually continuous as it embodies the spirit of a nation.	None
It is enriched at the present by the past experiences and influences and makes the future richer than the present.	None
In N.M. Thomas (supra), Krishna Iyer, J., in his concurring opinion, observed thus Law, including constitutional law, can no longer go it alone but must be illumined in the interpretative process by sociology and allied fields of knowledge.	None
Indeed, the term constitutional law symbolizes an intersection of law and politics, wherein issues of political power are acted on by persons trained in the legal tradition, working in judicial institutions, following the procedures of law, thinking as lawyers think.	None
So much so, a wider perspective is needed to resolve issues of constitutional law.	None
And again An overview of the decided cases suggests the need to reinterpret the dynamic import of the equality clauses and, to stress again, beyond reasonable doubt, that the paramount law.	None
which is organic and regulates our nations growing life, must take in its sweep ethics, economics, politics and sociology.	None
The learned Judge, expanding the horizon of his concern, reproduced the lament of Friedman It would be tragic if the law were so petrified as to be unable to respond to the unending challenge of evolutionary or revolutionary changes in society.	None
The main assumptions which Friedman makes are first, the law is, in Holmes phrase, not a brooding omnipotence in the sky, but a flexible instrument of social order, dependent on the political values of the society which it purports to regulate Naturally surges the interrogation, what are the challenges of changing values to which the guarantee of equality must respond and how?	None
Further, Krishna Iyer, J. referred to the classic statement made by Chief Justice Marshall in McCulloch v. Maryland (1816) 17 U 316 which was also followed by Justice Brennan in Kazenbach v. Morgan (1966) 384 U 641	None
The said observation reads thus Let the end be legitimate, let it be within the scope of the constitution, and all means which are appropriate, which are plainly adapted to that end, which are not prohibited, but consist with the letter and spirit of the constitution, are constitutional.	None
In Manoj Narula (supra), the Court recognized the dynamic nature of the Indian Constitution and observed that it is a living document with capabilities of enormous dynamism.	None
It is a Constitution made for a progressive society and the working of such a Constitution depends upon the prevalent atmosphere and conditions.	None
In Government of NCT of Delhi (supra), the Court, while contemplating on what is it that makes a Constitution a dynamic and a living document, observed that it is the philosophy of constitutional culture which, as a set of norms and practices, breathes life into the words of the great document and it constantly enables the words to keep stride with the rapid and swift changes occurring in the society and the responsibility of fostering a constitutional culture rests upon the shoulders of the State.	None
Thereafter, the Court went on to observe The Constitutional Courts, while interpreting the constitutional provisions, have to take into account the constitutional culture, bearing in mind its flexible and evolving nature, so that the provisions are given a meaning which reflect the object and purpose of the Constitution.	None
And again, it proceeded to reproduce the wise words of Justice Brennan We current Justices read the Constitution in the only way that we can as Twentieth Century Americans.	None
We look to the history of the time of framing and to the intervening history of interpretation.	None
But the ultimate question must be, what do the words of the text mean in our time?	None
For the genius of the Constitution rests not in any static meaning it might have had in a world that is dead and gone, but in the adaptability of its great principles to cope with current problems and current needs.	None
What the constitutional fundamentals meant to the wisdom of other times cannot be their measure to the vision of our time.	None
Similarly, what those fundamentals mean for us, our descendants will learn, cannot be the measure to the vision of their time.	None
We have discussed, in brief, the dynamic and progressive nature of the Constitution to accentuate that rights under the Constitution are also dynamic and progressive, for they evolve with the evolution of a society and with the passage of time.	None
The rationale behind the doctrine of progressive realization of rights is the dynamic and ever growing nature of the Constitution under which the rights have been conferred to the citizenry.	None
The constitutional courts have to recognize that the constitutional rights would become a dead letter without their dynamic, vibrant and pragmatic interpretation.	None
Therefore, it is necessary for the constitutional courts to inculcate in their judicial interpretation and decision making a sense of engagement and a sense of constitutional morality so that they, with the aid of judicial creativity, are able to fulfill their foremost constitutional obligation, that is, to protect the rights bestowed upon the citizens of our country by the Constitution.	None
Here, it is also apposite to refer to the words of Lord Roskill in his presidential address to the Bentham Club at University College of London on February 29, 1984 on the subject Law Lords, Reactionaries or Reformers which read as follows Legal policy now stands enthroned and will I hope remain one of the foremost considerations governing the development by the House of Lords of the common law.	None
What direction should this development now take?	None
I can think of several occasions upon which we have all said to ourselves this case requires a policy decision what is the right policy decision?	None
The answer is, and I hope will hereafter be, to follow that route which is most consonant with the current needs of the society, and which will be seen to be sensible and will pragmatically thereafter be easy to apply.	None
No doubt the Law Lords will continue to be the targets for those academic lawyers who will seek intellectual perfection rather than imperfect pragmatism.	None
But much of the common law and virtually all criminal law, distasteful as it may be to some to have to acknowledge it.	None
is a blunt instrument by means of which human beings, whether they like it or not, are governed and subject to which they are required to live, and blunt instruments are rarely perfect intellectually or otherwise.	None
By definition they operate bluntly and not sharply.	None
Emphasis supplied What the words of Lord Roskill suggest is that it is not only the interpretation of the Constitution which needs to be pragmatic, due to the dynamic nature of a Constitution, but also the legal policy of a particular epoch must be in consonance with the current and the present needs of the society, which are sensible in the prevalent times and at the same time easy to apply.	None
This also gives birth to an equally important role of the State to implement the constitutional rights effectively.	None
And of course, when we say State, it includes all the three organs, that is, the legislature, the executive as well as the judiciary.	None
The State has to show concerned commitment which would result in concrete action.	None
The State has an obligation to take appropriate measures for the progressive realization of economic, social and cultural rights.	None
The doctrine of progressive realization of rights, as a natural corollary, gives birth to the doctrine of nonretrogression.	None
As per this doctrine, there must not be any regression of rights.	None
In a progressive and an everimproving society, there is no place for retreat.	None
The society has to march ahead.	None
The doctrine of nonretrogression sets forth that the State should not take measures or steps that deliberately lead to retrogression on the enjoyment of rights either under the Constitution or otherwise.	None
The aforesaid two doctrines lead us to the irresistible conclusion that if we were to accept the law enunciated in Suresh Koushals case, it would definitely tantamount to a retrograde step in the direction of the progressive interpretation of the Constitution and denial of progressive realization of rights.	Reasoning
It is because Suresh Koushals view gets wrongly embedded with the minuscule facet and assumes criminality on the bedrock being guided by a sense of social morality.	Reasoning
It discusses about health which is no more a phobia and is further moved by the popular morality while totally ignoring the concepts of privacy, individual choice and the orientation.	Reasoning
Orientation, in certain senses, does get the neuroimpulse to express while seeing the other gender.	None
That apart, swayed by data, Suresh Koushal fails to appreciate that the sustenance of fundamental rights does not require majoritarian sanction.	Reasoning
Thus, the ruling becomes sensitively susceptible.	Reasoning
International perspective United States The Supreme Court of the United States in Obergefell, et al. v. Hodges, Director, Ohio Department of Health, et al.	None
576 U (2015), highlighting the plight of homosexuals, observed that until the mid20th century, samesex intimacy had long been condemned as immoral by the State itself in most Western nations and a belief was often embodied in the criminal law and for this reason, homosexuals, among others, were not deemed to have dignity in their own distinct identity.	None
The Court further noted that truthful declaration by samesex couples of what was in their hearts had to remain unspoken and even when a greater awareness of the humanity and integrity of homosexual persons came in the period after World War II, the argument that gays and lesbians had a just claim to dignity was in conflict with both law and widespread social conventions.	None
The Court also observed that samesex intimacy remained a crime in many States and that gays and lesbians were prohibited from most government employment, barred from military service, excluded under immigration laws, targeted by the police and burdened in their rights to associate.	None
The Court further observed that what the statutes in question seek to control is a personal relationship, whether or not entitled to formal recognition in the law, that is within the liberty of persons to choose without being punished as criminals.	None
Further, the Court acknowledged that adults may choose to enter upon a relationship in the confines of their homes and their own private lives and still retain their dignity as free persons and that when sexuality finds overt expression in intimate conduct with another person, the conduct can be but one element in a personal bond that is more enduring.	None
The Court held that such liberty protected by the Constitution allows homosexual persons the right to make this choice.	None
In the case of Price Waterhouse v. Hopkins 490 U. 228 (1989) , the Supreme Court of the United States, while evaluating the legal relevance of sex stereotyping, observed thus we are beyond the day when an employer could evaluate employees by assuming or insisting that they matched the stereotype associated with their group, for, in forbidding employers to discriminate against individuals because of their sex, Congress intended to strike at the entire spectrum of disparate treatment of men and women resulting from sex stereotypes.	None
In the case of Kimberly Hively v. Ivy Tech Community College of Indian 830 F.3d 698 (7th Cir. 2016) while holding that discrimination amongst employees based on their sexual orientation amounts to discrimination based on sex, the Court observed as under We would be remiss not to consider the EEOCs recent decision in which it concluded that sexual orientation is inherently a sexbased consideration, and an allegation of discrimination based on sexual orientation is necessarily an allegation of sex discrimination under Title VII.	None
Baldwin v. Foxx, EEOC Appeal No. 0120133080, 2015 WL 4397641, at 5, 10 (July 16, 2015).	None
The EEOC, the body charged with enforcing Title VII, came to this conclusion for three primary reasons.	None
First, it concluded that sexual orientation discrimination is sex discrimination because it necessarily entails treating an employee less favorably because of the employees sex.	None
Id. at 5 (proffering the example of a woman who is suspended for placing a photo of her female spouse on her desk, and a man who faces no consequences for the same act).	None
Second, it explained that sexual orientation discrimination is also sex discrimination because it is associational discrimination on the basis of sex, in which an employer discriminates against lesbian, gay, or bisexual employees based on who they date or marry.	None
Id. at 67.	None
Finally, the EEOC described sexual orientation discrimination as a form of discrimination based on gender stereotypes in which employees are harassed or punished for failing to live up to societal norms about appropriate masculine and feminine behaviors, mannerisms, and appearances.	None
Id.	None
In coming to these conclusions, the EEOC noted critically that courts have attempted to distinguish discrimination based on sexual orientation from discrimination based on sex, even while noting that the borders between the two classes are imprecise.	None
Id. at 8 (quoting Simonton, 232 F.3d at 35).	None
Underlining is ours In the case of Lawrence v. Texas 539	None
U. 558 (2003) , while dealing with the issue of decriminalization of sexual conduct between homosexuals, the U.S. Supreme Court observed that the said issue neither involved minors nor persons who might be injured or coerced or who are situated in relationships where consent might not easily be refused nor did it involve public conduct or prostitution nor the question whether the government must give formal recognition to any relationship that homosexual persons seek to enter.	None
The Court further observed that the issue related to two adults who, with full and mutual consent of each other, engaged in sexual practices common to a homosexual lifestyle.	None
The Court declared that the petitioners were entitled to respect for their private lives and that the State could not demean their existence or control their destiny by making their private sexual conduct a crime, for their right to liberty under the Due Process Clause gives them the full right to engage in their conduct without the intervention of the State.	None
In Roberts v. United States Jaycees 468 U 609 (1984), the Supreme Court of the United States observed Our decisions have referred to constitutionally protected freedom of association in two distinct senses.	None
In one line of decisions, the Court has concluded that choices to enter into and maintain certain intimate human relationships must be secured against undue intrusion by the State because of the role of such relationships in safeguarding the individual freedom that is central to our constitutional scheme.	None
In this respect, freedom of association receives protection as a fundamental element of personal liberty.	None
In another set of decisions, the Court has recognized a right to associate for the purpose of engaging in those activities protected by the First Amendment speech, assembly, petition for the redress of grievances, and the exercise of religion.	None
The Constitution guarantees freedom of association of this kind as an indispensable means of preserving other individual liberties.	None
The intrinsic and instrumental features of constitutionally protected association may, of course, coincide.	None
Emphasis added Canada The Supreme Court of Canada, in Delwin Vriend and others v. Her Majesty the Queen in Right of Alberta and others (1998) 1	None
SCR 593 , while interpreting a breach of Section 15(1) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, arrived at the conclusion that sex includes sexual orientation.	None
Section 15(1) of the Charter reads thus Every individual is equal before and under the law and has the right to the equal protection and equal benefit of the law without discrimination and, in particular, without discrimination based on race, national or ethnic origin, colour, religion, sex, age or physical disability.	None
In Delwin Vriend, the Supreme Court of Canada, relying on the reasoning adopted by it in Egan v. Canada (supra), applied its wellknown test of grounds analogous to those specified textually.	None
The Egan test is In Egan, it was said that there are two aspects which are relevant in determining whether the distinction created by the law constitutes discrimination.	None
First, whether the equality right was denied on the basis of a personal characteristic which is either enumerated in s. 15(1) or which is analogous to those enumerated.	None
Second whether that distinction has the effect on the claimant of imposing a burden, obligation or disadvantage not imposed upon others or of withholding or limiting access to benefits or advantages which are available to others (para.	None
131).	None
A discriminatory distinction was also described as one which is capable of either promoting or perpetuating the view that the individual adversely affected by this distinction is less capable, or less worthy of recognition or value as a human being or as a member of Canadian society, equally deserving of concern, respect, and consideration (Egan, at para.	None
56, per LHeureux  Dube J.).	None
It may as well be appropriate to consider whether the unequal treatment is based on the stereotypical application of presumed group or personal characteristics (Miron, at para.	None
128, per McLachlin J.)	None
In Egan, it was held, on the basis of historical social, political and economic disadvantage suffered by homosexuals and the emerging consensus among legislatures (at para.	None
176), as well as previous judicial decisions (at para.	None
177), that sexual orientation is a ground analogous to those listed in s. 15(1).	None
Sexual orientation is a deeply personal characteristic that is either unchangeable or changeable only at unacceptable personal costs (para.	None
5).	None
It is analogous to the other personal characteristics enumerated in s. 15(1) and therefore this step of the test is satisfied.	None
Thereafter, the Court in Delwin Vriend (supra) observed that perhaps the most important outcome is the psychological harm which may ensue from the state of affairs as the fear of discrimination (by LGBT) would logically lead them to concealment of true identity and this is harmful to their personal confidence and selfesteem.	None
The Court held that this is a clear example of a distinction which demeans the individual and strengthens and perpetrates the view that gays and lesbians are less worthy of protection as individuals in Canadas society and the potential harm to the dignity and perceived worth of gay and lesbian individuals constitutes a particularly cruel form of discrimination.	None
South Africa	None
The Constitutional Court of South Africa in National Coalition for Gay Lesbian Equality (supra) made the following relevant observations Its symbolic effect is to state that in the eyes of our legal system all gay men are criminals.	None
The stigma thus attached to a significant proportion of our population is manifest.	None
But the harm imposed by the criminal law is far more than symbolic.	None
As a result of the criminal offence, gay men are at risk of arrest, prosecution and conviction of the offence of sodomy simply because they seek to engage in sexual conduct which is part of their experience of being human.	None
Just as apartheid legislation rendered the lives of couples of different racial groups perpetually at risk, the sodomy offence builds insecurity and vulnerability into the daily lives of gay men.	None
There can be no doubt that the existence of a law which punishes a form of sexual expression for gay men degrades and devalues gay men in our broader society.	None
As such it is a palpable invasion of their dignity and a breach of section 10 of the Constitution.	None
United Kingdom In Euan Sutherland v. United Kingdom2001 ECHR 234, the issue before the European Commission of Human Rights was whether the difference in age limit for consent for sexual activities for homosexuals and heterosexuals, the age limit being 16 years in the case of heterosexuals and 18 years in the case of homosexuals, is justified.	None
While considering the same, the Commission observed that no objective and reasonable justification exists for the maintenance of a higher minimum age of consent in case of male homosexuals as compared to heterosexuals and that the application discloses discriminatory treatment in the exercise of the applicants right to respect for private life under Article 8 of the Convention.	None
The Commission further observed that sexual orientation was usually established before the age of puberty in both boys and girls and referred to evidence that reducing the age of consent would unlikely affect the majority of men engaging in homosexual activity, either in general or within specific age groups.	None
The Council of the British Medical Association (BMA) concluded in its Report that the age of consent for homosexual men should be set at 16 since the then existing law might inhibit efforts to improve the sexual health of young homosexual and bisexual men.	None
An equal age of consent was also supported by the Royal College of Psychiatrists, the Health Education Authority and the National Association of Probation Officers as well as by other bodies and organizations concerned with health and social welfare.	None
It is further noted that equality of treatment in respect of the age of consent is now recognized by the great majority of Member States of the Council of Europe.	None
Other Courts Jurisdictions In Ang Ladlad LGBT Party v. Commission of Elections , the Supreme Court of the Republic of the Philippines observed Freedom of expression constitutes one of the essential foundations of a democratic society, and this freedom applies not only to those that are favorably received but also to those that offend, shock, or disturb.	None
Any restriction imposed in this sphere must be proportionate to the legitimate aim pursued.	None
Absent any compelling state interest, it is not for the COMELEC or this Court to impose its views on the populace.	None
Elaborating further, the Court held It follows that both expressions concerning ones homosexuality and the activity of forming a political association that supports LGBT individuals are protected as well.	None
The Court navigated through European and United Nations Judicial decisions and held In the area of freedom of expression, for instance, United States courts have ruled that existing free speech doctrines protect gay and lesbian rights to expressive conduct.	None
In order to justify the prohibition of a particular expression of opinion, public institutions must show that their actions were caused by something more than a mere desire to avoid the discomfort and unpleasantness that always accompany an unpopular viewpoint.	None
Further, in Toonens case, the Human Rights Committee made the following relevant observations I concur with this view, as the common denominator for the grounds race, colour and sex are biological or genetic factors.	None
This being so, the criminalization of certain behaviour operating under Sections 122(a), (c) and 123 of the Tasmanian Criminal Code must be considered incompatible with article 26 of the Covenant.	None
Firstly, these provisions of the Tasmanian Criminal Code prohibit sexual intercourse between men and between women, thereby making a distinction between heterosexuals and homosexuals.	None
Secondly, they criminalize other sexual contacts between consenting men without at the same time criminalizing such contacts between women.	None
These provisions therefore set aside the principle of equality before the law.	None
It should be emphasized that it is the criminalization as such that constitutes discrimination of which individuals may claim to be victims, and thus violates article 26, notwithstanding the fact that the law has not been enforced over a considerable period of time the designated behaviour none the less remains a criminal offence.	None
In Dudgeon (supra), the European Court of Human Rights made the following observations with respect to homosexuality It cannot be maintained in these circumstances that there is a pressing social need to make such acts criminal offences, there being no sufficient justification provided by the risk of harm to vulnerable sections of society requiring protection or by the effects on the public.	None
On the issue of proportionality, the Court considers that such justifications as there are for retaining the law in force unamended are outweighed by the detrimental effects which the very existence of the legislative provisions in question can have on the life of a person of homosexual orientation like the applicant.	None
Although members of the public who regard homosexuality as immoral may be shocked, offended or disturbed by the commission by others of private homosexual acts, this cannot on its own warrant the application of penal sanctions when it is consenting adults alone who are involved.	None
Emphasis supplied Comparative analysis of Section 375 and Section 377 IPC Let us, in the obtaining situation, conduct a comparative analysis of the offence of rape and unnatural offences as defined under Section 375 and Section 377 of the IPC respectively.	None
Section 375 IPC defines the offence of rape and reads as under Section 375.	None
RapeA man is said to commit rape if he  (a) penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a woman or makes her to do so with him or any other person or (b) inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of a woman or makes her to do so with him or any other person or (c) manipulates any part of the body of a woman so as to cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body of such woman or makes her to do so with him or any other person or (d) applies his mouth to the vagina, anus, urethra of a woman or makes her to do so with him or any other person, under the circumstances falling under any of the following seven descriptions  First.  	None
Against her will.	None
Secondly.  	None
Without her consent.	None
Thirdly.  	None
With her consent, when her consent has been obtained by putting her or any person in whom she is interested, in fear of death or of hurt.	None
Fourthly.  	None
With her consent, when the man knows that he is not her husband and that her consent is given because she believes that he is another man to whom she is or believes herself to be lawfully married.	None
Fifthly.  	None
With her consent when, at the time of giving such consent, by reason of unsoundness of mind or intoxication or the administration by him personally or through another of any stupefying or unwholesome substance, she is unable to understand the nature and consequences of that to which she gives consent.	None
Sixthly.  	None
With or without her consent, when she is under eighteen years of age.	None
Seventhly.  	None
When she is unable to communicate consent.	None
Explanation I.	None
For the purposes of this section, vagina shall also include labia majora.	None
Explanation 2.  Consent means an unequivocal voluntary agreement when the woman by words, gestures or any form of verbal or nonverbal communication, communicates willingness to participate in the specific sexual act Provided that a woman who does not physically resist to the act of penetration shall not by the reason only of that fact, be regarded as consenting to the sexual activity.	None
Exception I. A medical procedure or intervention shall not constitute rape.	None
Exception 2.  Sexual intercourse or sexual acts by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under fifteen years of age, is not rape A cursory reading of Section 375 IPC divulges that it is a gender specific provision for the protection of women as only a man can commit the offence of rape.	None
The Section has been divided into two parts.	None
The former part, comprising of Clauses (a) to (d), simply describes what acts committed by a man with a woman would amount to rape provided that the said acts are committed in the circumstances falling under any of the seven descriptions as stipulated by the latter part of the Section.	None
It is in this way that the latter part of Section 375 IPC becomes important as it lays down the circumstances, either of which must be present, for an act committed by a man with a woman to come within the sweep of the offence of rape.	None
To put it differently, for completing the offence of rape, any of the circumstances described in the latter part of Section 375 must be present.	None
Let us now dissect each of the seven descriptions appended to Section 375 IPC which specify the absence of a willful and informed consent for constituting the offence of rape.	None
The first description provides that any of the acts described in the former part of Section 375 IPC would amount to rape if such acts are committed against the will of the woman.	None
The second description stipulates that the acts described in the former part would amount to rape if such acts are committed without the consent of the woman.	None
As per the third description, the acts would amount to rape even if the woman has given her consent but the said consent has been obtained by putting her or any person in whom she is interested, in fear of death or of hurt.	None
As per the fourth description, the acts would amount to rape when the woman has given her consent but the same was given by her under the belief that she is or believes herself to be lawfully married to the man committing the acts stated in the former part of the Section.	None
The fifth description provides that the acts described in the former part would amount to rape if the woman gives her consent but at the time of giving such consent, she is unable to understand the nature and consequences of the acts to which she consents due to the reason of unsoundness of mind or intoxication or the administration of any stupefying or unwholesome substance either by the man who commits the acts or through another third person.	None
The sixth description is plain and simple as it stipulates that the acts described in the former part of the Section would amount to rape, irrespective of the fact whether the woman has given her consent or not, if, at the time when the acts were committed, the woman was below the age of eighteen years.	None
Coming to the seventh and the last description, it provides that the acts prescribed in the former part would amount to rape if the woman is unable to communicate her consent.	None
Explanation 2 to Section 375 IPC gives the definition of consent for the purpose of Section 375 to the effect that consent means an unequivocal voluntary agreement by the woman through words, gestures or any form of verbal or nonverbal communication whereby she communicates her willingness to participate in any of the sexual acts described in the former part of Section 375 IPC.	None
We have scrutinized the anatomy of the seven descriptions contained in the latter part of Section 375 IPC along with Explanation 2 to Section 375 IPC to emphasize and accentuate that the element of absence of consent is firmly ingrained in all the descriptions contained in the latter part of Section 375 IPC and the absence of a willful and informed consent is sine qua non to designate the acts contained in the former part of Section 375 IPC as rape.	None
Presently, we proceed to scan the anatomy of Section 377 of IPC and xray the provision to study its real nature and content.	None
It reads thus Section 377.	None
Unnatural offences.	None
Whoever voluntarily has carnal intercourse against the order of nature with any man, woman or animal, shall be punished with imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Explanation.	None
Penetration is sufficient to constitute the carnal intercourse necessary to the offence described in this section.	None
Section 377 IPC, unlike Section 375, is a genderneutral provision as it uses the word whoever.	None
The word carnal, as per the Blacks Law Dictionary means of the body, relating to the body, fleshy or sexual.	None
Sexual intercourse has been defined in Blacks Law Dictionary as a contact between a male and a females organ.	None
Another expression which has been employed in Section 377 is against the order of nature.	None
The phrase against the order of nature has neither been defined in Section 377 IPC nor in any other provision of the IPC.	None
The foundation on which Section 377 IPC makes carnal intercourse an offence is the precept that such carnal intercourse is against the order of nature.	Facts
This brings us to the important question as to what is against the order of nature?	None
In Khanu (supra), where the question before the Court was whether coitus per os (mouth contact with the male genitals) amounts to carnal intercourse against the order of nature, the Court ruled in the affirmative observing that the natural object of intercourse is that there should be the possibility of conception of human beings which in the case of coitus per os is impossible.	None
Thus, the most common argument against homosexuality and criminalization of carnal intercourse even between consenting adults of opposite sex is that traditionally, the essential purpose of sex is to procreate.	None
With the passage of time and evolution of the society, procreation is not the only reason for which people choose to come together, have livein relationships, perform coitus or even marry.	None
They do so for a whole lot of reasons including emotional companionship.	None
Homer Clark writes But the fact is that the most significant function of marriage today seems to be that it furnishes emotional satisfactions to be found in no other relationships.	None
For many people it is the refuge from the coldness and impersonality of contemporary existence.	None
In the contemporary world where even marriage is now not equated to procreation of children, the question that would arise is whether homosexuality and carnal intercourse between consenting adults of opposite sex can be tagged as against the order of nature.	None
It is the freedom of choice of two consenting adults to perform sex for procreation or otherwise and if their choice is that of the latter, it cannot be said to be against the order of nature.	None
Therefore, sex, if performed differently, as per the choice of the consenting adults, does not per se make it against the order of nature.	None
Section 377 criminalises even voluntary carnal intercourse not only between homosexuals but also between heterosexuals.	Reasoning
The major difference between the language of Section 377 and Section 375 is that of the element of absence consent which has been elaborately incorporated in the seven descriptions contained in the latter part of Section 375 IPC.	None
It is the absence of willful and informed consent embodied in the seven descriptions to Section 375 which makes the offence of rape criminal.	None
On the other hand, Section 377 IPC contains no such descriptions exceptions embodying the absence of willful and informed consent and criminalises even voluntary carnal intercourse both between homosexuals as well as between heterosexuals.	None
While saying so, we gain strength and support from the fact that the legislature, in its wisdom, while enacting Section 375 IPC in its amended form after the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013, has not employed the words subject to any other provision of the IPC.	None
The implication of the absence of these words simply indicates that Section 375 IPC which does not criminalize consensual carnal intercourse between heterosexuals is not subject to Section 377 IPC.	None
Section 377, so far as it criminalises carnal intercourse between heterosexuals is legally unsustainable in its present form for the simple reason that Section 375 IPC clearly stipulates that carnal intercourse between a man and a woman with the willful and informed consent of the woman does not amount to rape and is not penal.	Reasoning
Despite the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013 coming into force, by virtue of which Section 375 was amended, whereby the words sexual intercourse in Section 375 were replaced by four elaborate clauses from (a) to (d) giving a wide definition to the offence of rape, Section 377 IPC still remains in the statute book in the same form.	Reasoning
Such an anomaly, if allowed to persist, may result in a situation wherein a heterosexual couple who indulges in carnal intercourse with the willful and informed consent of each other may be held liable for the offence of unnatural sex under Section 377 IPC, despite the fact that such an act would not be rape within the definition as provided under Section 375 IPC.	Reasoning
Drawing an analogy, if consensual carnal intercourse between a heterosexual couple does not amount to rape, it definitely should not be labelled and designated as unnatural offence under Section 377 IPC.	Reasoning
If any proclivity amongst the heterosexual population towards consensual carnal intercourse has been allowed due to the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013, such kind of proclivity amongst any two persons including LGBT community cannot be treated as untenable so long as it is consensual and it is confined within their most private and intimate spaces.	Reasoning
There is another aspect which needs to be discussed, which is whether criminalisation of carnal intercourse under Section 377 serves any useful purpose under the prevalent criminal law.	None
Delineating on this aspect, the European Commission of Human Rights in Dudgeon (supra) opined thus The 1967 Act, which was introduced into Parliament as a Private Members Bill, was passed to give effect to the recommendations concerning homosexuality made in 1957 in the report of the Departmental Committee on Homosexual Offences and Prostitution established under the chairman ship of Sir John Wolfenden (the Wolfenden Committee and Wolfenden report).	None
The Wolfenden Committee regarded the function of the criminal law in this field as to preserve public order and decency, to protect the citizen from what is offensive or injurious, and to provide sufficient safeguards against exploitation and corruption of others, particularly those who are specially vulnerable because they are young, weak in body or mind, inexperienced, or in a state of special physical, official, or economic dependence, but not to intervene in the private lives of citizens, or to seek to enforce any particular pattern of behaviour, further than is necessary to carry out the purposes we have outlined.	None
The Wolfenden Committee concluded that homosexual behaviour between consenting adults in private was part of the realm of private morality and immorality which is, in brief and crude terms, not the laws business and should no longer be criminal Underlining is ours At the very least, it can be said that criminalisation of consensual carnal intercourse, be it amongst homosexuals, heterosexuals, bisexuals or transgenders, hardly serves any legitimate public purpose or interest.	None
Per contra, we are inclined to believe that if Section 377 remains in its present form in the statute book, it will allow the harassment and exploitation of the LGBT community to prevail.	Reasoning
We must make it clear that freedom of choice cannot be scuttled or abridged on the threat of criminal prosecution and made paraplegic on the mercurial stance of majoritarian perception.	Reasoning
The litmus test for survival of Section 377 IPC Having discussed the various principles and concepts and bearing in mind the sacrosanctity of the fundamental rights which guides the constitutional courts, we shall now proceed to deal with the constitutionality of Section 377 IPC on the bedrock of the principles enunciated in Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution.	None
It is axiomatic that the expression life or personal liberty in Article 21 embodies within itself a variety of rights.	None
In Maneka Gandhi (supra), Bhagwati, J. (as he then was) observed The expression personal liberty in Article 21 is of the widest amplitude and it covers a variety of rights which go to constitute the personal liberty of man and some of them have been raised to the status of distinct fundamental rights and given additional protection under Article 19	None
In Anuj Garg (supra), while dealing with the constitutional validity of Section 30 of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914 prohibiting employment of any man under the age of 25 years or any woman, the Court, holding it ultra vires, ruled thus 31.	None
It is their life subject to constitutional, statutory and social interdicts a citizen of India should be allowed to live her life on her own terms.	None
And again Privacy rights prescribe autonomy to choose profession whereas security concerns texture methodology of delivery of this assurance.	None
But it is a reasonable proposition that the measures to safeguard such a guarantee of autonomy should not be so strong that the essence of the guarantee is lost.	None
State protection must not translate into censorship.	None
In Common Cause (A Regd.	None
Society) (supra), the Court, in the context of right to dignity, observed Right to life and liberty as envisaged under Article 21 is meaningless unless it encompasses within its sphere individual dignity and right to dignity includes the right to carry such functions and activities as would constitute the meaningful expression of the human self.	None
In Puttaswamy (supra), the right to privacy has been declared to be a fundamental right by this Court as being a facet of life and personal liberty protected under Article 21 of the Constitution.	None
In view of the above authorities, we have no hesitation to say that Section 377 IPC, in its present form, abridges both human dignity as well as the fundamental right to privacy and choice of the citizenry, howsoever small.	Reasoning
As sexual orientation is an essential and innate facet of privacy, the right to privacy takes within its sweep the right of every individual including that of the LGBT to express their choices in terms of sexual inclination without the fear of persecution or criminal prosecution.	Reasoning
The sexual autonomy of an individual to choose his her sexual partner is an important pillar and an insegregable facet of individual liberty.	Reasoning
When the liberty of even a single person of the society is smothered under some vague and archival stipulation that it is against the order of nature or under the perception that the majority population is peeved when such an individual exercises his her liberty despite the fact that the exercise of such liberty is within the confines of his her private space, then the signature of life melts and living becomes a bare subsistence and resultantly, the fundamental right of liberty of such an individual is abridged.	Reasoning
While saying so, we are absolutely conscious of the fact that the citizenry may be deprived of their right to life and personal liberty if the conditions laid down in Article 21 are fulfilled and if, at the same time, the procedure established by law as laid down in Maneka Gandhi (supra) is satisfied.	None
Article 21 requires that for depriving a person of his right to life and personal liberty, there has to be a law and the said law must prescribe a fair procedure.	None
The seminal point is to see whether Section 377 withstands the sanctity of dignity of an individual, expression of choice, paramount concept of life and whether it allows an individual to lead to a life that ones natural orientation commands.	Issue
That apart, more importantly, the question is whether such a genderneutral offence, with the efflux of time, should be allowed to remain in the statute book especially when there is consent and such consent elevates the status of bodily autonomy.	Issue
Hence, the provision has to be tested on the principles evolved under Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution.	Issue
In Sunil Batra v. Delhi Administration and others (1978) 4 SCC 494 , Krishna Iyer, J. opined that what is punitively outrageous, scandalizingly unusual or cruel and rehabilitatively counterproductive, is unarguably unreasonable and arbitrary and is shot down by Article 14 and 19 and if inflicted with procedural unfairness, falls foul of Article 21.	None
We, first, must test the validity of Section 377 IPC on the anvil of Article 14 of the Constitution.	None
What Article 14 propounds is that all like should be treated alike.	None
In other words, it implies equal treatment for all equals.	None
Though the legislature is fully empowered to enact laws applicable to a particular class, as in the case at hand in which Section 377 applies to citizens who indulge in carnal intercourse, yet the classification, including the one made under Section 377 IPC, has to satisfy the twin conditions to the effect that the classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia and the said differentia must have a rational nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the provision, that is, Section 377 IPC.	None
In M. Nagaraj and others v. Union of India and others(2006) 8 SCC 212 , it has been held The gravamen of Article 14 is equality of treatment.	None
Article 14 confers a personal right by enacting a prohibition which is absolute.	None
By judicial decisions, the doctrine of classification is read into Article 14.	None
Equality of treatment under Article 14 is an objective test.	None
It is not the test of intention.	None
Therefore, the basic principle underlying Article 14 is that the law must operate equally on all persons under like circumstances.	None
In E.P. Royappa v. State of Tamil Nadu and another (1974) 4 SCC 3 , this Court observed that equality is a dynamic concept with many aspects and dimensions and it cannot be cribbed, cabined and confined within traditional and doctrinaire limits.	None
It was further held that equality is antithetic to arbitrariness, for equality and arbitrariness are sworn enemies one belongs to the rule of law in a republic while the other, to the whim and caprice of an absolute monarch.	None
In Budhan Choudhry v. The State of Bihar AIR 1955 SC 191 , while delineating on the concept of reasonable classification, the Court observed thus It is now wellestablished that while article 14 forbids class legislation, it does not forbid reasonable classification for the purposes of legislation.	None
In order, however, to pass the test of permissible classification two conditions must be fulfilled, namely, (i) that the classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes persons or things that are grouped together from others left out of the group and (ii) that differentia must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the statute in question.	None
The classification may be founded on different bases namely, geographical, or according to objects or occupations or the like.	None
What is necessary is that there must be a nexus between the basis of classification and the object of the Act under consideration.	None
It is also well established by the decisions of this Court that article 14 condemns discrimination not only by a substantive law but also by a law of procedure.	None
A perusal of Section 377 IPC reveals that it classifies and penalizes persons who indulge in carnal intercourse with the object to protect women and children from being subjected to carnal intercourse.	Issue
That being so, now it is to be ascertained whether this classification has a reasonable nexus with the object sought to be achieved.	Issue
The answer is in the negative as the nonconsensual acts which have been criminalized by virtue of Section 377 IPC have already been designated as penal offences under Section 375 IPC and under the POCSO Act.	None
Per contra, the presence of this Section in its present form has resulted in a distasteful and objectionable collateral effect whereby even consensual acts, which are neither harmful to children nor women and are performed by a certain class of people (LGBTs) owning to some inherent characteristics defined by their identity and individuality, have been woefully targeted.	Reasoning
This discrimination and unequal treatment meted out to the LGBT community as a separate class of citizens is unconstitutional for being violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
In Shayara Bano (supra), the Court observed that manifest arbitrariness of a provision of law can also be a ground for declaring a law as unconstitutional.	None
Opining so, the Court observed thus The test of manifest arbitrariness, therefore, as laid down in the aforesaid judgments would apply to invalidate legislation as well as subordinate legislation under Article 14.	None
Manifest arbitrariness, therefore, must be something done by the legislature capriciously, irrationally and or without adequate determining principle.	None
Also, when something is done which is excessive and disproportionate, such legislation would be manifestly arbitrary.	None
We are, therefore, of the view that arbitrariness in the sense of manifest arbitrariness as pointed out by us above would apply to negate legislation as well under Article 14.	None
In view of the law laid down in Shayara Bano (supra) and given the fact that Section 377 criminalises even consensual sexual acts between adults, it fails to make a distinction between consensual and nonconsensual sexual acts between competent adults.	Reasoning
Further, Section 377 IPC fails to take into account that consensual sexual acts between adults in private space are neither harmful nor contagious to the society.	Reasoning
On the contrary, Section 377 trenches a discordant note in respect of the liberty of persons belonging to the LGBT community by subjecting them to societal pariah and dereliction.	Reasoning
Needless to say, the Section also interferes with consensual acts of competent adults in private space.	Reasoning
Sexual acts cannot be viewed from the lens of social morality or that of traditional precepts wherein sexual acts were considered only for the purpose of procreation.	Reasoning
This being the case, Section 377 IPC, so long as it criminalises consensual sexual acts of whatever nature between competent adults, is manifestly arbitrary.	Reasoning
The LGBT community possess the same human, fundamental and constitutional rights as other citizens do since these rights inhere in individuals as natural and human rights.	Reasoning
We must remember that equality is the edifice on which the entire nondiscrimination jurisprudence rests.	Reasoning
Respect for individual choice is the very essence of liberty under law and, thus, criminalizing carnal intercourse under Section 377 IPC is irrational, indefensible and manifestly arbitrary.	Reasoning
It is true that the principle of choice can never be absolute under a liberal Constitution and the law restricts one individuals choice to prevent harm or injury to others.	Reasoning
However, the organisation of intimate relations is a matter of complete personal choice especially between consenting adults.	Reasoning
It is a vital personal right falling within the private protective sphere and realm of individual choice and autonomy.	Reasoning
Such progressive proclivity is rooted in the constitutional structure and is an inextricable part of human nature.	Reasoning
In the adverting situation, we must also examine whether Section 377, in its present form, stands the test of Article 19 of the Constitution in the sense of whether it is unreasonable and, therefore, violative of Article 19.	Issue
In Chintaman Rao v. State of Madhya Pradesh8 AIR 1951 SC 118 this Court, in the context of reasonable restrictions under Article 19, opined thus The phrase reasonable restriction connotes that the limitation imposed on a person in enjoyment of the right should not be arbitrary or of an excessive nature, beyond what is required in the interests of the public.	None
The word reasonable implies intelligent care and deliberation, that is, the choice of a course which reason dictates.	None
Legislation which arbitrarily or excessively invades the right cannot be said to contain the quality of reasonableness and unless it strikes a proper balance between the freedom guaranteed in article 19(1)(g) and the social control permitted by clause (6) of article 19, it must be held to be wanting in that quality.	None
In S. Rangarajan v. P. Jagjivan Ram and others (1989) 2 SCC 574 the Court observed, though in a different context, thus Our commitment of freedom of expression demands that it cannot be suppressed unless the situations created by allowing the freedom are pressing and the community interest is endangered.	None
The anticipated danger should not be remote, conjectural or farfetched.	None
It should have proximate and direct nexus with the expression.	None
In S. Khushboo (supra), this Court, while observing that morality and decency on the basis of which reasonable restrictions can be imposed on the rights guaranteed under Article 19 should not be amplified beyond a rational and logical limit, ruled that even though the constitutional freedom of speech and expression is not absolute and can be subjected to reasonable restrictions on grounds such as decency and morality among others, yet it is necessary to tolerate unpopular views in the sociocultural space.	None
In the case of Shreya Singhal v. Union of India (2015) 5 SCC 1 , this Court, while striking down Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, had observed that when a provision is vague and overboard in the sense that it criminalises protected speech and speech of innocent nature, resultantly, it has a chilling effect and is liable to be struck down.	None
The Court opined We, therefore, hold that the Section is unconstitutional also on the ground that it takes within its sweep protected speech and speech that is innocent in nature and is liable therefore to be used in such a way as to have a chilling effect on free speech and would, therefore, have to be struck down on the ground of overbreadth.	None
In the obtaining situation, we need to check whether public order, decency and morality as grounds to limit the fundamental right of expression including choice can be accepted as reasonable restrictions to uphold the validity of Section 377 IPC.	None
We are of the conscious view that Section 377 IPC takes within its fold private acts of adults including the LGBT community which are not only consensual but are also innocent, as such acts neither cause disturbance to the public order nor are they injurious to public decency or morality.	Reasoning
The law is et domus sua cuique est tutissimum refugium  A mans house is his castle.	Reasoning
Sir Edward Coke92 said The house of everyone is to him as his castle and fortress, as well for his defence against injury and violence as for his repose.	Reasoning
That apart, any display of affection amongst the members of the LGBT community towards their partners in the public so long as it does not amount to indecency or has the potentiality to disturb public order cannot be bogged down by majority perception.	Reasoning
Section 377 IPC amounts to unreasonable restriction as it makes carnal intercourse between consenting adults within their castle a criminal offence which is manifestly not only overboard and vague but also has a chilling effect on an individuals freedom of choice.	Reasoning
In view of the test laid down in the aforesaid authorities, Section 377 IPC does not meet the criteria of proportionality and is violative of the fundamental right of freedom of expression including the right to choose a sexual partner.	Reasoning
Section 377 IPC also assumes the characteristic of unreasonableness, for it becomes a weapon in the hands of the majority to seclude, exploit and harass the LGBT community.	Reasoning
It shrouds the lives of the LGBT community in criminality and constant fear mars their joy of life.	Reasoning
They constantly face social prejudice, disdain and are subjected to the shame of being their very natural selves.	Reasoning
Thus, an archaic law which is incompatible with constitutional values cannot be allowed to be preserved.	Reasoning
Bigoted and homophobic attitudes dehumanize the transgenders by denying them their dignity, personhood and above all, their basic human rights.	Reasoning
It is important to realize that identity and sexual orientation cannot be silenced by oppression.	Reasoning
Liberty, as the linchpin of our constitutional values, enables individuals to define and express their identity and individual identity has to be acknowledged and respected.	Reasoning
The very existence of Section 377 IPC criminalising transgenders casts a great stigma on an already oppressed and discriminated class of people.	Reasoning
This stigma, oppression and prejudice has to be eradicated and the transgenders have to progress from their narrow claustrophobic spaces of mere survival in hiding with their isolation and fears to enjoying the richness of living out of the shadows with full realization of their potential and equal opportunities in all walks of life.	Reasoning
The ideals and objectives enshrined in our benevolent Constitution can be achieved only when each and every individual is empowered and enabled to participate in the social mainstream and in the journey towards achieving equality in all spheres, equality of opportunities in all walks of life, equal freedoms and rights and, above all, equitable justice.	Reasoning
This can be achieved only by inclusion of all and exclusion of none from the mainstream.	None
We must realize that different hues and colours together make the painting of humanity beautiful and this beauty is the essence of humanity.	None
We need to respect the strength of our diversity so as to sustain our unity as a cohesive unit of free citizens by fostering tolerance and respect for each others rights thereby progressing towards harmonious and peaceful coexistence in the supreme bond of humanity.	None
Attitudes and mentality have to change to accept the distinct identity of individuals and respect them for who they are rather than compelling them to become who they are not.	None
All human beings possess the equal right to be themselves instead of transitioning or conditioning themselves as per the perceived dogmatic notions of a group of people.	None
To change the societal bias and root out the weed, it is the foremost duty of each one of us to stand up and speak up against the slightest form of discrimination against transgenders that we come across.	None
Let us move from darkness to light, from bigotry to tolerance and from the winter of mere survival to the spring of life as the herald of a New India to a more inclusive society.	None
It is through times of grave disappointment, denunciation, adversity, grief, injustice and despair that the transgenders have stood firm with their formidable spirit, inspired commitment, strong determination and infinite hope and belief that has made them look for the rainbow in every cloud and lead the way to a future that would be the harbinger of liberation and emancipation from a certain bondage indescribable in words  towards the basic recognition of dignity and humanity of all and towards leading a life without pretence eschewing duality and ambivalence.	None
It is their momentous walk to freedom and journey to a constitutional ethos of dignity, equality and liberty and this freedom can only be fulfilled in its truest sense when each of us realize that the LGBT community possess equal rights as any other citizen in the country under the magnificent charter of rights  our Constitution.	None
Thus analysed, Section 377 IPC, so far as it penalizes any consensual sexual activity between two adults, be it homosexuals (man and a man), heterosexuals (man and a woman) and lesbians (woman and a woman), cannot be regarded as constitutional.	Reasoning
However, if anyone, by which we mean both a man and a woman, engages in any kind of sexual activity with an animal, the said aspect of Section 377 IPC is constitutional and it shall remain a penal offence under Section 377 IPC.	Reasoning
Any act of the description covered under Section 377 IPC done between the individuals without the consent of any one of them would invite penal liability under Section 377 IPC.	Reasoning
Conclusions In view of the aforesaid analysis, we record our conclusions in seriatim The eminence of identity which has been luculently stated in the NALSA case very aptly connects human rights and the constitutional guarantee of right to life and liberty with dignity.	Decision
With the same spirit, we must recognize that the concept of identity which has a constitutional tenability cannot be pigeonholed singularly to ones orientation as it may keep the individual choice at bay.	Decision
At the core of the concept of identity lies selfdetermination, realization of ones own abilities visualizing the opportunities and rejection of external views with a clear conscience that is in accord with constitutional norms and values or principles that are, to put in a capsule, constitutionally permissible.	None
In Suresh Koushal (supra), this Court overturned the decision of the Delhi High Court in Naz Foundation (supra) thereby upholding the constitutionality of Section 377 IPC and stating a ground that the LGBT community comprised only a minuscule fraction of the total population and that the mere fact that the said Section was being misused is not a reflection of the vires of the Section.	Decision
Such a view is constitutionally impermissible.	Decision
Our Constitution is a living and organic document capable of expansion with the changing needs and demands of the society.	Decision
The Courts must commemorate that it is the Constitution and its golden principles to which they bear their foremost allegiance and they must robe themselves with the armoury of progressive and pragmatic interpretation to combat the evils of inequality and injustice that try to creep into the society.	Decision
The role of the Courts gains more importance when the rights which are affected belong to a class of persons or a minority group who have been deprived of even their basic rights since time immemorial.	Decision
The primary objective of having a constitutional democracy is to transform the society progressively and inclusively.	Decision
Our Constitution has been perceived to be transformative in the sense that the interpretation of its provisions should not be limited to the mere literal meaning of its words instead they ought to be given a meaningful construction which is reflective of their intent and purpose in consonance with the changing times.	Decision
Transformative constitutionalism not only includes within its wide periphery the recognition of the rights and dignity of individuals but also propagates the fostering and development of an atmosphere wherein every individual is bestowed with adequate opportunities to develop socially, economically and politically.	Decision
Discrimination of any kind strikes at the very core of any democratic society.	Decision
When guided by transformative constitutionalism, the society is dissuaded from indulging in any form of discrimination so that the nation is guided towards a resplendent future.	Decision
Constitutional morality embraces within its sphere several virtues, foremost of them being the espousal of a pluralistic and inclusive society.	None
The concept of constitutional morality urges the organs of the State, including the Judiciary, to preserve the heterogeneous nature of the society and to curb any attempt by the majority to usurp the rights and freedoms of a smaller or minuscule section of the populace.	Decision
Constitutional morality cannot be martyred at the altar of social morality and it is only constitutional morality that can be allowed to permeate into the Rule of Law.	Decision
The veil of social morality cannot be used to violate fundamental rights of even a single individual, for the foundation of constitutional morality rests upon the recognition of diversity that pervades the society.	Decision
The right to live with dignity has been recognized as a human right on the international front and by number of precedents of this Court and, therefore, the constitutional courts must strive to protect the dignity of every individual, for without the right to dignity, every other right would be rendered meaningless.	Decision
Dignity is an inseparable facet of every individual that invites reciprocative respect from others to every aspect of an individual which he she perceives as an essential attribute of his her individuality, be it an orientation or an optional expression of choice.	Decision
The Constitution has ladened the judiciary with the very important duty to protect and ensure the right of every individual including the right to express and choose without any impediments so as to enable an individual to fully realize his her fundamental right to live with dignity.	None
Sexual orientation is one of the many biological phenomena which is natural and inherent in an individual and is controlled by neurological and biological factors.	None
The science of sexuality has theorized that an individual exerts little or no control over who he she gets attracted to.	Decision
Any discrimination on the basis of ones sexual orientation would entail a violation of the fundamental right of freedom of expression.	Decision
After the privacy judgment in Puttaswamy (supra), the right to privacy has been raised to the pedestal of a fundamental right.	None
The reasoning in Suresh Koushal (supra), that only a minuscule fraction of the total population comprises of LGBT community and that the existence of Section 377 IPC abridges the fundamental rights of a very minuscule percentage of the total populace, is found to be a discordant note.	Decision
The said reasoning in Suresh Koushal (supra), in our opinion, is fallacious, for the framers of our Constitution could have never intended that the fundamental rights shall be extended for the benefit of the majority only and that the Courts ought to interfere only when the fundamental rights of a large percentage of the total populace is affected.	Decision
In fact, the said view would be completely against the constitutional ethos, for the language employed in Part III of the Constitution as well as the intention of the framers of our Constitution mandates that the Courts must step in whenever there is a violation of the fundamental rights, even if the right s of a single individual is are in peril.	Decision
There is a manifest ascendance of rights under the Constitution which paves the way for the doctrine of progressive realization of rights as such rights evolve with the evolution of the society.	Decision
This doctrine, as a natural corollary, gives birth to the doctrine of nonretrogression, as per which there must not be atavism of constitutional rights.	Decision
In the light of the same, if we were to accept the view in Suresh Koushal (supra), it would tantamount to a retrograde step in the direction of the progressive interpretation of the Constitution and denial of progressive realization of rights.	Decision
Autonomy is individualistic.	Decision
Under the autonomy principle, the individual has sovereignty over his her body.	Decision
He she can surrender his her autonomy wilfully to another individual and their intimacy in privacy is a matter of their choice.	Decision
Such concept of identity is not only sacred but is also in recognition of the quintessential facet of humanity in a persons nature.	Decision
The autonomy establishes identity and the said identity, in the ultimate eventuate, becomes a part of dignity in an individual.	None
A cursory reading of both Sections 375 IPC and 377 IPC reveals that although the former Section gives due recognition to the absence of wilful and informed consent for an act to be termed as rape, per contra, Section 377 does not contain any such qualification embodying in itself the absence of wilful and informed consent to criminalize carnal intercourse which consequently results in criminalizing even voluntary carnal intercourse between homosexuals, heterosexuals, bisexuals and transgenders.	Decision
Section 375 IPC, after the coming into force of the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013, has not used the words subject to any other provision of the IPC.	Decision
This indicates that Section 375 IPC is not subject to Section 377 IPC.	None
The expression against the order of nature has neither been defined in Section 377 IPC nor in any other provision of the IPC.	None
The connotation given to the expression by various judicial pronouncements includes all sexual acts which are not intended for the purpose of procreation.	Decision
Therefore, if coitus is not performed for procreation only, it does not per se make it against the order of nature.	Decision
Section 377 IPC, in its present form, being violative of the right to dignity and the right to privacy, has to be tested, both, on the pedestal of Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution as per the law laid down in Maneka Gandhi (supra) and other later authorities.	Decision
An examination of Section 377 IPC on the anvil of Article 14 of the Constitution reveals that the classification adopted under the said Section has no reasonable nexus with its object as other penal provisions such as Section 375 IPC and the POCSO Act already penalize nonconsensual carnal intercourse.	Decision
Per contra, Section 377 IPC in its present form has resulted in an unwanted collateral effect whereby even consensual sexual acts, which are neither harmful to children nor women, by the LGBTs have been woefully targeted thereby resulting in discrimination and unequal treatment to the LGBT community and is, thus, violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Decision
Section 377 IPC, so far as it criminalises even consensual sexual acts between competent adults, fails to make a distinction between nonconsensual and consensual sexual acts of competent adults in private space which are neither harmful nor contagious to the society.	Reasoning
Section 377 IPC subjects the LGBT community to societal pariah and dereliction and is, therefore, manifestly arbitrary, for it has become an odious weapon for the harassment of the LGBT community by subjecting them to discrimination and unequal treatment.	Decision
Therefore, in view of the law laid down in Shayara Bano (supra), Section 377 IPC is liable to be partially struck down for being violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.	None
An examination of Section 377 IPC on the anvil of Article 19(1)(a) reveals that it amounts to an unreasonable restriction, for public decency and morality cannot be amplified beyond a rational or logical limit and cannot be accepted as reasonable grounds for curbing the fundamental rights of freedom of expression and choice of the LGBT community.	Decision
Consensual carnal intercourse among adults, be it homosexual or heterosexual, in private space, does not in any way harm the public decency or morality.	Decision
Therefore, Section 377 IPC in its present form violates Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.	None
Ergo, Section 377 IPC, so far as it penalizes any consensual sexual relationship between two adults, be it homosexuals (man and a man), heterosexuals (man and a woman) or lesbians (woman and a woman), cannot be regarded as constitutional.	Reasoning
However, if anyone, by which we mean both a man and a woman, engages in any kind of sexual activity with an animal, the said aspect of Section 377 is constitutional and it shall remain a penal offence under Section 377 IPC.	Decision
Any act of the description covered under Section 377 IPC done between two individuals without the consent of any one of them would invite penal liability under Section 377 IPC.	Decision
The decision in Suresh Koushal (supra), not being in consonance with what we have stated hereinabove, is overruled.	Decision
The Writ Petitions are, accordingly, disposed of.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
F. Nariman, J. The love that dare not speak its name is how the love that exists between samesex couples was described by Lord Alfred Douglas, the lover of Oscar Wilde, in his poem Two Loves published in 1894 in Victorian England.	None
The word homosexual is not derived from homo meaning man, but from homo meaning same.	None
The word lesbian is derived from the name of the Greek island of Lesbos, where it was rumored that female samesex couples proliferated.	None
What we have before us is a relook at the constitutional validity of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code which was enacted in the year 1860 (over 150 years ago) insofar as it criminalises consensual sex between adult samesex couples.	None
These cases have had a chequered history.	Facts
Writ petitions were filed before the Delhi High Court challenging the constitutional validity of Section 377 of the Penal Code insofar as it criminalizes consensual sex between adult samesex couples within the confines of their homes or other private places.	Facts
A Division Bench of the Delhi High Court in Naz Foundation v. Government of NCT of Delhi (Naz Foundation), 111 DRJ 1 (2009), after considering wideranging arguments on both sides, finally upheld the plea of the petitioners in the following words We declare that Section 377 IPC, insofar it criminalises consensual sexual acts of adults in private, is violative of Articles 21, 14 and 15 of the Constitution.	Facts
The provisions of Section 377 IPC will continue to govern nonconsensual penile nonvaginal sex and penile nonvaginal sex involving minors.	Facts
By adult we mean everyone who is 18 years of age and above.	Facts
A person below 18 would be presumed not to be able to consent to a sexual act.	Facts
This clarification will hold till, of course, Parliament chooses to amend the law to effectuate the recommendation of the Law Commission of India in its 172nd Report which we believe removes a great deal of confusion.	Facts
Secondly, we clarify that our judgment will not result in the reopening of criminal cases involving Section 377 IPC that have already attained finality.	None
We allow the writ petition in the above terms.	None
Despite the fact that no appeal was filed by the Union of India, in appeals filed by private individuals and groups, the Supreme Court in Suresh Kumar Koushal and Anr.	Facts
v. Naz Foundation and Ors.	Facts
(Suresh Kumar Koushal), (2014) 1 SCC 1 , reversed the judgment of the High Court.	Facts
Reviews that were filed against the aforesaid judgment, including by the Union of India, were dismissed by this Court.	Facts
Meanwhile, the Supreme Court delivered an important judgment reported as National Legal Services Authority v. Union of India (NALSA), (2014) 5 SCC 438 , which construed Articles 15 and 21 of the Constitution of India as including the right to gender identity and sexual orientation, and held that just like men and women, transgenders could enjoy all the fundamental rights that other citizens of India could enjoy.	Facts
Thereafter, in Justice K.S. Puttaswamy (Retd.) and Anr.	Facts
v. Union of India and Ors.	Facts
(Puttaswamy), (2017) 10 SCC 1 , a nineJudge Bench of this Court unanimously declared that there is a fundamental right of privacy which enured in favour of all persons, the concomitant of which was that the right to make choices that were fundamental to a persons way of living could not be interfered with by the State without compelling necessity and or harm caused to other individuals.	Facts
The impetus of this decision is what led to a threeJudge Bench order of 08.01.2018, which referred to the judgment of Puttaswamy (supra) and other arguments made by Shri Datar, to refer the correctness of Suresh Kumar Koushals case (supra) to a larger Bench.	Facts
This is how the matter has come to us.	Facts
History of Section 377 In the western world, given the fact that both Judaism and Christianity outlawed sexual intercourse by samesex couples, offences relating thereto were decided by ecclesiastical courts.	None
It is only as a result of Henry VIII of England breaking with the Roman Catholic Church that legislation in his reign, namely the Buggery Act of 1533, prohibited the detestable and abominable offence of buggery committed with mankind or beast.	None
Between 1806, when reliable figures begin, and 1900, 8,921 men were indicted for sodomy, gross indecency or other unnatural misdemeanours in England and Wales.	None
Ninety men per year were, on average, indicted for homosexual offences in this period.	None
About a third as many were arrested and their case considered by magistrates.	None
Most of the men convicted were imprisoned, but between 1806 and 1861, when the death penalty for sodomy was finally abolished, 404 men were sentenced to death.	None
Fiftysix were executed, and the remainder were either imprisoned or transported to Australia for life.	None
Two such men, James Pratt and John Smith, were the last to be executed in Britain for sodomy on 27 November, 1835.	None
During the reign of the East India Company in India, Parliament established what was called the Indian Law Commission.	None
In 1833, Thomas Babington Macaulay was appointed to chair the Commission.	None
The Indian Law Commission, with Macaulay as its head, submitted the Draft Penal Code to the Government of India on 14.10.1837.	None
This draft consisted of 488 clauses.	None
After the First Report submitted on 23.07.1846, the Second Report of Her Majestys Commissioners for revising and consolidating the law was submitted by C.H. Cameron and D. Eliott on 24.06.1847.	None
These Commissioners concluded that the Draft Penal Code was sufficiently complete, and, with slight modifications, fit to be acted upon.	None
The revised edition of the Penal Code was then forwarded to the Judges of the Supreme Court at Calcutta on 30.05.1851, and also to the Judges of the Sudder Court at Calcutta.	None
The revised edition of the Penal Code as prepared by Mr. Bethune, the Legislative member of the Legislative Council of India, together with the views of the Chief Justice and Mr. Justice Buller of the Supreme Court at Calcutta, as well as those of Mr. Justice Colvile were sent to the Company in London.	None
The Court of Directors in London were anxious to see the Penal Code enacted as early as possible.	None
They, therefore, constituted a Council in which Sir Barnes Peacock was made the fourth member.	None
This Council or Committee prepared a revised Penal Code which was then referred to a Select Committee in 1857.	None
Given the Indian Mutiny of 1857, the Code was passed soon thereafter in October, 1860 and brought into force on 01.01.1862.	None
Sir James Fitzjames Stephen proclaimed that The Indian Penal Code is to the English criminal law what a manufactured article ready for use is to the materials out of which it is made.	None
It is to the French Penal Code and, I may add, to the North Germany Code of 1871, what a finished picture is to a sketch.	None
It is far simpler, and much better expressed, than Livingstons Code for Louisiana and its practical success has been complete.	None
He further described the Penal Code as the criminal law of England freed from all technicalities and superfluities, systematically arranged and modified in some few particulars (they are surprisingly few), to suit circumstances of British India.	None
According to Lord Macaulay, a good Code should have the qualities of precision and comprehensibility.	None
In a letter to Lord Auckland, the Governor General of India in Council, which accompanied his draft Penal Code, he stated There are two things which a legislator should always have in view while he is framing laws the one is that they should be as far as possible precise the other that they should be easily understood.	None
That a law, and especially a penal law, should be drawn in words which convey no meaning to the people who are to obey it, is an evil.	None
On the other hand, a loosely worded law is no law, and to whatever extent a legislature uses vague expressions, to that extent it abdicates its functions, and resigns the power of making law to the Courts of Justice.	None
Stung to the quick, when criticized as to the delay in bringing out the Code, he observed in a Minute to Lord Auckland as follows when I remember the slow progress of law reforms at home and when I consider that our Code decides hundreds of questions every one of which if stirred in England would give occasion to voluminous controversy and to many animated debates, I must acknowledge that I am inclined to fear that we have been guilty rather of precipitation than of delay.	None
Earlier, he had described the core objective of his project in his 04.06.1835 Minute to the Council which could be paraphrased as follows It should be more than a mere digest of existing laws, covering all contingencies, and nothing that is not in the Code ought to be law.	None
It should suppress crime with the least infliction of suffering and allow for the ascertaining of the truth at the smallest possible cost of time and money.	None
Its language should be clear, unequivocal and concise.	None
Every criminal act should be separately defined, its language followed precisely in indictment and conduct found to fall clearly within the definition.	None
Uniformity was to be the chief end and special definitions, procedures or other exceptions to account for different races or sects should not be included without clear and strong reasons.	None
It is interesting to note that Lord Macaulays Draft was substantially different from what was enacted as Section 377.	None
Macaulays original draft read Whoever, intending to gratify unnatural lust, touches for that purpose any person, or any animal, or is by his own consent touched by any person, for the purpose of gratifying unnatural lust, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to fourteen years and must not be less than two years, and shall be liable to fine.	None
Whoever, intending to gratify unnatural lust, touches for that purpose any person without that persons free and intelligent consent, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to life and must not be less than seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.	None
What is remarkable for the time in which he lived is the fact that Lord Macaulay would punish touching another person for the purpose of gratifying unnatural lust without their free and intelligent consent with a term of imprisonment extendable to life (but not less than seven years) while the penalty for the same offence, when consensual, would be imprisonment for a maximum term of fourteen years (but not less than two years).	None
Even in this most prudish of all periods of English history, Lord Macaulay recognized a lesser sentence for the crime of unnatural lust, if performed with consent.	None
Living in the era in which he lived, he clearly eschewed public discussion on this subject, stating Clause 361 and 362 relate to an odious class of offences respecting which it is desirable that as little as possible should be said.	None
We leave, without comment, to the judgment of his Lordship in Council the two clauses which we have provided for these offences.	None
We are unwilling to insert, either in the text or in the notes, anything which could give rise to public discussion on this revolting subject as we are decidedly of the opinion that the injury which would be done to the morals of the community by such discussion would far more than compensate for any benefits which might be derived from legislative measures framed with the greatest precision.	None
At what stage of the proceedings before the various persons and committees after 1837, Section 377 finally took shape, is not clear.	None
What is clear is that it is the Committee of Sir Barnes Peacock which finally sent the draft equivalent of Section 377 for enactment.	None
The Indian Penal Code, given its long life of over 150 years, has had surprisingly few amendments made to it.	None
The 42nd Law Commission Report, early in this countrys history, did not recommend the amendment or deletion of Section 377.	None
But B. P. Jeevan Reddy, J.s Law Commission Report of the year 2000 (the 172nd Report) recommended its deletion consequent to changes made in the preceding sections, which made it clear that anal sex between consenting adults, whether samesex or otherwise, would not be penalized.	None
Law in the United Kingdom As has been mentioned earlier in this judgment, the first enactment prohibiting samesex intercourse was passed in the year 1533 in the reign of Henry VIII.	None
The death penalty was prescribed even for consenting adults who indulged in this abomination.	None
The trial of persons such as Oscar Wilde is what led to law reform in the U.K., albeit 60 years later.	None
The Marquess of Queensberrys son, Lord Alfred Douglas, was having an affair with Oscar Wilde, which the Marquess discovered.	None
At Oscar Wildes club, the Marquess left a note describing Oscar Wilde as a somdomite which led to one of the most celebrated defamation actions in England.	None
In the course of his crossexamination of Oscar Wilde, Sir Edward Carson was able to draw from his famous witness the fact that boys could be plain or ugly, which would have led to the truth of establishing the charge against Oscar Wilde.	None
Rather than go on with the trial, Oscar Wilde hastily withdrew his action for defamation.	None
But that was not the end.	None
A prosecution under the Criminal Law Amendment Act of 1885 followed, in which Oscar Wilde was convicted and sent to jail for a period of two years.	None
He never quite recovered, for after his jail sentence was served out, he died a broken and impoverished man in Paris at the early age of 46.	None
The winds of change slowly blew over the British Isles and finally, post the Second World War, what is known as the Wolfenden Committee was appointed on 24.08.1954, inter alia to consider the law and practice relating to homosexual offences and the treatment of persons convicted of such offences by the courts.	None
The Committee Report, even though it is of a vintage of September 1957, makes interesting reading.	None
In paragraphs 31 and 32 of the Report, the Committee opined Even if it could be established that homosexuality were a disease, it is clear that many individuals, however their state is reached, present social rather than medical problems and must be dealt with by social, including penological, methods.	None
This is especially relevant when the claim that homosexuality is an illness is taken to imply that its treatment should be a medical responsibility.	None
Much more important than the academic question whether homosexuality is a disease is the practical question whether a doctor should carry out any part or all of the treatment.	None
Psychiatrists deal regularly with problems of personality which are not regarded as diseases, and conversely the treatment of cases of recognized psychiatric illness may not be strictly medical but may best be carried out by nonmedical supervision or environmental change.	None
Examples would be certain cases of senile dementia or chronic schizophrenia which can best be managed at home.	None
In fact, the treatment of behavior disorders, even when medically supervised, is rarely confined to psychotherapy or to treatment of a strictly medical kind.	None
This is not to deny that expert advice should be sought in very many homosexual cases.	None
We shall have something more to say on these matters in connection with the treatment of offenders.	None
The claim that homosexuality is an illness carries the further implication that the sufferer cannot help it and therefore carries a diminished responsibility for his actions.	None
Even if it were accepted that homosexuality could properly be described as a disease, we should not accept this corollary.	None
There are no prima facie grounds for supposing that because a particular persons sexual propensity happens to lie in the direction of persons of his or her own sex it is any less controllable than that of those whose propensity is for persons of the opposite sex.	None
We are informed that patients in mental hospitals, with few exceptions, show clearly by their behavior that they can and do exercise a high degree of responsibility and selfcontrol for example, only a small minority need to be kept in locked wards.	None
The existence of varying degrees of selfcontrol is a matter of daily experience  the extent to which coughing can be controlled is an example  and the capacity for selfcontrol can vary with the personality structure or with temporary physical or emotional conditions.	None
The question which is important for us here is whether the individual suffers from a condition which causes diminished responsibility.	None
This is a different question from the question whether he was responsible in the past for the causes or origins of his present condition.	None
That is an interesting enquiry and may be of relevance in other connections but our concern is with the behavior which flows from the individuals present condition and with the extent to which he is responsible for that behavior, whatever may have been the causes of the condition from which it springs.	None
Just as expert opinion can give valuable assistance in deciding on the appropriate ways of dealing with a convicted person, so can it help in assessing the additional factors that may affect his present responsibility?	None
It then went on to note in paragraph 36 that the evidence before them showed that homosexuality existed in all levels of society and was prevalent in all trades and professions.	None
In paragraph 53, the main arguments for retention of the existing law were set out.	None
Insofar as societal health was concerned, the Committee rejected this for lack of evidence.	None
It went on to state As regards the first of these arguments, it is held that conduct of this kind is a cause of the demoralization and decay of civilisations, and that therefore, unless we wish to see our nation degenerate and decay, such conduct must be stopped, by every possible means.	None
We have found no evidence to support this view, and we cannot feel it right to frame the laws which should govern this country in the present age by reference to hypothetical explanations of the history of other peoples in ages distant in time and different in circumstances from our own.	None
In so far as the basis of this argument can be precisely formulated, it is often no more than the expression of revulsion against what is regarded as unnatural, sinful or disgusting.	None
Many people feel this revulsion, for one or more of these reasons.	None
But moral conviction or instinctive feeling, however strong, is not a valid basis for overriding the individuals privacy and for bringing within the ambit of the criminal law private sexual behaviour of this kind.	None
It is held also that if such men are employed in certain professions or certain branches of the public service their private habits may render them liable to threats of blackmail or to other pressures which may make them bad security risks.	None
If this is true, it is true also of some other categories of persons for example, drunkards, gamblers and those who become involved in compromising situations of a heterosexual kind and while it may be a valid ground for excluding from certain forms of employment men who indulge in homosexual behaviour, it does not, in our view, constitute a sufficient reason for making their private sexual behaviour an offence in itself.	None
(Emphasis supplied) Insofar as the damaging effects on family life were concerned, this was rejected by stating The second contention, that homosexual behaviour between males has a damaging effect on family life, may well be true.	None
Indeed, we have had evidence, that it often is cases in which homosexual behaviour on the part of the husband has broken up a marriage are by no means rare, and there are also cases in which a man in whom the homosexual component is relatively weak nevertheless derives such satisfaction from homosexual outlets that he does not enter upon a marriage which might have been successfully and happily consummated.	None
We deplore this damage to what we regard as the basic unit of society but cases are also frequently encountered in which a marriage has been broken up by homosexual behaviour on the part of the wife, and no doubt some women, too, derive sufficient satisfaction from homosexual outlets to prevent their marrying.	None
We have had no reasons shown to us which would lead us to believe that homosexual behaviour between males inflicts any greater damage on family life than adultery, fornication or lesbian behaviour.	None
These practices are all reprehensible from the point of view of harm to the family, but it is difficult to see why on this ground male homosexual behaviour alone among them should be a criminal offence.	None
This argument is not to be taken as saying that society should condone or approve male homosexual behaviour.	None
But where adultery, fornication and lesbian behaviour are not criminal offences there seems to us to be no valid ground, on the basis of damage to the family, for so regarding homosexual behaviour between men.	None
Moreover, it has to be recognized that the mere existence of the condition of homosexuality in one of the partners can result in an unsatisfactory marriage, so that for a homosexual to marry simply for the sake of conformity with the accepted structure of society or in the hope of curing his condition may result in disaster.	None
And in rejecting the allegation that men indulging in such practices with other men may turn their attention to boys, the Committee said We have given anxious consideration to the third argument, that an adult male who has sought as his partner another adult male may turn from such a relationship and seek as his partner a boy or succession of boys.	None
We should certainly not wish to countenance any proposal which might tend to increase offences against minors.	None
Indeed, if we thought that any recommendation for a change in the law would increase the danger to minors, we should not make it.	None
But in this matter, we have been much influenced by our expert witnesses.	None
They are in no doubt that whatever may be the origins of the homosexual condition, there are two recognisably different categories among adult male homosexuals.	None
There are those who seek as partners other adult males, and there are paedophiliacs, that is to say men who seek as partners boys who have not reached puberty.	None
We are authoritatively informed that a man who has homosexual relations with an adult partner seldom turns to boys, and viceversa, though it is apparent from the police reports we have seen and from other evidence submitted to us that such cases do happen.	None
Finally, the Committee stated We recognise that a proposal to change a law which has operated for many years so as to make legally permissible acts which were formerly unlawful, is open to criticisms which might not be made in relation to a proposal to omit, from a code of laws being formulated de novo, any provision making these acts illegal.	None
To reverse a longstanding tradition is a serious matter and not to be suggested lightly.	None
But the task entrusted to us, as we conceive it, is to state what we regard as a just and equitable law.	None
We therefore do not think it appropriate that consideration of this question should be unduly influenced by a regard for the present law, much of which derives from traditions whose origins are obscure.	None
Further, we feel bound to say this.	None
We have outlined the arguments against a change in the law, and we recognise their weight.	None
We believe, however, that they have been met by the counterarguments we have already advanced.	None
There remains one additional counterargument which we believe to be decisive, namely, the importance which society and the law ought to give to individual freedom of choice and action in matters of private morality.	None
Unless a deliberate attempt is to be made by society, acting through the agency of the law, to equate the sphere of crime with that of sin, there must remain a realm of private morality and immorality which is, in brief and crude terms, not the laws business.	None
To say this is not to condone or encourage private immorality.	None
On the contrary, to emphasise the personal and private responsibility of the individual for his own actions, and that is a responsibility which a mature agent can properly be expected to carry for himself without the threat of punishment from the law.	None
We accordingly recommend that homosexual behaviour between consenting adults in private should no longer be a criminal offence.	None
Change came slowly.	None
It was only in 1967 that the Wolfenden Committee Report was acted upon by the British Parliament by enacting the Sexual Offences Act, 1967, which abolished penal offences involving consenting samesex adults.	None
In 2017, the United Kingdom passed the Policing and Crimes Act which served as an amnesty law to pardon persons who were cautioned or convicted under legislations that outlawed homosexual acts.	None
The Law in the United States At the time that the United States achieved independence in 1776, the law in all the States insofar as samesex offences were concerned, was the English law.	None
This state of affairs continued until challenges were made in the last century to state statutes which criminalized sodomy.	None
One such case, namely, Bowers v. Hardwick (Bowers), 92 L. Ed.	None
2d 140 (1986), reached the United States Supreme Court in the year 1986.	None
By a 54 decision, the United States Supreme Court upheld a Georgia statute criminalizing sodomy and its applicability to the commission of that act with another adult male in the bedroom of the respondents home.	None
Justice White, who spoke for the majority of the Court, did this on several grounds.	None
First and foremost, he stated that there was no right to privacy that extended to homosexual sodomy.	None
No connection between family, marriage, or procreation and homosexuality had been demonstrated to the court.	None
The next ground for upholding such law was that proscriptions against such conduct had ancient roots.	None
Stanley v. Georgia (Stanley), 22 L. Ed.	None
2d 542 (1969), where the Court held that the First Amendment prohibits conviction for possessing and reading obscene material in the privacy of ones home, was brushed aside stating that Stanley itself recognized that its holding offered no protection for possession of drugs, firearms or stolen goods in the home.	None
Therefore, such a claimed fundamental right could not possibly exist when adultery, incest and other sexual crimes are punished, even though they may be committed in the home.	None
Another important rationale was that the Georgia law was based on a notion of morality, which is a choice that could legitimately be exercised by a State Legislature.	None
Chief Justice Burger, concurring, again relied heavily on ancient roots, stating that throughout the history of western civilization, homosexual sodomy was outlawed in the JudeoChristian tradition, which the Georgia legislature could well follow.	None
Justice Powell, concurring with the majority, found that to imprison a person upto 20 years for a single, private, consensual act of sodomy within the home would be a cruel and unusual punishment within the meaning of the Eighth Amendment.	None
However, since no trial had taken place on the facts, and since the respondent did not raise any such Eighth Amendment issue, Justice Powell concurred with the majority.	None
The dissenting opinion of four Justices makes interesting reading.	None
Justice Blackmun, who spoke for four dissenters, began with the classical definition of the old privacy right which is the right to be let alone, and quoted from Justice Holmes article The Path of the Law, stating it is revolting to have no better reason for a rule of law than that	None
so it was laid down in the time of Henry IV.	None
It is still more revolting if the grounds upon which it was laid down have vanished long since, and the rule simply persists from blind imitation of the past.	None
So much, then, for history and its ancient roots.	None
Justice Blackmuns dissent then went on to consider the famous judgment in Wisconsin v. Yoder, 32 L. Ed.	None
2d 15 (1972), in which the Court had upheld the fundamental right of the Amish community not to send their children to schools, stating that a way of life that is odd or even erratic but interferes with no rights or interests of others is not to be condemned because it is different.	None
Referring to JudeoChristian values, the Court said that the fact that certain religious groups condemn the behavior of sodomy gives the State no licence to impose their moral judgment on the entire citizenry of the United States.	None
Ending with a John Stuart Mill type of analysis, the dissent stated This case involves no real interference with the rights of others, for the mere knowledge that other individuals do not adhere to ones value system cannot be a legally cognizable interest, cf.	None
Diamond v. Charles, 476 U.S. 54, 6566, 106 S. Ct. 1697, 1705, 90 L.Ed.2d 48 (1986), let alone an interest that can justify invading the houses, hearts, and minds of citizens who choose to live their lives differently.	None
Justice Stevens, also in a powerfully worded dissent, specifically stated that the protection of privacy extends to intimate choices made by unmarried as well as married persons.	None
It took the United States 17 years to set aside this view of the law and to accept the dissenting judgments in Bowers (supra).	None
In Lawrence v. Texas, 539 U.S. 558 (2003), by a majority of 63, Justice Anthony Kennedy, speaking for the majority, set aside the judgment in Bowers (supra), accepting that the dissenting judgments in that case were correct.	None
In a tilt at the history analysis of the majority judgment in Bowers (supra), the Court found that earlier sodomy laws were not directed at homosexuals at large, but instead sought to prohibit nonprocreative sexual activity more generally, and were not enforced against consenting adults acting in private.	None
After citing from Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pa. v. Casey (Casey), 505 U.S. 833 (1992), the majority held  our obligation is to define the liberty of all, not to mandate our own moral code.	None
The majority judgment then referred to a Model Penal Code that the American Law Institute took out in 1955, making it clear that it did not provide for criminal penalties for consensual samesex relationships conducted in private.	None
The judgment then went on to refer to the Wolfenden Committee Report and the Sexual Offences Act,1967 in the United Kingdom and referred to the European Courts decision in Dudgeon v. United Kingdom, 45 Eur.	None
Ct. H. R. (1981).	None
It then referred to Romer v. Evans (Romer), 517 U.S. 620 (1996), where the Court struck down a classbased legislation which deprived homosexuals of State antidiscrimination laws as a violation of the Equal Protection Clause.	None
The majority then found that the 1986 decision of Bowers (supra), had sustained serious erosion through their recent decisions in Casey (supra) and Romer (supra), and had, therefore, to be revisited.	None
Justice OConnor concurred in the judgment but sidestepped rather than overruled Bowers (supra).	None
Justice Scalia, with whom the Chief Justice and Justice Thomas joined, found no reason to undo the Bowers (supra) verdict stating that stare decisis should carry the day.	None
An interesting passage in Justice Scalias judgment reads as follows Let me be clear that I have nothing against homosexuals, or any other group, promoting their agenda through normal democratic means.	None
Social perceptions of sexual and other morality change over time, and every group has the right to persuade its fellow citizens that its view of such matters is the best.	None
That homosexuals have achieved some success in that enterprise is attested to by the fact that Texas is one of the few remaining States that criminalize private, consensual homosexual acts.	None
But persuading ones fellow citizens is one thing, and imposing ones views in absence of democratic majority will is something else.	None
I would no more require a State to criminalize homosexual actsor, for that matter, display any moral disapprobation of themthan I would forbid it to do so.	None
What Texas has chosen to do is well within the range of traditional democratic action, and its hand should not be stayed through the invention of a brandnew constitutional right by a Court that is impatient of democratic change.	None
It is indeed true that later generations can see that laws once assembly, and other fundamental rights may not be submitted to vote they depend on the outcome of no elections.	None
thought necessary and proper in fact serve only to oppress, ante, at 579 and when that happens, later generations can repeal those laws.	None
But it is the premise of our system that those judgments are to be made by the people, and not imposed by a governing caste that knows best.	None
Before coming to our own judgments, we may quickly survey some of the judgments of the courts of other democratic nations.	None
The European Community decisions, beginning with Dudgeon v. United Kingdom (supra) and continuing with Norris v. Ireland, Application no. 10581/83, and Modinos v. Cyprus, 16 EHRR 485 (1993), have all found provisions similar to Section 377 to be violative of Article 8 of the European Human Rights Convention, 1948 in which everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life, his home and his correspondence, and no interference can be made with these rights unless the law is necessary in a democratic society inter alia for the prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morals, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.	None
In ElAl Israel Airlines Ltd. v. Jonathan Danielwitz, H.C.J. 721/94, the Supreme Court of Israel, speaking through Barak, J., recognized a samesex relationship so that a male companion could be treated as being a companion for the receipt of a free or discounted aeroplane ticket.	None
The Court held 14The principle of equality demands that the existence of a rule that treats people differently is justified by the nature and substance of the issue.	None
The principle of equality therefore presumes the existence of objective reasons that justify a difference (a distinction, dissimilarity).	None
Discrimination  which is the opposite of equality  exists therefore in those situations where a different law for people who are (de facto) different from one another is based on reasons that are insufficient to justify a distinction between them in a free and democratic society.	None
In Justice Ors words, discrimination is different treatment without an objective justification (Hoppert v. Yad VaShem Holocaust Martyrs and Heroes Memorial Authority 12, at p. 360).	None
President Agranat discussed this and pointed out The principle of equality, which is merely the opposite of discrimination and which, for reasons of justice and fairness, the law of every democratic country aspires to achieve, means that people must be treated equally for a particular purpose, when no real differences that are relevant to this purpose exist between them.	None
If they are not treated equally, we have a case of discrimination.	None
However, if the difference or differences between different people are relevant for the purpose under discussion, it is a permitted distinction to treat them differently for that purpose, provided that those differences justify this.	None
In this context, the concept of equality therefore means relevant equality, and it requires, with regard to the purpose under discussion, equality of treatment for those persons in this state.	None
By contrast, it will be a permitted distinction if the different treatment of different persons derives from their being for the purpose of the treatment, in a state of relevant inequality, just as it will be discrimination if it derives from their being in a state of inequality that is not relevant to the purpose of the treatment (FH 10/69 Boronovski v. Chief Rabbis 16, at p. 35).	None
Therefore, a particular law will create discrimination when two individuals, who are different from one another (factual inequality), are treated differently by the law, even though the factual difference between them does not justify different treatment in the circumstances.	None
Discrimination is therefore based on the factors of arbitrariness, injustice and unreasonableness.	None
XXX	None
We have seen, therefore, that giving a benefit to a (permanent) employee for a spouse or recognized companion of the opposite sex and not giving the same benefit for a samesex companion amounts to a violation of equality.	None
What is the nature of this discrimination?	None
Indeed, all discrimination is prohibited, but among the different kinds of discrimination, there are varying degrees.	None
The severity of the discrimination is determined by the severity of the violation of the principle of equality.	None
Thus, for example, we consider discrimination on the basis of race, religion, nationality, language, ethnic group and age to be particularly serious.	None
In this framework, the Israeli legal system attaches great importance to the need to guarantee equality between the sexes and to prevent discrimination on the basis of sex (see HCJ 153/87 Shakdiel v. Minister of Religious Affairs 19 Poraz v. Mayor of Tel AvivJaffa 6).	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
An instructive recent judgment from Trinidad and Tobago in Jason Jones v. Attorney General of Trinidad and Tobago, Claim No. CV 201700720, followed our judgment in Puttaswamy (supra) in order to strike down Section 13 of the Sexual Offences Act, 1986 on the ground that the State cannot criminalise sexual relations of the same sex between consenting adults.	None
The court concluded Having regard to the evidence and submissions before this court on all sides, there is no cogent evidence that the legislative objective is sufficiently important to justify limiting the claimants rights.	None
Mr. Hoseins stated objectives of 168.1.	None
Maintaining traditional family and values that represent society 168.2.	None
Preserving the legislation as it is and clarifying the law and 168.3.	None
Extending the offence in section 16 to women and reduce it to serious indecency from gross indecency do not counterbalance the claimants limit of his fundamental right of which he has given evidence.	None
Instead, the court accepts the claimants position that the law as it stands is not sufficiently important to justify limiting his fundamental rights and that he has proven it on a balance of probabilities.	None
To similar effect is the judgment of the High Court of Fiji in Dhirendra Nadan v. State, Case No. HAA0085 of 2005, where a Section similar to Section 377 was held to be inconsistent with the constitutional right of privacy and invalid to the extent that the law criminalises acts constituting private consensual sexual conduct against the course of nature between adults.	None
The South African Supreme Court, by a decision of 1999 in The National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Equality v. The Minister of Home Affairs, Case CCT 10/99, after referring to various judgments of other courts, also found a similar section to be inconsistent with the fundamental rights under its Constitution.	None
Another important decision is that of the United Nations Human Rights Committee in Toonen v. Australia, Communication No. 488/1992, U.N. Doc CCPR C/50/D/488/1992 (1994), dated 31.03.1994.	None
The Committee was called upon to determine whether Mr. Nicholas Toonen, who resided in the state of Tasmania, had been the victim of arbitrary interference with his privacy, and whether he had been discriminated against on the basis of his sexual orientation of being a homosexual.	None
The Committee found 8.2 Inasmuch as Article 17 is concerned, it is undisputed that adult consensual sexual activity in private is covered by the concept of privacy, and that Mr. Toonen is actually and currently affected by the continued existence of the Tasmanian laws.	None
The Committee considers that Sections 122 (a), (c) and 123 of the Tasmanian Criminal Code interfere with the authors privacy, even if these provisions have not been enforced for a decade.	None
In this context, it notes that the policy of the Department of Public Prosecutions not to initiate criminal proceedings in respect of private homosexual conduct does not amount to a guarantee that no actions will be brought against homosexuals in the future, particularly in the light of undisputed statements of the Director of Public Prosecutions of Tasmania in 1988 and those of members of the Tasmanian Parliament.	None
The continued existence of the challenged provisions therefore continuously and directly interferes with the authors privacy.	None
8.3	None
The prohibition against private homosexual behaviour is provided for by law, namely, Sections 122 and 123 of the Tasmanian Criminal Code.	None
As to whether it may be deemed arbitrary, the Committee recalls that pursuant to its General Comment 16 on article 17, the introduction of the concept of arbitrariness is intended to guarantee that even interference provided for by the law should be in accordance with the provisions, aims and objectives of the Covenant and should be, in any event, reasonable in the circumstances.(4)	None
The Committee interprets the requirement of reasonableness to imply that any interference with privacy must be proportional to the end sought and be necessary in the circumstances of any given case.	None
XXX 8.5 As far as the public health argument of the Tasmanian authorities is concerned, the Committee notes that the criminalization of homosexual practices cannot be considered a reasonable means or proportionate measure to achieve the aim of preventing the spread of AIDS HIV.	None
The Australian Government observes that statutes criminalizing homosexual activity tend to impede public health programmes by driving underground many of the people at the risk of infection.	None
Criminalization of homosexual activity thus would appear to run counter to the implementation of effective education programmes in respect of the HIV AIDS prevention.	None
Secondly, the Committee notes that no link has been shown between the continued criminalization of homosexual activity and the effective control of the spread of the HIV AIDS virus.	None
XXX 8.7	None
The State party has sought the Committees guidance as to whether sexual orientation may be considered an other status for the purposes of article 26.	None
The same issue could arise under article 2, paragraph 1, of the Covenant.	None
The Committee confines itself to noting, however, that in its view the reference to sex in articles 2, paragraph 1, and 26 is to be taken as including sexual orientation.	None
XXX	None
Under article 2(3)(a) of the Covenant, the author, victim of a violation of articles 17, paragraph 1, juncto 2, paragraph 1, of the Covenant, is entitled to a remedy.	None
In the opinion of the Committee, an effective remedy would be the repeal of Sections 122(a), (c) and 123 of the Tasmanian Criminal Code.	None
As a result of these findings, the Australian Parliament, on 19.12.1994, passed the Human Rights (Sexual Conduct) Act, 1994, Section 4 of which reads as under Arbitrary interferences with privacy Sexual conduct involving only consenting adults acting in private is not to be subject, by or under any law of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory, to any arbitrary interference with privacy within the meaning of Article 17 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.	None
For the purposes of this section, an adult is a person who is 18 years old or more.	None
Recent Judgments of this Court Anuj Garg and Ors.	None
v. Hotel Association of India and Ors., (2008) 3 SCC 1 , is an important decision of this Court, which dealt with the constitutional validity of another preconstitution enactment, namely, Section 30 of the Punjab Excise Act of 1914, which prohibited employment of any woman in any part of premises in which liquor is consumed by the public.	None
Sinha, J. adverted to the fact that when the original Act was enacted, the concept of equality between the two sexes was unknown.	None
The Constitution changed all that when it enacted Articles 14 and 15.	None
What is of importance is that when discrimination is made between two sets of persons, the classification must be founded on some rational criteria having regard to the societal conditions as they exist presently, and not as they existed in the early 20th century or even earlier.	None
This was felicitously stated by the learned Judge as follows The Act is a preconstitutional legislation.	None
Although it is saved in terms of Article 372 of the Constitution, challenge to its validity on the touchstone of Articles 14, 15 and 19 of the Constitution of India, is permissible in law.	None
While embarking on the questions raised, it may be pertinent to know that a statute although could have been held to be a valid piece of legislation keeping in view the societal condition of those times, but with the changes occurring therein both in the domestic as also international arena, such a law can also be declared invalid.	None
In John Vallamattom v. Union of India, (2003) 6 SCC 611 , this Court, while referring to an amendment made in UK in relation to a provision which was in pari materia with Section 118 of Indian Succession Act, observed (SCC p. 624, para 28)	None
28The constitutionality of a provision, it is trite, will have to be judged keeping in view the interpretative changes of the statute affected by passage of time.	None
Referring to the changing legal scenario and having regard to the Declaration on the Right to Development adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights as also Article 18 of the United Nations Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 1966, it was held (John Vallamattom case, SCC p. 625, para 33)	None
It is trite that having regard to Article 13(1) of the Constitution, the constitutionality of the impugned legislation is required to be considered on the basis of laws existing on 2611950, but while doing so the court is not precluded from taking into consideration the subsequent events which have taken place thereafter.	None
It is further trite that the law although may be constitutional when enacted but with passage of time the same may be held to be unconstitutional in view of the changed situation.	None
XXX	None
When a discrimination is sought to be made on the purported ground of classification, such classification must be founded on a rational criteria.	None
The criteria which in absence of any constitutional provision and, it will bear repetition to state, having regard to the societal conditions as they prevailed in early 20th century, may not be a rational criteria in the 21st century.	None
In the early 20th century, the hospitality sector was not open to women in general.	None
In the last 60 years, women in India have gained entry in all spheres of public life.	None
They have also been representing people at grass root democracy.	None
They are now employed as drivers of heavy transport vehicles, conductors of service carriages, pilots, et.	None
al.	None
Women can be seen to be occupying Class IV posts to the post of a Chief Executive Officer of a Multinational Company.	None
They are now widely accepted both in police as also army services.	None
The Court went on to hold that proportionality should be a standard capable of being called reasonable in a modern democratic society (See paragraph 36).	None
In a significant paragraph, the learned Judge held Instead of prohibiting women employment in the bars altogether the State should focus on factoring in ways through which unequal consequences of sex differences can be eliminated.	None
It is the States duty to ensure circumstances of safety which inspire confidence in women to discharge the duty freely in accordance to the requirements of the profession they choose to follow.	None
Any other policy inference (such as the one embodied under Section 30) from societal conditions would be oppressive on the women and against the privacy rights.	None
The learned Judge then went on to further hold that the standard of judicial scrutiny of legislations, which on their face effect discrimination, is as follows It is to be borne in mind that legislations with pronounced protective discrimination aims, such as this one, potentially serve as doubleedged swords.	None
Strict scrutiny test should be employed while assessing the implications of this variety of legislations.	None
Legislation should not be only assessed on its proposed aims but rather on the implications and the effects.	None
The impugned legislation suffers from incurable fixations of stereotype morality and conception of sexual role.	None
The perspective thus arrived at is outmoded in content and stifling in means.	None
No law in its ultimate effect should end up perpetuating the oppression of women.	None
Personal freedom is a fundamental tenet which cannot be compromised in the name of expediency until and unless there is a compelling State purpose.	None
Heightened level of scrutiny is the normative threshold for judicial review in such cases.	None
Finally, the Court held The test to review such a protective discrimination statute would entail a twopronged scrutiny (a) the legislative interference (induced by sex discriminatory legislation in the instant case) should be justified in principle, (b) the same should be proportionate in measure.	None
The Courts task is to determine whether the measures furthered by the State in the form of legislative mandate, to augment the legitimate aim of protecting the interests of women are proportionate to the other bulk of wellsettled gender norms such as autonomy, equality of opportunity, right to privacy, et al.	None
The bottomline in this behalf would be a functioning modern democratic society which ensures freedom to pursue varied opportunities and options without discriminating on the basis of sex, race, caste or any other like basis.	None
In fine, there should be a reasonable relationship of proportionality between the means used and the aim pursued.	None
The Section which had been struck down by the High Court was held to be arbitrary and unreasonable by this Court as well.	None
Close on the heels of this Courts judgment in Suresh Kumar Koushal (supra) is this Courts judgment in NALSA (supra).	None
In this case, the Court had to grapple with the trauma, agony and pain of the members of the transgender community.	None
The Court referred to Section 377 in the following words Section 377 IPC found a place in the Penal Code, 1860, prior to the enactment of the Criminal Tribes Act that criminalised all penile nonvaginal sexual acts between persons, including anal sex and oral sex, at a time when transgender persons were also typically associated with the proscribed sexual practices.	None
Reference may be made to the judgment of the Allahabad High Court in Queen Empress v. Khairati, ILR (1884) 6	None
All 204, wherein a transgender person was arrested and prosecuted under Section 377 on the suspicion that he was a habitual sodomite and was later acquitted on appeal.	None
In that case, while acquitting him, the Sessions Judge stated as follows (ILR pp. 20405)	None
This case relates to a person named Khairati, over whom the police seem to have exercised some sort of supervision, whether strictly regular or not, as a eunuch.	None
The man is not a eunuch in the literal sense, but he was called for by the police when on a visit to his village, and was found singing dressed as a woman among the women of a certain family.	None
Having been subjected to examination by the Civil Surgeon (and a subordinate medical man), he is shown to have the characteristic mark of a habitual catamitethe distortion of the orifice of the anus into the shape of a trumpetand also to be affected with syphilis in the same region in a manner which distinctly points to unnatural intercourse within the last few months.	None
Even though, he was acquitted on appeal, this case would demonstrate that Section 377, though associated with specific sexual acts, highlighted certain identities, including hijras and was used as an instrument of harassment and physical abuse against hijras and transgender persons.	None
The Court went on to explain the concepts of gender identity and sexual orientation, and relied heavily upon Yogyakarta Principles on the Application of International Human Rights Law in Relation to Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity.	None
The Court then went on to hold The principles discussed hereinbefore on TGs and the international conventions, including Yogyakarta Principles, which we have found not inconsistent with the various fundamental rights guaranteed under the Indian Constitution, must be recognised and followed, which has sufficient legal and historical justification in our country.	None
Insofar as Articles 15 and 16 of the Constitution were concerned, the Court held Articles 15 and 16 sought to prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex, recognising that sex discrimination is a historical fact and needs to be addressed.	None
The Constitutionmakers, it can be gathered, gave emphasis to the fundamental right against sex discrimination so as to prevent the direct or indirect attitude to treat people differently, for the reason of not being in conformity with stereotypical generalisations of binary genders.	None
Both gender and biological attributes constitute distinct components of sex.	None
The biological characteristics, of course, include genitals, chromosomes and secondary sexual features, but gender attributes include ones selfimage, the deep psychological or emotional sense of sexual identity and character.	None
The discrimination on the ground of sex under Articles 15 and 16, therefore, includes discrimination on the ground of gender identity.	None
The expression sex used in Articles 15 and 16 is not just limited to biological sex of male or female, but intended to include people who consider themselves to be neither male nor female.	None
Insofar as Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and transgenders were concerned, the Court held Gender identity, therefore, lies at the core of ones personal identity, gender expression and presentation and, therefore, it will have to be protected under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India.	None
A transgenders personality could be expressed by the transgenders behaviour and presentation.	None
State cannot prohibit, restrict or interfere with a transgenders expression of such personality, which reflects that inherent personality.	None
Often the State and its authorities either due to ignorance or otherwise fail to digest the innate character and identity of such persons.	None
We, therefore, hold that values of privacy, selfidentity, autonomy and personal integrity are fundamental rights guaranteed to members of the transgender community under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India and the State is bound to protect and recognise those rights.	None
In a significant paragraph relating to the personal autonomy of an individual, this Court held Article 21, as already indicated, guarantees the protection of personal autonomy of an individual.	None
In Anuj Garg v. Hotel Assn. of India (2008) 3 SCC 1 (SCC p. 15, paras 3435), this Court held that personal autonomy includes both the negative right of not to be subject to interference by others and the positive right of individuals to make decisions about their life, to express themselves and to choose which activities to take part in.	None
Selfdetermination of gender is an integral part of personal autonomy and selfexpression and falls within the realm of personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India.	None
The conclusion therefore was We, therefore, conclude that discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity includes any discrimination, exclusion, restriction or preference, which has the effect of nullifying or transposing equality by the law or the equal protection of laws guaranteed under our Constitution, and hence we are inclined to give various directions to safeguard the constitutional rights of the members of the TG community.	None
Dr. A.K. Sikri, J., in a separate concurring judgment, spoke of the fundamental and universal principle of the right of choice given to every individual, which is an inseparable part of human rights.	None
He then went on to hold 116.1.	None
Though in the past TGs in India were treated with great respect, that does not remain the scenario any longer.	None
Attrition in their status was triggered with the passing of the Criminal Tribes Act, 1871 which deemed the entire community of hijra persons as innately criminal and adapted to the systematic commission of nonbailable offences.	None
This dogmatism and indoctrination of the Indian people with aforesaid presumption, was totally capricious and nefarious.	None
There could not have been more harm caused to this community with the passing of the aforesaid brutal legislation during the British Regime with the vicious and savage mindset.	None
To add insult to the irreparable injury caused, Section 377 of the Penal Code was misused and abused as there was a tendency, in the British period, to arrest and prosecute TG persons under Section 377 merely on suspicion.	None
To undergo this sordid historical harm caused to TGs of India, there is a need for incessant efforts with effervescence.	None
And in paragraphs 125 and 129, he outlined the role of our Court as follows The role of the Court is to understand the central purpose and theme of the Constitution for the welfare of the society.	None
Our Constitution, like the law of the society, is a living organism.	None
It is based on a factual and social reality that is constantly changing.	None
Sometimes a change in the law precedes societal change and is even intended to stimulate it.	None
Sometimes, a change in the law is the result in the social reality.	None
When we discuss about the rights of TGs in the constitutional context, we find that in order to bring about complete paradigm shift, the law has to play more predominant role.	None
As TGs in India, are neither male nor female, treating them as belonging to either of the aforesaid categories, is the denial of these constitutional rights.	None
It is the denial of social justice which in turn has the effect of denying political and economic justice.	None
XXX	None
As we have pointed out above, our Constitution inheres liberal and substantive democracy with the rule of law as an important and fundamental pillar.	None
It has its own internal morality based on dignity and equality of all human beings.	None
The rule of law demands protection of individual human rights.	None
Such rights are to be guaranteed to each and every human being.	None
These TGs, even though insignificant in numbers, are still human beings and therefore they have every right to enjoy their human rights.	None
In an unusual final order, the Court declared We, therefore, declare 135.1.	None
Hijras, eunuchs, apart from binary genders, be treated as third gender for the purpose of safeguarding their rights under Part III of our Constitution and the laws made by Parliament and the State Legislature.	None
135.2.	None
Transgender persons right to decide their selfidentified gender is also upheld and the Centre and State Governments are directed to grant legal recognition of their gender identity such as male, female or as third gender.	None
135.3.	None
We direct the Centre and the State Governments to take steps to treat them as Socially and Educationally Backward Classes of citizens and extend all kinds of reservation in cases of admission in educational institutions and for public appointments.	None
135.4.	None
The Centre and State Governments are directed to operate separate HIV serosurveillance centres since hijras transgenders face several sexual health issues.	None
135.5.	None
The Centre and State Governments should seriously address the problems being faced by hijras transgenders such as fear, shame, gender dysphoria, social pressure, depression, suicidal tendencies, social stigma, etc. and any insistence for SRS for declaring ones gender is immoral and illegal.	None
135.6.	None
The Centre and State Governments should take proper measures to provide medical care to TGs in the hospitals and also provide them separate public toilets and other facilities.	None
135.7.	None
The Centre and State Governments should also take steps for framing various social welfare schemes for their betterment.	None
135.8.	None
The Centre and State Governments should take steps to create public awareness so that TGs will feel that they are also part and parcel of the social life and be not treated as untouchables.	None
135.9.	None
The Centre and the State Governments should also take measures to regain their respect and place in the society which once they enjoyed in our cultural and social life.	None
Puttaswamy (supra) is the next important nail in the coffin of section 377 insofar as it pertains to consensual sex between samesex adults.	None
In this judgment, Chandrachud, J. referred approvingly to the NALSA (supra) judgment in paragraph 96 and went on to hold that privacy is intrinsic to freedom and liberty.	None
In referring to Suresh Kumar Koushal (supra), Chandrachud, J. referred to the judgment as another discordant note which directly bears upon the evolution of constitutional jurisprudence on the right to privacy.	None
Chandrachud, J. went on to castigate the judgment in Suresh Kumar Koushal (supra), and held Neither of the above reasons can be regarded as a valid constitutional basis for disregarding a claim based on privacy under Article 21 of the Constitution.	None
That a miniscule fraction of the countrys population constitutes lesbians, gays, bisexuals or transgenders (as observed in the judgment of this Court) is not a sustainable basis to deny the right to privacy.	None
The purpose of elevating certain rights to the stature of guaranteed fundamental rights is to insulate their exercise from the disdain of majorities, whether legislative or popular.	None
The guarantee of constitutional rights does not depend upon their exercise being favourably regarded by majoritarian opinion.	None
The test of popular acceptance does not furnish a valid basis to disregard rights which are conferred with the sanctity of constitutional protection.	None
Discrete and insular minorities face grave dangers of discrimination for the simple reason that their views, beliefs or way of life does not accord with the mainstream.	None
Yet in a democratic Constitution founded on the Rule of Law, their rights are as sacred as those conferred on other citizens to protect their freedoms and liberties.	None
Sexual orientation is an essential attribute of privacy.	None
Discrimination against an individual on the basis of sexual orientation is deeply offensive to the dignity and selfworth of the individual.	None
Equality demands that the sexual orientation of each individual in society must be protected on an even platform.	None
The right to privacy and the protection of sexual orientation lie at the core of the fundamental rights guaranteed by Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution.	None
The view in Koushal Suresh Kumar Koushal v. Naz Foundation, (2014) 1 SCC 1 (2013) 4 SCC (Cri) 1 that the High Court had erroneously relied upon international precedents in its anxiety to protect the socalled rights of LGBT persons is similarly, in our view, unsustainable.	None
The rights of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender population cannot be construed to be socalled rights.	None
The expression socalled seems to suggest the exercise of a liberty in the garb of a right which is illusory.	None
This is an inappropriate construction of the privacybased claims of the LGBT population.	None
Their rights are not socalled but are real rights founded on sound constitutional doctrine.	None
They inhere in the right to life.	None
They dwell in privacy and dignity.	None
They constitute the essence of liberty and freedom.	None
Sexual orientation is an essential component of identity.	None
Equal protection demands protection of the identity of every individual without discrimination.	None
The decision in Koushal Suresh Kumar Koushal v. Naz Foundation, (2014) 1 SCC 1 (2013) 4 SCC (Cri) 1 presents a de minimis rationale when it asserts that there have been only two hundred prosecutions for violating Section 377.	None
The de minimis hypothesis is misplaced because the invasion of a fundamental right is not rendered tolerable when a few, as opposed to a large number of persons, are subjected to hostile treatment.	None
The reason why such acts of hostile discrimination are constitutionally impermissible is because of the chilling effect which they have on the exercise of the fundamental right in the first place.	None
For instance, prepublication restraints such as censorship are vulnerable because they discourage people from exercising their right to free speech because of the fear of a restraint coming into operation.	None
The chilling effect on the exercise of the right poses a grave danger to the unhindered fulfilment of ones sexual orientation, as an element of privacy and dignity.	None
The chilling effect is due to the danger of a human being subjected to social opprobrium or disapproval, as reflected in the punishment of crime.	None
Hence the Koushal Suresh Kumar Koushal v. Naz Foundation, (2014) 1 SCC 1 (2013) 4 SCC (Cri) 1 rationale that prosecution of a few is not an index of violation is flawed and cannot be accepted.	None
Consequently, we disagree with the manner in which Koushal Suresh Kumar Koushal v. Naz Foundation, (2014) 1 SCC 1 (2013) 4 SCC (Cri) 1 has dealt with the privacydignity based claims of LGBT persons on this aspect.	None
Since the challenge to Section 377 is pending consideration before a larger Bench of this Court, we would leave the constitutional validity to be decided in an appropriate proceeding.	None
In an important paragraph, the learned Judge finally held Privacy includes at its core the preservation of personal intimacies, the sanctity of family life, marriage, procreation, the home and sexual orientation.	None
Privacy also connotes a right to be left alone.	None
Privacy safeguards individual autonomy and recognises the ability of the individual to control vital aspects of his or her life.	None
Personal choices governing a way of life are intrinsic to privacy.	None
Privacy protects heterogeneity and recognises the plurality and diversity of our culture.	None
While the legitimate expectation of privacy may vary from the intimate zone to the private zone and from the private to the public arenas, it is important to underscore that privacy is not lost or surrendered merely because the individual is in a public place.	None
Privacy attaches to the person since it is an essential facet of the dignity of the human being.	None
Nariman, J., in his judgment, which was concurred in by three other learned Judges, recognized the privacy of choice which protects an individuals autonomy over fundamental personal choices as follows In the Indian context, a fundamental right to privacy would cover at least the following three aspects Privacy that involves the person i.e. when there is some invasion by the State of a persons rights relatable to his physical body, such as the right to move freely Informational privacy which does not deal with a persons body but deals with a persons mind, and therefore recognises that an individual may have control over the dissemination of material that is personal to him.	None
Unauthorised use of such information may, therefore lead to infringement of this right and The privacy of choice, which protects an individuals autonomy over fundamental personal choices.	None
For instance, we can ground physical privacy or privacy relating to the body in Articles 19(1)(d) and (e) read with Article 21 ground personal information privacy under Article 21 and the privacy of choice in Articles 19(1)(a) to (c), 20(3), 21 and 25.	None
The argument based on privacy being a vague and nebulous concept need not, therefore, detain us.	None
Kaul, J., in a separate judgment, also joined Chandrachud, J. in castigating Suresh Kumar Koushals judgment as follows There are two aspects of the opinion of Dr D.Y. Chandrachud, J., one of which is common to the opinion of Rohinton F. Nariman, J., needing specific mention.	None
While considering the evolution of constitutional jurisprudence on the right to privacy he has referred to the judgment in Suresh Kumar Koushal v. Naz Foundation Suresh Kumar Koushal v. Naz Foundation, (2014) 1 SCC 1 (2013) 4 SCC (Cri) 1.	None
In the challenge laid to Section 377 of the Penal Code before the Delhi High Court, one of the grounds of challenge was that the said provision amounted to an infringement of the right to dignity and privacy.	None
The Delhi High Court, inter alia, observed Naz Foundation v. Govt.	None
(NCT of Delhi), 2009 SCC OnLine Del 1762 2010 Cri LJ 94 that the right to live with dignity and the right to privacy both are recognised as dimensions of Article 21 of the Constitution of India.	None
The view of the High Court, however did not find favour with the Supreme Court and it was observed that only a miniscule fraction of the countrys population constitutes lesbians, gays, bisexuals or transgenders and thus, there cannot be any basis for declaring the section ultra vires of provisions of Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution.	None
The matter did not rest at this, as the issue of privacy and dignity discussed by the High Court was also observed upon.	None
The sexual orientation even within the four walls of the house thus became an aspect of debate.	None
I am in agreement with the view of Dr D.Y. Chandrachud, J., who in paras 144 to 146 of his judgment, states that the right to privacy cannot be denied, even if there is a miniscule fraction of the population which is affected.	None
The majoritarian concept does not apply to constitutional rights and the courts are often called up on to take what may be categorised as a nonmajoritarian view, in the check and balance of power envisaged under the Constitution of India.	None
Ones sexual orientation is undoubtedly an attribute of privacy.	None
The observations made in Mosley v. News Group Papers Ltd.	None
Mosley v. News Group Papers Ltd., 2008 EWHC 1777 (QB), in a broader concept may be usefully referred to 130.	None
It is not simply a matter of personal privacy Vs.	None
the public interest.	None
The modern perception is that there is a public interest in respecting personal privacy.	None
It is thus a question of taking account of conflicting public interest considerations and evaluating them according to increasingly wellrecognised criteria.	None
When the courts identify an infringement of a persons Article 8 rights, and in particular in the context of his freedom to conduct his sex life and personal relationships as he wishes, it is right to afford a remedy and to vindicate that right.	None
The only permitted exception is where there is a countervailing public interest which in the particular circumstances is strong enough to outweigh it that is to say, because one at least of the established limiting principles comes into play.	None
Was it necessary and proportionate for the intrusion to take place, for example, in order to expose illegal activity or to prevent the public from being significantly misled by public claims hitherto made by the individual concerned (as with Naomi Campbells public denials of drugtaking)?	None
Or was it necessary because the information, in the words of the Strasbourg Court in Von Hannover Von Hannover v. Germany, (2004) 40 EHRR 1 at pp.	None
60 and 76, would make a contribution to a debate of general interest?	None
That is, of course, a very high test, it is yet to be determined how far that doctrine will be taken in the courts of this jurisdiction in relation to photography in public places.	None
If taken literally, it would mean a very significant change in what is permitted.	None
It would have a profound effect on the tabloid and celebrity culture to which we have become accustomed in recent years.	None
Close upon the heels of these three judgments are three other important recent decisions.	None
In Common Cause v. Union of India, 2018 5 SCC 1, a case dealing with euthanasia, Dipak Misra, C.J., states as under The purpose of saying so is only to highlight that the law must take cognizance of the changing society and march in consonance with the developing concepts.	None
The need of the present has to be served with the interpretative process of law.	None
However, it is to be seen how much strength and sanction can be drawn from the Constitution to consummate the changing ideology and convert it into a reality.	None
The immediate needs are required to be addressed through the process of interpretation by the Court unless the same totally falls outside the constitutional framework or the constitutional interpretation fails to recognise such dynamism.	None
The Constitution Bench in Gian Kaur Gian Kaur v. State of Punjab, (1996) 2 SCC 648 1996 SCC (Cri) 374, as stated earlier, distinguishes attempt to suicide and abetment of suicide from acceleration of the process of natural death which has commenced.	None
The authorities, we have noted from other jurisdictions, have observed the distinctions between the administration of lethal injection or certain medicines to cause painless death and nonadministration of certain treatment which can prolong the life in cases where the process of dying that has commenced is not reversible or withdrawal of the treatment that has been given to the patient because of the absolute absence of possibility of saving the life.	None
To explicate, the first part relates to an overt act whereas the second one would come within the sphere of informed consent and authorised omission.	None
The omission of such a nature will not invite any criminal liability if such action is guided by certain safeguards.	None
The concept is based on nonprolongation of life where there is no cure for the state the patient is in and he, under no circumstances, would have liked to have such a degrading state.	None
The words no cure have to be understood to convey that the patient remains in the same state of pain and suffering or the dying process is delayed by means of taking recourse to modern medical technology.	None
It is a state where the treating physicians and the family members know fully well that the treatment is administered only to procrastinate the continuum of breath of the individual and the patient is not even aware that he is breathing.	None
Life is measured by artificial heartbeats and the patient has to go through this undignified state which is imposed on him.	None
The dignity of life is denied to him as there is no other choice but to suffer an avoidable protracted treatment thereby thus indubitably casting a cloud and creating a dent in his right to live with dignity and face death with dignity, which is a preserved concept of bodily autonomy and right to privacy.	None
In such a stage, he has no old memories or any future hopes but he is in a state of misery which nobody ever desires to have.	None
Some may also silently think that death, the inevitable factum of life, cannot be invited.	None
To meet such situations, the Court has a duty to interpret Article 21 in a further dynamic manner and it has to be stated without any trace of doubt that the right to life with dignity has to include the smoothening of the process of dying when the person is in a vegetative state or is living exclusively by the administration of artificial aid that prolongs the life by arresting the dignified and inevitable process of dying.	None
Here, the issue of choice also comes in.	None
Thus analysed, we are disposed to think that such a right would come within the ambit of Article 21 of the Constitution.	None
Right of selfdetermination and individual autonomy Having dealt with the right to acceleration of the process of dying a natural death which is arrested with the aid of modern innovative technology as a part of Article 21 of the Constitution, it is necessary to address the issues of right of selfdetermination and individual autonomy.	None
John Rawls says that the liberal concept of autonomy focuses on choice and likewise, selfdetermination is understood as exercised through the process of choosing Rawls, John, Political Liberalism, 32, 33 (New York Columbia University Press, 1993).	None
The respect for an individual human being and in particular for his right to choose how he should live his own life is individual autonomy or the right of selfdetermination.	None
It is the right against noninterference by others, which gives a competent person who has come of age the right to make decisions concerning his or her own life and body without any control or interference of others.	None
Lord Hoffman, in Reeves v. Commr. of Police of the Metropolis Reeves v. Commr. of Police of the Metropolis, (2000) 1 AC 360 (1993)	None
3 WLR 363 (HL) has stated (AC p. 369 B)	None
Autonomy means that every individual is sovereign over himself and cannot be denied the right to certain kinds of behaviour, even if intended to cause his own death.	None
XXX 202.8.	None
An inquiry into Common Law jurisdictions reveals that all adults with capacity to consent have the right of selfdetermination and autonomy.	None
The said rights pave the way for the right to refuse medical treatment which has acclaimed universal recognition.	None
A competent person who has come of age has the right to refuse specific treatment or all treatment or opt for an alternative treatment, even if such decision entails a risk of death.	None
The Emergency Principle or the Principle of Necessity has to be given effect to only when it is not practicable to obtain the patients consent for treatment and his her life is in danger.	None
But where a patient has already made a valid Advance Directive which is free from reasonable doubt and specifying that he she does not wish to be treated, then such directive has to be given effect to.	None
In the same case, Chandrachud J. went on to hold Under our Constitution, the inherent value which sanctifies life is the dignity of existence.	None
Recognising human dignity is intrinsic to preserving the sanctity of life.	None
Life is truly sanctified when it is lived with dignity.	None
There exists a close relationship between dignity and the quality of life.	None
For, it is only when life can be lived with a true sense of quality that the dignity of human existence is fully realised.	None
Hence, there should be no antagonism between the sanctity of human life on the one hand and the dignity and quality of life on the other hand.	None
Quality of life ensures dignity of living and dignity is but a process in realising the sanctity of life.	None
Human dignity is an essential element of a meaningful existence.	None
A life of dignity comprehends all stages of living including the final stage which leads to the end of life.	None
Liberty and autonomy are essential attributes of a life of substance.	None
It is liberty which enables an individual to decide upon those matters which are central to the pursuit of a meaningful existence.	None
The expectation that the individual should not be deprived of his or her dignity in the final stage of life gives expression to the central expectation of a fading life control over pain and suffering and the ability to determine the treatment which the individual should receive.	None
When society assures to each individual a protection against being subjected to degrading treatment in the process of dying, it seeks to assure basic human dignity.	None
Dignity ensures the sanctity of life.	None
The recognition afforded to the autonomy of the individual in matters relating to endoflife decisions is ultimately a step towards ensuring that life does not despair of dignity as it ebbs away.	None
XXX	None
The protective mantle of privacy covers certain decisions that fundamentally affect the human life cycle.	None
Richard Delgado, Euthanasia Reconsidered The Choice of Death as an Aspect of the Right of Privacy, Arizona Law Review (1975), Vol. 17, at p. 474.	None
It protects the most personal and intimate decisions of individuals that affect their life and development.	None
Ibid.	None
Thus, choices and decisions on matters such as procreation, contraception and marriage have been held to be protected.	None
While death is an inevitable end in the trajectory of the cycle of human life of individuals are often faced with choices and decisions relating to death.	None
Decisions relating to death, like those relating to birth, sex, and marriage, are protected by the Constitution by virtue of the right of privacy.	None
The right to privacy resides in the right to liberty and in the respect of autonomy.	None
T.L. Beauchamp, The Right to Privacy and the Right to Die, Social Philosophy and Policy (2000), Vol. 17, at p. 276.	None
The right to privacy protects autonomy in making decisions related to the intimate domain of death as well as bodily integrity.	None
Few moments could be of as much importance as the intimate and private decisions that we are faced regarding death.	None
Ibid.	None
Continuing treatment against the wishes of a patient is not only a violation of the principle of informed consent, but also of bodily privacy and bodily integrity that have been recognised as a facet of privacy by this Court.	None
Similarly, in Shafin Jahan v. Asokan K.M., 2018 SCC Online 343, this Court was concerned with the right of an adult citizen to make her own marital choice.	None
The learned Chief Justice referred to Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India as follows Thus, the pivotal purpose of the said writ is to see that no one is deprived of his her liberty without sanction of law.	None
It is the primary duty of the State to see that the said right is not sullied in any manner whatsoever and its sanctity is not affected by any kind of subterfuge.	None
The role of the Court is to see that the detenue is produced before it, find out about his her independent choice and see to it that the person is released from illegal restraint.	None
The issue will be a different one when the detention is not illegal.	None
What is seminal is to remember that the song of liberty is sung with sincerity and the choice of an individual is appositely respected and conferred its esteemed status as the Constitution guarantees.	None
It is so as the expression of choice is a fundamental right under Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution, if the said choice does not transgress any valid legal framework.	None
Once that aspect is clear, the enquiry and determination have to come to an end.	None
XXX	None
It is obligatory to state here that expression of choice in accord with law is acceptance of individual identity.	None
Curtailment of that expression and the ultimate action emanating therefrom on the conceptual structuralism of obeisance to the societal will destroy the individualistic entity of a person.	None
The social values and morals have their space but they are not above the constitutionally guaranteed freedom.	None
The said freedom is both a constitutional and a human right.	None
Deprivation of that freedom which is ingrained in choice on the plea of faith is impermissible.	None
Faith of a person is intrinsic to his her meaningful existence.	None
To have the freedom of faith is essential to his her autonomy and it strengthens the core norms of the Constitution.	None
Choosing a faith is the substratum of individuality and sans it, the right of choice becomes a shadow.	None
It has to be remembered that the realization of a right is more important than the conferment of the right.	None
Such actualization indeed ostracises any kind of societal notoriety and keeps at bay the patriarchal supremacy.	None
It is so because the individualistic faith and expression of choice are fundamental for the fructification of the right.	None
Thus, we would like to call it indispensable preliminary condition.	None
In another recent judgment of a threeJudge Bench, in Shakti Vahini v. Union of India, 2018 SCC Online SC 275, which dealt with honour killings, this Court held Honour killing guillotines individual liberty, freedom of choice and ones own perception of choice.	None
It has to be sublimely borne in mind that when two adults consensually choose each other as life partners, it is a manifestation of their choice which is recognized under Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution.	None
Such a right has the sanction of the constitutional law and once that is recognized, the said right needs to be protected and it cannot succumb to the conception of class honour or group thinking which is conceived of on some notion that remotely does not have any legitimacy.	None
The concept of liberty has to be weighed and tested on the touchstone of constitutional sensitivity, protection and the values it stands for.	None
It is the obligation of the Constitutional Courts as the sentinel on qui vive to zealously guard the right to liberty of an individual as the dignified existence of an individual has an inseparable association with liberty.	None
Without sustenance of liberty, subject to constitutionally valid provisions of law, the life of a person is comparable to the living dead having to endure cruelty and torture without protest and tolerate imposition of thoughts and ideas without a voice to dissent or record a disagreement.	None
The fundamental feature of dignified existence is to assert for dignity that has the spark of divinity and the realization of choice within the parameters of law without any kind of subjugation.	None
The purpose of laying stress on the concepts of individual dignity and choice within the framework of liberty is of paramount importance.	None
We may clearly and emphatically state that life and liberty sans dignity and choice is a phenomenon that allows hollowness to enter into the constitutional recognition of identity of a person.	None
The choice of an individual is an inextricable part of dignity, for dignity cannot be thought of where there is erosion of choice.	None
True it is, the same is bound by the principle of constitutional limitation but in the absence of such limitation, none, we mean, no one shall be permitted to interfere in the fructification of the said choice.	None
If the right to express ones own choice is obstructed, it would be extremely difficult to think of dignity in its sanctified completeness.	None
When two adults marry out of their volition, they choose their path they consummate their relationship they feel that it is their goal and they have the right to do so.	None
And it can unequivocally be stated that they have the right and any infringement of the said right is a constitutional violation.	None
The majority in the name of class or elevated honour of clan cannot call for their presence or force their appearance as if they are the monarchs of some indescribable era who have the power, authority and final say to impose any sentence and determine the execution of the same in the way they desire possibly harbouring the notion that they are a law unto themselves or they are the ancestors of Caesar or, for that matter, Louis the XIV.	None
The Constitution and the laws of this country do not countenance such an act and, in fact, the whole activity is illegal and punishable as offence under the criminal law.	None
Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 Parliament is also alive to privacy interests and the fact that persons of the samesex who cohabit with each other are entitled to equal treatment.	None
A recent enactment, namely the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, throws a great deal of light on recent parliamentary legislative understanding and acceptance of constitutional values as reflected by this Courts judgments.	None
Section 2(s) of the Act defines mental illness, which reads as under 2(s) mental illness means a substantial disorder of thinking, mood, perception, orientation or memory that grossly impairs judgment, behaviour, capacity to recognise reality or ability to meet the ordinary demands of life, mental conditions associated with the abuse of alcohol and drugs, but does not include mental retardation which is a condition of arrested or incomplete development of mind of a person, specially characterised by subnormality of intelligence This definition throws to the winds all earlier misconceptions of mental illness including the fact that samesex couples who indulge in anal sex are persons with mental illness.	None
At one point of time, the thinking in Victorian England and early on in America was that homosexuality was to be considered as a mental disorder.	None
The amicus curiae brief of the American Psychiatric Association in support of the petitioners in Lawrence v. Texas (supra) has put paid to this notion.	None
This brief set out the research that has been done in this area as follows The Recognition That Homosexuality Is Not A Mental Disorder	None
The American mental health professions concluded more than a quartercentury ago that homosexuality is not a mental disorder.	None
That conclusion was reached after decades of study of homosexuality by independent researchers, as well as numerous attempts by practitioners in the mentalhealth professions to effectuate a change in individuals sexual orientation.	None
During the first half of the 20th century, many mental health professionals regarded homosexuality as a pathological condition, but that perspective reflected untested assumptions supported largely by clinical impressions of patients seeking therapy and individuals whose conduct brought them into the criminal justice system.	None
See J.C. Gonsiorek, The Empirical Basis for the Demise of the Illness Model of Homosexuality, in Homosexuality Research Implications for Public Policy 115 (J.C. Gonsiorek J.D.	None
Weinrich eds., 1991).	None
Those assumptions were not subjected to rigorous scientific scrutiny with nonclinical, nonincarcerated samples until the latter half of the century.	None
Once the notion that homosexuality is linked to mental illness was empirically tested, it proved to be based on untenable assumptions and value judgments.	None
In one of the first rigorous examinations of the mental health status of homosexuality, Dr. Evelyn Hooker administered a battery of standard psychological tests to homosexual and heterosexual men who were matched for age, IQ, and education.	None
See Evelyn Hooker, The Adjustment of the Male Overt Homosexual, 21 J. Projective Techniques 1731 (1957).	None
None of the men was in therapy at the time of the study.	None
Based on the ratings of expert judges who were kept unaware of the mens sexual orientation, Hooker determined that homosexual and heterosexual men could not be distinguished from one another on the basis of the psychological testing, and that a similar majority of the two groups appeared to be free of psychopathology.	None
She concluded from her data that homosexuality is not inherently associated with psychopathology and that homosexuality as a clinical entity does not exist.	None
Id. at 1819.	None
Hookers findings were followed over the next two decades by numerous studies, using a variety of research techniques, which similarly concluded that homosexuality is not related to psychopathology or social maladjustment.	None
In 1973, in recognition that scientific data do not indicate that a homosexual orientation is inherently associated with psychopathology, amicus American Psychiatric Associations Board of Trustees voted to remove homosexuality from the Psychiatric Associations Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders.	None
That resolution stated that homosexuality per se implies no impairment in judgment, stability, reliability, or general social or vocational capabilities.	None
Am.	None
Psychiatric Assn, Position Statement on Homosexuality and Civil Rights (Dec. 15, 1973), printed in 131 Am.	None
J. Psychiatry 497 (1974).	None
That decision was upheld by a vote of the Psychiatric Associations membership the following year.	None
After a thorough review of the scientific evidence, amicus American Psychological Association adopted the same position in 1975, and urged all mental health professionals to help dispel the stigma of mental illness that had long been associated with homosexual orientation.	None
See Am.	None
Psychol.	None
Assn, Minutes of the Annual Meeting of the Council of Representatives, 30 Am.	None
Psychologist 620, 633 (1975).	None
Amicus National Association of Social Workers (NASW) has adopted a similar policy.	None
See NASW, Policy Statement on Lesbian and Gay Issues (Aug. 1993) (approved by NASW Delegate Assembly), reprinted in NASW, Social Work Speaks NASW Policy Statements 162 (3d ed. 1994).	None
Of course, as is the case for heterosexuals, some homosexuals have mental illnesses, psychological disturbances, or poor social adjustment.	None
Gay men, lesbians, and bisexuals also may be at somewhat greater risk for some kinds of psychological problems because of stresses associated with the experiences of social stigma and prejudice (see pp.	None
2327, infra).	None
But research conducted over four decades has established that homosexuality in and of itself bears no necessary relationship to psychological adjustment.	None
The efforts to cure homosexuality that were prevalent in earlier generations which included hypnosis, administration of hormones, aversive conditioning with electric shock or nauseainducing drugs, lobotomy, electroshock, and castration are now regarded by the mentalhealth professions as regrettable.	None
It also outlined the prejudice, discrimination and violence that has been encountered by gay people, as follows Discrimination, Prejudice, And Violence Encountered By Gay People Lesbians and gay men in the United States encounter extensive prejudice, discrimination, and violence because of their sexual orientation.	None
Intense prejudice against gay men and lesbians was widespread throughout much of the 20th century public opinion studies routinely showed that, among large segments of the public, gay people were the target of strong antipathy.	None
Although a shift in public opinion concerning homosexuality occurred in the 1990s, hostility toward gay men and lesbians remains common in contemporary American society.	None
Prejudice against bisexuals appears to exist at comparable levels.	None
Discrimination against gay people in employment and housing also appears to remain widespread.	None
The severity of this antigay prejudice is reflected in the consistently high rate of antigay harassment and violence in American society.	None
Numerous surveys indicate that verbal harassment and abuse are nearly universal experiences of gay people.	None
Although physical violence is less common, substantial numbers of gay people report having experienced crimes against their person or property because of their sexual orientation.	None
In 2001, the most recent year for which FBI statistics are available, there were 1,375 reported bias motivated incidents against gay men, lesbians, and bisexuals.	None
That figure likely represents only a fraction of such crimes, because reporting of hate crimes by law enforcement agencies is voluntary, the thoroughness of police statistics differs widely among jurisdictions, and many victims do not report their experiences to police because they fear further harassment or lack confidence that the assailants will be caught.	None
Although homosexuality is not a mental disorder, this societal prejudice against gay men and lesbians can cause them real and substantial psychological harm.	None
Research indicates that experiencing rejection, discrimination, and violence is associated with heightened psychological distress among gay men and lesbians.	None
These problems are exacerbated by the fact that, because of antigay stigma, gay men and lesbians have less access to social support and other resources that assist heterosexuals in coping with stress.	None
Although many gay men and lesbians learn to cope with the social stigma against homosexuality, efforts to avoid that social stigma through attempts to conceal or dissimulate sexual orientation can be seriously damaging to the psychological wellbeing of gay people.	None
Lesbians and gay men have been found to manifest better mental health to the extent that they feel positively about their sexual orientation and have integrated it into their lives through coming out and participating in the gay community.	None
Being able to disclose ones sexual orientation to others also increases the availability of social support, which is crucial to mental health.	None
Expressing its approval of the position taken by the American Psychiatric Association, the Indian Psychiatric Society in its recent Position Statement on Homosexuality dated 02.07.2018 has stated In the opinion of the Indian Psychiatric Society (IPS) homosexuality is not a psychiatric disorder.	None
This is in line with the position of American Psychiatric Association and The International Classification of Diseases of the World health Organization which removed homosexuality from the list of psychiatric disorders in 1973 and 1992 respectively.	None
The I.P.S recognizes samesex sexuality as a normal variant of human sexuality much like heterosexuality and bisexuality.	None
There is no scientific evidence that sexual orientation can be altered by any treatment and that any such attempts may in fact lead to low selfesteem and stigmatization of the person.	None
The Indian Psychiatric Society further supports decriminalization of homosexual behavior.	None
The US Supreme Court, in its decision in Obergefell et al. v. Hodges, Director, Ohio Department of Health, et al., 576 US (2015), also took note of the enormous sufferings of homosexual persons in the time gap between Bowers (supra) and Lawrence v. Texas (supra), in the following words This is not the first time the Court has been asked to adopt a cautious approach to recognizing and protecting fundamental rights.	None
In Bowers, a bare majority upheld a law criminalizing samesex intimacy.	None
See 478 U.S., at 186, 190195.	None
That approach might have been viewed as a cautious endorsement of the democratic process, which had only just begun to consider the rights of gays and lesbians.	None
Yet, in effect, Bowers upheld state action that denied gays and lesbians a fundamental right and caused them pain and humiliation.	None
As evidenced by the dissents in that case, the facts and principles necessary to a correct holding were known to the Bowers Court.	None
See id., at 199 (Blackmun, J., joined by Brennan, Marshall, and Stevens, JJ., dissenting)	None
id., at 214 (Stevens, J., joined by Brennan and Marshall, JJ., dissenting).	None
That is why Lawrence held Bowers was not correct when it was decided.	None
539 U.S., at 578.	None
Although Bowers was eventually repudiated in Lawrence, men and women were harmed in the interim, and the substantial effects of these injuries no doubt lingered long after Bowers was overruled.	None
Dignitary wounds cannot always be healed with the stroke of a pen.	None
The present definition of mental illness in the 2017 Parliamentary statute makes it clear that homosexuality is not considered to be a mental illness.	None
This is a major advance in our law which has been recognized by the Parliament itself.	None
Further, this is buttressed by Section 3 of the Act which reads as follows Determination of Mental Illness.	None
Mental illness shall be determined in accordance with such nationally or internationally accepted medical standards (including the latest edition of the International Classification of Disease of the World Health Organisation) as may be notified by the Central Government.	None
No person or authority shall classify a person as a person with mental illness, except for purposes directly relating to the treatment of the mental illness or in other matters as covered under this Act or any other law for the time being in force.	None
Mental illness of a person shall not be determined on the basis of (a) political, economic or social status or membership of a cultural, racial or religious group, or for any other reason not directly relevant to mental health status of the person (b) nonconformity with moral, social, cultural, work or political values or religious beliefs prevailing in a persons community.	None
Past treatment or hospitalisation in a mental health establishment though relevant, shall not by itself justify any present or future determination of the persons mental illness.	None
The determination of a persons mental illness shall alone not imply or be taken to mean that the person is of unsound mind unless he has been declared as such by a competent court.	None
Mental illness in our statute has to keep pace with international notions and accepted medical standards including the latest edition of the International Classification of Diseases of the World Health Organization under Section 3(1) of the Act.	None
Under Section 3(3), mental illness shall not be determined on the basis of social status or membership of a cultural group or for any other reason not directly relevant to the mental health of the person.	None
More importantly, mental illness shall not be determined on the basis of nonconformity with moral, social, cultural, work or political values or religious beliefs prevailing in a persons community.	None
It is thus clear that Parliament has unequivocally declared that the earlier stigma attached to samesex couples, as persons who are regarded as mentally ill, has gone for good.	None
This is another very important step forward taken by the legislature itself which has undermined one of the basic underpinnings of the judgment in Suresh Kumar Koushal (supra).	None
Section 21(1)(a) is important and set out hereinbelow Right to equality and nondiscrimination.	None
Every person with mental illness shall be treated as equal to persons with physical illness in the provision of all healthcare which shall include the following, namely (a) there shall be no discrimination on any basis including gender, sex, sexual orientation, religion, culture, caste, social or political beliefs, class or disability This Section is parliamentary recognition of the fact that gay persons together with other persons are liable to be affected with mental illness, and shall be treated as equal to the other persons with such illness as there is to be no discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.	None
Section 30 is extremely important and reads as under Creating awareness about mental health and illness and reducing stigma associated with mental illness.	None
The appropriate Government shall take all measures to ensure that, (a) the provisions of this Act are given wide publicity through public media, including television, radio, print and online media at regular intervals (b) the programmes to reduce stigma associated with mental illness are planned, designed, funded and implemented in an effective manner (c) the appropriate Government officials including police officers and other officers of the appropriate Government are given periodic sensitisation and awareness training on the issues under this Act.	None
Section 115 largely does away with one other outmoded Section of the Indian Penal Code, namely, Section 309.	None
This Section reads as follows.	None
Presumption of severe stress in case of attempt to commit suicide.	None
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 309 of the Indian Penal Code any person who attempts to commit suicide shall be presumed, unless proved otherwise, to have severe stress and shall not be tried and punished under the said Code.	None
The appropriate Government shall have a duty to provide care, treatment and rehabilitation to a person, having severe stress and who attempted to commit suicide, to reduce the risk of recurrence of attempt to commit suicide.	None
Instead of the inhumane Section 309 which has remained on the statute book for over 150 years, Section 115 makes it clear that Section 309 is rendered largely ineffective, and on the contrary, instead of committing a criminal offence, any person who attempts to commit suicide shall be presumed to have severe stress and shall not be tried and punished under Section 309 of the Indian Penal Code.	None
More importantly, the Government has an affirmative duty to provide care, treatment and rehabilitation to such a person to reduce the risk of recurrence of that persons attempt to commit suicide.	None
This parliamentary declaration under Section 115 again is in keeping with the present constitutional values, making it clear that humane measures are to be taken by the Government in respect of a person who attempts to commit suicide instead of prosecuting him for the offence of attempt to commit suicide.	None
And finally, Section 120 of the Act reads as under Act to have overriding effect.	None
The provisions of this Act shall have overriding effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act.	None
The Latin maxim cessant ratione legis, cessat ipsa lex, meaning when the reason for a law ceases, the law itself ceases, is a rule of law which has been recognized by this Court in H.H. Shri Swamiji of Shri Amar Mutt v. Commissioner, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Dept, 1979 4 SCC 642 at paragraph 29, and State of Punjab v. Devans Modern Breweries Ltd., (2004) 11 SCC 26 at paragraph 335.	None
It must not be forgotten that Section 377 was the product of the Victorian era, with its attendant puritanical moral values.	None
Victorian morality must give way to constitutional morality as has been recognized in many of our judgments.	None
Constitutional morality is the soul of the Constitution, which is to be found in the Preamble of the Constitution, which declares its ideals and aspirations, and is also to be found in Part III of the Constitution, particularly with respect to those provisions which assure the dignity of the individual.	None
The rationale for Section 377, namely Victorian morality, has long gone and there is no reason to continue with  as Justice Holmes said in the lines quoted above in this judgment  a law merely for the sake of continuing with the law when the rationale of such law has long since disappeared.	None
Given our judgment in Puttaswamy (supra), in particular, the right of every citizen of India to live with dignity and the right to privacy including the right to make intimate choices regarding the manner in which such individual wishes to live being protected by Articles 14, 19 and 21, it is clear that Section 377, insofar as it applies to samesex consenting adults, demeans them by having them prosecuted instead of understanding their sexual orientation and attempting to correct centuries of the stigma associated with such persons.	None
The Union of India, seeing the writing on the wall, has filed an affidavit in which it has not opposed the Petitioners but left the matter to be considered by the wisdom of this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Some of the intervenors have argued in favour of the retention of Section 377 qua consenting adults on the grounds that homosexual acts are not by themselves proscribed by Section 377.	Arguments of Respondent
Unless there is penetration in the manner pointed out by the explanation to the Section, no offence takes place.	Arguments of Respondent
They have also added that the Section needs to be retained given the fact that it is only a parliamentary reflection of the prevailing social mores of today in large segments of society.	Arguments of Respondent
According to them, this furthers a compelling state interest to reinforce morals in public life which is not disproportionate in nature.	Arguments of Respondent
We are afraid that, given the march of events in constitutional law by this Court, and parliamentary recognition of the plight of such persons in certain provisions of the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, it will not be open for a constitutional court to substitute societal morality with constitutional morality, as has been stated by us hereinabove.	None
Further, as stated in S. Khushboo v. Kanniammal and Anr., (2010) 5 SCC 600 , at paragraphs 46 and 50, this Court made it clear that notions of social morality are inherently subjective and the criminal law cannot be used as a means to unduly interfere with the domain of personal autonomy.	None
Morality and criminality are not coextensive  sin is not punishable on earth by Courts set up by the State but elsewhere crime alone is punishable on earth.	None
To confuse the one with the other is what causes the death knell of Section 377, insofar as it applies to consenting homosexual adults.	None
Another argument raised on behalf of the intervenors is that change in society, if any, can be reflected by amending laws by the elected representatives of the people.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, it would be open to the Parliament to carve out an exception from Section 377, but this Court should not indulge in taking upon itself the guardianship of changing societal mores.	None
Such an argument must be emphatically rejected.	None
The very purpose of the fundamental rights chapter in the Constitution of India is to withdraw the subject of liberty and dignity of the individual and place such subject beyond the reach of majoritarian governments so that constitutional morality can be applied by this Court to give effect to the rights, among others, of discrete and insular minorities.	None
304 U 144 (1938) One such minority has knocked on the doors of this Court as this Court is the custodian of the fundamental rights of citizens.	None
These fundamental rights do not depend upon the outcome of elections.	None
And, it is not left to majoritarian governments to prescribe what shall be orthodox in matters concerning social morality.	None
The fundamental rights chapter is like the north star in the universe of constitutionalism in India.	None
Constitutional morality always trumps any imposition of a particular view of social morality by shifting and different majoritarian regimes.	None
Insofar as Article 14 is concerned, this Court in Shayara Bano v. Union of India, (2017) 9 SCC 1 , has stated, in paragraph 101, that a statutory provision can be struck down on the ground of manifest arbitrariness, when the provision is capricious, irrational and or without adequate determining principle, as also if it is excessive or disproportionate.	None
We find that Section 377, in penalizing consensual gay sex, is manifestly arbitrary.	None
Given modern psychiatric studies and legislation which recognizes that gay persons and transgenders are not persons suffering from mental disorder and cannot therefore be penalized, the Section must be held to be a provision which is capricious and irrational.	None
Also, roping in such persons with sentences going upto life imprisonment is clearly excessive and disproportionate, as a result of which, when applied to such persons, Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution would clearly be violated.	None
The object sought to be achieved by the provision, namely to enforce Victorian mores upon the citizenry of India, would be out of tune with the march of constitutional events that has since taken place, rendering the said object itself discriminatory when it seeks to single out samesex couples and transgenders for punishment.	None
As has been stated in the judgment of Nariman, J. in Shreya Singhal v. Union of India, (2015) 5 SCC 1 , the chilling effect caused by such a provision would also violate a privacy right under Article 19(1)(a), which can by no stretch of imagination be said to be a reasonable restriction in the interest of decency or morality (See paragraphs 87 to 94).	None
We may hasten to add, that the Yogyakarta Principles on the Application of International Human Rights Law in relation to Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity discussed below, which were also referred to by Radhakrishnan, J. in NALSA (supra), conform to our constitutional view of the fundamental rights of the citizens of India and persons who come to this Court.	None
The International Commission of Jurists and the International Service for Human Rights, on behalf of a coalition of human rights organisations, had undertaken a project to develop a set of international legal principles on the application of international law to human rights violations based on sexual orientation and gender identity to bring greater clarity and coherence to States human rights obligations.	None
A distinguished group of human rights experts drafted, developed, discussed and refined these Principles.	None
Following an experts meeting held at Gadjah Mada University in Yogyakarta, Indonesia from 6th to 9th November, 2006, 29 distinguished experts from 25 countries with diverse backgrounds and expertise relevant to issues of human rights law unanimously adopted the Yogyakarta Principles on the Application of International Human Rights Law in relation to Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity.	None
A few relevant extracts from the Yogyakarta Principles and its Preamble are as follows Preamble WE, THE INTERNATIONAL PANEL of EXPERTS IN INTERNATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS LAW AND ON SEXUAL ORIENTATION AND GENDER IDENTITY, XX XX UNDERSTANDING sexual orientation to refer to each persons capacity for profound emotional, affectional and sexual attraction to, and intimate and sexual relations with, individuals of a different gender or the same gender or more than one gender XX XX FOLLOWING AN EXPERTS MEETING HELD IN YOGYAKARTA, INDONESIA FROM 6 TO 9 NOVEMBER 2006, HEREBY ADOPT THESE PRINCIPLES	None
The right to the universal enjoyment of human rights.	None
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights.	None
Human beings of all sexual orientations and gender identities are entitled to the full enjoyment of all human rights.	None
States shall (a) embody the principles of the universality, interrelatedness, interdependence and indivisibility of all human rights in their national constitutions or other appropriate legislation and ensure the practical realisation of the universal enjoyment of all human rights (b) amend any legislation, including criminal law, to ensure its consistency with the universal enjoyment of all human rights (c) undertake programmes of education and awareness to promote and enhance the full enjoyment of all human rights by all persons, irrespective of sexual orientation or gender identity (d) integrate within State policy and decision making a pluralistic approach that recognises and affirms the interrelatedness and indivisibility of all aspects of human identity including sexual orientation and gender identity.	None
The rights to equality and nondiscrimination.	None
Everyone is entitled to enjoy all human rights without discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity.	None
Everyone is entitled to equality before the law and the equal protection of the law without any such discrimination whether or not the enjoyment of another human right is also affected.	None
The law shall prohibit any such discrimination and guarantee to all persons equal and effective protection against any such discrimination.	None
Discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity includes any distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on sexual orientation or gender identity which has the purpose or effect of nullifying or impairing equality before the law or the equal protection of the law, or the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal basis, of all human rights and fundamental freedoms.	None
Discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity may be, and commonly is, compounded by discrimination on other grounds including gender, race, age, religion, disability, health and economic status.	None
States shall (a) embody the principles of equality and nondiscrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity in their national constitutions or other appropriate legislation, if not yet incorporated therein, including by means of amendment and interpretation, and ensure the effective realisation of these principles (b) repeal criminal and other legal provisions that prohibit or are, in effect, employed to prohibit consensual sexual activity among people of the samesex who are over the age of consent, and ensure that an equal age of consent applies to both samesex and differentsex sexual activity (c) adopt appropriate legislative and other measures to prohibit and eliminate discrimination in the public and private spheres on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity (d) take appropriate measures to secure adequate advancement of persons of diverse sexual orientations and gender identities as may be necessary to ensure such groups or individuals equal enjoyment or exercise of human rights.	None
Such measures shall not be deemed to be discriminatory (e) in all their responses to discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity, take account of the manner in which such discrimination may intersect with other forms of discrimination (f) take all appropriate action, including programmes of education and training, with a view to achieving the elimination of prejudicial or discriminatory attitudes or behaviours which are related to the idea of the inferiority or the superiority of any sexual orientation or gender identity or gender expression.	None
The right to recognition before the law.	None
Everyone has the right to recognition everywhere as a person before the law.	None
Persons of diverse sexual orientations and gender identities shall enjoy legal capacity in all aspects of life.	None
Each persons selfdefined sexual orientation and gender identity is integral to their personality and is one of the most basic aspects of selfdetermination, dignity and freedom.	None
No one shall be forced to undergo medical procedures, including sex reassignment surgery, sterilisation or hormonal therapy, as a requirement for legal recognition of their gender identity.	None
No status, such as marriage or parenthood, may be invoked as such to prevent the legal recognition of a persons gender identity.	None
No one shall be subjected to pressure to conceal, suppress or deny their sexual orientation or gender identity.	None
States shall (a) ensure that all persons are accorded legal capacity in civil matters, without discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity, and the opportunity to exercise that capacity, including equal rights to conclude contracts, and to administer, own, acquire (including through inheritance), manage, enjoy and dispose of property (b) take all necessary legislative, administrative and other measures to fully respect and legally recognise each persons selfdefined gender identity (c) take all necessary legislative, administrative and other measures to ensure that procedures exist whereby all Stateissued identity papers which indicate a persons gender sex including birth certificates, passports, electoral records and other documents reflect the persons profound selfdefined gender identity (d) ensure that such procedures are efficient, fair and nondiscriminatory, and respect the dignity and privacy of the person concerned (e) ensure that changes to identity documents will be recognised in all contexts where the identification or disaggregation of persons by gender is required by law or policy (f) undertake targeted programmes to provide social support for all persons experiencing gender transitioning or reassignment.	None
XXX	None
The right to life.	None
Everyone has the right to life.	None
No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of life, including by reference to considerations of sexual orientation or gender identity.	None
The death penalty shall not be imposed on any person on the basis of consensual sexual activity among persons who are over the age of consent or on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity.	None
States shall (a) repeal all forms of crime that have the purpose or effect of prohibiting consensual sexual activity among persons of the samesex who are over the age of consent and, until such provisions are repealed, never impose the death penalty on any person convicted under them (b) remit sentences of death and release all those currently awaiting execution for crimes relating to consensual sexual activity among persons who are over the age of consent (c) cease any Statesponsored or Statecondoned attacks on the lives of persons based on sexual orientation or gender identity, and ensure that all such attacks, whether by government officials or by any individual or group, are vigorously investigated, and that, where appropriate evidence is found, those responsible are prosecuted, tried and duly punished.	None
XXX	None
The right to privacy.	None
Everyone, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity, is entitled to the enjoyment of privacy without arbitrary or unlawful interference, including with regard to their family, home or correspondence as well as to protection from unlawful attacks on their honour and reputation.	None
The right to privacy ordinarily includes the choice to disclose or not to disclose information relating to ones sexual orientation or gender identity, as well as decisions and choices regarding both ones own body and consensual sexual and other relations with others.	Reasoning
States shall (a) take all necessary legislative, administrative and other measures to ensure the right of each person, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity, to enjoy the private sphere, intimate decisions, and human relations, including consensual sexual activity among persons who are over the age of consent, without arbitrary interference (b) repeal all laws that criminalise consensual sexual activity among persons of the samesex who are over the age of consent, and ensure that an equal age of consent applies to both samesex and differentsex sexual activity (c) ensure that criminal and other legal provisions of general application are not applied de facto to criminalise consensual sexual activity among persons of the samesex who are over the age of consent (d) repeal any law that prohibits or criminalises the expression of gender identity, including through dress, speech or mannerisms, or that denies to individuals the opportunity to change their bodies as a means of expressing their gender identity (e) release all those held on remand or on the basis of a criminal conviction, if their detention is related to consensual sexual activity among persons who are over the age of consent, or is related to gender identity (f) ensure the right of all persons ordinarily to choose when, to whom and how to disclose information pertaining to their sexual orientation or gender identity, and protect all persons from arbitrary or unwanted disclosure, or threat of disclosure of such information by others.	None
XXX Protection from medical abuses.	None
No person may be forced to undergo any form of medical or psychological treatment, procedure, testing, or be confined to a medical facility, based on sexual orientation or gender identity.	None
Notwithstanding any classifications to the contrary, a persons sexual orientation and gender identity are not, in and of themselves, medical conditions and are not to be treated, cured or suppressed.	None
States shall (a) take all necessary legislative, administrative and other measures to ensure full protection against harmful medical practices based on sexual orientation or gender identity, including on the basis of stereotypes, whether derived from culture or otherwise, regarding conduct, physical appearance or perceived gender norms (b) take all necessary legislative, administrative and other measures to ensure that no childs body is irreversibly altered by medical procedures in an attempt to impose a gender identity without the full, free and informed consent of the child in accordance with the age and maturity of the child and guided by the principle that in all actions concerning children, the best interests of the child shall be a primary consideration (c) establish child protection mechanisms whereby no child is at risk of, or subjected to, medical abuse (d) ensure protection of persons of diverse sexual orientations and gender identities against unethical or involuntary medical procedures or research, including in relation to vaccines, treatments or microbicides for HIV AIDS or other diseases (e) review and amend any health funding provisions or programmes, including those of a developmentassistance nature, which may promote, facilitate or in any other way render possible such abuses (f) ensure that any medical or psychological treatment or counselling does not, explicitly or implicitly, treat sexual orientation and gender identity as medical conditions to be treated, cured or suppressed.	None
The right to freedom of opinion and expression.	None
Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity.	None
This includes the expression of identity or personhood through speech, deportment, dress, bodily characteristics, choice of name, or any other means, as well as the freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds, including with regard to human rights, sexual orientation and gender identity, through any medium and regardless of frontiers.	None
States shall (a) take all necessary legislative, administrative and other measures to ensure full enjoyment of freedom of opinion and expression, while respecting the rights and freedoms of others, without discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity, including the receipt and imparting of information and ideas concerning sexual orientation and gender identity, as well as related advocacy for legal rights, publication of materials, broadcasting, organisation of or participation in conferences, and dissemination of and access to safersex information (b) ensure that the outputs and the organisation of media that is Stateregulated is pluralistic and nondiscriminatory in respect of issues of sexual orientation and gender identity and that the personnel recruitment and promotion policies of such organisations are nondiscriminatory on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity (c) take all necessary legislative, administrative and other measures to ensure the full enjoyment of the right to express identity or personhood, including through speech, deportment, dress, bodily characteristics, choice of name or any other means (d) ensure that notions of public order, public morality, public health and public security are not employed to restrict, in a discriminatory manner, any exercise of freedom of opinion and expression that affirms diverse sexual orientations or gender identities (e) ensure that the exercise of freedom of opinion and expression does not violate the rights and freedoms of persons of diverse sexual orientations and gender identities (f) ensure that all persons, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity, enjoy equal access to information and ideas, as well as to participation in public debate.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
These principles give further content to the fundamental rights contained in Articles 14, 15, 19 and 21, and viewed in the light of these principles also, Section 377 will have to be declared to be unconstitutional.	None
Given the aforesaid, it has now to be decided as to whether the judgment in Suresh Kumar Koushal (supra) is correct.	Issue
Suresh Kumar Koushals judgment (supra) first begins with the presumption of constitutionality attaching to preconstitutional laws, such as the Indian Penal Code.	None
The judgment goes on to state that preconstitutional laws, which have been adopted by Parliament and used with or without amendment, being manifestations of the will of the people of India through Parliament, are presumed to be constitutional.	None
We are afraid that we cannot agree.	None
Article 372 of the Constitution of India continues laws in force in the territory of India immediately before the commencement of the Constitution.	None
That the Indian Penal Code is a law in force in the territory of India immediately before the commencement of this Constitution is beyond cavil.	None
Under Article 372(2), the President may, by order, make such adaptations and modifications of an existing law as may be necessary or expedient to bring such law in accord with the provisions of the Constitution.	None
The fact that the President has not made any adaptation or modification as mentioned in Article 372(2) does not take the matter very much further.	None
The presumption of constitutionality of a statute is premised on the fact that Parliament understands the needs of the people, and that, as per the separation of powers doctrine, Parliament is aware of its limitations in enacting laws  it can only enact laws which do not fall within List II of Schedule VII of the Constitution of India, and cannot transgress the fundamental rights of the citizens and other constitutional provisions in doing so.	None
Parliament is therefore deemed to be aware of the aforesaid constitutional limitations.	None
Where, however, a preconstitution law is made by either a foreign legislature or body, none of these parameters obtain.	None
It is therefore clear that no such presumption attaches to a preconstitutional statute like the Indian Penal Code.	None
In fact, in the majority judgment of B.P. Jeevan Reddy, J. in New Delhi Municipal Council v. State of Punjab and Ors., (1997) 7 SCC 339 , the Punjab Municipal Act of 1911 was deemed to be a postconstitutional law inasmuch as it was extended to Delhi only in 1950, as a result of which the presumption of constitutionality was raised.	None
Ahmadi, C.J.s dissenting opinion correctly states that if a preconstitutional law is challenged, the presumption of constitutional validity would not obtain.	None
The relevant paragraph is extracted below Reddy, J. has taken the view that the Doctrine of Presumption of Constitutionality of Legislations requires the saving of the taxes which these Acts impose upon the commercial activities of State Governments.	None
The Act is a preconstitutional enactment.	None
The basis of this doctrine is the assumed intention of the legislators not to transgress constitutional boundaries.	None
It is difficult to appreciate how that intention can be assumed when, at the time that the law was passed, there was no such barrier and the limitation was brought in by a Constitution long after the enactment of the law.	None
(This Court has in a Constitution Bench decision, Gulabbhai Vallabbhai Desai v. Union of India AIR 1967 SC 1110 (1967) 1	None
SCR 602 , (AIR at p. 1117 raised doubts along similar lines).	None
The Framers obviously wanted the law under Article 289(2) to be of a very high standard.	None
Can these laws, which are silent on the most important aspect required by Article 289(2), i.e., the specification of the trading activities of State Governments which would be liable to Union taxation, be said to meet with that standard?	None
It is a little difficult to subscribe to the view of the Division Bench that the presumption of constitutionality of Section 377 would therefore attach.	None
The fact that the legislature has chosen not to amend the law, despite the 172nd Law Commission Report specifically recommending deletion of Section 377, may indicate that Parliament has not thought it proper to delete the aforesaid provision, is one more reason for not invalidating Section 377, according to Suresh Kumar Koushal (supra).	None
This is a little difficult to appreciate when the Union of India admittedly did not challenge the Delhi High Court judgment striking down the provision in part.	None
Secondly, the fact that Parliament may or may not have chosen to follow a Law Commission Report does not guide the Courts understanding of its character, scope, ambit and import as has been stated in Suresh Kumar Koushal (supra).	None
It is a neutral fact which need not be taken into account at all.	None
All that the Court has to see is whether constitutional provisions have been transgressed and if so, as a natural corollary, the death knell of the challenged provision must follow.	None
It is a little difficult to appreciate the Court stating that the ambit of Section 377 IPC is only determined with reference to the sexual act itself and the circumstances in which it is executed.	None
It is also a little difficult to appreciate that Section 377 regulates sexual conduct regardless of gender identity and orientation.	None
After 2013, when Section 375 was amended so as to include anal and certain other kinds of sexual intercourse between a man and a woman, which would not be criminalized as rape if it was between consenting adults, it is clear that if Section 377 continues to penalize such sexual intercourse, an anomalous position would result.	None
A man indulging in such sexual intercourse would not be liable to be prosecuted for rape but would be liable to be prosecuted under Section 377.	None
Further, a woman who could, at no point of time, have been prosecuted for rape would, despite her consent, be prosecuted for indulging in anal or such other sexual intercourse with a man in private under Section 377.	None
This would render Section 377, as applied to such consenting adults, as manifestly arbitrary as it would be wholly excessive and disproportionate to prosecute such persons under Section 377 when the legislature has amended one portion of the law in 2013, making it clear that consensual sex, as described in the amended provision, between two consenting adults, one a man and one a woman, would not be liable for prosecution.	None
If, by having regard to what has been said above, Section 377 has to be read down as not applying to anal and such other sex by a malefemale couple, then the Section will continue to apply only to homosexual sex.	None
If this be the case, the Section will offend Article 14 as it will discriminate between heterosexual and homosexual adults which is a distinction which has no rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Section  namely, the criminalization of all carnal sex between homosexual and or heterosexual adults as being against the order of nature.	None
Viewed either way, the Section falls foul of Article 14.	None
The fact that only a minuscule fraction of the countrys population constitutes lesbians and gays or transgenders, and that in the last 150 years less than 200 persons have been prosecuted for committing the offence under Section 377, is neither here nor there.	None
When it is found that privacy interests come in and the State has no compelling reason to continue an existing law which penalizes samesex couples who cause no harm to others, on an application of the recent judgments delivered by this Court after Suresh Kumar Koushal (supra), it is clear that Articles 14, 15, 19 and 21 have all been transgressed without any legitimate state rationale to uphold such provision.	None
For all these reasons therefore, we are of the view that, Suresh Kumar Koushal (supra) needs to be, and is hereby, overruled.	None
We may conclude by stating that persons who are homosexual have a fundamental right to live with dignity, which, in the larger framework of the Preamble of India, will assure the cardinal constitutional value of fraternity that has been discussed in some of our judgments (See (1) Nandini Sundar v. State of Chhattisgarh, (2011) 7 SCC 547 at paragraphs 16, 25 and 52 and (2) Subramaniam Swamy v. Union of India (2016) 7 SCC 221 at paragraphs 153 to 156).	None
We further declare that such groups are entitled to the protection of equal laws, and are entitled to be treated in society as human beings without any stigma being attached to any of them.	None
We further declare that Section 377 insofar as it criminalises homosexual sex and transgender sex between consenting adults is unconstitutional.	None
We are also of the view that the Union of India shall take all measures to ensure that this judgment is given wide publicity through the public media, which includes television, radio, print and online media at regular intervals, and initiate programs to reduce and finally eliminate the stigma associated with such persons.	None
Above all, all government officials, including and in particular police officials, and other officers of the Union of India and the States, be given periodic sensitization and awareness training of the plight of such persons in the light of the observations contained in this judgment.	None
INDEX CHART Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, J A From denial to freedom What makes life meaningful is love.	None
The right that makes us human is the right to love.	None
To criminalize the expression of that right is profoundly cruel and inhumane.	None
To acquiesce in such criminalization, or worse, to recriminalize it, is to display the very opposite of compassion.	None
To show exaggerated deference to a majoritarian Parliament when the matter is one of fundamental rights is to display judicial pusillanimity, for there is no doubt, that in the constitutional scheme, it is the judiciary that is the ultimate interpreter.	None
The lethargy of the law is manifest yet again.	None
A hundred and fifty eight years ago, a colonial legislature made it criminal, even for consenting adults of the same gender, to find fulfillment in love.	None
The law deprived them of the simple right as human beings to live, love and partner as nature made them.	None
The human instinct to love was caged by constraining the physical manifestation of their sexuality.	None
Gays and lesbians were made subordinate to the authority of a coercive state.	None
A charter of morality made their relationships hateful.	None
The criminal law became a willing instrument of repression.	None
To engage in carnal intercourse against the order of nature risked being tucked away for ten years in a jail.	None
The offence would be investigated by searching the most intimate of spaces to find telltale signs of intercourse.	None
Civilisation has been brutal.	None
Eighty seven years after the law was made, India gained her liberation from a colonial past.	None
But Macaulays legacy  the offence under Section 377 of the Penal Code  has continued to exist for nearly sixty eight years after we gave ourselves a liberal Constitution.	None
Gays and lesbians, transgenders and bisexuals continue to be denied a truly equal citizenship seven decades after Independence.	None
The law has imposed upon them a morality which is an anachronism.	None
Their entitlement should be as equal participants in a society governed by the morality of the Constitution.	None
That in essence is what Section 377 denies to them.	None
The shadows of a receding past confront their quest for fulfillment.	None
Section 377 exacts conformity backed by the fear of penal reprisal.	None
There is an unbridgeable divide between the moral values on which it is based and the values of the Constitution.	None
What separates them is liberty and dignity.	None
We must, as a society, ask searching questions to the forms and symbols of injustice.	None
Unless we do that, we risk becoming the cause and not just the inheritors of an unjust society.	None
Does the Constitution allow a quiver of fear to become the quilt around the bodies of her citizens, in the intimacies which define their identities?	None
If there is only one answer to this question, as I believe there is, the tragedy and anguish which Section 377 inflicts must be remedied.	None
The Constitution brought about a transfer of political power.	None
But it reflects above all, a vision of a society governed by justice.	None
Individual liberty is its soul.	None
The constitutional vision of justice accommodates differences of culture, ideology and orientation.	None
The stability of its foundation lies in its effort to protect diversity in all its facets in the beliefs, ideas and ways of living of her citizens.	None
Democratic as it is, our Constitution does not demand conformity.	None
Nor does it contemplate the mainstreaming of culture.	None
It nurtures dissent as the safety valve for societal conflict.	None
Our ability to recognise others who are different is a sign of our own evolution.	None
We miss the symbols of a compassionate and humane society only at our peril.	None
Section 377 provides for rule by the law instead of the rule of law.	None
The rule of law requires a just law which facilitates equality, liberty and dignity in all its facets.	None
Rule by the law provides legitimacy to arbitrary state behaviour.	None
Section 377 has consigned a group of citizens to the margins.	None
It has been destructive of their identities.	None
By imposing the sanctions of the law on consenting adults involved in a sexual relationship, it has lent the authority of the state to perpetuate social stereotypes and encourage discrimination.	None
Gays, lesbians, bisexuals and transgenders have been relegated to the anguish of closeted identities.	None
Sexual orientation has become a target for exploitation, if not blackmail, in a networked and digital age.	None
The impact of Section 377 has travelled far beyond the punishment of an offence.	None
It has been destructive of an identity which is crucial to a dignified existence.	None
It is difficult to right the wrongs of history.	None
But we can certainly set the course for the future.	None
That we can do by saying, as I propose to say in this case, that lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgenders have a constitutional right to equal citizenship in all its manifestations.	None
Sexual orientation is recognised and protected by the Constitution.	None
Section 377 of the Penal Code is unconstitutional in so far as it penalises a consensual relationship between adults of the same gender.	None
The constitutional values of liberty and dignity can accept nothing less.	None
B To the wisdom of the Court Union Government before the Court After the hearing commenced, the Additional Solicitor General tendered an affidavit.	None
The Union government states that it leaves a decision on the validity of Section 377 to the wisdom of this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Implicit in this is that the government has no view of its own on the subject and rests content to abide by the decision of this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
During the parleys in Court, the ASG however submitted that the court should confine itself to the reference by ruling upon the correctness of Suresh Kumar Koushal v. Naz Foundation (2014) 1 SCC 1 (Koushal).	None
We would have appreciated a categorical statement of position by the government, setting out its views on the validity of Section 377 and on the correctness of Koushal.	None
The ambivalence of the government does not obviate the necessity for a judgment on the issues raised.	None
The challenge to the constitutional validity of Section 377 must squarely be addressed in this proceeding.	None
That is plainly the duty of the Court.	None
Constitutional issues are not decided on concession.	None
The statement of the Union government does not concede to the contention of the petitioners that the statutory provision is invalid.	None
Even if a concession were to be made, that would not conclude the matter for this Court.	None
All that the stand of the government indicates is that it is to the wisdom of this Court that the matter is left.	None
In reflecting upon this appeal to our wisdom, it is just as well that we as judges remind ourselves of a truth which can unwittingly be forgotten flattery is a graveyard for the gullible.	None
Bereft of a submission on behalf of the Union government on a matter of constitutional principle these proceedings must be dealt with in the only manner known to the constitutional court through an adjudication which fulfills constitutional values and principles.	None
The ASG made a fair submission when he urged that the court should deal with the matter in reference.	None
The submission, to its credit, would have the court follow a path of prudence.	None
Prudence requires, after all, that the Court should address itself to the controversy in the reference without pursuing an uncharted course beyond it.	None
While accepting the wisdom of the approach suggested by the ASG, it is nonetheless necessary to make some prefatory observations on the scope of the reference.	None
The correctness of the decision in Koushal is in question.	Issue
Koushal as indeed the decision of the Delhi High Court in Naz Foundation v. Government of NCT of Delhi (2010) Cri LJ 94 (Naz) dealt with the validity of Section 377 which criminalizes even a consensual relationship between adults of the same gender who engage in sexual conduct (carnal intercourse against the order of nature).	Issue
In dealing with the validity of the provision, it is necessary to understand the nature of the constitutional right which LGBT individuals claim.	None
According to them, the right to be in a relationship with a consenting adult of the same gender emanates from the right to life, as a protected value under the Constitution.	None
They ground their right on the basis of an identity resting in their sexual orientation.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to them, their liberty and dignity require both an acknowledgement as well as a protection under the law, of their sexual orientation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Representing their identity, based on sexual orientation, to the world at large and asserting it in their relationship with the community and the state is stated to be intrinsic to the free exercise of speech and expression guaranteed by the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sexual orientation is claimed to be intrinsic to the guarantee against discrimination on the ground of sex.	Arguments of Petitioner
The statutory provision, it has been asserted, also violates the fundamental guarantee against arbitrariness because it unequally targets gay men whose sexual expression falls in the area prohibited by Section 377.	Arguments of Petitioner
In answering the dispute in regard to the validity of Section 377, the court must of necessity understand and explain in a constitutional perspective, the nature of the right which is claimed.	None
The challenge to Section 377 has to be understood from the perspective of a rights discourse.	None
While doing so, it becomes necessary to understand the constitutional source from which the claim emerges.	None
When a right is claimed to be constitutionally protected, it is but necessary for the court to analyze the basis of that assertion.	None
Hence, in answering the reference, it is crucial for the court to place the entitlement of the LGBT population in a constitutional framework.	None
We have approached the matter thus far from the perspective of constitutional analysis.	None
But there is a more simple line of reasoning as well, grounded as we believe, in commonsense.	None
Sexual acts between consenting adults of the same gender constitute one facet  albeit an important aspect  of the right asserted by gay men to lead fulfilling lives.	None
Gay and lesbian relationships are sustained and nurtured in every aspect which makes for a meaningful life.	None
In understanding the true nature of those relationships and the protection which the Constitution affords to them, it is necessary to adopt a perspective which leads to their acceptance as equal members of a humane and compassionate society.	None
Forming a holistic perspective requires the court to dwell on, but not confine itself, to sexuality.	None
Sexual orientation creates an identity on which there is a constitutional claim to the entitlement of a dignified life.	None
It is from that broad perspective that the constitutional right needs to be adjudicated.	None
C From The Ashes of the Gay Democracy	None
Its coming through a hole in the air, Its coming from the feel that this aint exactly real, or its real, but it aint exactly there.	None
From the wars against disorder, from the sirens night and day, from the fires of the homeless, from the ashes of the gay Democracy is coming Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC) has made carnal intercourse against the order of nature an offence.	None
This provision, understood as prohibiting nonpeno vaginal intercourse, reflects the imposition of a particular set of morals by a colonial power at a particular point in history.	None
A supposedly alien law, Section 377 has managed to survive for over 158 years, impervious to both the anticolonial struggle as well as the formation of a democratic India, which guarantees fundamental rights to all its citizens.	None
An inquiry into the colonial origins of Section 377 and its postulations about sexuality is useful in assessing the relevance of the provision in contemporary times.	None
Lord Thomas Babington Macaulay, Chairman of the First Law Commission of India and principal architect of the IPC, cited two main sources from which he drew in drafting the Code the French (Napoleonic) Penal Code, 1810 and Edward Livingstons Louisiana Code.	None
Lord Macaulay also drew inspiration from the English common law and the British Royal Commissions 1843 Draft Code.	None
Tracing that origin, English jurist Fitzjames Stephen observes The Indian Penal Code may be described as the criminal law of England freed from all technicalities and superfluities, systematically arranged and modified in some few particulars (they are surprisingly few) to suit the circumstances of British India.	None
In order to understand the colonial origins of Section 377, it is necessary to go further back to modern English laws conception of anal and oral intercourse, which was firmly rooted in JudeoChristian morality and condemned nonprocreative sex.	None
Though Jesus himself does not reference homosexuality or homosexual sex, the Holiness Code found in Leviticus provides thus You shall not lie with a male as with a woman.	None
It is an abomination.	None
1822	None
If a man also lie with mankind, as he lieth with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination they shall surely be put to death their blood shall be upon them.	None
1913	None
If a man lies with a male as with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination they shall be put to death, their blood is upon them.	None
2013	None
Another JudeoChristian religious interpretation refers to sodomy, a term used for anal intercourse that is derived from an interpretation of Genesis 1820 of the Old Testament, known as the story of Sodom and Gomorrah.	None
Briefly, when two angels took refuge in the home of Lot, the men of the town of Sodom surrounded the house and demanded that the angels be sent out so that the men may know them (in this interpretation, with sexual connotations).	None
When Lot offered them his two virgin daughters instead, the men of Sodom responded by threatening Lot.	None
The angels then blinded the Sodomites.	None
The use of the term sodomites to describe those who engaged in anal intercourse emerged in the 13th Century, and the term sodomy was used as a euphemism for a number of sexual sins two centuries earlier.	None
The preservation of the JudeoChristian condemnation of homosexuality is also attributed to the Jewish theologian, Philo of Alexandria, who is regarded as the father of the Church Fathers and who reviled homosexuals and called for their execution.	None
The condemnation of homosexuality can also be traced to Roman law.	None
Emperor Justinians Code of 529, for instance, stated that persons who engaged in homosexual sex were to be executed.	None
From Rome, the condemnation of homosexuality spread across Europe, where it manifested itself in ecclesiastical law.	None
During the Protestant Reformation, these laws shifted from the ecclesiastical to the criminal domain, beginning with Germany in 1532.	None
While ecclesiastical laws against homosexual intercourse were well established in England by the 1500s, Englands first criminal (nonecclesiastical) law was the Buggery Act of 1533, which condemned the detestable and abominable vice of buggeri committed with mankind or beest.	None
Buggery is derived from the old French word for heretic, bougre, and was taken to mean anal intercourse.	None
The Buggery Act, 1533, which was enacted by Henry VIII, made the offence of buggery punishable by death, and continued to exist for nearly 300 years before it was repealed and replaced by the Offences against the Person Act, 1828.	None
Buggery, however, remained a capital offence in England until 1861, one year after the enactment of the IPC.	None
The language of Section 377 has antecedents in the definition of buggery found in Sir Edward Cokes late 17th Century compilation of English law Committed by carnal knowledge against the ordinance of the Creator, and order of nature, by mankind with mankind, or with brute beast, or by womankind with brute beast.	None
The Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1885 made gross indecency a crime in the United Kingdom, and was used to prosecute homosexuals where sodomy could not be proven.	None
In 1895, Oscar Wilde was arrested under the Act for committing acts of gross indecency with male persons.	None
During Wildes trial, the Prosecutor, referring to homosexual love, asked him, What is the love that dare not speak its name?	None
Wilde responded The love that dare not speak its name in this century is such a great affection of an elder for a younger man as there was between David and Jonathan, such as Plato made the very basis of his philosophy, and such as you find in the sonnets of Michelangelo and Shakespeare.	None
It is that deep spiritual affection that is as pure as it is perfect.	None
It dictates and pervades great works of art, like those of Shakespeare and Michelangelo, and those two letters of mine, such as they are.	None
It is in this century misunderstood, so much misunderstood that it may be described as the love that dare not speak its name, and on that account of it I am placed where I am now.	None
It is beautiful, it is fine, it is the noblest form of affection.	None
There is nothing unnatural about it.	None
It is intellectual, and it repeatedly exists between an older and a younger man, when the older man has intellect, and the younger man has all the joy, hope and glamour of life before him.	None
That it should be so, the world does not understand.	None
The world mocks at it, and sometimes puts one in the pillory for it.	None
Wilde was held guilty and was sentenced to two years hard labour and subsequently incarcerated.	None
Following World War II, arrests and prosecutions of homosexuals increased.	None
Alan Turing, the renowned mathematician and cryptographer who was responsible for breaking the Nazi Enigma code during World War II, was convicted of gross indecency in 1952.	None
In order to avoid a prison sentence, Turing was forced to agree to chemical castration.	None
He was injected with synthetic female hormones.	None
Less than two years after he began the hormone treatment, Turing committed suicide.	None
The Amendment Act (also known as the Labouchere Amendment) remained in English law until 1967.	None
Turing was posthumously pardoned in 2013, and in 2017, the UK introduced the Policing and Crime Bill, also called the Turing Law, posthumously pardoning 50,000 homosexual men and providing pardons for the living.	None
In the wake of several court cases in which homosexuality had been featured, the British Parliament in 1954 set up the Wolfenden Committee, headed by John Wolfenden, to considerthe law and practice relating to homosexual offenses and the treatment of persons convicted of such offenses by the courts, as well as the laws relevant to prostitution and solicitation.	None
The Wolfenden Report of 1957, which was supported by the Church of England, proposed that there must remain a realm of private morality and immorality which is, in brief and crude terms, not the laws business and recommended that homosexual acts between two consenting adults should no longer be a criminal offence.	None
The success of the report led England and Wales to enact The Sexual Offences Act, 1967, which decriminalized private homosexual sex between two men over the age of twentyone.	None
Britain continued to introduce and amend laws governing samesex intercourse to make them more equal, including the lowering of the age of consent for gay bisexual men to sixteen in 2001.	None
In May 2007, in a statement to the UN Human Rights Council, the UK, which imposed criminal prohibitions against samesex intercourse in its former colonies across the world, committed itself to the cause of worldwide decriminalization of homosexuality.	None
Today, India continues to enforce a law imposed by an erstwhile colonial government, a law that has been long done away with by the same government in its own jurisdiction.	None
I Arc of the moral universe Lord Macaulay was greatly influenced by English philosopher and jurist Jeremy Bentham, who coined the term codification and argued for replacing existing laws with clear, concise, and understandable provisions that could be universally applied across the Empire.	None
Ironically, in a 1785 essay, Bentham himself wrote one of the earliest known defences of homosexuality in the English language, arguing against the criminalization of homosexuality.	None
However, this essay was only discovered 200 years after his death.	None
The Law Commissions 1837 draft of the Penal Code (prepared by Lord Macaulay) contained two sections (Clauses 361 and 362), which are considered the immediate precursors to Section 377 OF UNNATURAL OFFENCES Whoever, intending to gratify unnatural lust, touches, for that purpose, any person, or any animal, or is by his own consent touched by any person, for the purpose of gratifying unnatural lust, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to fourteen years and must not be less than two years, and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Whoever, intending to gratify unnatural lust, touches for that purpose any person without that persons free and intelligent consent, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to life and must not be less than seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Both the draft clauses are vague in their description of the acts they seek to criminalize.	None
Lord Macaulay also omitted an explanation to the Clauses.	None
In a note presented with the 1837 draft, Lord Macaulay elaborated Clauses 361 and 362 relate to an odious class of offences respecting which it is desirable that as little as possible be said.	None
We leave without comment to the judgment of his Lordship in Council the two Clauses which we have provided for these offences.	None
We are unwilling to insert, either in the text, or in the notes, anything which could give rise to public discussion on this revolting subject as we are decidedly of opinion that the injury which would be done to the morals of the community by such discussion would far more than compensate for any benefits which might be derived from legislative measures framed with the greatest precision.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
So abominable did Macaulay consider these offences that he banished the thought of providing a rationale for their being made culpable.	None
The prospect of a public discussion was revolting.	None
After twentyfive years of revision, the IPC entered into force on 1 January 1862, two years after Lord Macaulays death.	None
The IPC was the first codified criminal code in the British Empire.	None
Section 377 of the revised code read as follows Of Unnatural Offences Unnatural Offences.	None
Whoever voluntarily has carnal intercourse against the order of nature with any man, woman or animal, shall be punished with imprisonment for life35, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Explanation.	None
Penetration is sufficient to constitute the carnal intercourse necessary to the offence described in this section.	None
The Explanation is unique in that it requires proof of penetration  something that British Law did not.	None
The two clauses in the Draft Code fell somewhere in between, requiring proof of touch.	None
By the time India gained independence in 1947, Britain had introduced Penal Codes similar to the IPC in other former colonies, including Zanzibar (Tanzania) in 1867, Singapore, Malaysia, and Brunei in 1871, Ceylon (Sri Lanka) in 1885, Burma (Myanmar) in 1886, East Africa Protectorate (Kenya) in 1897, Sudan in 1889, Uganda in 1902, and Tanganyika (Tanzania) in 1920.	None
Under Article 372(1) of the Indian Constitution, which provides that all laws in force prior to the commencement of the Constitution shall continue to be in force until altered or repealed, the IPC and many other preIndependence laws were saved and allowed to operate in Independent India.	None
While Section 377 has been used to prosecute nonconsensual sexual acts, it has also been used to prosecute consensual sexual acts.	None
In (Meharban) Nowshirwan Irani v. Emperor AIR 1934 Sind.	None
206.	None
for instance, a police officer observed Nowshirwan, a young shopkeeper, engaged in homosexual acts with a young man, Ratansi, through a keyhole in Nowshirwans house.	None
The Prosecution argued that the acts were nonconsensual, but could not prove coercion.	None
The High Court of Sindh ultimately set aside the conviction based on insufficient evidence.	None
Nevertheless, what should have been an intimate act between two consenting parties in their bedroom became a public scandal and the subject of judicial scrutiny.	None
In D P Minwalla v. Emperor AIR 1935 Sind.	None
78	None
., Minawalla and Tajmahomed, were seen having anal intercourse in a lorry and were arrested, charged, and found guilty under Section 377.	None
Tajmahomed was sentenced to four months rigorous imprisonment, and Minawalla, who was charged with abetment, was sentenced to a fine of Rs 100 and imprisonment until the rising of the Bench.	None
Minawalla appealed the decision on the grounds that he was not a consenting partner, and submitted himself to a medical exam.	None
The judge was unconvinced, however, and Minawallas original sentence was upheld.	None
The Court, convinced that the acts were consensual, found the men guilty under Section 377.	None
In Ratan Mia v. State of Assam (1988) Cr.	None
L.J. 960, the Court convicted two men (one aged fifteen and a half, the other twenty) under Section 377 and treated them as equally culpable, as he was unable to cast one of them as the perpetrator and the other as the victim or abettor.	None
Both men were originally sentenced to imprisonment for six months and a fine of Rs 100.	None
After Nur had spent six years in prison and appealed three times, both mens sentences were reduced to seven days rigorous imprisonment, in view of the fact that they were first time offenders under the age of twentyone.	None
Even though the government is not proactively enforcing a law that governs private activities, the psychological impact for homosexuals who are, for all practical purposes, felons in waiting, is damaging in its own right	None
The true impact of Section 377 on queer lives is felt outside the courtroom and must not be measured in terms of legal cases.	None
Numerous studies, including both documented and anecdotal evidence, tell us that Section 377 is the basis for routine and continuous violence against sexual minorities by the police, the medical establishment, and the state.	None
There are innumerable stories that can be cited  from the everyday violence faced by hijras a distinct transgender category and kothis effeminate males on the streets of Indian cities to the refusal of the National Human Rights Commission to hear the case of a young man who had been given electroshock therapy for nearly two years.	None
A recent report by the Peoples Union for Civil Liberties (Karnataka), showed that Section 377 was used by the police to justify practices such as illegal detention, sexual abuse and harassment, extortion and outing of queer people to their families.	None
Before the end of the 19th century, gay rights movements were few and far between.	None
Indeed, when Alfred Douglas, Oscar Wildes lover, wrote in his 1890s poem entitled Two Loves of the love that dare not speak its name, he was alluding to societys moral disapprobation of homosexuality.	None
The 20th century, however, saw the LGBTIQ community emerge from the shadows worldwide, poised to agitate and demand equal civil rights.	None
LGBTIQ movements focused on issues of intersectionality, the interplay of oppressions arising from being both queer and lower class, coloured, disabled, and so on.	None
Despite the movement making numerous strides forward in the fight for equal rights, incidents of homosexual arrests were nevertheless extant at the turn of the 21st century.	None
In many cases of unfulfilled civil rights, there is a tendency to operate under the philosophy articulated by Dr. Martin Luther King, that the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends towards justice.	None
It is likely that those who subscribe to this philosophy believe that homosexuals should practice the virtue of patience, and wait for society to understand and accept their way of life.	None
What those who purport this philosophy fail to recognize is that Dr King himself argued against the doctrine of wait	None
For years now I have heard the word wait.	None
It rings in the ear of every Negro with a piercing familiarity.	None
This wait has almost always meant never.	None
It has been a tranquilizing thalidomide, relieving the emotional stress for a moment, only to give birth to an illformed infant of frustration.	None
We must come to see with the distinguished jurist of yesterday that justice too long delayed is justice denied.	None
We have waited for more than three hundred and forty years for our Godgiven and constitutional rights . . .	None
when you are harried by day and haunted by night by the fact that you are a Negro, living constantly at tiptoe stance, never knowing what to expect next, and plagued with inner fears and outer resentments when you are forever fighting a degenerating sense of nobodyness  then you will understand why we find it difficult to wait.	None
There comes a time when the cup of endurance runs over and men are no longer willing to be plunged into an abyss of injustice where they experience the bleakness of corroding despair.	None
I hope, sirs, you can understand our legitimate and unavoidable impatience.	None
(Letter from a Birmingham Jail) Indian citizens belonging to sexual minorities have waited.	None
They have waited and watched as their fellow citizens were freed from the British yoke while their fundamental freedoms remained restrained under an antiquated and anachronistic colonialera law  forcing them to live in hiding, in fear, and as secondclass citizens.	None
In seeking an adjudication of the validity of Section 377, these citizens urge that the acts which the provision makes culpable should be decriminalised.	None
But this case involves much more than merely decriminalising certain conduct which has been proscribed by a colonial law.	None
The case is about an aspiration to realise constitutional rights.	None
It is about a right which every human being has, to live with dignity.	None
It is about enabling these citizens to realise the worth of equal citizenship.	None
Above all, our decision will speak to the transformative power of the Constitution.	None
For it is in the transformation of society that the Constitution seeks to assure the values of a just, humane and compassionate existence to all her citizens.	None
D An equal love Through Loves Great Power	None
Through loves great power to be made whole In mind and body, heart and soul  Through freedom to find joy, or be By dint of joy itself set free In love and in companionhood This is the true and natural good.	None
To undo justice, and to seek To quash the rights that guard the weak  To sneer at love, and wrench apart The bonds of body, mind and heart With specious reason and no rhyme This is the true unnatural crime.50 Article 14 is our fundamental charter of equality The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In Naz, the Delhi High Court held that Section 377 violates Article 14 of the Constitution since the classification on which it is based does not bear any nexus to the object which the provision seeks to achieve.51 In Koushal, this Court rejected the Naz formulation on the ground that those who indulge in carnal intercourse in the ordinary course and those who do so against the order of nature constitute different classes.52 Koushal held on that logic that Section 377 does not suffer from arbitrariness or from an irrational classification.	None
A litany of our decisions  to refer to them individually would be a parade of the familiar  indicates that to be a reasonable classification under Article 14 of the Constitution, two criteria must be met (i) the classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia and (ii) the differentia must have a rational nexus to the objective sought to be achieved by the legislation.	None
State of West Bengal v. Anwar Ali Sarkar, AIR (1952)	None
SC 75 .	None
There must, in other words, be a causal connection between the basis of classification and the object of the statute.	None
If the object of the classification is illogical, unfair and unjust, the classification will be unreasonable.	None
Deepak Sibal v. Punjab University, (1989) 2 SCC 145 .	None
Equating the content of equality with the reasonableness of a classification on which a law is based advances the cause of legal formalism.	None
The problem with the classification test is that what constitutes a reasonable classification is reduced to a mere formula the quest for an intelligible differentia and the rational nexus to the object sought to be achieved.	None
In doing so, the test of classification risks elevating form over substance.	None
The danger inherent in legal formalism lies in its inability to lay threadbare the values which guide the process of judging constitutional rights.	None
Legal formalism buries the lifegiving forces of the Constitution under a mere mantra.	None
What it ignores is that Article 14 contains a powerful statement of values  of the substance of equality before the law and the equal protection of laws.	None
To reduce it to a formal exercise of classification may miss the true value of equality as a safeguard against arbitrariness in state action.	None
As our constitutional jurisprudence has evolved towards recognizing the substantive content of liberty and equality, the core of Article 14 has emerged out of the shadows of classification.	None
Article 14 has a substantive content on which, together with liberty and dignity, the edifice of the Constitution is built.	None
Simply put, in that avatar, it reflects the quest for ensuring fair treatment of the individual in every aspect of human endeavor and in every facet of human existence.	None
In E P Royappa v. State of Tamil Nadu (1974) 4 SCC 3 , the validity of state action was made subject to the test of arbitrariness Equality is a dynamic concept with many aspects and dimensions and it cannot be cribbed cabined and confined within traditional and doctrinaire limits.	None
From a positivistic point of view, equality is antithetic to arbitrariness.	None
In fact equality and arbitrariness are sworn enemies one belongs to the rule of law in a republic while the other, to the whim and caprice of an absolute monarch.	None
Where an act is arbitrary it is implicit in it that it is unequal both according to political logic and constitutional law and is therefore violative of Art.14 Four decades later, the test has been refined in Shayara Bano v. Union of India(2017) 9 SCC 1	None
The expression arbitrarily means in an unreasonable manner, as fixed or done capriciously or at pleasure, without adequate determining principle, not founded in the nature of things, nonrational, not done or acting according to reason or judgment, depending on the will alone.	None
The wording of Section 377 does not precisely map on to a distinction between homosexuals and heterosexuals but a precise interpretation would mean that it penalizes some forms of sexual expression among heterosexuals while necessarily criminalizing every form of sexual expression and intimacy between homosexuals.	None
For Section 377 to withstand the scrutiny of Article 14, it was necessary for the Court in Koushal to establish the difference between ordinary intercourse and intercourse against the order of nature, the legitimate objective being pursued and the rational nexus between the goal and the classification.	None
However, the Koushal approach has been criticised on the ground that while dealing with Article 14, it fell short of the minimum standards of judicial reasoning that may be expected from the Supreme Court.	None
On a review of the prosecutions under Section 377, Koushal conceded that no uniform test could be culled out to classify acts as carnal intercourse against the order of nature.	None
Yet Koushal upheld the classification of sexual acts in Section 377 without explaining the difference between the classes, or the justification for treating the classes differently.	None
This lack of reasoning and analysis by the Court has been critiqued in scholarly research on the subject.	None
The following extract sums up the criticism with telling effect The Court says  without an iota of evidence  that there are two classes of persons  those who engage in sexual intercourse in the ordinary course, and those who dont.	None
What is ordinary course?	None
Presumably, heterosexuality.	None
Why is this ordinary course?Perhaps because there are more heterosexuals than homosexuals around, although the Court gives no evidence for that.	None
Well, there are also more blackhaired people in India than brownhaired people.	None
Is sex with a brownhaired person against the order of nature because it happens less often?Where is the rational nexus?	None
What is the legitimate governmental objective?	None
Even if we accept that there is an intelligible differentia here, on what basis do you criminalize  and thus deny equal protection of laws  to one class of persons?	None
The Court gives no answer.	None
Alternatively, ordinary sex is penalvaginal, and every other kind of sex is against the ordinary course of nature.	None
Again, no evidence to back that claim up apart from the sayso of the judge.	None
At the very outset, we must understand the problem with the usage of the term order of nature.	None
What is natural and what is unnatural?	None
And who decides the categorization into these two ostensibly distinct and watertight compartments?	None
Do we allow the state to draw the boundaries between permissible and impermissible intimacies between consenting adults?	None
Homosexuality has been documented in almost 1500 species, who unfortunately are not blessed with rational capabilities (and the propensity to nurture same sex thoughts) as are found in mankind.	None
An interesting article in this regard notes that, no species has been found in which homosexual behaviour has not been shown to exist, with the exception of species that never have sex at all, such as sea urchins and aphis.	None
29 .In an incisive article, Ambrosino discusses the shift from reproductive instinct to erotic desire and how crucial this shift is to understanding modern notions of sexuality.	None
He analyses how the lines between homosexuality and heterosexuality are blurred, and perhaps even an outdated myth or invention when we understand the fluidity of sexual identities today No one knows exactly why heterosexuals and homosexuals ought to be different, wrote Wendell Ricketts, author of the 1984 study Biological Research on Homosexuality.	None
The best answer weve got is something of a tautology heterosexuals and homosexuals are considered different because they can be divided into two groups on the basis of the belief that they can be divided into two groups.	None
Though the hetero homo divide seems like an eternal, indestructible fact of nature, it simply isnt.	None
Its merely one recent grammar humans have invented to talk about what sex means to us.	None
He questions the elevated status of normalcy in the following words Normal is a loaded word, of course, and it has been misused throughout history.	None
Hierarchical ordering leading to slavery was at one time accepted as normal, as was a geocentric cosmology.	None
It was only by questioning the foundations of the consensus view that normal phenomena were dethroned from their privileged positions.	None
There are obvious shortcomings of the human element in the judgment of natural and unnatural Why judge what is natural and ethical to a human being by his or her animal nature?	None
Many of the things human beings value, such as medicine and art, are egregiously unnatural.	None
At the same time, humans detest many things that actually are eminently natural, like disease and death.	None
If we consider some naturally occurring phenomena ethical and others unethical, that means our minds (the things looking) are determining what to make of nature (the things being looked at).	None
Nature doesnt exist somewhere out there, independently of us  were always already interpreting it from the inside.	None
It has been argued that the naturalness and omnipresence of heterosexuality is manufactured by an elimination of historical specificities about the organisation, regulation and deployment of sexuality across time and space.	None
It is thus this closeting of history that produces the hegemonic heterosexual  the ideological construction of a particular alignment of sex, gender and desire that posits itself as natural, inevitable and eternal.	None
Heterosexuality becomes the site where the male sexed masculine mans desire for the female sexed feminine woman is privileged over all other formsof sexual desire and became a pervasive norm that structures all societal structures.	None
The expression carnal is susceptible to a wide range of meanings.	None
Among them are sexual, sensual, erotic, lustful, lascivious, libidinous, lecherous, licentious, lewd, prurient, salacious, coarse, gross, lubricious, venereal.	None
Thats not all.	None
The word incorporates meanings such as physical, bodily, corporeal and of the flesh.	None
The late Middle English origin of carnal derives from Christian Latin carnalis, from caro, carn  flesh.	None
At one end of the spectrum carnal embodies something which relates to the physical feelings and desires of the body.	None
In another sense, the word implies a relation to the body or flesh as the state of basic physical appetites.	None
In a pejorative sense, it conveys grossness or lewdness.	None
The simple question which we need to ask ourselves is whether liberty and equality can be made to depend on such vagueness of expression and indeterminacy of content.	None
Section 377 is based on a moral notion that intercourse which is lustful is to be frowned upon.	None
It finds the sole purpose of intercourse in procreation.	None
In doing so, it imposes criminal sanctions upon basic human urges, by targeting some of them as against the order of nature.	None
It does so, on the basis of a social hypocrisy which the law embraces as its own.	None
It would have human beings lead sanitized lives, in which physical relationships are conditioned by a moral notion of what nature does or does not ordain.	None
It would have human beings accept a way of life in which sexual contact without procreation is an aberration and worse still, penal.	None
It would ask of a section of our citizens that while love, they may, the physical manifestation of their love is criminal.	None
This is manifest arbitrariness writ large.	None
If it is difficult to locate any intelligible differentia between indeterminate terms such as natural and unnatural, then it is even more problematic to say that a classification between individuals who supposedly engage in natural intercourse and those who engage in carnal intercourse against the order of nature can be legally valid.	None
In addition to the problem regarding the indeterminacy of the terms, there is a logical fallacy in ascribing legality or illegality to the ostensibly universal meanings of natural and unnatural as is pointed out in a scholarly article.68 Basheer, et al make this point effectively From the fact that something occurs naturally, it does not necessarily follow that it is socially desirable.	None
Similarly, acts that are commonly perceived to be unnatural may not necessarily deserve legal sanction.	None
Illustratively, consider a person who walks on his hands all the time.	None
Although this may be unnatural, it is certainly not deserving of legal censure.	None
In fact, several activities that might be seen to contravene the order of nature (heart transplants, for example) are beneficial and desirable.	None
Even if an unnatural act is harmful to the extent that it justifies criminal sanctions being imposed against it, the reason for proscribing such an act would be that the act is harmful, and not that it is unnatural.	None
Indeed, there is no cogent reasoning to support the idea that behaviour that may be uncommon on the basis of mere statistical probability is necessarily abnormal and must be deemed ethically or morally wrong.	None
Even behaviour that may be considered wrong or unnatural cannot be criminalised without sufficient justification given the penal consequences that follow.	None
Section 377 becomes a blanket offence that covers supposedly all types of nonprocreative natural sexual activity without any consideration given to the notions of consent and harm.	None
The meaning of natural as understood in cases such as Khanu v. Emperor AIR (1925)	None
Sind.	None
286 which interpreted natural sex to mean only sex that would lead to procreation, would lead to absurd consequences.	None
Some of the consequences have been pointed out thus The position of the court was thus that natural sexual intercourse is restricted not only to heterosexual coitus, but further only to acts that might possibly result in conception.	None
Such a formulation of the concept of natural sex excludes not only the use of contraception, which is likely to have fallen outside the hegemonic view of normative sexuality at the time, but also heterosexual coitus where one or both partners are infertile, or during the safe period of a womans menstrual cycle.	None
It is perhaps unnecessary to state that the formulation also excludes oral sex between heterosexual partners and any homosexual act whatsoever.	None
The indeterminacy and vagueness of the terms carnal intercourse and order of nature renders Section 377 constitutionally infirm as violating the equality clause in Article 14.	Arguments of Petitioner
While it is evident that the classification is invalid, it is useful to understand its purported goal by looking at the legislative history of Section 377.	None
In Macaulays first draft of the Penal Code, the predecessor to present day Section 377 was Clause 361 which provided a severe punishment for touching another for the purpose of unnatural lust.	None
Macaulay abhorred the idea of any debate or discussion on this heinous crime.	None
Indias antisodomy law was conceived, legislated and enforced by the British without any kind of public discussion.	None
So abhorrent was homosexuality to the moral notions which he espoused, that Macaulay believed that the idea of a discussion was repulsive.	None
Section 377 reveals only the hatred, revulsion and disgust of the draftsmen towards certain intimate choices of fellow human beings.	None
The criminalization of acts in Section 377 is not based on a legally valid distinction, but on broad moral proclamations that certain kinds of people, singled out by their private choices, are less than citizens  or less than human.	None
The Naz judgement has been criticised on the ground that even though it removed private acts between consenting adults from the purview of Section 377, it still retained the section along with its problematic terminology regarding the order of nature even though the acts would not be criminal, they would still be categorized as unnatural in the law.	None
This is not an idle terminological issue.	None
As Durkheim noted over a hundred years ago, the law also works as a tool that expresses social relations.	None
Hence, this expression itself is problematic from a dignitarian standpoint, otherwise so eloquently referred to by the judgement.	None
At this point, we look at some of the legislative changes that have taken place in Indias criminal law since the enactment of the Penal Code.	None
The Criminal Law (Amendment) Act 2013 imported certain understandings of the concept of sexual intercourse into its expansive definition of rape in Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code, which now goes beyond penilevaginal penetrative intercourse.	None
It has been argued that if sexual intercourse now includes many acts which were covered under Section 377, those acts are clearly not against the order of nature anymore.	None
They are, in fact, part of the changed meaning of sexual intercourse itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
This means that much of Section 377 has not only been rendered redundant but that the very word unnatural cannot have the meaning that was attributed to it before the 2013 amendment.	None
Section 375 defines the expression rape in an expansive sense, to include any one of several acts committed by a man in relation to a woman.	None
The offence of rape is established if those acts are committed against her will or without the free consent of the woman.	None
Section 375 is a clear indicator that in a heterosexual context, certain physical acts between a man and woman are excluded from the operation of penal law if they are consenting adults.	None
Many of these acts which would have been within the purview of Section 377, stand excluded from criminal liability when they take place in the course of consensual heterosexual contact.	None
Parliament has ruled against them being regarded against the order of nature, in the context of Section 375.	None
Yet those acts continue to be subject to criminal liability, if two adult men or women were to engage in consensual sexual contact.	None
This is a violation of Article 14.	None
Nivedita Menon opposes the idea that normal sexuality springs from nature and argues that this idea of normal sexuality is a cultural and social construct Consider the possibility that rules of sexual conduct are as arbitrary as traffic rules, created by human societies to maintain a certain sort of order, and which could differ from place to place  for example, you drive on the left in India and on the right in the USA.	None
Further, let us say you question the sort of social order that traffic rules keep in place.	None
Say you believe that traffic rules in Delhi are the product of a model of urban planning that privileges the rich and penalizes the poor, that this order encourages petrolconsuming private vehicles and discourages forms of transport that are energysaving  cycles, public transport, pedestrians.	None
You would then question that model of the city that forces large numbers of inhabitants to travel long distances every day simply to get to school andwork.	None
You could debate the merits of traffic rules and urban planning on the grounds of convenience, equity and sustainability of natural resources  at least, nobody could seriously argue that any set of traffic rules is natural.	None
The struggle of citizens belonging to sexual minorities is located within the larger history of the struggles against various forms of social subordination in India.	None
The order of nature that Section 377 speaks of is not just about nonprocreative sex but is about forms of intimacy which the social order finds disturbing.	None
This includes various forms of transgression such as intercaste and intercommunity relationships which are sought to be curbed by society.	None
What links LGBT individuals to couples who love across caste and community lines is the fact that both are exercising their right to love at enormous personal risk and in the process disrupting existing lines of social authority.	None
Thus, a reimagination of the order of nature as being not only about the prohibition of nonprocreative sex but instead about the limits imposed by structures such as gender, caste, class, religion and community makes the right to love not just a separate battle for LGBT individuals, but a battle for all.	None
E Beyond physicality sex, identity and stereotypes Only in the most technical sense is this a case about who may penetrate whom where.	None
At a practical and symbolical level it is about the status, moral citizenship and sense of selfworth of a significant section of the community.	None
At a more general and conceptual level, it concerns the nature of the open, democratic and pluralistic society contemplated by the Constitution.	None
The Petitioners contend that (i) Section 377 discriminates on the basis of sex and violates Articles 15 and 16 and (ii) Discrimination on the ground of sexual orientation is in fact, discrimination on the ground of sex.	Arguments of Petitioner
The intervenors argue that (i) Section 377 criminalizes acts and not people (ii) It is not discriminatory because the prohibition on anal and oral sex applies equally to both heterosexual and homosexual couples and (iii) Article 15 prohibits discrimination on the ground of sex which cannot be interpreted so broadly as to include sexual orientation.	None
When the constitutionality of a law is challenged on the ground that it violates the guarantees in Part III of the Constitution, what is determinative is its effect on the infringement of fundamental rights Re.	None
the Kerala Education Bill, AIR 1958 SC 956 at para 26 Sakal Papers v Union of India, AIR 1962 SC 305 at para 42 R.C. Cooper v Union of India, (1970) 1 SCC 248 at paras 43, 49 Bennett Coleman v. Union of India, AIR (1972) 2 SCC 788 at para 39 Maneka Gandhi v Union of India, (1978) 1 SCC 248 at para 19.	None
This affords the guaranteed freedoms their true potential against a claim by the state that the infringement of the right was not the object of the provision.	None
It is not the object of the law which impairs the rights of the citizens.	None
Nor is the form of the action taken determinative of the protection that can be claimed.	None
It is the effect of the law upon the fundamental right which calls the courts to step in and remedy the violation.	None
The individual is aggrieved because the law hurts.	None
The hurt to the individual is measured by the violation of a protected right.	None
Hence, while assessing whether a law infringes a fundamental right, it is not the intention of the lawmaker that is determinative, but whether the effect or operation of the law infringes fundamental rights.	None
Article 15 of the Constitution reads thus 15.	None
(1) The State shall not discriminate against any citizen on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them.	None
(Emphasis supplied) Article 15 prohibits the State from discriminating on grounds only of sex.	None
Early judicial pronouncements adjudged whether discrimination aimed only at sex is covered by Article 15 or whether the guarantee is attracted even to a discrimination on the basis of sex and some other grounds (Sex plus).	None
The argument was that since Article 15 prohibited discrimination on only specified grounds, discrimination resulting from a specified ground coupled with other considerations is not prohibited.	None
The view was that if the discrimination is justified on the grounds of sex and another factor, it would not be covered by the prohibition in Article 15.	None
One of the earliest cases decided in 1951 was by the Calcutta High Court in Sri Sri Mahadev Jiew v. Dr. B B Sen AIR (1961) Cal.	None
563.	None
Under Order XXV, R. 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure, men could be made liable for paying a security cost if they did not possess sufficient movable property in India only if they were residing outside India.	None
However, women were responsible for paying such security, regardless of whether or not they were residing in India.	None
In other words, the law drew a distinction between resident males who did not have sufficient immovable property, and resident females who did not have sufficient immovable property.	None
Upholding the provision, the Calcutta High Court held Article 15(1) of the Constitution provides, inter alia,  The State shall not discriminate against any citizen on grounds only of sex.	None
The word only in this Article is of great importance and significance which should not be missed.	None
The impugned law must be shown to discriminate because of sex alone.	None
If other factors in addition to sex come into play in making the discriminatory law, then such discrimination does not, in my judgment, come within the provision of Article 15(1) of the Constitution.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
This interpretation was upheld by this Court in Air India v. Nergesh Meerza (Nergesh Meerza).(1981) 4 SCC 335 Regulations 46 and 47 of the Air India Employees Service Regulations were challenged for causing a disparity between the pay and promotional opportunities of men and women inflight cabin crew.	None
Under Regulation 46, while the retirement age for male Flight Pursers was fifty eight, Air Hostesses were required to retire at thirty five, or on marriage (if they married within four years of joining service), or on their first pregnancy, whichever occurred earlier.	None
This period could be extended in the absolute discretion of the Managing Director.	None
Even though the two cadres were constituted on the grounds of sex, the Court upheld the Regulations in part and opined Even otherwise, what Articles 15(1) and 16(2) prohibit is that discrimination should not be made only and only on the ground of sex.	None
These Articles of the Constitution do not prohibit the State from making discrimination on the ground of sex coupled with other considerations.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
This formalistic interpretation of Article 15 would render the constitutional guarantee against discrimination meaningless.	None
For it would allow the State to claim that the discrimination was based on sex and another ground (Sex plus) and hence outside the ambit of Article 15.	None
Latent in the argument of the discrimination, are stereotypical notions of the differences between men and women which are then used to justify the discrimination.	None
This narrow view of Article 15 strips the prohibition on discrimination of its essential content.	None
This fails to take into account the intersectional nature of sex discrimination, which cannot be said to operate in isolation of other identities, especially from the sociopolitical and economic context.	None
For example, a rule that people over six feet would not be employed in the army would be able to stand an attack on its disproportionate impact on women if it was maintained that the discrimination is on the basis of sex and height.	None
Such a formalistic view of the prohibition in Article 15, rejects the true operation of discrimination, which intersects varied identities and characteristics.	None
A divergent note was struck by this Court in Anuj Garg v. Hotel Association of India (2008) 3 SCC 1 .	None
Section 30 of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914 prohibited the employment of women (and men under 25 years) in premises where liquor or other intoxicating drugs were consumed by the public.	None
Striking down the law as suffering from incurable fixations of stereotype morality and conception of sexual role, the Court held 42 one issue of immediate relevance in such cases is the effect of the traditional cultural norms as also the state of general ambience in the society which women have to face while opting for an employment which is otherwise completely innocuous for the male counterpart 43It is states duty to ensure circumstances of safety which inspire confidence in women to discharge the duty freely in accordance to the requirements of the profession they choose to follow.	None
Any other policy inference (such as the one embodied under section 30) from societal conditions would be oppressive on the women and against the privacy rights.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The Court recognized that traditional cultural norms stereotype gender roles.	None
These stereotypes are premised on assumptions about socially ascribed roles of gender which discriminate against women.	None
The Court held that insofar as governmental policy is based on the aforesaid cultural norms, it is constitutionally invalid.	None
In the same line, the Court also cited with approval, the judgments of the US Supreme Court in Frontiero v. Richardson 411 U.S. 677 (1973) , and United States v. Virginia 518 U.S. 515 (1996).	None
, and Justice Marshalls dissent in Dothard v. Rawlinson 433 U.S. 321 (1977), The Court grounded the antistereotyping principle as firmly rooted in the prohibition under Article 15.	None
In National Legal Services Authority v. Union of India (NALSA) (2014) 5 SCC 438 , while dealing with the rights of transgender persons under the Constitution, this Court opined Articles 15 and 16 sought to prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex, recognizing that sex discrimination is a historical fact and needs to be addressed.	Facts
Constitution makers, it can be gathered, gave emphasis to the fundamental right against sex discrimination so as to prevent the direct or indirect attitude to treat people differently, for the reason of not being in conformity with stereotypical generalizations of binary genders.	None
Both gender and biological attributes constitute distinct components of sex.	None
Biological characteristics, of course, include genitals, chromosomes and secondary sexual features, but gender attributes include ones self image, the deep psychological or emotional sense of sexual identity and character.	None
The discrimination on the ground of sex Under Articles 15 and 16, therefore, includes discrimination on the ground of gender identity.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
This approach, in my view, is correct.	None
In Nergesh Meerza, this Court held that where persons of a particular class, in view of the special attributes, qualities are treated differently in public interest, such a classification would not be discriminatory.	None
The Court opined that since the modes of recruitment, promotional avenues and other matters were different for Air Hostesses, they constituted a class separate from male Flight Pursers.	None
This, despite noting that a perusal of the job functions which have been detailed in the affidavit, clearly shows that the functions of the two, though obviously different overlap on some points but the difference, if any, is one of degree rather than of kind.	None
The Court did not embark on the preliminary enquiry as to whether the initial classification between the two cadres, being grounded in sex, was violative of the constitutional guarantee against discrimination.	None
Referring specifically to the three significant disabilities that the Regulations imposed on Air Hostesses, the Court held that there can be no doubt that these peculiar conditions do form part of the Regulations governing Air Hostesses but once we have held that Air Hostesses form a separate category with different and separate incidents the circumstances pointed out by the petitioners cannot amount to discrimination so as to violate Article 14 of the Constitution on this ground.	None
The basis of the classification was that only men could become male Flight Pursers and only women could become Air Hostesses.	None
The very constitution of the cadre was based on sex.	None
What this meant was, that to pass the nondiscrimination test found in Article 15, the State merely had to create two separate classes based on sex and constitute two separate cadres.	None
That would not be discriminatory.	None
The Court went a step ahead and opined 80Thus, the Regulation permits an AH to marry at the age of 23 if she has joined the service at the age of 19 which is by all standards a very sound and salutary provision.	None
Apart from improving the health of the employee, it helps a good in the promotion and boosting up of our family planning programme.	None
Secondly, if a woman marries near about the age of 20 to 23 years, she becomes fully mature and there is every chance of such a marriage proving a success, all things being equal.	None
Thirdly, it has been rightly pointed out to us by the Corporation that if the bar of marriage within four years of service is removed then the Corporation will have to incur huge expenditure in recruiting additional AHs either on a temporary or on ad hoc basis to replace the working AHs if they conceive and any period short of four years would be too little a time for the Corporation to phase out such an ambitious plan.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
A strong stereotype underlines the judgment.	None
The Court did not recognize that men were not subject to the same standards with respect to marriage.	None
It holds that the burdens of health and family planning rest solely on women.	None
This perpetuates the notion that the obligations of raising family are those solely of the woman.	None
In dealing with the provision for termination of service on the first pregnancy, the Court opined that a substituted provision for termination on the third pregnancy would be in the larger interest of the health of the Air Hostesses concerned as also for the good upbringing of the children.	None
Here again, the Courts view rested on a stereotype.	None
The patronizing attitude towards the role of women compounds the difficulty in accepting the logic of Nergesh Meerza.	None
This approach, in my view, is patently incorrect.	None
A discriminatory act will be tested against constitutional values.	None
A discrimination will not survive constitutional scrutiny when it is grounded in and perpetuates stereotypes about a class constituted by the grounds prohibited in Article 15(1).	None
If any ground of discrimination, whether direct or indirect is founded on a stereotypical understanding of the role of the sex, it would not be distinguishable from the discrimination which is prohibited by Article 15 on the grounds only of sex.	None
If certain characteristics grounded in stereotypes, are to be associated with entire classes of people constituted as groups by any of the grounds prohibited in Article 15(1), that cannot establish a permissible reason to discriminate.	None
Such a discrimination will be in violation of the constitutional guarantee against discrimination in Article 15(1).	None
That such a discrimination is a result of grounds rooted in sex and other considerations, can no longer be held to be a position supported by the intersectional understanding of how discrimination operates.	None
This infuses Article 15 with true rigour to give it a complete constitutional dimension in prohibiting discrimination.	None
The approach adopted the Court in Nergesh Meerza, is incorrect.	None
A provision challenged as being ultra vires the prohibition of discrimination on the grounds only of sex under Article 15(1) is to be assessed not by the objects of the state in enacting it, but by the effect that the provision has on affected individuals and on their fundamental rights.	None
Any ground of discrimination, direct or indirect, which is founded on a particular understanding of the role of the sex, would not be distinguishable from the discrimination which is prohibited by Article 15 on the grounds only of sex.	None
I Facial neutrality through the looking glass The moral belief which underlies Section 377 is that sexual activities which do not result in procreation are against the order of nature and ought to be criminalized under Section 377.	None
The intervenors submit that Section 377, criminalizes anal and oral sex by heterosexual couples as well.	None
Hence, it is urged that Section 377 applies equally to all conduct against the order of nature, irrespective of sexual orientation.	Arguments of Respondent
This submission is incorrect.	None
In NALSA this Court held that Section 377, though associated with specific sexual acts, highlights certain identities.	None
In Naz, the Delhi High Court demonstrated effectively how Section 377 though facially neutral in its application to certain acts, targets specific communities in terms of its impact Section 377 IPC is facially neutral and it apparently targets not identities but acts, but in its operation it does end up unfairly targeting a particular community.	None
The fact is that these sexual acts which are criminalised are associated more closely with one class of persons, namely, the homosexuals as a class.	None
Section 377 IPC has the effect of viewing all gay men as criminals.	None
When everything associated with homosexuality is treated as bent, queer, repugnant, the whole gay and lesbian community is marked with deviance and perversity.	None
They are subject to extensive prejudice because what they are or what they are perceived to be, not because of what they do.	None
The result is that a significant group of the population is, because of its sexual nonconformity, persecuted, marginalised and turned in on itself.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
To this end, it chronicled the experiences of the victims of Section 377, relying on the extensive records and affidavits submitted by the Petitioners that brought to fore instances of custodial rape and torture, social boycott, degrading and inhuman treatment and incarceration.	None
The court concluded that while Section 377 criminalized conduct, it created a systemic pattern of disadvantage, exclusion and indignity for the LGBT community, and for individuals who indulge in nonheterosexual conduct.	None
Jurisprudence across national frontiers supports the principle that facially neutral action by the State may have a disproportionate impact upon a particular class.	None
In Europe, Directive 2006/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006 defines indirect discrimination as where an apparently neutral provision, criterion or practice would put persons of one sex at a particular disadvantage compared with persons of the other sex, unless that provision, criterion or practice is objectively justified by a legitimate aim, and the means of achieving that aim are appropriate and necessary.	None
In Griggs v Duke Power Co.401 U.S. 424 (1971), the US Supreme Court, whilst recognizing that AfricanAmericans received substandard education due to segregated schools, opined that the requirement of an aptitude intelligence test disproportionately affected AfricanAmerican candidates.	None
The Court held that The Civil Rights Act proscribes not only overt discrimination but also practices that are fair in form, but discriminatory in operation.	None
In BilkaKaufhaus GmbH v. Karin Weber von Hartz (1986) ECR 1607, the European Court of Justice held that denying pensions to parttime employees is more likely to affect women, as women were more likely to take up parttime jobs.	None
The Court noted Article 119 of the EEC Treaty is infringed by a department store company which excludes parttime employees from its occupational pension scheme, where that exclusion affects a far greater number of women than men, unless the undertaking shows that the exclusion is based on objectively justified factors unrelated to any discrimination on grounds of sex.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The Canadian Supreme Court endorsed the notion of a disparate impact where an action has a disproportionate impact on a class of persons.	None
In Andrews v. Law Society of British Columbia (1989) 1	None
SCR 143, the Court noted Discrimination is a distinction which, whether intentional or not but based on grounds relating to personal characteristics of the individual or group, has an effect which imposes disadvantages not imposed upon others or which withholds or limits access to advantages available to other members of society.	None
Distinctions based on personal characteristics attributed to an individual solely on the basis of association with a group will rarely escape the charge of discrimination, while those based on an individuals merits and capacities will rarely be so classed.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Thus, when an action has the effect of imposing burdens, obligations, or disadvantages on such individual or group not imposed upon others, or which withholds or limits access to opportunities, benefits, and advantages available to other members of society, it would be suspect.	None
In City Council of Pretoria v. Walker (1998) 3 BCLR 257 , the Constitutional Court of South Africa observed The concept of indirect discrimination, was developed precisely to deal with situations where discrimination lay disguised behind apparently neutral criteria or where persons already adversely hit by patterns of historic subordination had their disadvantage entrenched or intensified by the impact of measures not overtly intended to prejudice them.	None
In many cases, particularly those in which indirect discrimination is alleged, the protective purpose would be defeated if the persons complaining of discrimination had to prove not only that they were unfairly discriminated against but also that the unfair discrimination was intentional.	None
This problem would be particularly acute in cases of indirect discrimination where there is almost always some purpose other than a discriminatory purpose involved in the conduct or action to which objection is taken.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
E.2 Deconstructing the polarities of binary genders Section 377 criminalizes behaviour that does not conform to the heterosexual expectations of society.	None
In doing so it perpetuates a symbiotic relationship between antihomosexual legislation and traditional gender roles.	None
The notion that the nature of relationships is fixed and within the order of nature is perpetuated by gender roles, thus excluding homosexuality from the narrative.	None
The effect is described as follows Cultural homophobia thus discourages social behavior that appears to threaten the stability of heterosexual gender roles.	None
These dual normative standards of social and sexual behavior construct the image of a gay man as abnormal because he deviates from the masculine gender role by subjecting himself in the sexual act to another man.	None
If individuals as well as society hold strong beliefs about gender roles  that men (to be characteristically reductive) are unemotional, socially dominant, breadwinners that are attracted to women and women are emotional, socially submissive, caretakers that are attracted to men  it is unlikely that such persons or society at large will accept that the idea that two men or two women could maintain a relationship.	None
If such a denial is further grounded in a law, such as Article 377 the effect is to entrench the belief that homosexuality is an aberration that falls outside the normal way of life.	None
An instructive article by Zachary A. Kramer, notes that a heterosexist society both expects and requires men and women to engage in only oppositesex sexual relationships.	None
The existence of samesex relationships is, therefore, repugnant to heterosexist societal expectations.	None
Kramer argues that Discrimination against gays and lesbians reinforces traditional sex roles.	None
The primary thrust of such discrimination is the genderbased stigmatization of gays and lesbians, deriving from the idea that homosexuality departs from traditional gender roles and that real men and women should not be attracted to a member of the same sex.	None
This portrayal relies heavily on what Bennett Capers calls the binary gender system.	None
Bennett Capers defines the binary gender system as based in heterosexism, which he defines as the institutionalized valorization of heterosexual activity.	None
Capers, in fact suggests that The sanctioning of discrimination based on sexual orientation perpetuates the subordination not only of lesbians and gays but of women as well.	None
Heterosexism, then, in its reliance on a bipolar system of sex and gender, reinforces sexism in two ways.	None
First, by penalizing persons who do not conform to a bipolar gender system and rewarding men and women who do, the heterosexist hegemony perpetuates a schema that valorizes passive, dependent women, thus contributing to sexism.	None
Second, heterosexism reinforces sexism because it subordinates the female sex through its hierarchical polarity.	None
Because heterosexism perpetuates sexism, the extension of substantial rights to lesbians and gays, who by definition challenge heterosexism and the concept of a binary gender system, would result in a challenge to sexism and to male power.	None
In other words, one cannot simply separate discrimination based on sexual orientation and discrimination based on sex because discrimination based on sexual orientation inherently promulgates ideas about stereotypical notions of sex and gender roles.	None
Taking this further, Andrew Koppelman argues that Similarly, sodomy laws discriminate on the basis of sexfor example, permitting men, but not women, to have sex with womenin order to impose traditional sex roles.	None
The Court has deemed this purpose impermissible in other contexts because it perpetuates the subordination of women.	None
The same concern applies with special force to the sodomy laws, because their function is to maintain the polarities of gender on which the subordination of women depends.	None
Koppelman thus suggests that the taboo against homosexuals polices the boundaries that separate the dominant from the dominated in a social hierarchy.	None
He expands on this idea, using the analogy of miscegenation, or the interbreeding of races Do statutes that outlaw homosexual sex impose traditional sex roles?	None
One possible answer is that of McLaughlin McLaughlin v. Florida	None
The crime is by definition one of engaging in activity inappropriate to ones sex.	None
But these statutes inconsistency with the Constitutions command of equality is deeper.	None
Like the miscegenation statutes, the sodomy statutes reflect and reinforce the morality of a hierarchy based on birth.	None
Just as the prohibition of miscegenation preserved the polarities of race on which white supremacy rested, so the prohibition of sodomy preserves the polarities of gender on which rests the subordination of women.	None
Statutes like Section 377 give people ammunition to say this is what a man is by giving them a law which says this is what a man is not.	None
Thus, laws that affect nonheterosexuals rest upon a normative stereotype the bald conviction that certain behaviorfor example, sex with womenis appropriate for members of one sex, but not for members of the other sex.	None
What this shows us is that LGBT individuals as well as those who do not conform to societal expectations of sexual behaviour defy gender stereotypes.	None
The construction of gender stereotypes ultimately rests on the assumption that there are two opposite and mutually exclusive biological sexes.	None
The assumption of heterosexuality is central to this gender binary.	None
In a patriarchal context, some of the most serious transgressors are thus a woman who renounces a man sexual partner or an individual assigned female at birth who renounces womanhood, thereby rejecting the patriarchal system and all other forms of male supervision and control, and an individual assigned male at birth who embraces womanhood, thereby abandoning privilege in favor of that which is deemed subservient, femininity.	None
Prohibition of sex discrimination is meant to change traditional practices which legally, and often socially and economically, disadvantage persons on the basis of gender.	None
The case for gay rights undoubtedly seeks justice for gays.	None
But it goes well beyond the concern for the gay community.	None
The effort to end discrimination against gays should be understood as a necessary part of the larger effort to end the inequality of the sexes.	None
To be a lesbian is to be perceived (labelled) as someone who has stepped out of line, who has moved out of sexual economic dependence on a male, who is womanidentified.	None
A lesbian is perceived as someone who can live without a man, and who is therefore (however illogically) against men.	None
A lesbian is perceived as being outside the acceptable, routinized order of things.	None
She is seen as someone who has no societal institutions to protect her and who is not privileged to the protection of individual males.	None
A lesbian is perceived as a threat to the nuclear family, to male dominance and control, to the very heart of sexism.	None
Commenting on its link with the essence of Article 15, Tarunabh Khaitan writes But the salience of a case on discrimination against a politically disempowered minority, based purely on the prejudices of a majority, goes beyond the issue of LGBTQ rights.	None
Indian constitutional democracy is at a crossroadsInclusiveness and pluralism lie at the heart of Article 15, which can be our surest vehicle for the Court to lend its institutional authority to the salience of these ideas in our constitutional identity.	None
Relationships that tend to undermine the male female divide are inherently required for the maintenance of a socially imposed gender inequality.	None
Relationships which question the divide are picked up for target and abuse.	None
Section 377 allows this.	None
By attacking these gender roles, members of the affected community, in their move to build communities and relationships premised on care and reciprocity, lay challenge to the idea that relationships, and by extension society, must be divided along hierarchical sexual roles in order to function.	None
For members of the community, hostility and exclusion aimed at them, drive them into hiding, away from public expression and view.	None
It is this discrimination faced by the members of the community, which results in silence, and consequently invisibility, creating barriers, systemic and deliberate, that effect their participation in the work force and thus undermines substantive equality.	None
In the sense that the prohibition of miscegenation was aimed to preserve and perpetuate the polarities of race to protect white supremacy, the prohibition of homosexuality serves to ensure a larger system of social control based on gender and sex.	None
A report prepared by the International Commission of Jurists has documented the persecution faced by the affected community due to the operation of Section 377.	None
The report documents numerous violations inflicted on people under the authority of Section 377.	None
According to the National Crime Records Bureau, 1279 persons in 2014 and 1491 in 2015 were arrested under Section 377.	None
The report documents instances of abuse from law enforcement agencies and how the possibility of persecution under Section 377 prevents redress.	None
Even though acts such as blackmail, assault, and bodily crimes are punishable under penal laws, such methods of seeking redressal are not accessed by those communities given the fear of retaliation or prosecution.	None
The petitioners in the present batch of cases have real life narrations of suffering discrimination, prejudice and hate.	None
In Anwesh Pokkuluri v. UOI, with which this case is connected, the Petitioners are a group of persons belonging to the LGBTQ community, each of whom has excelled in their fields but suffer immensely due to the operation of Section 377.	None
To cope with the growing isolation among the community, these Petitioners, all alumni of Indian Institutes of Technology across the country, created a closed group called Pravritti.	None
The group consists of persons from the LGBTQ community.	None
They are faculty members, students, alumni and anyone who has ever stayed on the campus of any IIT in the country.	None
The group was formed in 2012 to help members cope with loneliness and difficulties faced while accepting their identity along with holding open discussions on awareness.	None
Out of twenty Petitioners, sixteen are gay, two are bisexual women and one is a bisexual man.	None
One among the Petitioners is a transwoman.	None
Three of the Petitioners explain that they suffered immense mental agony due to which they were on the verge of committing suicide.	None
Another two stated that speaking about their sexual identity has been difficult, especially since they did not have the support of their families, who, upon learning of their sexual orientation, took them for psychiatric treatment to cure the socalled disease.	None
The families of three Petitioners ignored their sexual identity.	None
One of them qualified to become an Indian Administrative Services officer in an examination which more than 4,00,000 people write each year.	None
But he chose to forgo his dream because of the fear that he would be discriminated against on the ground of his sexuality.	None
Some of them have experienced depression others faced problems focusing on their studies while growing up one among them was forced to drop out of high school as she was residing in a girls hostel where the authorities questioned her identity.	None
The parents of one of them brushed his sexuality under the carpet and suggested that he marry a woman.	None
Some doubted whether or not they should continue their relationships given the atmosphere created by Section 377.	None
Several work in organisations that have policies protecting the LGBT community in place.	None
Having faced so much pain in their personal lives, the Petitioners submit that with the continued operation of Section 377, such treatment will be unabated.	None
In Navtej Johar v. Union of India, with which this case is concerned, the Petitioners have set out multiple instances of discrimination and expulsion.	None
The following is a realistic account While society, friends and family are accepting of my sexuality, I cannot be fully open about my identity and my relationships because I constantly fear arrest and violence by the policeWithout the existence of this section, the social prejudice and shame that I have faced would have been considerably lessenedthe fact that gay people, like me, are recognized only as criminals is deeply upsetting and denies me the dignity and respect that I feel I deserve.	None
Apart from the visible social manifestations of Section 377, the retention of the provision perpetuates a certain culture.	None
The stereotypes fostered by section 377 have an impact on how other individuals and nonstate institutions treat the community.	None
While this behaviour is not sanctioned by Section 377, the existence of the provision nonetheless facilitates it by perpetuating homophobic attitudes and making it almost impossible for victims of abuse to access justice.	None
Thus, the social effects of such a provision, even when it is enforced with zeal, is to sanction verbal harassment, familial fear, restricted access to public spaces and the lack of safe spaces.	None
This results in a denial of the self.	None
Identities are obliterated, denying the entitlement to equal participation and dignity under the Constitution.	None
Section 377 deprives them of an equal citizenship.	None
Referring to the effect of Foucaults panopticon in inducing a state of conscious and permanent visibility that assures the automatic functioning of power, Ryan Goodman writes The states relationship to lesbian and gay individuals under a regime of sodomy laws constructs a similar, yet dispersed, structure of observation and surveillance.	None
The public is sensitive to the visibility of lesbians and gays as socially and legally constructed miscreants.	None
Admittedly certain individuals, namely those who are certified with various levels of state authority, are more directly linked to the extension of laws power.	None
Yet the social effects of sodomy laws are not tied to these specialized agents alone.	None
On the ground level, private individuals also perform roles of policing and controlling lesbian and gay lives in a mimetic relation to the modes of justice itself.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The effect of Section 377, thus, is not merely to criminalize an act, but to criminalize a specific set of identities.	None
Though facially neutral, the effect of the provision is to efface specific identities.	None
These identities are the soul of the LGBT community.	None
The Constitution envisaged a transformation in the order of relations not just between the state and the individual, but also between individuals in a constitutional order characterized by the Rule of Law, the constitutional commitment to egalitarianism and an antidiscriminatory ethos permeates and infuses these relations.	None
In K S Puttaswamy v. Union of India (Puttaswamy)117, this Court affirmed the individual as the bearer of the constitutional guarantee of rights.	None
Such rights are devoid of their guarantee when despite legal recognition, the social, economic and political context enables an atmosphere of continued discrimination.	None
The Constitution enjoins upon every individual a commitment to a constitutional democracy characterized by the principles of equality and inclusion.	None
In a constitutional democracy committed to the protection of individual dignity and autonomy, the state and every individual has a duty to act in a manner that advances and promotes the constitutional order of values.	None
By criminalizing consensual sexual conduct between two homosexual adults, Section 377 has become the basis not just of prosecutions but of the persecution of members of the affected community.	None
Section 377 leads to the perpetuation of a culture of silence and stigmatization.	None
Section 377 perpetuates notions of morality which prohibit certain relationships as being against the order of nature.	None
A criminal provision has sanctioned discrimination grounded on stereotypes imposed on an entire class of persons on grounds prohibited by Article 15(1).	None
This constitutes discrimination on the grounds only of sex and violates the guarantee of nondiscrimination in Article 15(1) History has been witness to a systematic stigmatization and exclusion of those who do not conform to societal standards of what is expected of them.	None
Section 377 rests on deep rooted gender stereotypes.	None
In the quest to assert their liberties, people criminalized by the operation of the provision, challenge not only its existence, but also a gamut of beliefs that are strongly rooted in majoritarian standards of what is normal.	None
In this quest, the attack on the validity of Section 377 is a challenge to a long history of societal discrimination and persecution of people based on their identities.	None
They have been subjugated to a culture of silence and into leading their lives in closeted invisibility.	None
There must come a time when the constitutional guarantee of equality and inclusion will end the decades of discrimination practiced, based on a majoritarian impulse of ascribed gender roles.	None
That time is now.	None
Confronting the closet The right to privacy is intrinsic to liberty, central to human dignity and the core of autonomy.	None
These values are integral to the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution.	None
A meaningful life is a life of freedom and selfrespect and nurtured in the ability to decide the course of living.	None
In the nine judge Bench decision in Puttaswamy, this Court conceived of the right to privacy as natural and inalienable.	None
The judgment delivered on behalf of four judges holds Privacy is a concomitant of the right of the individual to exercise control over his or her personality.	None
It finds an origin in the notion that there are certain rights which are natural to or inherent in a human being.	None
Natural rights are inalienable because they are inseparable from the human personality.	None
The human element in life is impossible to conceive without the existence of natural rights Justice Bobde, in his exposition on the form of the right to privacy held thus Privacy, with which we are here concerned, eminently qualifies as an inalienable natural right, intimately connected to two values whose protection is a matter of universal moral agreement the innate dignity and autonomy of man.	None
Justice Nariman has written about the inalienable nature of the right to privacy Fundamental rights, on the other hand, are contained in the Constitution so that there would be rights that the citizens of this country may enjoy despite the governments that they may elect.	None
This is all the more so when a particular fundamental right like privacy of the individual is an inalienable right which inheres in the individual because he is a human being.	None
The recognition of such right in the fundamental rights chapter of the Constitution is only a recognition that such right exists notwithstanding the shifting sands of majority governments Justice Sapre, in his opinion, has also sanctified privacy as a natural right In my considered opinion, right to privacy of any individual is essentially a natural right, which inheres in every human being by birth It is indeed inseparable and inalienableit is born with the human being These opinions establish that the right to privacy is a natural right.	None
The judgment of four judges in Puttaswamy held that the right to sexual orientation is an intrinsic part of the right to privacy.	None
To define the scope of the right, it is useful to examine the discussion on the right to sexual orientation in judicial precedents of this Court.	None
Speaking for a two judge Bench in NALSA, Justice K S Radhakrishnan elucidated upon the term sexual orientation as differentiable from an individuals gender identity, noting that Sexual orientation refers to an individuals enduring physical, romantic and or emotional attraction to another person.	None
Sexual orientation includes transgender and gendervariant people with heavy sexual orientation and their sexual orientation may or may not change during or after gender transmission, which also includes homosexuals, bysexuals, heterosexuals, asexual etc.	None
Gender identity and sexual orientation, as already indicated, are different concepts.	None
Each persons selfdefined sexual orientation and gender identity is integral to their personality and is one of the most basic aspects of selfdetermination, dignity and freedom Puttaswamy rejected the test of popular acceptance employed by this Court in Koushal and affirmed that sexual orientation is a constitutionally guaranteed freedom The guarantee of constitutional rights does not depend upon their exercise being favourably regarded by majoritarian opinion.	None
The test of popular acceptance does not furnish a valid basis to disregard rights which are conferred with the sanctity of constitutional protection.	None
Discrete and insular minorities face grave dangers of discrimination for the simple reason that their views, beliefs or way of life do not accord with the mainstream.	None
Yet in a democratic Constitution founded on the rule of law, their rights are as sacred as those conferred on other citizens to protect their freedoms and liberties.	None
Sexual orientation is an essential attribute of privacy.	None
Discrimination against an individual on the basis of sexual orientation is deeply offensive to the dignity and selfworth of the individual.	None
Equality demands that the sexual orientation of each individual in society must be protected on an even platform.	None
The right to privacy and the protection of sexual orientation lie at the core of the fundamental rights guaranteed by Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution.	None
Rejecting the notion that the rights of the LGBT community can be construed as illusory, the court held that the right to privacy claimed by sexual minorities is a constitutionally entrenched right	None
The rights of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender population cannot be construed to be socalled rights.	None
The expression socalled seems to suggest the exercise of a liberty in the garb of a right which is illusory.	None
This is an inappropriate construction of the privacy based claims of the LGBT population.	None
Their rights are not socalled but are real rights founded on sound constitutional doctrine.	None
They inhere in the right to life.	None
They dwell in privacy and dignity.	None
They constitute the essence of liberty and freedom.	None
Sexual orientation is an essential component of identity.	None
Equal protection demands protection of the identity of every individual without discrimination.	None
Justice Kaul, concurring with the recognition of sexual orientation as an aspect of privacy, noted that The sexual orientation even within the four walls of the house thus became an aspect of debate.	None
I am in agreement with the view of Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, J., who in paragraphs 144 to 146 of his judgment, states that the right of privacy cannot be denied, even if there is a miniscule fraction of the population which is affected.	None
The majoritarian concept does not apply to Constitutional rights and the Courts are often called up on to take what may be categorized as a nonmajoritarian view, in the check and balance of power envisaged under the Constitution of India.	None
Ones sexual orientation is undoubtedly an attribute of privacy With these observations by five of the nine judges in Puttaswamy, the basis on which Koushal upheld the validity of Section 377 stands eroded and even disapproved.	None
We must now consider the impact of Section 377 on the exercise of the right to privacy by sexual minorities.	None
Legislation does not exist in a vacuum.	None
The social ramifications of Section 377 are enormous.	None
While facially Section 377 only criminalizes certain acts, and not relationships, it alters the prism through which a member of the LGBTQ is viewed.	None
Conduct and identity are conflated.	None
The impact of criminalising nonconforming sexual relations is that individuals who fall outside the spectrum of heteronormative sexual identity are perceived as criminals.	None
World over, sexual minorities have struggled to find acceptance in the heteronormative structure that is imposed by society.	None
In her book titled Epistemology of the Closet, Eve Sedgwick states that the closet is the defining structure for gay oppression in this century.	None
The closet is symbolic of the exclusion faced by them Closets exist and they hide social information.	None
They hide certain socially proscribed sexual desires, certain unnamable sexual acts deemed unnatural by the cultural context and law, certain identities which dare not speak their name and certain forms of behaviour which can make an individual susceptible to stigma and oppression.	None
The closet does not simply hide this susceptibility it hides stigma and oppression itself.	None
It marks the silencing of different voices, a silence which is achieved by a gross violation of lives that inhabit the closet, through both violence and pain inflicted by significant others both within and without the closet and instances of selfinflicted pain and violence.	None
The closet also hides pleasure, myriad sexual expressions and furtive encounters that gratify the self.	None
The closet also conceals the possibility of disease and death.	None
The existing heteronormative framework  which recognises only sexual relations that conform to social norms  is legitimized by the taint of unnaturalness that Section 377 lends to sexual relations outside this framework.	None
The notion of unnatural acts, viewed in myopic terms of a fixed procreational model of sexual functioning, is improperly applied to sexual relations between consenting adults.	None
Sexual activity between adults and based on consent must be viewed as a natural expression of human sexual competences and sensitivities.	None
The refusal to accept these acts amounts to a denial of the distinctive human capacities for sensual experience outside of the realm of procreative sex.	None
To deny the members of the LGBT community the full expression of the right to sexual orientation is to deprive them of their entitlement to full citizenship under the Constitution.	None
The denial of the right to sexual orientation is also a denial of the right to privacy.	None
The application of Section 377 causes a deprivation of the fundamental right to privacy which inheres in every citizen.	None
This Court is entrusted with the duty to act as a safeguard against such violations of human rights.	None
Justice Chelameswar, in his judgement in Puttaswamy, held that To sanctify an argument that whatever is not found in the text of the Constitution cannot become a part of the Constitution would be too primitive an understanding of the Constitution and contrary to settled cannons of constitutional interpretation.	None
Such an approach regarding the rights and liberties of citizens would be an affront to the collective wisdom of our people and the wisdom of the members of the Constituent Assembly 59	None
.The exercise of the natural and inalienable right to privacy entails allowing an individual the right to a selfdetermined sexual orientation.	Reasoning
Thus, it is imperative to widen the scope of the right to privacy to incorporate a right to sexual privacy to protect the rights of sexual minorities.	None
Emanating from the inalienable right to privacy, the right to sexual privacy must be granted the sanctity of a natural right, and be protected under the Constitution as fundamental to liberty and as a soulmate of dignity.	None
Citizens of a democracy cannot be compelled to have their lives pushed into obscurity by an oppressive colonial legislation.	None
In order to ensure to sexual and gender minorities the fulfilment of their fundamental rights, it is imperative to confront the closet and, as a necessary consequence, confront compulsory heterosexuality.	None
Confronting the closet would entail reclaiming markers of all desires, identities and acts which challenge it.	None
It would also entail ensuring that individuals belonging to sexual minorities, have the freedom to fully participate in public life, breaking the invisible barrier that heterosexuality imposes upon them.	None
The choice of sexuality is at the core of privacy.	None
But equally, our constitutional jurisprudence must recognise that the public assertion of identity founded in sexual orientation is crucial to the exercise of freedoms.	None
In conceptualising a right to sexual privacy, it is important to consider how the delineation of public and private spaces affects the lives of the LGBTIQ community.	None
Members of the community have argued that to base their claims on a right to privacy is of no utility to individuals who do not possess the privilege of a private space.	None
In fact, even for individuals who have access to private spaces the conflation of private with home and family may be misplaced.	None
The home is often reduced to a public space as heteronormativity within the family can force the individual to remain inside the closet.	None
Thus, even the conception of a private space for certain individuals is utopian.	None
Privacy creates tiers of reputable and disreputable sex, only granting protection to acts behind closed doors.	None
Thus, it is imperative that the protection granted for consensual acts in private must also be available in situations where sexual minorities are vulnerable in public spaces on account of their sexuality and appearance.	None
If one accepts the proposition that public places are heteronormative, and samesex sexual acts partially closeted, relegating homosexual acts into the private sphere, would in effect reiterate the ambient heterosexism of the public space.	None
It must be acknowledged that members belonging to sexual minorities are often subjected to harassment in public spaces.	None
The right to sexual privacy, founded on the right to autonomy of a free individual, must capture the right of persons of the community to navigate public places on their own terms, free from state interference.	None
I Sexual privacy and autonomy deconstructing the heteronormative framework In the absence of a protected zone of privacy, individuals are forced to conform to societal stereotypes.	None
Puttaswamy has characterised the right to privacy as a shield against forced homogeneity and as an essential attribute to achieve personhood Recognizing a zone of privacy is but an acknowledgment that each individual must be entitled to chart and pursue the course of development of personality.	None
Hence privacy is a postulate of human dignity itself.	None
Thoughts and behavioural patterns which are intimate to an individual are entitled to a zone of privacy where one is free of social expectations.	None
In that zone of privacy, an individual is not judged by others.	None
Privacy enables each individual to take crucial decisions which find expression in the human personality.	None
It enables individuals to preserve their beliefs, thoughts, expressions, ideas, ideologies, preferences and choices against societal demands of homogeneity.	None
Privacy is an intrinsic recognition of heterogeneity, of the right of the individual to be different and to stand against the tide of conformity in creating a zone of solitude.	None
Privacy protects the individual from the searching glare of publicity in matters which are personal to his or her life.	None
Privacy attaches to the person and not to the place where it is associated.	None
This Court has recognized the right of an individual to break free from the demands of society and the need to foster a plural and inclusive culture.	None
The judgment of four judges in Puttaswamy, for instance, held that Privacy constitutes the foundation of all liberty because it is in privacy that the individual can decide how liberty is best exercised.	None
Individual dignity and privacy are inextricably linked in a pattern woven out of a thread of diversity into the fabric of a plural culture.	None
In Santosh Singh v Union of India (2018) 8 SCC 253, a twojudge Bench of this Court dismissed a petition under Article 32 seeking a direction to the Central Board of Secondary Education to include moral science as a compulsory subject in the school syllabus in order to inculcate moral values.	None
One of us (Chandrachud J) underscored the importance of accepting a plurality of ideas and tolerance of radically different views Morality is one and, however important it may sound to some, it still is only one element in the composition of values that a just society must pursue.	None
There are other equally significant values which a democratic society may wish for education to impart to its young.	None
Among those is the acceptance of a plurality and diversity of ideas, images and faiths which unfortunately faces global threats.	None
Then again, equally important is the need to foster tolerance of those who hold radically differing views, empathy for those whom the economic and social milieu has cast away to the margins, a sense of compassion and a realisation of the innate humanity which dwells in each human being.	None
Value based education must enable our young to be aware of the horrible consequences of prejudice, hate and discrimination that continue to threaten people and societies the world over The right to privacy enables an individual to exercise his or her autonomy, away from the glare of societal expectations.	None
The realisation of the human personality is dependent on the autonomy of an individual.	None
In a liberal democracy, recognition of the individual as an autonomous person is an acknowledgment of the States respect for the capacity of the individual to make independent choices.	None
The right to privacy may be construed to signify that not only are certain acts no longer immoral, but that there also exists an affirmative moral right to do them.	None
As noted by Richards, this moral right emerges from the autonomy to which the individual is entitled Autonomy, in the sense fundamental to the theory of human rights, is an empirical assumption that persons as such have a range of capacities that enables them to develop, and act upon plans of action that take as their object ones life and the way it is lived.	None
The consequence of these capacities of autonomy is that humans can make independent decisions regarding what their life shall be, selfcritically reflecting, as a separate being, which of ones firstorder desires will be developed and which disowned, which capacities cultivated and which left barren, with whom one will or will not identify, or what one will define and pursue as needs and aspirations.	None
In brief, autonomy gives to persons the capacity to call their life their own.	None
The development of these capacities for separation and individuation is, from birth, the central developmental task of becoming a person.	None
In Common Cause (A Registered Society) v. Union of India (Common Cause) (2018) 5 SCC 1, a Constitution Bench of this Court held that the right to die with dignity is integral to the right to life recognised by the Constitution and an individual possessing competent mental faculties is entitled to express his or her autonomy by the issuance of an advance medical directive The protective mantle of privacy covers certain decisions that fundamentally affect the human life cycle.	None
It protects the most personal and intimate decisions of individuals that affect their life and development.	None
Thus, choices and decisions on matters such as procreation, contraception and marriage have been held to be protected.	None
While death is an inevitable end in the trajectory of the cycle of human life individuals are often faced with choices and decisions relating to death.	None
Decisions relating to death, like those relating to birth, sex, and marriage, are protected by the Constitution by virtue of the right of privacy Autonomy and privacy are inextricably linked.	None
Each requires the other for its full realization.	None
Their interrelationship has been recognised in Puttaswamy Privacy postulates the reservation of a private space for the individual, described as the right to be left alone.	None
The concept is founded on the autonomy of the individual.	None
The ability of an individual to make choices lies at the core of the human personality.	None
The notion of privacy enables the individual to assert and control the human element which is inseparable from the personality of the individual.	None
The inviolable nature of the human personality is manifested in the ability to make decisions on matters intimate to human life.	None
The autonomy of the individual is associated over matters which can be kept private.	None
These are concerns over which there is a legitimate expectation of privacy	None
In order to understand how sexual choices are an essential attribute of autonomy, it is useful to refer to John Rawls theory on social contract.	None
Rawls conception of the Original Position serves as a constructive model to illustrate the notion of choice behind a partial veil of ignorance.	None
Persons behind the veil are assumed to be rational and mutually disinterested individuals, unaware of their positions in society.	None
The strategy employed by Rawls is to focus on a category of goods which an individual would desire irrespective of what individuals conception of good might be.	None
These neutrally desirable goods are described by Rawls as primary social goods and may be listed as rights, liberties, powers, opportunities, income, wealth, and the constituents of selfrespect.	None
Rawlss conception of selfrespect, as a primary human good, is intimately connected to the idea of autonomy.	None
Selfrespect is founded on an individuals ability to exercise her native capacities in a competent manner.	None
An individuals sexuality cannot be put into boxes or compartmentalized it should rather be viewed as fluid, granting the individual the freedom to ascertain her own desires and proclivities.	None
The selfdetermination of sexual orientation is an exercise of autonomy.	None
Accepting the role of human sexuality as an independent force in the development of personhood is an acknowledgement of the crucial role of sexual autonomy in the idea of a free individual.	None
Such an interpretation of autonomy has implications for the widening application of human rights to sexuality.	None
Sexuality cannot be construed as something that the State has the prerogative to legitimize only in the form of rigid, marital procreational sex.	None
Sexuality must be construed as a fundamental experience through which individuals define the meaning of their lives.	None
Human sexuality cannot be reduced to a binary formulation.	None
Nor can it be defined narrowly in terms of its function as a means to procreation.	None
To confine it to closed categories would result in denuding human liberty of its full content as a constitutional right.	None
The Constitution protects the fluidities of sexual experience.	None
It leaves it to consenting adults to find fulfilment in their relationships, in a diversity of cultures, among plural ways of life and in infinite shades of love and longing.	None
F.2 A right to intimacy celebration of sexual agency By criminalising consensual acts between individuals who wish to exercise their constitutionallyprotected right to sexual orientation, the State is denying its citizens the right to intimacy.	None
The right to intimacy emanates from an individuals prerogative to engage in sexual relations on their own terms.	None
It is an exercise of the individuals sexual agency, and includes the individuals right to the choice of partner as well as the freedom to decide on the nature of the relationship that the individual wishes to pursue.	None
In Shakti Vahini v. Union of India (2018) SCC Online SC 275, a three judge Bench of this Court issued directives to prevent honour killings at the behest of Khap Panchayats and protect persons who enter into marriages that do not have the approval of the Panchayats.	None
The Court recognised the right to choose a life partner as a fundamental right under Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution.	None
The learned Chief Justice held when two adults consensually choose each other as life partners, it is a manifestation of their choice which is recognized under Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution.	None
Such a right has the sanction of the constitutional law and once that is recognized, the said right needs to be protected and it cannot succumb to the conception of class honour or group thinking which is conceived of on some notion that remotely does not have any legitimacy.	None
In Shafin Jahan v. Asokan (2018) SCC Online SC 343, this Court set aside a Kerala High Court judgement which annulled the marriage of a twentyfour year old woman with a man of her choice in a habeas corpus petition instituted by her father.	None
The Court upheld her right to choose of a life partner as well as her autonomy in the sphere of intimate personal decisions.	None
The Chief Justice held thus expression of choice in accord with law is acceptance of individual identity.	None
Curtailment of that expression and the ultimate action emanating therefrom on the conceptual structuralism of obeisance to the societal will destroy the individualistic entity of a person.	None
The social values and morals have their space but they are not above the constitutionally guaranteed freedom (Emphasis supplied) One of us (Chandrachud J) recognised the right to choose a partner as an important facet of autonomy The choice of a partner whether within or outside marriage lies within the exclusive domain of each individual.	None
Intimacies of marriage lie within a core zone of privacy, which is inviolable.	None
The absolute right of an individual to choose a life partner is not in the least affected by matters of faithSocial approval for intimate personal decisions is not the basis for recognising them (Emphasis supplied)	None
The judgement in Shafin Jahan delineates a space where an individual enjoys the autonomy of making intimate personal decisions The strength of the Constitution, therefore, lies in the guarantee which it affords that each individual will have a protected entitlement in determining a choice of partner to share intimacies within or outside marriage.	None
In furtherance of the Rawlsian notion of selfrespect as a primary good, individuals must not be denied the freedom to form relationships based on sexual intimacy.	None
Consensual sexual relationships between adults, based on the human propensity to experience desire must be treated with respect.	None
In addition to respect for relationships based on consent, it is important to foster a society where individuals find the ability for unhindered expression of the love that they experience towards their partner.	None
This institutionalized expression to love must be considered an important element in the full actualisation of the ideal of selfrespect.	None
Social institutions must be arranged in such a manner that individuals have the freedom to enter into relationships untrammelled by binary of sex and gender and receive the requisite institutional recognition to perfect their relationships.	None
The law provides the legitimacy for social institutions.	None
In a democratic framework governed by the rule of law, the law must be consistent with the constitutional values of liberty, dignity and autonomy.	None
It cannot be allowed to become a yoke on the full expression of the human personality.	None
By penalising sexual conduct between consenting adults, Section 377 imposes moral notions which are anachronistic to a constitutional order.	None
While ostensibly penalising acts, it impacts upon the identity of the LGBT community and denies them the benefits of a full and equal citizenship.	None
Section 377 is based on a stereotype about sex.	None
Our Constitution which protects sexual orientation must outlaw any law which lends the authority of the state to obstructing its fulfilment.	None
G Section 377 and the right to health Should medicine ever fulfil its great ends, it must enter into the larger political and social life of our time it must indicate the barriers which obstruct the normal completion of the life cycle and remove them.  	None
Virchow Rudolf	None
In the evolution of its jurisprudence on the constitutional right to life under Article 21, this Court has consistently held that the right to life is meaningless unless accompanied by the guarantee of certain concomitant rights including, but not limited to, the right to health.	None
The right to health is understood to be indispensable to a life of dignity and wellbeing, and includes, for instance, the right to emergency medical care and the right to the maintenance and improvement of public health.	None
C.E.S.C. Limited v. Subhash Chandra Bose, (1992)	None
1 SCC 441 Consumer Education and Research Centre v. UOI, (1995) 3 SCC 42 Paschim Banga Khet Mazdoor Samity v. State of West Bengal, (1996) 4 SCC 37 Society for Unaided Private Schools of Rajasthan v. Union of India, (2012) 6 SCC 1 Devika Biswas v. Union of India Ors., (2016) 10 SCC 726 Common Cause v. Union of India Ors., (2018) 5 SCC 1	None
It would be useful to refer to judgments of this Court which have recognised the right to health.	None
In Bandhua Mukti Morcha v. Union of India (1984) 3 SCC 161 , a threejudge Bench identified the right to health within the right to life and dignity.	None
In doing so, this Court drew on the Directive Principles of State Policy It is the fundamental right of every one in this country to live with human dignity, free from exploitation.	None
This right to live with human dignity enshrined in Article 21 derives its life breath from the Directive Principles of State Policy and particularly Clauses (e) and (f) of Article 39 and Articles 41 and 42 and at the least, therefore, it must include protection of the health and strength of workers men and women, and of the tender age of children against abuse, opportunities and facilities for children to develop in a healthy manner and in conditions of freedom and dignity, educational facilities, just and humane conditions of work and maternity relief.	None
These are the minimum requirements which must exist in order to enable a person to live with human dignity and no State neither the Central Government nor any State Governmenthas the right to take any action which will deprive a person of the enjoyment of these basic essentials.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In Consumer Education Research Centre v. Union of India (CERC) (1996) 3 SCC 42, a Bench of three judges dealt with the right to health of workers in asbestos industries.	None
While laying down mandatory guidelines to be followed for the wellbeing of workers, the Court held that The right to health to a worker is an integral facet of meaningful right to life to have not only a meaningful existence but also robust health and vigour without which worker would lead life of misery.	None
Lack of health denudes his livelihoodTherefore, it must be held that the right to health and medical care is a fundamental right under Article 21 read with Articles 39(c), 41 and 43 of the Constitution and makes the life of the workman meaningful and purposeful with dignity of person.	None
Right to life includes protection of the health and strength of the worker and is a minimum requirement to enable a person to live with human dignity.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In a dissenting judgment in C.E.S.C. Limited v.	None
Subhash Chandra Bose (1992) 1 SCC 441	None
, K Ramaswamy J observed that Health is thus a state of complete physical, mental and social wellbeing and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity.	None
In the light of Articles.	None
22 to 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and in the light of socioeconomic justice assured in our constitution, right to health is a fundamental human right to workmen.	None
The maintenance of health is a most imperative constitutional goal whose realisation requires interaction by many social and economic factors (Emphasis supplied)	None
In Kirloskar Brothers Ltd. V. Employees State Insurance Corporation (1998) 2 SCC 682, a threejudge Bench of this Court considered the applicability of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 to the regional offices of the Appellant, observing that Health is thus a state of complete physical, mental and social wellbeing.	None
Right to health, therefore, is a fundamental and human right to the workmen.	None
The maintenance of health is the most imperative constitutional goal whose realisation requires interaction of many social and economic factors.	None
In State of Punjab v. Ram Lubhaya Bagga (1998) 4 SCC 117 , a threejudge Bench of this Court considered a challenge to the State of Punjabs medical reimbursement policy.	None
A.P. Mishra J, speaking for the Bench, observed that Pith and substance of life is the health, which is the nucleus of all activities of life including that of an employee or other viz.	None
the physical, social, spiritual or any conceivable human activities.	None
If this is denied, it is said everything crumbles.	None
This Court has time and again emphasised to the Government and other authorities for focussing and giving priority and other authorities for focussing and giving priority to the health of its, citizen, which not only makes ones life meaningful, improves ones efficiency, but in turn gives optimum out put.	None
In Smt M Vijaya v. The Chairman and Managing Director Singareni Collieries Co. Ltd. (2001) 5 ALD 522 , a five judge Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court considered a case where a girl was infected with HIV due to the negligence of hospital authorities.	None
The Court observed that Article 21 of the Constitution of India provides that no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law.	None
By reason of numerous judgments of the Apex Court the horizons of Article 21 of the Constitution have been expanded recognising various rights of the citizens i.eright to health It is well settled that right to life guaranteed under Article 21 is not mere animal existence.	None
It is a right to enjoy all faculties of life.	None
As a necessary corollary, right to life includes right to healthy life.	None
In Devika Biswas v. Union of India (2016) 10 SCC 726 , while hearing a public interest petition concerning several deaths that had taken place due to unsanitary conditions in sterilization camps across the country, a two judge Bench of this Court held that It is well established that the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution includes the right to lead a dignified and meaningful life and the right to health is an integral facet of this rightThat the right to health is an integral part of the right to life does not need any repetition.	None
In his concurring judgment in Common Cause v. Union of India, Sikri J, noted the inextricable link between the right to health and dignity There is a related, but interesting, aspect of this dignity which needs to be emphasised.	None
Right to health is a part of Article 21 of the Constitution.	None
At the same time, it is also a harsh reality that everybody is not able to enjoy that right because of poverty etc.	None
The State is not in a position to translate into reality this right to health for all citizens.	None
Thus, when citizens are not guaranteed the right to health, can they be denied right to die in dignity?	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In addition to the constitutional recognition granted to the right to health, the right to health is also recognised in international treaties, covenants, and agreements which India has ratified, including the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, 1966 (ICESCR) and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1948 (UDHR).	None
Article 25 of the UDHR recognizes the right to health Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and wellbeing of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services.	None
Article 12 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) recognizes the right of all persons to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health The States Parties to the present Covenant recognize the right of everyone to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health.	None
Article 12.2 requires States Parties to take specific steps to improve the health of their citizens, including creating conditions to ensure equal and timely access to medical services.	None
In its General Comment No. 14, the UN Economic and Social Council stated that States must take measures to respect, protect and fulfil the health of all persons.	None
States are obliged to ensure the availability and accessibility of healthrelated information, education, facilities, goods and services, without discrimination, especially for vulnerable and marginalized populations.	None
Pursuant to General Comment No. 14, India is required to provide marginalized populations, including members of the LGBTIQ community, goods and services that are available (in sufficient quantity), accessible (physically, geographically, economically and in a nondiscriminatory manner), acceptable (respectful of culture and medical ethics) and of quality (scientifically and medically appropriate and of good quality).	None
As early as 1948, the World Health Organization (WHO) defined the term health broadly to mean a state of complete physical, mental and social wellbeing and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity.	None
Even today, for a significant number of Indian citizens this standard of health remains an elusive aspiration.	None
of relevance to the present case, a particular class of citizens is denied the benefits of this constitutional enunciation of the right to health because of their most intimate sexual choices.	None
Sexuality is a natural and precious aspect of life, an essential and fundamental part of our humanity.	None
Sexual rights are entitlements related to sexuality and emanate from the rights to freedom, equality, privacy, autonomy, and dignity of all people For people to attain the highest standard of health, they must also have the right to exercise choice in their sexual lives and feel safe in expressing their sexual identity.	None
However, for some citizens, discrimination, stigma, fear and violence prevent them from attaining basic sexual rights and health.	None
Individuals belonging to sexual and gender minorities experience discrimination, stigmatization, and, in some cases, denial of care on account of their sexual orientation and gender identity.	None
However, it is important to note that sexual and gender minorities do not constitute a homogenous group, and experiences of social exclusion, marginalization, and discrimination, as well as specific health needs, vary considerably.	None
Nevertheless, these individuals are united by one factor  that their exclusion, discrimination and marginalization is rooted in societal heteronormativity and societys pervasive bias towards gender binary and oppositegender relationships, which marginalizes and excludes all nonheteronormative sexual and gender identities.	None
This, in turn, has important implications for individuals healthseeking behaviour, how health services are provided, and the extent to which sexual health can be achieved.	None
The term sexual health was first defined in a 1975 WHO Technical Report series as the integration of the somatic, emotional, intellectual and social aspects of sexual being, in ways that are positively enriching and that enhance personality, communication and love.	None
The WHOs current working definition of sexual health is as follows a state of physical, emotional, mental and social wellbeing in relation to sexuality it is not merely the absence of disease, dysfunction or infirmity.	None
Sexual health requires a positive and respectful approach to sexuality and sexual relationships, as well as the possibility of having pleasurable and safe sexual experiences, free of coercion, discrimination and violence.	None
For sexual health to be attained and maintained, the sexual rights of all persons must be respected, protected and fulfilled.	None
The WHO further states that sexual health cannot be defined, understood or made operational without a broad consideration of sexuality, which underlies important behaviours and outcomes related to sexual health.	None
It defines sexuality thus a central aspect of being human throughout life encompasses sex, gender identities and roles, sexual orientation, eroticism, pleasure, intimacy and reproduction.	None
Sexuality is experienced and expressed in thoughts, fantasies, desires, beliefs, attitudes, values, behaviours, practices, roles and relationships.	None
While sexuality can include all of these dimensions, not all of them are always experienced or expressed.	None
Sexuality is influenced by the interaction of biological, psychological, social, economic, political, cultural, legal, historical, religious and spiritual factors.	None
A report entitled Sexual Health, Human Rights and the Law, published by the WHO in 2015 explores the relationship between these concepts.	None
The report notes that human sexuality includes many different forms of behaviour and expression, and that the recognition of the diversity of sexual behaviour and expression contributes to peoples overall sense of health and wellbeing.	None
It emphasizes the importance of sexual health by stating that not only is it essential to the physical and emotional wellbeing of individuals, couples and families, but it is also fundamental to the social and economic development of communities and countries.	None
The ability of individuals to progress towards sexual health and wellbeing depends on various factors, including access to comprehensive information about sexuality, knowledge about the risks they face and their vulnerability to the adverse consequences of sexual activity access to good quality sexual health care, and an environment that affirms and promotes sexual health.	None
The International Womens Health Coalition has located the right to sexual health within sexual rights, defined as follows Sexual rights embrace certain human rights that are already recognized in national laws, international human rights documents, and other consensus documents.	None
They rest on the recognition that all individuals have the rightfree of coercion, violence, and discrimination of any kindto the highest attainable standard of sexual health to pursue a satisfying, safe, and pleasurable sexual life to have control over and decide freely, and with due regard for the rights of others, on matters related to their sexuality, reproduction, sexual orientation, bodily integrity, choice of partner, and gender identity and to the services, education, and information, including comprehensive sexuality education, necessary to do so.	None
The discussion of sexual rights (as they pertain to sexuality and sexual orientation) within the framework of the right to health is a relatively new phenomenon Before the 1993 World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna, and the subsequent 1994 International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, sexuality, sexual rights, and sexual diversity had not formed part of the international health and human rights discourse.	None
These newly emerged sexual rights were founded on the principles of bodily integrity, personhood, equality, and diversity.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The operation of Section 377 denies consenting adults the full realization of their right to health, as well as their sexual rights.	None
It forces consensual sex between adults into a realm of fear and shame, as persons who engage in anal and oral intercourse risk criminal sanctions if they seek health advice.	None
This lowers the standard of health enjoyed by them and particularly by members of sexual and gender minorities, in relation to the rest of society.	None
The right to health is not simply the right not to be unwell, but rather the right to be well.	None
It encompasses not just the absence of disease or infirmity, but complete physical, mental and social well being, and includes both freedoms such as the right to control ones health and body and to be free from interference (for instance, from nonconsensual medical treatment and experimentation), and entitlements such as the right to a system of healthcare that gives everyone an equal opportunity to enjoy the highest attainable level of health.	None
The jurisprudence of this Court, in recognizing the right to health and access to medical care, demonstrates the crucial distinction between negative and positive obligations.	None
Article 21 does not impose upon the State only negative obligations not to act in such a way as to interfere with the right to health.	None
This Court also has the power to impose positive obligations upon the State to take measures to provide adequate resources or access to treatment facilities to secure effective enjoyment of the right to health.	None
A study of sexuality and its relationship to the right to health in South Africa points to several other studies that suggest a negative correlation between sexual orientationbased discrimination and the right to health For example, in a Canadian study, Brotman and colleagues found that being open about their sexual orientation in health care settings contributed to experiences of discrimination for lesbian, gay, and bisexual people.	None
Lane and colleagues interviewed men who have sex with men in Soweto, and revealed that all men who disclosed their sexual orientation at public health facilities had experienced some form of discrimination.	None
Such discrimination ranging from verbal abuse to denial of care199, and also the anticipation thereof, leads to delays when seeking sexual health services such as HIV counseling and testing.	None
Alexandra Muller describes the story of two individuals who experienced such discrimination.	None
T, a gay man, broke both his arms while fleeing from a group of people that attacked him because of his sexuality.	None
At the hospital, the staff learned about Ts sexual orientation, and pejoratively discussed it in his presence.	None
He also had to endure a local prayer group that visited the ward daily to provide spiritual support to patients which prayed at his bedside to rectify his devious sexuality.	None
When he requested that they leave, or that he be transferred to another ward, the nurses did not intervene, and the prayer group visited regularly to continue to recite their homophobic prayers.	None
T did not file an official complaint, fearing future ramifications in accessing care.	None
Following his discharge, he decided not to return for follow up appointments and had his casts removed at another facility.	None
Another woman, P, who had been with her female partner for three years, wanted to get tested for HIV.	None
The nurse at the hospital asked certain questions to discern potential risk behaviours.	None
When asked why she did not use condoms or contraception, P revealed that she did not need to on account of her sexuality.	None
The nurse immediately exclaimed that P was not at risk for HIV, and that she should go home and not waste her time any longer.	None
P has not attempted to have another HIV test since.	None
These examples are illustrative of a wider issue individuals across the world are denied access to equal healthcare on the basis of their sexual orientation.	None
That people are intimidated or blatantly denied healthcare access on a discriminatory basis around the world proves that this issue is not simply an ideological tussle playing out in classrooms and courtrooms, but an issue detrimentally affecting individuals on the ground level and violating their rights including the right to health.	None
The right to health is one of the major rights at stake in the struggle for equality amongst gender and sexual minorities The right to physical and mental health is at conflict with discriminatory policies and practices, some physicians homophobia, the lack of adequate training for health care personnel regarding sexual orientation issues or the general assumption that patients are heterosexuals.	None
While the enumeration of the right to equal healthcare is crucial, an individuals sexual health is also equally significant to holistic wellbeing.	None
A healthy sex life is integral to an individuals physical and mental health, regardless of whom an individual is attracted to.	None
Criminalising certain sexual acts, thereby shunning them from the mainstream discourse, would invariably lead to situations of unsafe sex, coercion, and a lack of sound medical advice and sexual education, if any at all.	None
A report by the FrancoisXavier Bagnoud Center for Health and Human Rights at Harvard School of Public Health defines the term sexual health as follows A state of physical, emotional, mental, and social wellbeing in relation to sexuality.	None
Like health generally, it is not merely the absence of disease, but encompasses positive and complex experiences of sexuality as well as freedom to determine sexual relationships, as well as the possibility of having pleasurable sexual experiences, free of coercion, discrimination and violence.	None
Laws that criminalize samesex intercourse create social barriers to accessing healthcare, and curb the effective prevention and treatment of HIV AIDS.Criminal laws are the strongest expression of the States power to punish certain acts and behaviour, and it is therefore incumbent upon the State to ensure full protection for all persons, including the specific needs of sexual minorities.	None
The equal protection of law mandates the state to fulfill this constitutional obligation.	None
Indeed, the state is duty bound to revisit its laws and executive decisions to ensure that they do not deny equality before the law and the equal protection of laws.	None
That the law must not discriminate is one aspect of equality.	None
But there is more.	None
The law must take affirmative steps to achieve equal protection of law to all its citizens, irrespective of sexual orientation.	None
In regard to sexuality and health, it is important to distinguish between behaviour that is harmful to others, such as rape and coerced sex, and that which is not, such as consensual samesex conduct between adults, conduct related to genderexpression such as crossdressing, as well as seeking or providing sexual and reproductive health information and services.	None
The use of criminal laws in relation to an expanding range of otherwise consensual sexual conduct has been found to be discriminatory by international and domestic courts, often together with violations of other human rights, such as the rights to privacy, selfdetermination, human dignity and health.	None
I Section 377 and HIV prevention efforts Section 377 has a significant detrimental impact on the right to health of those persons who are susceptible to contracting HIV  men who have sex with men (MSM)208 and transgender persons.	None
The Global Commission on HIV and the Law has noted the impact of Section 377 on the right of health of persons afflicted with or vulnerable to contracting HIV	None
The law and its institutions can protect the dignity of all people living with HIV, and in so doing fortify those most vulnerable to HIV, socalled key populations, such as sex workers, MSM, transgender people, prisoners and migrants.	None
The law can open the doors to justice when these peoples rights are trampled But the law can also do grave harm to the bodies and spirits of people living with HIV.	None
It can perpetuate discrimination and isolate the people most vulnerable to HIV from the programmes that would help them to avoid or cope with the virus.	None
By dividing people into criminals and victims or sinful and innocent, the legal environment can destroy the social, political, and economic solidarity that is necessary to overcome this global epidemic.	None
Mr Anand Grover, learned Senior Counsel in his submissions, highlighted the vulnerability of MSM and transgender persons.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to a study published by the Global Commission on HIV and the Law, MSM were found to be 19 times more susceptible to be infected with HIV than other adult men.	Arguments of Petitioner
The UN Human Rights Committee has recognized the impact of the criminalization of homosexuality on the spread of HIV AIDS.	None
In Toonen v Australia, a homosexual man from Tasmania, where homosexual sex was criminalized, argued that criminalization of samesex activities between consenting adults was an infringement of his right to privacy under Article 17 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR).	None
The Committee rejected the argument of the Tasmanian authorities that the law was justified on grounds of public health and morality as it was enacted to prevent the spread of HIV AIDS in Tasmania.	None
The Committee observed that the criminalization of homosexual practices cannot be considered a reasonable means or proportionate measure to achieve the aim of preventing the spread of AIDS HIV Criminalization of homosexual activity thus would appear to run counter to the implementation of effective education programmes in respect of the HIV AIDS prevention.	None
Secondly, the Committee notes that no link has been shown between the continued criminalization of homosexual activity and the effective control of the spread of the HIV AIDS virus.	None
In response to the Committees decision, a law was enacted to overcome the Tasmanian law criminalizing homosexual sex.	None
Section 377 has had farreaching consequences for this key population, pushing them out of the public health system.	None
MSM and transgender persons may not approach State health care providers for fear of being prosecuted for engaging in criminalized intercourse.	None
Studies show that it is the stigma attached to these individuals that contributes to increased sexual risk behaviour and or decreased use of HIV prevention services.	None
The silence and secrecy that accompanies institutional discrimination may foster conditions which encourage escalation of the incidence of HIV AIDS.	None
The key population is stigmatized by health providers, employers and other service providers.	None
As a result, there exist serious obstacles to effective HIV prevention and treatment as discrimination and harassment can hinder access to HIV and sexual health services and prevention programmes.	None
An incisive article, based on extensive empirical research carried out in various countries, has concluded that there is a demonstrable relationship between laws which criminalize samesex conduct and adverse health effects on HIVAIDs rates as well as other health indicators for the MSM community due to poor access to key HIV prevention tools and outreach programmes.	None
According to a report published by the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV AIDS (UNAIDS), in Caribbean countries where samesex relations are criminalised, almost one in four MSMs is infected with HIV.	None
In the absence of such criminal provisions, the prevalence of HIV is one in fifteen among MSMs.	None
Closer to home, the UNAIDS project found that in the four years following the judgement in Naz, there had been an increase of more than 50 in the number of healthcare centers providing HIV services to MSM and transgender persons in India.	None
If samesex relations remain criminalised, it is likely that HIV interventions for MSMs will continue to be inadequate, MSMs will continue to be marginalised from health services, and the prevalence of HIV will exacerbate.	None
To safeguard the health of persons who are at the greatest risk of HIV infection, it is imperative that access is granted to effective HIV prevention and treatment services and commodities such as clean needles, syringes, condoms and lubricants A needle or a condom can only be considered a concrete representation of the entitlements of vulnerable groups the fundamental human rights of dignity, autonomy and freedom from ill treatment, along with the right to the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health, without regard to sexuality or legal status.	None
This is the mandate of the Directive Principles contained in Part IV of the Constitution.	None
In 2017, Parliament enacted the HIV (Prevention and Control) Act, to provide for the prevention and control of the spread of HIV AIDS and for the protection of the human rights of persons affected.	None
Parliament recognized the importance of prevention interventions for vulnerable groups including MSMs.	None
Section 22 of this Act provides for protection against criminal sanctions as well as any civil liability arising out of promoting actions or practices or any strategy or mechanism or technique undertaken for reducing the risk of HIV transmission.	None
Illustrations (a) and (b) to Section 22 read as follows A supplies condoms to B who is a sex worker or to C, who is a client of B. Neither A nor B nor C can be held criminally or civilly liable for such actions or be prohibited, impeded, restricted or prevented from implementing or using the strategy.	None
M carries on an intervention project on HIV or AIDS and sexual health information, education and counselling for men, who have sex with men, provides safer sex information, material and condoms to N, who has sex with other men.	None
Neither M nor N can be held criminally or civilly liable for such actions or be prohibited, impeded, restricted or prevented from implementing or using the intervention.	None
Persons who engage in anal or oral intercourse face significant sexual health risks due to the operation of Section 377.	None
Prevalence rates of HIV are high, particularly among men who have sex with men.	None
Discrimination, stigma and a lack of knowledge on the part of many healthcare providers means that these individuals often cannot and do not access the health care they need.	None
In order to promote sexual health and reduce HIV transmission among LGBT individuals, it is imperative that the availability, effectiveness, and quality of health services to the LGBT community be significantly improved.	None
Under our constitutional scheme, no minority group must suffer deprivation of a constitutional right because they do not adhere to the majoritarian way of life.	None
By the application of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, MSM and transgender persons are excluded from access to healthcare due to the societal stigma attached to their sexual identity.	None
Being particularly vulnerable to contraction of HIV, this deprivation can only be described as cruel and debilitating.	None
The indignity suffered by the sexual minority cannot, by any means, stand the test of constitutional validity.	None
G.2 Mental health The treatment of homosexuality as a disorder has serious consequences on the mental health and wellbeing of LGBT persons.	None
The mental health of citizens growing up in a culture that devalues and silences samesex desire is severely impacted.	None
Global psychiatric expert Dinesh Bhugra has emphasised that radical solutions are needed to combat the high levels of mental illness among the LGBT population stating there is a clear correlation between political and social environments and how persecutory laws against LGBT individuals are leading to greater levels of depression, anxiety, selfharm, and suicide.	None
Even in Britain, gay people are at greater risk of a range of mental health problems, and, it is believed, are more likely to take their own lives.	None
A number of studies this year have highlighted the disproportionate levels of mental illness among LGBT people.	None
In Britain, one of the worlds most legally equal countries for this community, research in the last few months has revealed that LGBT people are nearly twice as likely to have attempted suicide or harmed themselves, gay men are more than twice as likely to have a mental illness than heterosexual men, and 4 in 5 transgender people have suffered depression in the last five years.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
He discusses studies from various countries which indicate that in countries where laws continue to discriminate against LGBT individuals, there are high rates of mental illness.	None
Similarly he states that there have been a series of studies showing that in America, rates of psychiatric disorders have dropped when state policies have recognised the equal rights of LGBT individuals.	None
Mr Chander Uday Singh, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of an intervenor, a psychiatrist, has brought to our notice how even the mental health sector has often reflected the societal prejudice regarding homosexuality as a pathological condition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Medical and scientific authority has now established that consensual same sex conduct is not against the order of nature and that homosexuality is natural and a normal variant of sexuality.	None
Parliament has provided legislative acknowledgment of this global consensus through the enactment of the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017.	None
Section 3 of the Act mandates that mental illness is to be determined in accordance with nationally or internationally accepted medical standards.	None
The International Classification of Diseases (ICD10) by the World Health Organisation is listed as an internationally accepted medical standard and does not consider nonpenovaginal sex between consenting adults either a mental disorder or an illness.	None
The Act through Section 18(2) and Section 21 provides for protection against discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation.	None
The repercussions of prejudice, stigma and discrimination continue to impact the psychological wellbeing of individuals impacted by Section 377.	None
Mental health professionals can take this change in the law as an opportunity to reexamine their own views of homosexuality.	None
Counselling practices will have to focus on providing support to homosexual clients to become comfortable with who they are and get on with their lives, rather than motivating them for change.	None
Instead of trying to cure something that isnt even a disease or illness, the counsellors have to adopt a more progressive view that reflects the changed medical position and changing societal values.	None
There is not only a need for special skills of counsellors but also heightened sensitivity and understanding of LGBT lives.	None
The medical practice must share the responsibility to help individuals, families, workplaces and educational and other institutions to understand sexuality completely in order to facilitate the creation of a society free from discriminationwhere LGBT individuals like all other citizens are treated with equal standards of respect and value for human rights.	None
H Judicial review The Constitution entrusts the function of making laws to Parliament and the State Legislatures under Articles 245 and 246 of the Constitution.	None
Parliament and the State Legislatures are empowered to create offences against laws with respect to the heads of legislation, falling within the purview of their legislative authority.	None
(See Entry 93 of List I and Entry 64 of List II of the Seventh Schedule).	None
Criminal law is a subject which falls within the Concurrent List.	None
Entry I of List III provides thus Criminal law, including all matters included in the Indian Penal Code at the commencement of this Constitution but excluding offences against laws with respect to any of the matters specified in List I or List II and excluding the use of naval, military or air forces or any other armed forces of the Union in aid of the civil power.	None
The power to enact legislation in the field of criminal law has been entrusted to Parliament and, subject to its authority, to the State Legislatures.	None
Both Parliament and the State Legislatures can enact laws providing for offences arising out of legislation falling within their legislative domains.	None
The authority to enact law, however, is subject to the validity of the law being scrutinised on the touchstone of constitutional safeguards.	None
A citizen, or, as in the present case, a community of citizens, having addressed a challenge to the validity of a law which creates an offence, the authority to determine that question is entrusted to the judicial branch in the exercise of the power of judicial review.	None
The Court will not, as it does not, in the exercise of judicial review, second guess a value judgment made by the legislature on the need for or the efficacy of legislation.	None
But where a law creating an offence is found to be offensive to fundamental rights, such a law is not immune to challenge.	None
The constitutional authority which is entrusted to the legislatures to create offences is subject to the mandate of a written Constitution.	None
Where the validity of the law is called into question, judicial review will extend to scrutinising whether the law is manifestly arbitrary in its encroachment on fundamental liberties.	None
If a law discriminates against a group or a community of citizens by denying them full and equal participation as citizens, in the rights and liberties granted by the Constitution, it would be for the Court to adjudicate upon validity of such a law.	None
I Indias commitments at International Law 98 International human rights treaties and jurisprudence impose obligations upon States to protect all individuals from violations of their human rights, including on the basis of their sexual orientation.	None
Nevertheless, laws criminalizing samesex relations between consenting adults remain on the statute books in more than seventy countries.	None
Many of them, including socalled sodomy laws, are vestiges of colonialera legislation that prohibits either certain types of sexual activity or any intimacy or sexual activity between persons of the same sex.	None
In some cases, the language used refers to vague and indeterminate concepts, such as crimes against the order of nature, morality, or debauchery.	None
There is a familiar ring to it in India, both in terms of history and text.	None
International law today has evolved towards establishing that the criminalization of consensual sexual acts between samesex adults in private contravenes the rights to equality, privacy, and freedom from discrimination.	None
These rights are recognised in international treaties, covenants, and agreements which India has ratified, including the UDHR, ICCPR, and the ICESCR.	None
India has a constitutional duty to honour these internationally recognized rules and principles.	None
Vishaka v State of Rajasthan, (1997) 6 SCC 241 .	None
Article 51 of the Constitution, which forms part of the Directive Principles of State Policy, requires the State to endeavour to foster respect for international law and treaty obligations in the dealings of organised peoples with one another.	None
The human rights treaties that India has ratified require States Parties to guarantee the rights to equality before the law, equal protection of the law and freedom from discrimination.	None
For example, Article 2 of the ICESCR requires states to ensure that The rights enunciated in the present Covenant will be exercised without discrimination of any kind as to race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status.	None
The Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights  the body mandated by the ICESCR to monitor States Parties implementation of the treaty  has stated that other status in article 2 (2) includes sexual orientation, and reaffirmed that gender identity is recognized as among the prohibited grounds of discrimination, as persons who are transgender, transsexual or intersex often face serious human rights violations.	None
The prohibition against discrimination in the ICCPR is contained in Article 26, which guarantees equality before the law All persons are equal before the law and are entitled without any discrimination to the equal protection of the law.	None
In this respect, the law shall prohibit any discrimination and guarantee to all persons equal and effective protection against discrimination on any ground such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status.	None
India is also required to protect the right to privacy, which includes within its ambit the right to engage in consensual samesex sexual relations.	None
Article 12 of the UDHR recognises the right to privacy Article 12	None
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour and reputation.	None
Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks.	None
Similarly, Article 17 of the ICCPR, which India ratified on 11 December 1977, provides that The obligations imposed by this article require the State to adopt legislative and other measures to give effect to the prohibition against such interferences and attacks as well as to the protection of the right.	None
In its General Comment No. 16, the Human Rights Committee confirmed that any interference with privacy, even if provided for by law, should be in accordance with the provisions, aims and objectives of the Covenant and should be, in any event, reasonable in the particular circumstances.	None
In their general comments, concluding observations and views on communications, human rights treaty bodies have affirmed that States are obliged to protect individuals from discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and or gender identity, as these factors do not limit an individuals entitlement to enjoy the full range of human rights to which they are entitled.	None
In NALSA, while dealing with the rights of transgender persons, this Court recognized the Yogyakarta Principles on the Application of International Law in Relation to Issues of Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity  which outline the rights that sexual minorities enjoy as human persons under the protection of international law  and held that they should be applied as a part of Indian law.	None
Principle 33 provides thus Everyone has the right to be free from criminalisation and any form of sanction arising directly or indirectly from that persons actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression or sex characteristics.	None
While the Yogyakarta Principles are not legally binding, NALSA nevertheless signifies an affirmation of the right to nondiscrimination on the grounds of gender identity, as well as the relevance of international human rights norms in addressing violations of these rights.	None
There is a contradiction between Indias international obligations and Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, insofar as it criminalizes consensual sexual acts between samesex adults in private.	None
In adjudicating the validity of this provision, the Indian Penal Code must be brought into conformity with both the Indian Constitution and the rules and principles of international law that India has recognized.	None
Both make a crucial contribution towards recognizing the human rights of sexual and gender minorities.	None
J Transcending borders  comparative law Over the past several decades, international and domestic courts have developed a strong body of jurisprudence against discrimination based on sexual orientation.	None
This section analyses the evolution of the perspective of the law towards sexual orientation from a comparative law perspective, and looks at how sodomy laws have been construed in various jurisdictions based on their histories.	None
In 1967, England and Wales decriminalized samesex intercourse between consenting adult males in private, and in 1980, Scotland followed suit.	None
The law in Northern Ireland only changed in 1982 with the decision of the ECtHR in Dudgeon v The United Kingdom (Dudgeon).	None
(1981) ECHR 5	None
The Petitioners challenged the Offences against the Person Act, 1861, the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1885 and a sodomy law that made buggery and gross indecency a criminal offense, irrespective of consent.	None
Although the law did not specifically define these terms, the Court interpreted buggery to mean anal intercourse by a man with a man or woman and gross indecency to mean any act involving sexual indecency between male persons.	None
Regarding acts prohibited by these provisions, the ECtHR observed that Although it is not homosexuality itself which is prohibited but the particular acts of gross indecency between males and buggery, there can be no doubt but that male homosexual practices whose prohibition is the subject of the applicants complaints come within the scope of the offences punishable under the impugned legislation.	None
The ECtHR concluded that Dudgeon had suffered and continued to suffer an unjustified interference with his right to respect for his private life.	None
Hence, the Court struck down the laws under challenge as violative of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, in so far as they criminalised private homosexual relations between adult males capable of valid consent.	None
In observing that these laws were not proportionate to their purported need, the Court observed On the issue of proportionality, the Court considers that such justifications as there are for retaining the law in force unamended are outweighed by the detrimental effects which the very existence of the legislative provisions in question can have on the life of a person of homosexual orientation like the applicant.	None
Although members of the public who regard homosexuality as immoral may be shocked, offended or disturbed by the commission by others of private homosexual acts, this cannot on its own warrant the application of penal sanctions when it is consenting adults alone who are involved.	None
The ECtHR thus concluded To sum up, the restriction imposed on Mr. Dudgeon under Northern Ireland law, by reason of its breadth and absolute character, is, quite apart from the severity of the possible penalties provided for, disproportionate to the aims sought to be achieved.	None
Later, in Norris v Ireland (968) ECHR 22, the Applicant challenged Irelands criminalization of certain homosexual acts between consenting adult men as being violative of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which protected the right to respect for private and family life.	None
The ECtHR held that the law violated Article 8, regardless of whether it was actively enforced A law which remains on the statute books even though it is not enforced in a particular class of cases for a considerable time, may be applied again in such cases at any time, if for example, there is a change of policy.	None
The applicant can therefore be said to run the risk of being directly affected by the legislation in question.	None
This decision was affirmed in Modinos v Cyprus 16 EHRR 485, where the Criminal Code of Cyprus, which penalized homosexual conduct, was alleged to constitute an unjustified interference with the Applicants private life.	None
Five years after Dudgeon, the United States Supreme Court, in Bowers v. Hardwick (Bowers) 478 U.S. 186 (1986), held that sodomy laws had been a significant part of American history and did not violate the Constitution.	None
The Supreme Courts reasoning in Bowers is a clear departure from that of the ECtHR in Dudgeon.	None
In Bowers, the Supreme Court declined to accept that the question concerned the right to privacy.	None
Instead, it stated that the issue was about a fundamental right upon homosexuals to engage in sodomy, which was held not to be protected by the US Constitution.	None
Seventeen years later, the United States Supreme Court laid the constitutional foundation for LGBT rights in the country with its judgment in Lawrence v Texas (Lawrence).	None
539 U.S. 558 (2003)	None
In Lawrence, the Petitioner had been arrested under a Texas statute, which prohibited samesex persons from engaging in sexual conduct, regardless of consent.	None
The validity of the statute was considered.	None
Relying on Dudgeon, the U S Supreme Court struck down the statute as violative of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.	None
Overruling the judgment in Bowers, Justice Kennedy, writing for the majority, upheld Justice Stevens dissent in Bowers  who was also part of the majority in Lawrence  to note that Our prior cases make two propositions abundantly clear.	None
First, the fact that the governing majority in a State has traditionally viewed a particular practice as immoral is not a sufficient reason for upholding a law prohibiting the practice neither history nor tradition could save a law prohibiting miscegenation from constitutional attack.	None
Second, individual decisions by married persons, concerning the intimacies of their physical relationship, even when not intended to produce offspring, are a form of liberty protected by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.	None
Moreover, this protection extends to intimate choices by unmarried as well as married persons.	None
He also noted that the case concerned the private, personal relationships of consenting adults, and that the laws challenged did not further any legitimate state interest The present case does not involve minors.	None
It does not involve persons who might be injured or coerced or who are situated in relationships where consent might not easily be refused.	None
It does not involve public conduct or prostitution.	None
It does not involve whether the government must give formal recognition to any relationship that homosexual persons seek to enter eg, a right to marry or to register a civil union.	None
The case does involve two adults who, with full and mutual consent from each other, engaged in sexual practices common to a homosexual lifestyle.	None
The petitioners are entitled to respect for their private lives.	None
The State cannot demean their existence or control their destiny by making their private sexual conduct a crime.	None
Their right to liberty under the Due Process Clause gives them the full right to engage in their conduct without intervention of the government.	None
The Texas statute furthers no legitimate state interest which can justify its intrusion into the personal and private life of the individual Justice Kennedy also identified the harm caused by the operation of the criminal law When homosexual conduct is made criminal by the law of the State, that declaration in and of itself is an invitation to subject homosexual persons to discrimination both in the public and in the private spheres.	None
The Court thus struck down the Texas law banning deviate sexual intercourse between persons of the same sex (and similar laws in 13 other US states and Puerto Rico), holding that The laws involved in Bowers and here are, to be sure, statutes that purport to do no more than prohibit a particular sexual act.	None
Their penalties and purposes, though, have more farreaching consequences, touching upon the most private human conduct, sexual behavior, and in the most private of places, the home.	None
The statutes do seek to control a personal relationship that, whether or not entitled to formal recognition in the law, is within the liberty of persons to choose without being punished as criminals.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In Toonen, the UN Human Rights Committee held that laws used to criminalize private, adult, consensual samesex sexual relations violate the right to privacy and the right to nondiscrimination.	None
Mr Toonen  a member of the Tasmanian Gay Law Reform Group  had complained to the Committee about a Tasmanian law that criminalized unnatural sexual intercourse, intercourse against nature and indecent practice between male persons.	None
The law allowed police officers to investigate intimate aspects of his private life and to detain him if they had reason to believe that he was involved in sexual activities with his longterm partner in the privacy of their home.	None
Mr Toonen challenged these laws as violative of Article 2(1), Article 17 and Article 26 of the ICCPR, on the ground that The provisions have created the conditions for discrimination in employment, constant stigmatization, vilification, threats of physical violence and the violation of basic democratic rights.	None
The Committee rejected the argument that criminalization may be justified as reasonable on grounds of protection of public health or morals, noting that the use of criminal law in such circumstances is neither necessary nor proportionate As far as the public health argument of the Tasmanian authorities is concerned, the Committee notes that the criminalization of homosexual practices cannot be considered a reasonable means or proportionate measure to achieve the aim of preventing the spread of AIDS HIV.	None
The Court concluded that the legislation was violative of Article 7 of the ICCPR, holding that It is undisputed that adult consensual sexual activity in private is covered by the concept of privacy, and that Mr. Toonen is actually and currently affected by the continued existence of the Tasmanian laws.	None
In X v. Colombia, the Committee clarified that there is no Global South exception to Toonen.	None
The Egyptian and Tunisian members of the Committee, who dissented from the majoritys decision requiring equal treatment of unmarried samesex and differentsex couples, concurred with the principle laid down in Toonen There is no doubt that Article 17is violated by discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation.	None
The Committeehas rightly and repeatedly found that protection against arbitrary or unlawful interference with privacy precludes prosecution and punishment for homosexual relations between consenting adults.	None
The Constitutional Tribunal of Ecuador was the first Constitutional Court in the Global South to decriminalise sodomy laws.	None
The constitutionality of Article 516 of the Penal Code, which penalised cases of homosexualism, that do not constitute rape, was challenged before the Tribunal.	None
The Tribunals reasoning was that this abnormal behaviour should be the object of medical treatment imprisonment in jails, creates a suitable environment for the development of this dysfunction.	None
The Tribunals line of reasoning  referring to homosexual activity as abnormal behaviour, requiring medical treatment  is seriously problematic.	None
That assumption is unfounded in fact and is an incorrect doctrine for a constitutional court which protects liberty and dignity.	None
However ultimately, the Tribunal struck down the first paragraph of Article 516 of the Penal Code, holding that Homosexuals are above all holders of all the rights of the human person and therefore, have the right to exercise them in conditions of full equality that is to say that their rights enjoy legal protection, as long as in the exteriorisation of their behaviour they do not harm the rights of others, as is the case with all other persons.	None
The adverse impact of sodomy laws on the lives of homosexual adults was also considered by the Constitutional Court of South Africa in National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Equality v. Minister of Justice (National Coalition) 1999 (1) SA 6 (CC), in which the constitutionality of the common law offence of sodomy and other legislations which penalised unnatural sexual acts between men was at issue.	None
The Constitutional Court unanimously found that the sodomy laws, all of which purported to proscribe sexual intimacy between homosexual adult men, violated their right to equality and discriminated against them on the basis of their sexual orientation.	None
Justice Ackerman, concurring with the ECtHRs observation in Norris, noted that The discriminatory prohibitions on sex between men reinforces already existing societal prejudices and severely increases the negative effects of such prejudices on their lives.	None
Justice Ackerman quoted from Edwin Camerons Sexual Orientation and the Constitution A Test Case for Human Rights(1993) 110 SALJ 450.	None
Even when these provisions are not enforced, they reduce gay men to what one author has referred to as unapprehended felons, thus entrenching stigma and encouraging discrimination in employment and insurance and in judicial decisions about custody and other matters bearing on orientation.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Commenting on the violation of individuals rights to privacy and dignity, the Court held that Gay people are a vulnerable minority group in our society.	None
Sodomy laws criminalise their most intimate relationships.	None
This devalues and degrades gay men and therefore constitutes a violation of their fundamental right to dignity.	None
Furthermore, the offences criminalise private conduct between consenting adults which causes no harm to anyone else.	None
This intrusion on the innermost sphere of human life violates the constitutional right to privacy.	None
The fact that the offences, which lie at the heart of the discrimination, also violate the rights to privacy and dignity strengthens the conclusion that the discrimination against gay men is unfair.	None
In its conclusion, the Court held that all persons have a right to a sphere of private intimacy and autonomy that allows them to establish and nurture human relationships without interference from the outside community.	None
In 2005, the High Court of Fiji, in Dhirendra Nadan Thomas McCoskar v. State 2005 FJHC 500., struck down provisions of the Fijian Penal Code, which punished any person who permits a male person to have carnal knowledge of him, as well as acts of gross indecency between male persons.	None
The High Court read down the provisions to the extent that they were inconsistent with the Constitution of Fiji, drawing a clear distinction between consensual and nonconsensual sexual behavior What the constitution requires is that the Law acknowledges difference, affirms dignity and allows equal respect to every citizen as they are.	None
The acceptance of difference celebrates diversity.	None
The affirmation of individual dignity offers respect to the whole of society.	None
The promotion of equality can be a source of interactive vitalityA country so founded will put sexual expression in private relationships into its proper perspective and allow citizens to define their own good moral sensibilities leaving the law to its necessary duties of keeping sexual expression in check by protecting the vulnerable and penalizing the predator.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In recent years, the Caribbean States of Belize and Trinidad and Tobago have also decriminalized consensual sexual acts between adults in private.	None
In Caleb Orozco v. The Attorney General of Belize (Caleb Orozco), provisions of the Belize Criminal Code which penalized every person who has intercourse against the order of nature with any person were challenged before the Supreme Court.	None
Commenting on the concept of dignity, Justice Benjamin borrowed from the Canadian Supreme Courts observations and noted that Law v Canada (Minister of Employment and Immigration) 1999 1 S.C.R. 497 Human dignity means that an individual or group feels selfrespect and selfworth.	None
It is concerned with physical and psychological integrity and empowerment.	None
Human dignity is harmed by unfair treatment premised upon personal traits or circumstances which do not relate to the individual needs, capacities or merits.	None
It is enhanced by laws which are sensitive to the needs, capacities and merits of different individuals, taking into account the context underlying the differences.	None
(Emphasis supplied) Relying on the judgments in Dudgeons, National Coalition, McCoskar, Toonen, and Lawrence, the Supreme Court struck down the provision as violative of the claimants constitutional rights to privacy, dignity, and equality.	None
Justice Benjamin held thus However, from the perspective of legal principle, the Court cannot act upon prevailing majority views or what is popularly accepted as moralThere must be demonstrated that some harm will be caused should the proscribed conduct be rendered unregulated.	None
No evidence has been presented as to the real likelihood of such harm.	None
The duty of the Court is to apply the provisions of the Constitution.	None
In Jason Jones v. The Attorney General of Trinidad and Tobago (Jones), an expatriate gay rights activist living in the United Kingdom challenged the provisions of Trinidad and Tobagos Sexual Offences Act, which criminalized buggery and serious indecency before the High Court of Justice at Trinidad and Tobago.	None
The central issue before the Court was whether the provisions were saved under Section 6 of the Constitution, which protects laws that were in existence before the Constitution came into force and were only marginally changed since, from being struck down for breach of fundamental rights.	None
The High Court struck down the provisions as unconstitutional, observing that the right to choose a partner and to have a family is intrinsic to an individuals personal autonomy and dignity To this court, human dignity is a basic and inalienable right recognized worldwide in all democratic societies.	None
Attached to that right is the concept of autonomy and the right of an individual to make decisions for herself himself without any unreasonable intervention by the State.	None
In a case such as this, she he must be able to make decisions as to who she he loves, incorporates in his her life, who she he wishes to live with and with who to make a family.	None
The High Court also held that the existence of such laws deliberately undermined the lives of homosexuals A citizen should not have to live under the constant threat, the proverbial Sword of Damocles, that at any moment she he may be persecuted or prosecuted.	None
That is the threat that exists at present.	None
It is a threat that is sanctioned by the State and that sanction is an important sanction because it justifies in the mind of others in society who are differently minded, that the very lifestyle, life and existence of a person who chooses to live in the way that the claimant does is criminal and is deemed to be of a lesser value than anyone elseThe Parliament has taken the deliberate decision to criminalise the lifestyle of persons like the claimant whose ultimate expression of love and affection is crystallised in an act which is statutorily unlawful, whether or not enforced.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The High Court compared the impugned provisions to racial segregation, the Holocaust, and apartheid, observing that To now deny a perceived minority their right to humanity and human dignity would be to continue this type of thinking, this type of perceived superiority, based on the genuinely held beliefs of some.	None
In Leung TC William Roy v. Secretary for Justice , the High Court of Hong Kong considered the constitutional validity of provisions that prescribed different ages of consent for buggery and regular sexual intercourse.	None
The court held that these provisions violated the petitioners rights to privacy and equality Denying persons of a minority class the right to sexual expression in the only way available to them, even if that way is denied to all, remains discriminatory when persons of a majority class are permitted the right to sexual expression in a way natural to them.	None
During the course of submissions, it was described as disguised discrimination.	None
It is, I think, an apt description.	None
It is disguised discrimination founded on a single base sexual orientation.	None
The Court concluded that the difference in the ages of consent was unjustifiable, noting that No evidence has been placed before us to explain why the minimum age requirement for buggery is 21 whereas as far as sexual intercourse between a man and a woman is concerned, the age of consent is only 16.	None
There is, for example, no medical reason for this and none was suggested in the course of argument.	None
Courts around the world have not stopped at decriminalizing sodomy laws they have gone a step further and developed a catena of broader rights and protections for homosexuals.	None
These rights go beyond the mere freedom to engage in consensual sexual activity in private, and include the right to full citizenship, the right to form unions and the right to family life.	None
Israel was one of the first countries to recognize the rights of homosexuals against discrimination in matters of employment.	None
In ElAl Israel Airlines Ltd v. Jonathan Danielwitz (ElAl Israel Airlines), the Supreme Court of Israel considered an airline companys policy of giving discounted tickets to their employees and a companion recognized as the husband wife of the employee.	None
This benefit was also given to a partner with whom the employee was living together like husband and wife, but not married.	None
However, the airline refused to give the discounted tickets to the Respondent and his male partner.	None
The Supreme Court of Israel observed thus The principle of equality demands that the existence of a rule that treats people differently is justified by the nature and substance of the issuetherefore, a particular law will create discrimination when two individuals who are different from one another (factual inequality), are treated differently by the law, even though the factual difference between them does not justify different treatment in the circumstances.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The Supreme Court held that giving a benefit to an employee who has a spouse of the opposite sex and denying the same benefit to an employee whose spouse is of the same sex amounts to discrimination based on sexual orientation.	None
This violated the Petitioners right to equality and created an unjustifiable distinction in the context of employee benefits.	None
In Vriend v Alberta (1998) 1 S.C.R. 493 , the appellant, a homosexual college employee, was terminated from his job.	None
He alleged that his employer had discriminated against him because of his sexual orientation, but that he could not make a complaint under Canadas antidiscrimination statute  the Individuals Rights Protection Act (IRPA)  because it did not include sexual orientation as a protected ground.	None
The Supreme Court of Canada held that the omission of protection against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation was an unjustified violation of the right to equality under the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.	None
The Supreme Court held that the State had failed to provide a rational justification for the omission of sexual orientation as a protected ground under the IRPA.	None
Commenting on the domino effect that such discriminatory measures have on the lives of homosexuals, the Supreme Court noted thus Perhaps most important is the psychological harm which may ensue from this state of affairs.	None
Fear of discrimination will logically lead to concealment of true identity and this must be harmful to personal confidence and selfesteem.	None
Compounding that effect is the implicit message conveyed by the exclusion, that gays and lesbians, unlike other individuals, are not worthy of protection.	None
This is clearly an example of a distinction which demeans the individual and strengthens and perpetrates sic the view that gays and lesbians are less worthy of protection as individuals in Canadas society.	None
The potential harm to the dignity and perceived worth of gay and lesbian individuals constitutes a particularly cruel form of discrimination.	None
The next breakthrough for LGBTQ rights came from the Supreme Court of Nepal, in Sunil Babu Pant v. Nepal Government .	None
Sunil Pant  the first openly gay Asian national leader  filed a PIL before the Supreme Court of Nepal praying for the recognition of the rights of lesbians, gays, and third gender persons.	None
The Supreme Court located the rights of LGBTQ persons to their sexuality within the right to privacy, holding that The right to privacy is a fundamental right of any individual.	None
The issue of sexual activity falls under the definition of privacy.	None
No one has the right to question how do two adults perform the sexual intercourse and whether this intercourse is natural or unnatural.	None
The Court held that all individuals have an inherent right to marriage, regardless of their sexual orientation Looking at the issue of same sex marriage, we hold that it is an inherent right of an adult to have marital relation with another adult with his her free consent and according to her his will.	None
In concluding, the Court directed the Nepalese government to enact new legislation or amend existing legislation to ensure that persons of all sexual orientations and gender identities could enjoy equal rights.	None
In 2015, in Oliari v Italy (Oliari) 2015 ECHR 716, the Applicants before the ECtHR argued that the absence of legislation in Italy permitting samesex marriage or any other type of civil union constituted discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, in violation of Articles 8, 12, and 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights.	None
In line with its previous case law, the Court affirmed that samesex couples are in need of legal recognition and protection of their relationship.	None
The ECtHR concluded that gay couples are equally capable of entering into stable and committed relationships in the same way as heterosexual couples.	None
The ECtHR examined the domestic context in Italy, and noted a clear gap between the social reality of the applicants, who openly live their relationship, and the law, which fails to formally recognize samesex partnerships.	None
The Court held that in the absence of any evidence of a prevailing community interest in preventing legal recognition of samesex partnerships, Italian authorities have overstepped their margin of appreciation and failed to fulfil their positive obligation to ensure that the applicants have available a specific legal framework providing for the recognition and protection of their samesex unions.	None
In 2013, in United States v. Windsor 570 U.S. 744 (2013), US Supreme Court considered the constitutionality of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) which states that, for the purposes of federal law, the words marriage and spouse refer to legal unions between one man and one woman.	None
Windsor, who had inherited the estate of her samesex partner, was barred from claiming the federal estate tax exemption for surviving spouses since her marriage was not recognized by federal law.	None
Justice Kennedy writing for the majority, held that restricting the federal interpretation of marriage and spouse to apply only to oppositesex unions was unconstitutional under the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment Its the DOMAs unusual deviation from the tradition of recognizing and accepting state definitions of marriage operates to deprive samesex couples of the benefits and responsibilities that come with federal recognition of their marriages.	None
This is strong evidence of a law having the purpose and effect of disapproval of a class recognized and protected by state law.	None
DOMAs avowed purpose and practical effect are to impose a disadvantage, a separate status, and so a stigma upon all who enter into samesex marriages made lawful by the unquestioned authority of the States.	None
Two years later, in Obergefell v. Hodges (Obergefell), 576 U.S. (2015).	None
while analysing precedent and decisions of other US courts recognizing samesex marriage, Justice Kennedy observed that A first premise of the Courts relevant precedents is that the right to personal choice regarding marriage is inherent in the concept of individual autonomy Like choices concerning contraception, family relationships, procreation, and childrearing, all of which are protected by the Constitution, decisions concerning marriage are among the most intimate that an individual can make.	None
Justice Kennedy expressed the need to go beyond the narrow holding in Lawrence, towards a more expansive view of the rights of homosexuals Lawrence invalidated laws that made same sex intimacy a criminal act But while Lawrence confirmed a dimension of freedom that allows individuals to engage in intimate association without criminal liability, it does not follow that freedom stops there.	None
Outlaw to outcast may be a step forward, but it does not achieve the full promise of liberty.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
By a 54 majority, the US Supreme Court ruled that the fundamental right to marry is guaranteed to samesex couples by the Due Process Clause and the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the US Constitution.	None
Commenting on the right to marriage, Justice Kennedy noted No union is more profound than marriage, for it embodies the highest ideals of love, fidelity, devotion, sacrifice, and family.	None
It would misunderstand these men and women to say they disrespect the idea of marriage.	None
Their plea is that they do respect it, respect it so deeply that they seek to find its fulfilment for themselves.	None
Their hope is not to be condemned to live in loneliness, excluded from one of civilizations oldest institutions.	None
They ask for equal dignity in the eyes of the law.	None
The Constitution grants them that right.	None
The recent case of Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission (Masterpiece Cakeshop) 584 U.S. (2018).	None
concerned a Christian baker who was accused of violating an antidiscrimination ordinance for refusing to make a wedding cake for a samesex couple based on his religious beliefs.	None
The Colorado Civil Rights Commission (CCRC) decided against the baker, and, on appeal, the Supreme Court ruled 72 that the CCRC violated the bakers rights under the First Amendment, which guarantees freedom of expression.	None
Writing for the majority, Justice Kennedy said the CCRC showed hostility to the bakers religious beliefs It must be concluded that the States interest could have been weighed against Phillips sincere religious objections in a way consistent with the requisite religious neutrality that must be strictly observed.	None
The official expressions of hostility to religion in some of the commissioners commentscomments that were not disavowed at the Commission or by the State at any point in the proceedings that led to affirmance of the orderwere inconsistent with what the Free Exercise Clause requires.	None
The Commissions disparate consideration of Phillips case compared to the cases of the other bakers suggests the same.	None
For these reasons, the order must be set aside.	None
The majority held that while the Constitution allows gay persons to exercise their civil rights, religious and philosophical objections to gay marriage are protected views and in some instances protected forms of expression.	None
The Supreme Court found merit in the bakers First Amendment claim, noting that his dilemma was understandable, especially given that the cause of action arose in 2012, before the enactment of Colorados antidiscrimination law and the Obergefell judgment that legalised samesex marriage.	None
The court buttressed its position by noting that in several other cases, bakers had declined to decorate cakes with messages that were derogatory towards gay persons and the State Civil Rights Division had held that the bakers were within their rights to have done so.	None
According to the majority in Masterpiece Cakeshop, the owner was similarly entitled to decline the order, and his case should have been treated no differently.	None
Justice Ginsburgs dissenting opinion, which was supported by Justice Sotomayor, distinguished the baker in Masterpiece Cakeshop from the other three bakers.	None
Justice Ginsburg noted that while the other bakers would have refused the said cake decorations to all customers, Phillips refused to bake a wedding cake (which he baked for other customers), specifically for the couple.	None
She observed that Phillips declined to make a cake he found offensive where the offensiveness of the product was determined solely by the identity of the customer requesting it.	None
The three other bakeries declined to make cakes where their objection to the product was due to the demeaning message the requested product would literally display.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
When a couple contacts a bakery for a wedding cake, the product they are seeking is a cake celebrating their weddingnot a cake celebrating heterosexual weddings or samesex weddingsand that is the service Craig and Mullins were denied.	None
Justice Ginsburg concluded that a proper application of the Colorado AntiDiscrimination Act would require upholding the lower courts rulings.	None
Masterpiece Cakeshop is also distinguishable from a similar case, Lee v. Ashers Bakery Co. Ltd.	None
2015 NICty 2, which is currently on appeal to the United Kingdom Supreme Court.	None
In that case, a bakery in Northern Ireland offered a service whereby customers could provide messages, pictures or graphics that would be iced on a cake.	None
Lee  a member of an LGBT organisation  ordered a cake with the words support gay marriage on it.	None
The Christian owners refused, stating that preparing such an order would conflict with their religious beliefs.	None
Lee claimed that in refusing his order, the bakery discriminated against him on grounds of sexual orientation.	None
Both the County Court and the Court of Appeal ruled in favour of Lee, on the ground that the respondents refusal on the ground of his religious beliefs was contrary to the provisions of the Equality Act (Sexual Orientation) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006 and the Fair Employment and Treatment Order 1998.	None
From an analysis of comparative jurisprudence from across the world, the following principles emerge Sexual orientation is an intrinsic element of liberty, dignity, privacy, individual autonomy and equality Intimacy between consenting adults of the samesex is beyond the legitimate interests of the state Sodomy laws violate equality by targeting a segment of the population for their sexual orientation Such a law perpetrates stereotypes, lends authority of the state to societal stereotypes and has a chilling effect on the exercise of freedom The right to love and to a partner, to find fulfillment in a samesex relationship is essential to a society which believes in freedom under a constitutional order based on rights Sexual orientation implicates negative and positive obligations on the state.	None
It not only requires the state not to discriminate, but also calls for the state to recognise rights which bring true fulfillment to samesex relationships and The constitutional principles which have led to decriminalization must continuously engage in a rights discourse to ensure that samesex relationships find true fulfillment in every facet of life.	None
The law cannot discriminate against samesex relationships.	None
It must also take positive steps to achieve equal protection.	None
The past two decades have witnessed several decisions by constitutional and international courts, recognizing both the decriminalization of samesex intercourse in private, as well as broader rights recognizing sexual orientation equality.	None
In 1996, South Africa became the first country in the world to constitutionally prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation.	None
As on the date of this judgment, ten countries constitutionally prohibit discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation.	None
The United Kingdom, Bolivia, Ecuador, Fiji, and Malta specifically prohibit discrimination on the basis of gender identity, either constitutionally or through enacted laws.	None
According the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association, 74 countries (including India) criminalize samesex sexual conduct, as of 2017.	None
Most of these countries lie in the SubSaharan and Middle East region.	None
Some of them prescribe death penalty for homosexuality.	None
We are aware that sociohistorical contexts differ from one jurisdiction to another and that we must therefore look at comparative lawmaking allowances for them.	None
However, the overwhelming weight of international opinion and the dramatic increase in the pace of recognition of fundamental rights for samesex couples reflects a growing consensus towards sexual orientation equality.	None
We feel inclined to concur with the accumulated wisdom reflected in these judgments, not to determine the meaning of the guarantees contained within the Indian Constitution, but to provide a sound and appreciable confirmation of our conclusions about those guarantees.	None
This evolution has enabled societies governed by liberal constitutional values  such as liberty, dignity, privacy, equality and individual autonomy  to move beyond decriminalisation of offences involving consensual samesex relationships.	None
Decriminalisation is of course necessary to bury the ghosts of morality which flourished in a radically different age and time.	None
But decriminalisation is a first step.	None
The constitutional principles on which it is based have application to a broader range of entitlements.	None
The Indian Constitution is based on an abiding faith in those constitutional values.	None
In the march of civilizations across the spectrum of a compassionate global order, India cannot be left behind.	None
K Crime, morality and the Constitution	None
The question of what qualifies as a punishable offence under the law has played a central role in legal theory.	None
Attempts have been made by legal scholars and jurists alike, to define a crime.	None
Halsburys Laws of England defines a crime as an unlawful act or default which is an offence against the public and renders the person guilty of the act or default liable to legal punishment.	None
As Glanville Williams observes A crime is an act capable of being followed by criminal proceedings, having a criminal outcomecriminal law is that branch of law which deals with conductby prosecution in the criminal courts.	None
Henry Hart, in his essay titled The Aims of Criminal Law, comments on the difficulty of a definition in this branch of law.	None
A crime is a crime because it is called a crime If one were to judge from the notions apparently underlying many judicial opinions, and the overt language even of some of them, the solution of the puzzle is simply that a crime is anything which is called a crime, and a criminal penalty is simply the penalty provided for doing anything which has been given that name.	None
However, Hart confesses that such a simplistic definition would be a betrayal of intellectual bankruptcy.296 Roscoe Pound articulates the dilemma in defining what constitutes an offence A final answer to the question what is a crime?, is impossible, because law is a living, changing thing, which may at one time be uniform, and at another time give much room for judicial discretion, which may at one time be more specific in its prescription and at another time much more general.	None
Early philosophers sought to define crime by distinguishing it from a civil wrong.	None
In his study of rhetoric, Aristotle observed that Justice in relation to the person is defined in two ways.	None
For it is defined either in relation to the community or to one of its members what one should or should not do.	None
Accordingly, it is possible to perform just and unjust acts in two ways, either towards a defined individual or towards the community.	None
Kant, in the Metaphysics of Morals, observed that A transgression of public law that makes someone who commits it unfit to be a citizen is called a crime simply (crimen) but is also called a public crime (crimen publicum)	None
so the first (private crime) is brought before a civil court, the latter before a criminal court.	None
Another method of defining crime is from the nature of injury caused, of being public, as opposed to private, wrongs.	None
This distinction was brought out by Blackstone and later by Duff, in their theories on criminal law.	None
Blackstone, in his Commentaries on the Laws of England put forth the idea that only actions which constitute a public wrong will be classified as a crime.	None
He characterised public wrongs as a breach and violation of the public rights and duties, due to the whole community, considered as a community, in its social aggregate capacity.	None
Duff adds to the idea of public wrong by arguing that we should interpret a public wrong, not as a wrong that injures the public, but as one that properly concerns the public, i.e. the polity as a whole.	None
Nozick and Becker also support the theory that crime is conduct that harms the public.	None
Nozick argues that the harm caused by a crime, unlike other private law wrongs, extends beyond the immediate victim to all those who view themselves as potential victims of the crime.	None
When such an act is done on purpose, it spreads fear in the general community, and it is due to this additional harm to the community of causing fear and insecurity, that such actions are classified as crimes and pursued by the state.	None
Becker preferred to describe crime as something which disrupts social stability and has the potential for destructive disturbance of fundamental social structures.	None
However, Hart questioned the theory of simply defining crime as a public wrong, for all wrongs affect society in some way or the other Can crimes be distinguished from civil wrongs on the ground that they constitute injuries to society generally which society is interested in preventing?	None
The difficulty is that society is interested also in the due fulfilment of contracts and the avoidance of traffic accidents and most of the other stuff of civil litigation.	None
Hart preferred to define crime in terms of the methodology of criminal law and the characteristics of this method.	None
He described criminal law as possessing the following features The method operates by means of a series of directions, or commands, formulated in general terms, telling people what they must or must not do The commands are taken as valid and binding upon all those who fall within their terms when the time comes for complying with them, whether or not they have been formulated in advance in a single authoritative set of words The commands are subject to one or more sanctions for disobedience which the community is prepared to enforce What distinguishes a criminal from a civil sanction and all that distinguishes it, it is ventured, is the judgment of community condemnation which accompanies and justifies its imposition.	None
(Numbering and emphasis supplied)	None
According to Hart, the first three characteristics above are common to both civil and criminal law.	None
However, the key differentiating factor between criminal and civil law, he observed, is the community condemnation.	None
Thus, he attempted to define crime as Conduct which, if duly shown to have taken place, will incur a formal and solemn pronouncement of the moral condemnation of the community.	None
Perhaps it is difficult to carve out a single definition of crime due to the multidimensional nature of criminal law.	None
The process of deconstructing the criminalisation of consensual sexual acts by adults will be facilitated by examining some criminal theories and their interplay with Section 377.	None
Criminal Law Theories Benthams Utilitarian Theory Utilitarianism has provided some of the most powerful critiques of existing laws.	None
Bentham was one of the earliest supporters for reform in sodomy laws.	None
In his essay, Offences Against Ones Self, Bentham rebutted all the justifications given by the state for enacting laws on sodomy.	None
According to Bentham, homosexuality, if viewed outside the realms of morality and religion, is neutral behaviour which gives the participants pleasure and does not cause pain to anyone else.	None
Therefore, he concluded that such an act cannot constitute an offence, and there is no reason for punishing it at all.	None
Bentham tested sodomy laws on three main principles (i) whether they produce any primary mischief, i.e., direct harm to another person (ii) whether they produce any secondary mischief, i.e., harm to the stability and security of society and (iii) whether they cause any danger to society.	None
He argued that sodomy laws do not satisfy any of the above tests, and hence, should be repealed.	None
On the first principle of primary mischief, Bentham said As to any primary mischief, it is evident that it produces no pain in anyone.	None
On the contrary it produces pleasure, and that a pleasure which, by their perverted taste, is by this supposition preferred to that pleasure which is in general reputed the greatest.	None
The partners are both willing.	None
If either of them be unwilling, the act is not that which we have here in view it is an offence totally different in its nature of effects it is a personal injury it is a kind of rape.	None
Thus, Bentham argued that consensual homosexual acts do not harm anyone else.	None
Instead, they are a source of pleasure to adults who choose to engage in them.	None
Bentham was clear about the distinction between willing partners and unwilling partners, and the latter according to him, would not fall under his defence.	None
Benthams second argument was that there was no secondary mischief, which he described as something which may produce any alarm in the community.	None
On this, Bentham argued As to any secondary mischief, it produces not any pain of apprehension.	None
For what is there in it for any body to be afraid of?	None
By the supposition, those only are the objects of it who choose to be so, who find a pleasure, for so it seems they do, in being so.	None
Benthams explanation was that only those adults who choose will be the objects of homosexual sexual acts.	None
It does not involve any activity which will create anxiety among the rest of the society.	None
Therefore, homosexuality does not cause secondary harm either.	None
Lastly, Bentham tested sodomy laws on whether they cause danger to society.	None
The only danger that Bentham could apprehend was the supposed danger of encouraging others to engage in homosexual practices.	None
However, Bentham argues that since homosexual activities in themselves do not cause any harm, there is no danger even if they have a domino effect on other individuals As to any danger exclusive of pain, the danger, if any, must consist in the tendency of the example.	None
But what is the tendency of this example?	None
To dispose others to engage in the same practises but this practise for anything that has yet appeared produces not pain of any kind to anyone.	None
Thus, according to Bentham, sodomy laws fail on all three grounds they neither cause primary mischief, nor secondary mischief, nor any danger to society.	None
Bentham also critiqued criminal laws by analysing the utility of the punishment prescribed by them.	None
He succinctly described the objective of law through the principles of utility The general object which all laws have, or ought to haveis to augment the total happiness of the community and to excludeeverything that tends to subtract from that happiness.	None
According to Bentham, all punishment in itself is evil because it reduces the level of happiness in society, and should be prescribed only if it excludes some greater evil.	None
Bentham stipulated four kinds of situations where it is not utilitarian to inflict punishment Where it is groundless where there is no mischief for it to prevent the act not being mischievous upon the whole.	None
Where it must be inefficacious where it cannot act so as to prevent the mischief.	None
Where it is unprofitable, or too expensive where the mischief it would produce would be greater than what it prevented.	None
Where it is needless where the mischief may be prevented, or cease of itself, without it that is, at a cheaper rate.	None
The Harm Principle John Stuart Mill, in his treatise On Liberty, makes a powerful case to preclude governments from interfering in those areas of an individuals life which are private.	None
Mills theory, which came to be called the harm principle, suggests that the state can intrude into private life by way of sanction only if harm is caused to others or if the conduct is otheraffecting.	None
In Mills words The only purpose for which power can be rightfully exercised over any member of a civilised community, against his will, is to prevent harm to others.	None
His own good, either physical or moral, is not a sufficient warrant.	None
He cannot rightfully be compelled to do or forbear because it will be better for him to do so, because it will make him happier, because, in the opinions of others, to do so would be wise, or even right The only part of the conduct of any one, for which he is amenable to society, is that which concerns others.	None
In the part which merely concerns himself, his independence is, of right, absolute.	None
Over himself, over his own body and mind, the individual is sovereign.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Mill created a dichotomy between selfregarding actions (those which affect the individual himself and have no significant effect on society at large) and otherregarding actions (those which affect the society).	None
He was aware that in a way, all actions of an individual are likely to affect those nearly connected with him and, in a minor degree, society at large.	None
However, he argued that as long as an action does not violate a distinct and assignable obligation to any other person or persons, it may not be taken out of the selfregarding class of actions.	None
Thus, Mill proposed that all that portion of a persons life and conduct which affects only himself, or, if it also affects others, only with their free, voluntary, and undeceived consent and participation should be free from state interference.	None
He further added that the state and society are not justified in interfering in the selfregarding sphere, merely because they believe certain conduct to be foolish, perverse, or wrong.	None
Essentially, Mill created a taxonomy on types of conduct  (a) selfregarding actions should not be the subject of sanctions either from the state or society (b) actions which may hurt others but do not violate any legal rights may only be the subject of public condemnation but not state sanction (c) only action which violate the legal rights of others should be the subject of legal sanction (and public condemnation).	None
The harm principle thus, operated as a negative or limiting principle, with the main objective of restricting criminal law from penalising conduct merely on the basis of its perceived immorality or unacceptability when the same is not harmful.	None
While Mills theory was not propounded in relation to LGBTQ rights, his understanding of criminal law is wellsuited to argue that sodomy laws criminalise selfregarding actions which fall under the first category of conduct, and should not be subjected to sanctions either by the state or the society.	None
A jurisprudential debate on the interplay between criminal law and morality was set off when Lord Devlin delivered the 1959 Maccabean Lecture, titled The Enforcement of Morals.	None
Lord Devlins lecture was an attack against the Report of the Wolfenden Committee on Homosexual Offences and Prostitution (Wolfenden Report), which had recommended the decriminalisation of sodomy laws in England.	None
The Wolfenden Committee, headed by Sir John Wolfenden, ViceChancellor of Reading University, was set up in 1954 to consider the criminalisation of homosexuality and prostitution, in the wake of increased arrests and convictions in the UK for homosexuality between men.	None
Among those prosecuted for gross indecency under the Buggery Act of 1553 and Sexual Offences Act of 1967 were eminent persons like Oscar Wilde, Alan Turing and Lord Montagu of Beaulieu.	None
After conducting a threeyear long inquiry, carrying out empirical research, and interviewing three gay men, the Wolfenden Committee released its Report in 1957.	None
The Wolfenden Report recommended that Homosexual behaviour between consenting adults should no longer be a criminal offence Unless a deliberate attempt is to be made by society, acting through the agency of the law, to equate the sphere of crime with that of sin, there must remain a realm of private morality and immorality which is, in brief and crude terms, not the laws business.	None
The Wolfenden Report stated that it is not the purpose of law to intervene in the private lives of citizens, or to seek to enforce any particular pattern of behaviourThe Wolfenden Report acknowledged that the law and public opinion have a close relationship with each other  the law ought to follow behind public opinion so that it garners the community support, while at the same time, the law must also fortify and lead public opinion.	None
However, it made out a strong case for divorcing morality from criminal law and stated that  moral conviction or instinctive feeling, however strong, is not a valid basis for overriding the individuals privacy and for bringing within the ambit of the criminal law private sexual behaviour of this kind.	None
Stating that homosexuality is not a mental illness, the Wolfenden Report clarified that homosexuality is a sexual propensity for persons of ones own sexit is a state or condition, and as such does not, and cannot, come within the purview of criminal law.	None
Lord Devlin, perturbed by the Wolfenden Reports line of reasoning, framed questions on the issue of criminal law and morality Has society the right to pass judgments on all matters of morals?	None
If society has the right to pass judgment, has it also the right to use the weapon of the law to enforce it?	None
Devlin believed that society depends upon a common morality for its stability and existence.	None
On the basis of this belief, Devlin answered the above questions in the affirmative, stating that  society has the right to pass judgments on all matters of morality and also the right to use law to enforce such morality.	None
Devlin reasoned that society would disintegrate if a common morality was not observed.	None
Therefore, society is justified in taking steps to preserve its morality as much as it preserves the government.	None
Devlin proposed that the common morality or collective judgment of the society should be ascertained taking into consideration the reasonable man.	None
According to him, a reasonable man is an ordinary man whose judgment may largely be a matter of feeling.	None
He added that if the reasonable man believed a practice to be immoral, and held this belief honestly and dispassionately, then for the purpose of law such practice should be considered immoral.	None
Countering Devlins theory, Hart argued that society is not held together by a common morality, for, after all, it is not a hive mind or a monolith, governed by a singular set of morals and principles.	None
Hart rebutted Devlins argument in the following way apart from one vague reference to history showing the the loosening of moral bonds is often the first stage of disintegration, no evidence is produced to show that deviation from accepted sexual morality, even by adults in private is something which, like treason, threatens the existence of society.	None
No reputable historian has maintained this thesis, and there is indeed much evidence against itLord Devlins belief in it that homosexuality is a cause of societal disintegration, and his apparent indifference to the question of evidence, are at points traceable to an undiscussed assumption.	None
This is that all morality  sexual morality together with the morality that forbids acts injurious to others such as killing, stealing, and dishonesty  forms a single seamless web, so that those who deviate from any part are likely to perhaps bound to deviate from the whole.	None
It is of course clear (and one of the oldest insights of political theory) that society could not exist without a morality which mirrored and supplemented the laws proscription of conduct injurious to others.	None
But there is again no evidence to support, and much to refute, the theory that those who deviate from conventional sexual morality are in other ways hostile to society.	None
Despite countering Devlin, Hart was not completely opposed to a relationship between law and morality, and in fact, he emphasised that the two are closely related The law of every modem state shows at a thousand points the influence of both the accepted social morality and wider moral ideals.	None
These influences enter into law either abruptly and avowedly through legislation, or silently and piecemeal through the judicial processThe further ways in which law mirrors morality are myriad, and still insufficiently studied statutes may be a mere legal shell and demand by their express terms to be filled out with the aid of moral principles the range of enforceable contracts may be limited by reference to conceptions of morality and fair ness liability for both civil and criminal wrongs may be adjusted to prevailing views of moral responsibility.	None
However, unlike Devlin, Hart did not propose that morality is a necessary condition for the validity of law.	None
Hart argued, in summary, that law is morally relevant, but not morally conclusive.	None
Hart vehemently disagreed with Devlins view that if laws are not based on some collective morality and enacted to buttress that morality, society will disintegrate.	None
Hart draws this distinction by conceding that certain sexual acts (including homosexual acts) were considered immoral by mainstream Western society but adding that private sexual acts are an issue of private morality over which society has no interest and the law, no control.	None
Hart further expounded his warning about the imposition of majoritarian morals, propounding that lt is fatally easy to confuse the democratic principle that power should be in the hands of the majority with the utterly different claim that the majority, with power in their hands, need respect no limits Whatever other arguments there may be for the enforcement of morality, no one should think even when popular morality is supported by an overwhelming majority or marked by widespread intolerance, indignation, and disgust that loyalty to democratic principles requires him to admit that its imposition on a minority is justified.	None
In this way, Hart avoided the specious generalization that the law must be severely quarantined from morality but still made it clear that laws like Section 377, which impose a majoritarian view of right and wrong upon a minority in order to protect societal cohesion, are jurisprudentially and democratically impermissible.	None
Bentham had a different view on morality and weighed morality against utilitarian principles.	None
Bentham argued that if the punishment is not utilitarian (i.e. does not serve as a deterrent, is unprofitable, or unnecessary), the immoral action would have to go unpunished.	None
He opined that legislators should not be overly swayed by the societys morality The strength of their prejudice is the measure of the indulgence which should be granted to itThe legislator ought to yield to the violence of a current which carries away everything that obstructs it.	None
But ought the legislator to be a slave to the fancies of those whom he governs?	None
No.	None
Between an imprudent opposition and a servile compliance, there is a middle path, honourable and safe.	None
In other words, it appears that Bentham argued that the morality of the people ought not be ignored in creating laws but also must not become their unchecked fount.	None
And if prejudicial moralities arise from the people, they should not be unthinkingly and permanently cemented into the law, but rather addressed and conquered.	None
John Stuart Mill also made a strong argument against popular morality being codified into laws.	None
He argued that disgust cannot be classified as harm, and those who consider as an injury to themselves any conduct which they have a distaste for, cannot dictate the actions of others merely because such actions contradict their own beliefs or views.	None
Mill believed that society is not the right judge when dealing with the question of when to interfere in conduct that is purely personal, and that when society does interfere, the odds are that it interferes wrongly and in the wrong place.	None
Christopher R Leslie points out the dangers of letting morality creep into law Current generations enshrine their morality by passing laws and perpetuate their prejudices by handing these laws down to their children.	None
Soon, statutes take on lives of their own, and their very existence justifies their premises and consequent implications.	None
The underlying premises of ancient laws are rarely discussed, let alone scrutinized.	None
Leslie further adds that sodomy laws do not merely express societal disapproval they go much further by creating a criminal class Sodomy laws are kept on the books, even though state governments do not intend to actively enforce them, because the laws send a message to society that homosexuality is unacceptable.	None
Even without actual criminal prosecution, the laws carry meaning In short, the primary importance of sodomy laws today is the governments message to diminish the societal status of gay men and lesbians.	None
A broad analysis of criminal theory points to the general conclusion that criminologists and legal philosophers have long been in agreement about one basic characteristic of crime that it should injure a third person or the society.	None
An element of larger public interest emerges as the crux of crime.	None
The conduct which Section 377 criminalises voluntary carnal intercourse against the order of nature with a man or woman, inter alia  pertains solely to acts between consenting adults.	None
Such conduct is purely private, or as Mill would call it, selfregarding, and is neither capable of causing injury to someone else nor does it pose a threat to the stability and security of society.	None
Once the factor of consent is established, the question of such conduct causing any injury, does not arise.	None
Although Section 377 prima facie appears to criminalise certain acts or conduct, it creates a class of criminals, consisting of individuals who engage in consensual sexual activity.	None
It typecasts LGBTQ individuals as sexoffenders, categorising their consensual conduct on par with sexual offences like rape and child molestation.	None
Section 377 not only criminalises acts (consensual sexual conduct between adults) which should not constitute crime, but also stigmatises and condemns LGBTQ individuals in society.	None
We are aware of the perils of allowing morality to dictate the terms of criminal law.	None
If a single, homogenous morality is carved out for a society, it will undoubtedly have the effect of hegemonizing or othering the morality of minorities.	None
The LGBTQ community has been a victim of the predominant (Victorian) morality which prevailed at the time when the Indian Penal Code was drafted and enacted.	None
Therefore, we are inclined to observe that it is constitutional morality, and not mainstream views about sexual morality, which should be the driving factor in determining the validity of Section 377.	None
L Constitutional morality With the attainment of independence on 15 August 1947, Indians were finally free to shape their own destiny.	None
The destiny was to be shaped through a written Constitution.	None
Constitutions are scripts in which people inscribe the text of their professed collective destiny.	None
They write down who they think they are, what they want to be, and the principles that will guide their interacting along that path in the future.	None
The Constitution of India was burdened with the challenge of drawing a curtain on the past of social inequality and prejudices.	None
Those who led India to freedom established into the Constitution the ideals and vision of a vibrant equitable society.	None
The framing of Indias Constitution was a medium of liberating the society by initiating the process of establishing and promoting the shared values of liberty, equality and fraternity.	None
Throughout history, sociocultural revolts, antidiscrimination assertions, movements, literature and leaders have worked at socializing people away from supremacist thought and towards an egalitarian existence.	None
The Indian Constitution is an expression of these assertions.	None
It was an attempt to reverse the socializing of prejudice, discrimination, and power hegemony in a disjointed society.	None
All citizens were to be free from coercion or restriction by the state, or by society privately.	None
Liberty was no longer to remain the privilege of the few.	None
The judgment in Puttaswamy highlights the commitment of the constitution makers, thus The vision of the founding fathers was enriched by the histories of suffering of those who suffered oppression and a violation of dignity both here and elsewhere.	None
Understanding the vision of India at a time when there was little else older than that vision, is of paramount importance for the reason that though the people may not have played any role in the actual framing of the Constitution, the Preamble professes that the Constitution has been adopted by the people themselves.	None
Constitutional historian Granville Austin has said that the Indian Constitution is essentially a social document.	None
The Indian Constitution does not provide merely a framework of governance.	None
It embodies a vision.	None
It is goaloriented and its purpose is to bring about a social transformation in the country.	None
It represents the aspirations of its framers.	None
The democratic Constitution of India embodies provisions which are valuebased.	None
During the framing of the Constitution, it was realized by the members of the Constituent Assembly that there was a wide gap between constitutional precept and reality.	None
The draftspersons were clear that the imbibing of new constitutional values by the population at large would take some time.	None
Society was not going to change overnight.	None
Dr Ambedkar remarked in the Constituent Assembly Democracy in India is only a topdressing on an Indian soil, which is essentially undemocratic.	None
The values of a democracy require years of practice, effort, and experience to make the society work with those values.	None
Similar is the position of nondiscrimination, equality, fraternity and secularism.	None
While the Constitution guarantees equality before the law and equal protection of the law, it was felt that the realization of the constitutional vision requires the existence of a commitment to that vision.	None
Dr Ambedkar described this commitment to be the presence of constitutional morality among the members of the society.	None
The conception of constitutional morality is different from that of public or societal morality.	None
Under a regime of public morality, the conduct of society is determined by popular perceptions existent in society.	None
The continuance of certain symbols, labels, names or body shapes determine the notions, sentiments and mental attitudes of the people towards individuals and things.	None
Constitutional morality determines the mental attitude towards individuals and issues by the text and spirit of the Constitution.	None
It requires that the rights of an individual ought not to be prejudiced by popular notions of society.	None
It assumes that citizens would respect the vision of the framers of the Constitution and would conduct themselves in a way which furthers that vision.	None
Constitutional morality reflects that the ideal of justice is an overriding factor in the struggle for existence over any other notion of social acceptance.	None
It builds and protects the foundations of a democracy, without which any nation will crack under its fissures.	None
For this reason, constitutional morality has to be imbibed by the citizens consistently and continuously.	None
Society must always bear in mind what Dr Ambedkar observed before the Constituent Assembly Constitutional morality is not a natural sentiment.	None
It has to be cultivated.	None
We must realize that our people have yet to learn it.	None
In the decision in Government of NCT of Delhi v. Union of India 2018 (8) SCALE 72 , the Constitution Bench of this Court dealt with the constitutive elements of constitutional morality which govern the working of a democratic system and representative form of government.	None
Constitutional morality was described as founded on a constitutional culture, which requires the existence of sentiments and dedication for realizing a social transformation which the Indian Constitution seeks to attain.	None
This Court held thus If the moral values of our .Constitution were not upheld at every stage, the text of the Constitution may not be enough to protect its democratic values.	None
This Court held that constitutional morality acts a check against the tyranny of the majority and as a threshold against an upsurge in mob rule.	None
It was held to be a balance against popular public morality.	None
Constitutional morality requires in a democracy the assurance of certain minimum rights, which are essential for free existence to every member of society.	None
The Preamble to the Constitution recognises these rights as Liberty of thought, expression, belief, faith and worship and Equality of status and of opportunity.	None
Constitutional morality is the guarantee which seeks that all inequality is eliminated from the social structure and each individual is assured of the means for the enforcement of the rights guaranteed.	None
Constitutional morality leans towards making Indian democracy vibrant by infusing a spirit of brotherhood amongst a heterogeneous population, belonging to different classes, races, religions, cultures, castes and sections.	None
Constitutional morality cannot, however, be nurtured unless, as recognised by the Preamble, there exists fraternity, which assures and maintains the dignity of each individual.	None
In his famous, yet undelivered speech titled Annihilation of Caste (which has been later published as a book), Dr Ambedkar described fraternity as primarily a mode of associated living, of conjoint communicated experience and essentially an attitude of respect and reverence towards fellow men.	None
He remarked An ideal society should be mobile, should be full of channels for conveying a change taking place in one part to other parts.	None
In an ideal society there should be many interests consciously communicated and shared.	None
There should be varied and free points of contact with other modes of association.	None
In other words there must be social endosmosis.	None
This is fraternity, which is only another name for democracy.	None
In his last address to the Constituent Assembly, he defined fraternity as a sense of common brotherhood of all Indians.	None
As on the social and economic plane, Indian society was based on graded inequality, Dr Ambedkar had warned in clear terms Without fraternity, liberty and equality could not become a natural course of things.	None
It would require a constable to enforce them Without fraternity equality and liberty will be no deeper than coats of paint.	None
Constitutional morality requires that all the citizens need to have a closer look at, understand and imbibe the broad values of the Constitution, which are based on liberty, equality and fraternity.	None
Constitutional morality is thus the guiding spirit to achieve the transformation which, above all, the Constitution seeks to achieve.	None
This acknowledgement carries a necessary implication the process through which a society matures and imbibes constitutional morality is gradual, perhaps interminably so.	None
Hence, constitutional courts are entrusted with the duty to act as external facilitators and to be a vigilant safeguard against excesses of state power and democratic concentration of power.	None
This Court, being the highest constitutional court, has the responsibility to monitor the preservation of constitutional morality as an incident of fostering conditions for human dignity and liberty to flourish.	None
Popular public morality cannot affect the decisions of this Court.	None
Lord Neuberger (of the UK Supreme Court) has aptly observed We must always remember that Parliament has democratic legitimacy  but that has disadvantages as well as advantages.	None
The need to offer oneself for reelection sometimes makes it hard to make unpopular, but correct, decisions.	None
At times it can be an advantage to have an independent body of people who do not have to worry about short term popularity.	None
The flourishing of a constitutional order requires not only the institutional leadership of constitutional courts, but also the responsive participation of the citizenry.	None
Constitutional morality is a pursuit of this responsive participation.	None
The Supreme Court cannot afford to denude itself of its leadership as an institution in expounding constitutional values.	None
Any loss of its authority will imperil democracy itself.	None
The question of morality has been central to the concerns around homosexuality and the rights of LGBT individuals.	None
Opponents  including those of the intervenors who launched a diatribe in the course of hearing  claim that homosexuality is against popular culture and is thus unacceptable in Indian society.	None
While dealing with the constitutionality of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, the Delhi High Court in Naz Foundation had held Thus popular morality or public disapproval of certain acts is not a valid justification for restriction of the fundamental rights under Article 21.	None
Popular morality, as distinct from a constitutional morality derived from constitutional values, is based on shifting and subjecting notions of right and wrong.	None
If there is any type of morality that can pass the test of compelling state interest, it must be constitutional morality and not public morality In our scheme of things, constitutional morality must outweigh the argument of public morality, even if it be the majoritarian view.	None
The invocation of constitutional morality must be seen as an extension of Dr Ambedkars formulation of social reform and constitutional transformation.	None
Highlighting the significance of individual rights in social transformation, he had observed The assertion by the individual of his own opinions and beliefs, his own independence and interestover and against group standards, group authority, and group interestsis the beginning of all reform.	None
But whether the reform will continue depends upon what scope the group affords for such individual assertion.	None
After the enactment of the Constitution, every individual assertion of rights is to be governed by the principles of the Constitution, by its text and spirit.	None
The Constitution assures to every individual the right to lead a dignified life.	None
It prohibits discrimination within society.	None
It is for this reason that constitutional morality requires this court to issue a declaration  which we now do  that LGBT individuals are equal citizens of India, that they cannot be discriminated against and that they have a right to express themselves through their intimate choices.	None
In upholding constitutional morality, we affirm that the protection of the rights of LGBT individuals are not only about guaranteeing a minority their rightful place in the constitutional scheme, but that we equally speak of the vision of the kind of country we want to live in and of what it means for the majority.	None
The ninejudge Bench of this Court in Puttaswamy had held in clear terms that discrimination against an individual on the basis of sexual orientation is deeply offensive to the dignity and selfworth of the individual.	None
The Bench held The purpose of elevating certain rights to the stature of guaranteed fundamental rights is to insulate their exercise from the disdain of majorities, whether legislative or popular.	None
The guarantee of constitutional rights does not depend upon their exercise being favourably regarded by majoritarian opinion.	None
The test of popular acceptance does not furnish a valid basis to disregard rights which are conferred with the sanctity of constitutional protection.	None
Discrete and insular minorities face grave dangers of discrimination for the simple reason that their views, beliefs or way of life does not accord with the mainstream.	None
Yet in a democratic Constitution founded on the rule of law, their rights are as sacred as those conferred on other citizens to protect their freedoms and liberties.	None
Constitutional morality will impact upon any law which deprives the LGBT individuals of their entitlement to a full and equal citizenship.	None
After the Constitution came into force, no law can be divorced from constitutional morality.	None
Society cannot dictate the expression of sexuality between consenting adults.	None
That is a private affair.	None
Constitutional morality will supersede any culture or tradition.	None
The interpretation of a right in a matter of decriminalisation and beyond must be determined by the norms of the Constitution.	None
LGBT individuals living under the threats of conformity grounded in cultural morality have been denied a basic human existence.	None
They have been stereotyped and prejudiced.	None
Constitutional morality requires this Court not to turn a blind eye to their right to an equal participation of citizenship and an equal enjoyment of living.	None
Constitutional morality requires that this Court must act as a counter majoritarian institution which discharges the responsibility of protecting constitutionally entrenched rights, regardless of what the majority may believe.	None
Constitutional morality must turn into a habit of citizens.	None
By respecting the dignity of LGBT individuals, this Court is only fulfilling the foundational promises of our Constitution.	None
M	None
In summation transformative constitutionalism This case has required a decision on whether Section 377 of the Penal Code fulfills constitutional standards in penalising consensual sexual conduct between adults of the same sex.	Issue
We hold and declare that in penalising suchsexual conduct, the statutory provision violates the constitutional guarantees of liberty and equality.	None
It denudes members of the LGBT communities of their constitutional right to lead fulfilling lives.	None
In its application to adults of the same sex engaged in consensual sexual behaviour, it violates the constitutional guarantee of the right to life and to the equal protection of law.	None
Sexual orientation is integral to the identity of the members of the LGBT communities.	None
It is intrinsic to their dignity, inseparable from their autonomy and at the heart of their privacy.	None
Section 377 is founded on moral notions which are an anathema to a constitutional order in which liberty must trump over stereotypes and prevail over the mainstreaming of culture.	None
Our Constitution, above all, is an essay in the acceptance of diversity.	None
It is founded on a vision of an inclusive society which accommodates plural ways of life.	None
The impact of Section 377 has travelled far beyond criminalising certain acts.	None
The presence of the provision on the statute book has reinforced stereotypes about sexual orientation.	None
It has lent the authority of the state to the suppression of identities.	None
The fear of persecution has led to the closeting of same sex relationships.	None
A penal provision has reinforced societal disdain.	None
Sexual and gender based minorities cannot live in fear, if the Constitution has to have meaning for them on even terms.	None
In its quest for equality and the equal protection of the law, the Constitution guarantees to them an equal citizenship.	None
In decriminalising such conduct, the values of the Constitution assure to the LGBT community the ability to lead a life of freedom from fear and to find fulfilment in intimate choices.	None
The choice of a partner, the desire for personal intimacy and the yearning to find love and fulfilment in human relationships have a universal appeal, straddling age and time.	None
In protecting consensual intimacies, the Constitution adopts a simple principle the state has no business to intrude into these personal matters.	None
Nor can societal notions of heteronormativity regulate constitutional liberties based on sexual orientation.	None
This reference to the Constitution Bench is about the validity of Section 377 in its application to consensual sexual conduct between adults of the same sex.	Issue
The constitutional principles which we have invoked to determine the outcome address the origins of the rights claimed and the source of their protection.	None
In their range and content, those principles address issues broader than the acts which the statute penalises.	None
Resilient and universal as they are, these constitutional values must enure with a mark of permanence.	None
Above all, this case has had great deal to say on the dialogue about the transformative power of the Constitution.	None
In addressing LGBT rights, the Constitution speaks  as well  to the rest of society.	None
In recognising the rights of the LGBT community, the Constitution asserts itself as a text for governance which promotes true equality.	None
It does so by questioning prevailing notions about the dominance of sexes and genders.	None
In its transformational role, the Constitution directs our attention to resolving the polarities of sex and binarities of gender.	None
In dealing with these issues we confront much that polarises our society.	None
Our ability to survive as a free society will depend upon whether constitutional values can prevail over the impulses of the time.	None
A hundred and fifty eight years is too long a period for the LGBT community to suffer the indignities of denial.	None
That it has taken sixty eight years even after the advent of the Constitution is a sobering reminder of the unfinished task which lies ahead.	None
It is also a time to invoke the transformative power of the Constitution.	None
The ability of a society to acknowledge the injustices which it has perpetuated is a mark of its evolution.	None
In the process of remedying wrongs under a regime of constitutional remedies, recrimination gives way to restitution, diatribes pave the way for dialogue and healing replaces the hate of a community.	None
For those who have been oppressed, justice under a regime committed to human freedom, has the power to transform lives.	None
In addressing the causes of oppression and injustice, society transforms itself.	None
The Constitution has within it the ability to produce a social catharsis.	None
The importance of this case lies in telling us that reverberations of how we address social conflict in our times will travel far beyond the narrow alleys in which they are explored.	None
We hold and declare that Section 377 of the Penal Code, in so far as it criminalises consensual sexual conduct between adults of the same sex, is unconstitutional Members of the LGBT community are entitled, as all other citizens, to the full range of constitutional rights including the liberties protected by the Constitution The choice of whom to partner, the ability to find fulfilment in sexual intimacies and the right not to be subjected to discriminatory behaviour are intrinsic to the constitutional protection of sexual orientation Members of the LGBT community are entitled to the benefit of an equal citizenship, without discrimination, and to the equal protection of law and The decision in Koushal stands overruled.	None
Acknowledgment Before concluding, I acknowledge the efforts of counsel for the petitioners and intervenors who appeared in this case  Mr Mukul Rohatgi, Mr Arvind Datar, Mr Ashok Desai, Mr Anand Grover, Mr Shyam Divan, Mr CU Singh and Mr Krishnan Venugopal, Senior Counsel and Mr Saurabh Kirpal, Dr Menaka Guruswamy and Ms Arundhati Katju, and Ms Jayna Kothari, learned Counsel.	None
Their erudition has enabled us to absorb, as we reflected and wrote.	None
Mr Tushar Mehta, learned Additional Solicitor General appeared for the Union of India.	None
We acknowledge the assistance rendered by the counsel for the intervenors who opposed the petitioners.	None
INDU MALHOTRA, J. I have had the advantage of reading the opinions prepared by the Honble Chief Justice, and my brother Judges Justice Nariman and Justice Chandrachud.	None
The Judgments have dealt indepth with the various issues that are required to be examined by this Bench, to answer the reference.	None
The present batch of Writ Petitions have been filed to challenge the constitutional validity of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC) on the specific ground that it criminalises consensual sexual intercourse between adult persons belonging to the same sex in private.	Issue
The issue as to whether the decision in Suresh Kumar Koushal v. Naz Foundation Ors.(2014) 1	None
SCC 1 requires reconsideration was referred to the Constitution Bench vide Order dated 8th January, 2018.	None
The Petitioners have inter alia submitted that sexual expression and intimacy between consenting adults of the same sex in private ought to receive protection under Part III of the Constitution, as sexuality lies at the core of a human beings innate identity.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 377 inasmuch as it criminalises consensual relationships between same sex couples is violative of the fundamental rights guaranteed by Articles 21, 19 and 14, in Part III of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
The principal contentions raised by the Petitioners during the course of hearing are Fundamental rights are available to LGBT persons regardless of the fact that they constitute a minority.	None
ii.	None
Section 377 is violative of Article 14 being wholly arbitrary, vague, and has an unlawful objective.	Arguments of Petitioner
iii.	None
Section 377 penalises a person on the basis of their sexual orientation, and is hence discriminatory under Article 15.	Arguments of Petitioner
iv.	None
Section 377 violates the right to life and liberty guaranteed by Article 21 which encompasses all aspects of the right to live with dignity, the right to privacy, and the right to autonomy and selfdetermination with respect to the most intimate decisions of a human being.	None
During the course of hearing, the Union of India tendered an Affidavit dated 11th July, 2018 wherein it was submitted that with respect to the Constitutional validity of Section 377 insofar as it applies to consensual acts of adults in private, the Union of India would leave the said question to the wisdom of this Honble Court.	Arguments of Respondent
However, if the Court is to decide and examine any issue other than the Constitutional validity of Section 377, or construe any other right in favour of the LGBT community, the Union of India would like to file a detailed Affidavit as that would have farreaching and wide ramifications, not contemplated by the reference.	None
LEGISLATIVE BACKGROUND 6.1.	None
The legal treatises Fleta and Britton, which date back to 1290 and 1300 respectively, documented prevailing laws in England at the time.	None
These treatises made references to sodomy as a crime.	None
6.2.	None
The Buggery Act, 1533 was reenacted in 1563 during the regime of Queen Elizabeth I, which penalized acts of sodomy by hanging.	None
In 1861, death penalty for buggery was abolished in England and Wales.	None
However, it remained a crime not to be mentioned by Christians.	None
6.3.	None
The 1861 Act became the charter for enactments framed in the colonies of Great Britain.	None
6.4.	None
The Marginal Note of Section 377, refers to Unnatural Offences.	None
Section 377 reads as under Unnatural offences.	None
Whoever voluntarily has carnal intercourse against the order of nature with any man, woman or animal, shall be punished with imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Explanation.	None
Penetration is sufficient to constitute the carnal intercourse necessary to the offence described in this section.	None
(emphasis supplied) 6.5.	None
Section 377 does not define carnal intercourse against the order of nature.	None
Even though the provision is facially neutral, the Petitioners submit that the thrust of this provision has been to target the LGBT community in light of the colonial history of antisodomy laws, and penalise what was perceived to be deviant or perverse sexual behaviour.	None
In the early 20th century, there were many psychiatric theories which regarded homosexuality as a form of psychopathology or developmental arrest.	None
It was believed that normal development resulted in a child growing up to be a heterosexual adult, and that homosexuality was but a state of arrested development.	None
Homosexuality was treated as a disorder or mental illness, which was meted out with social ostracism and revulsion.	None
Towards the end of the 20th century, this notion began to change, and the earlier theories gave way to a more enlightened perspective that characterized homosexuality as a normal and natural variant of human sexuality.	None
Scientific studies indicated that human sexuality is complex and inherent.	None
Kurt Hiller in his speech delivered at the Second International Congress for Sexual Reform held at Copenhagen in 19286, stated Samesex love is not a mockery of nature, but rather nature at playAs Nietzsche expressed it in Daybreak, Procreation is a frequently occurring accidental result of one way of satisfying the sexual drive  it is neither its goal nor its necessary consequence.	None
The theory which would make procreation the goal of sexuality is exposed as hasty, simplistic and false by the phenomenon of samesex love alone.	None
Natures laws, unlike the laws formulated by the human mind, cannot be violated.	None
The assertion that a specific phenomenon of nature could somehow be contrary to nature amounts to pure absurdityTo belong, not to the rule, not to the norm, but rather to the exception, to the minority, to the variety, is neither a symptom of degeneration nor of pathology.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
In 1957, the United Kingdom published the Wolfenden Committee Report (supra) which recognised how the antisodomy laws had created an atmosphere for blackmail, harassment and violence against homosexuals.	None
An extract of the findings of this Committee reads as under We have found it hard to decide whether the blackmailers primary weapon is the threat of disclosure to the police, with attendant legal consequences, or the threat of disclosure to the victims relatives, employers or friends, with attendant social consequences.	None
It may well be that the latter is the more effective weapon, but it may yet be true that it would lose much of its edge if the social consequences were not associated with the present legal position.	None
Pursuant to this Report, the House of Lords initiated legislation to decriminalise homosexual acts done in private by consenting parties.	None
The Sexual Offences Act, 1967 came to be passed in England which decriminalised homosexual acts done in private, provided the parties had consented to it, and were above the age of 21.	None
The trend of decriminalizing antisodomy laws world over has gained currency during the past few decades since such laws have been recognised to be violative of human rights.	None
In 2017, the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association noted in its Annual State Sponsored Homophobia Report that 124 countries no longer penalise homosexuality.	None
The change in laws in these countries was given effect to, either through legislative amendments to the statutory enactments, or by way of court judgments.	None
Relationships between samesex couples have been increasingly accorded protection by States across the world.	None
As per the aforesaid Report, a total of 24 countries now allow samesex couples to marry, while 28 countries legally recognise partnerships between samesex couples.	None
Several countries have enacted enabling legislations which protect LGBT persons from discrimination, and allow them to adopt children.	None
For instance, the United Kingdom now outlaws discrimination in employment, education, social protection and housing on the ground of sexual orientation.	None
Marriage between samesex couples have been recognised in England and Wales.	None
The British Prime Minister Theresa May in her speech at the Commonwealth Joint Forum on April 17, 2018 urged Commonwealth Nations to overhaul outdated antigay laws, and expressed regret regarding Britains role in introducing such laws.	None
The relevant excerpt of her speech is extracted hereinbelow Across the world, discriminatory laws made many years ago continue to affect the lives of many people, criminalising samesex relations and failing to protect women and girls.	None
I am all too aware that these laws were often put in place by my own country.	None
They were wrong then, and they are wrong now.	None
As the UKs Prime Minister, I deeply regret both the fact that such laws were introduced, and the legacy of discrimination, violence and even death that persists today.	None
Section 377 has, however, remained in its original form in the IPC to date.	None
JUDICIAL INTERPRETATION 12.1.	None
The essential ingredient required to constitute an offence under Section 377 is carnal intercourse against the order of nature, which is punishable with life imprisonment, or imprisonment of either description up to ten years.	None
Section 377 applies irrespective of gender, age, or consent.	None
12.2.	None
The expression carnal intercourse used in Section 377 is distinct from sexual intercourse which appears in Sections 375 and 497 of the IPC.	None
The phrase carnal intercourse against the order of nature is not defined by Section 377, or in the Code.	None
12.3.	None
The term carnal has been the subject matter of judicial interpretation in various decisions.	None
According to the New International Websters Comprehensive Dictionary of the English Language, carnal means Pertaining to the fleshly nature or to bodily appetites.	None
Sensual sexual.	None
Pertaining to the flesh or to the body not spiritual hence worldly.	None
12.4.	None
The courts had earlier interpreted the term carnal to refer to acts which fall outside penilevaginal intercourse, and were not for the purposes of procreation.	None
In Khanu v. EmperorAIR 1925 Sind.	None
286.	None
the Sindh High Court was dealing with a case where the accused was found guilty of having committed Gomorrah coitus per os with a little child, and was convicted under Section 377.	None
The Court held that the act of carnal intercourse was clearly against the order of nature, because the natural object of carnal intercourse is that there should be the possibility of conception of human beings, which in the case of coitus per os is impossible.	None
The Lahore High Court in Khandu v. Emperor AIR 1934 Lah 261 was dealing with a case wherein the accused had penetrated the nostril of a bullock with his penis.	None
The Court, while relying on the decision of the Sindh High Court in Khanu v. Emperor (supra) held that the acts of the accused constituted coitus per os, were punishable under Section 377.	None
In Lohana Vasantlal Devchand Ors v. State AIR 1968	None
Guj 252 the Gujarat High Court convicted two accused under Section 377 read with Section 511 of the IPC, on account of having carnal intercourse per anus, and inserting the penis in the mouth of a young boy.	None
It was held that words used (in Section 377) are quite comprehensive and in my opinion, an act like the present act (oral sex), which was an imitative act of sexual intercourse for the purpose of his satisfying the sexual appetite, would be an act punishable under Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code.	None
Later this Court in Fazal Rab Choudhary v. State of Bihar (1982) 3 SCC 9 while reducing the sentence of the appellant who was convicted for having committed an offence on a young boy under Section 377 IPC, held that The offence is one under Section 377 I.P.C., which implies sexual perversity.	None
No force appears to have been used.	None
Neither the notions of permissive society nor the fact that in some countries homosexuality has ceased to be an offence has influenced our thinking.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The test for attracting penal provisions under Section 377 changed over the years from nonprocreative sexual acts in Khanu v. Emperor (supra), to imitative sexual intercourse like oral sex in Lohana Vasantlal Devchand v. State (supra), to sexual perversity in Fazal Rab v. State of Bihar (supra).	None
These cases referred to nonconsensual sexual intercourse by coercion.	None
HOMOSEXUALITY  NOT AN ABERRATION BUT A VARIATION of SEXUALITY 13.1.	None
Whilst a great deal of scientific research has examined possible genetic, hormonal, developmental, psychological, social and cultural influences on sexual orientation, no findings have conclusively linked sexual orientation to any one particular factor or factors.	None
It is believed that ones sexuality is the result of a complex interplay between nature and nurture.	None
Sexual orientation is an innate attribute of ones identity, and cannot be altered.	None
Sexual orientation is not a matter of choice.	None
It manifests in early adolescence.	None
Homosexuality is a natural variant of human sexuality.	None
The U.S. Supreme Court in Lawrence v. Texas 539 U.S. 558 (2003) relied upon the Brief of the Amici Curiae 539 U.S. 558(2003) which stated Heterosexual and homosexual behavior are both normal aspects of human sexuality.	None
Both have been documented in many different human cultures and historical eras, and in a wide variety of animal species.	None
There is no consensus among scientists about the exact reasons why an individual develops a heterosexual, bisexual, or homosexual orientation.	None
According to current scientific and professional understanding, however, the core feelings and attractions that form the basis for adult sexual orientation typically emerge between middle childhood and early adolescence.	None
Moreover, these patterns of sexual attraction generally arise without any prior sexual experience.	None
Most or many gay men and lesbians experience little or no choice about their sexual orientation.	None
(emphasis supplied) 13.2.	None
An article by K.K. Gulia and H.N. Mallick titled Homosexuality A Dilemma in Discourse states In general, homosexuality as a sexual orientation refers to an enduring pattern or disposition to experience sexual, affectional, or romantic attractions primarily to people of the same sex.	None
It also refers to an individuals sense of personal and social identity based on those attractions, behaviours, expressing them, and membership in a community of others who share them.	None
It is a condition in which one is attracted and drawn to his her own gender, which is evidenced by the erotic and emotional involvement with members of his her own sex In the course of the 20th century, homosexuality became a subject of considerable study and debate in western societies.	None
It was predominantly viewed as a disorder or mental illness.	None
At that time, emerged two major pioneering studies on homosexuality carried out by Alfred Charles Kinsey (1930) and Evelyn Hooker (1957)This empirical study of sexual behavior among American adults revealed that a significant number of participants were homosexuals.	None
In this study when people were asked directly if they had engaged in homosexual relations, the percentage of positive responses nearly doubled.	None
The result of this study became the widely popularized Kinsey Scale of Sexuality.	None
This scales rates all individuals on a spectrum of sexuality, ranging from 100 heterosexual to 100 homosexual (emphasis supplied) 13.3.	None
The American Psychiatric Association in December 1973 removed homosexuality from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Psychological Disorders, and opined that the manifestation of sexual attraction towards persons of the opposite sex, or same sex, is a natural condition.	None
13.4.	None
The World Health Organization removed homosexuality from the list of diseases in the International Classification of Diseases in the publication of ICD10 in 1992.	None
13.5.	None
In India, the Indian Psychiatric Society has also opined that sexual orientation is not a psychiatric disorder.	None
It was noted that there is no scientific evidence that sexual orientation can be altered by any treatment and that any such attempts may in fact lead to low selfesteem and stigmatization of the person.	None
13.6.	None
It is relevant to note that under Section 3 of the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, determination of what constitutes a mental illness has to be done in accordance with nationally and internationally accepted medical standards, including the latest edition of the International Classification of Disease of the World Health Organisation.	None
SECTION 377 IF APPLIED TO CONSENTING ADULTS IS VIOLATIVE of ARTICLE 14 14.1.	None
One of the main contentions raised by the Petitioners to challenge the Constitutional validity of Section 377 is founded on Article 14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Article 14 enshrines the principle of equality as a fundamental right, and mandates that the State shall not deny to any person equality before the law, or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
It recognizes and guarantees the right of equal treatment to all persons in this country.	None
It is contended that Section 377 discriminates against adults of the same gender, from having a consensual sexual relationship in private, by treating it as a penal offence, and hence is violative of Article 14.	Arguments of Petitioner
14.2.	None
The twintest of classification under Article 14 provides that there should be a reasonable classification based on intelligible differentia and, this classification should have a rational nexus with the objective sought to be achieved.	None
14.3.	None
Section 377 operates in a vastly different manner for two classes of persons based on their sexual orientation i.e. the LGBT persons and heterosexual persons.	None
Section 377 penalises all forms of non penilevaginal intercourse.	None
In effect, voluntary consensual relationships between LGBT persons are criminalised in totality.	None
The import and effect of Section 377 is that while a consensual heterosexual relationship is permissible, a consensual relationship between LGBT persons is considered to be carnal, and against the order of nature.	None
Section 377 creates an artificial dichotomy.	None
The natural or innate sexual orientation of a person cannot be a ground for discrimination.	None
Where a legislation discriminates on the basis of an intrinsic and core trait of an individual, it cannot form a reasonable classification based on an intelligible differentia.	None
14.4.	None
In National Legal Services Authority v. Union of India and Ors.(2014) 5 SCC 438 this Court granted equal protection of laws to transgender persons.	Facts
There is therefore no justification to deny the same to LGBT persons.	None
14.5.	None
A persons sexual orientation is intrinsic to their being.	None
It is connected with their individuality, and identity.	None
A classification which discriminates between persons based on their innate nature, would be violative of their fundamental rights, and cannot withstand the test of constitutional morality.	None
14.6.	None
In contemporary civilised jurisprudence, with States increasingly recognising the status of samesex relationships, it would be retrograde to describe such relationships as being perverse, deviant, or unnatural.	None
14.7.	None
Section 375 defines the offence of rape.	None
It provides for penetrative acts which if performed by a man against a woman without her consent, or by obtaining her consent under duress, would amount to rape.	None
Penetrative acts (after the 2013 Amendment) include anal and oral sex.	None
The necessary implication which can be drawn from the amended provision is that if such penetrative acts are done with the consent of the woman they are not punishable under Section 375.	None
While Section 375 permits consensual penetrative acts (the definition of penetration includes oral and anal sex), Section 377 makes the same acts of penetration punishable irrespective of consent.	None
This creates a dichotomy in the law.	None
14.8.	None
The proscription of a consensual sexual relationship under Section 377 is not founded on any known or rational criteria.	None
Sexual expression and intimacy of a consensual nature, between adults in private, cannot be treated as carnal intercourse against the order of nature.	None
14.9.	None
Emphasising on the second part of Article 14 which enjoins the State to provide equal protection of laws to all persons, Nariman, J. in his concurring opinion in Shayara Bano v. Union of India Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2017) 9 SCC 1 elucidated on the doctrine of manifest arbitrariness as a facet of Article 14.	None
Apart from the conventional twintests of classification discussed in the preceding paragraphs, a legislation, or part thereof, can also be struck down under Article 14 on the ground that it is manifestly arbitrary.	None
It would be instructive to refer to the following passage from the judgment of this Court in Shayara Bano v. Union of India Ors.	None
(supra) 101Manifest arbitrariness, therefore, must be something done by the legislature capriciously, irrationally and or without adequate determining principle.	None
Also, when something is done which is excessive and disproportionate, such legislation would be manifestly arbitrary.	None
Section 377 insofar as it criminalises consensual sexual acts between adults in private, is not based on any sound or rational principle, since the basis of criminalisation is the sexual orientation of a person, over which one has little or no choice.	None
Further, the phrase carnal intercourse against the order of nature in Section 377 as a determining principle in a penal provision, is too openended, giving way to the scope for misuse against members of the LGBT community.	None
Thus, apart from not satisfying the twintest under Article 14, Section 377 is also manifestly arbitrary, and hence violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.	None
SECTION 377 IS VIOLATIVE of ARTICLE 15 Article 15 prohibits the State from discrimination against any citizen on the grounds of religion, race, caste, sex, or place of birth.	None
The object of this provision was to guarantee protection to those citizens who had suffered historical disadvantage, whether it be of a political, social, or economic nature.	None
15.1.	None
The term sex, as it occurs in Article 15 has been given an expansive interpretation by this Court in National Legal Services Authority v. Union of India (referred to as the NALSA judgment) to include sexual identity.	None
Paragraph 66 of the judgment reads thus 66Both gender and biological attributes constitute distinct components of sex.	None
The biological characteristics, of course, include genitals, chromosomes and secondary sexual features, but gender attributes includes ones selfimage, the deep psychological or emotional sense of sexual identity and character.	None
The discrimination on the ground of sex under Article 15 and 16, therefore includes discrimination on the ground of gender identity.	None
The expression sex used in Articles 15 and 16 is not just limited to biological sex of male and female, but intended to include people who consider themselves neither male nor female.	None
(emphasis supplied and internal quotations omitted)	None
Sex as it occurs in Article 15, is not merely restricted to the biological attributes of an individual, but also includes their sexual identity and character.	None
The J.S. Verma Committee had recommended that sex under Article 15 must include sexual orientation We must also recognize that our society has the need to recognize different sexual orientations a human reality.	None
In addition to homosexuality, bisexuality, and lesbianism, there also exists the transgender community.	None
In view of the lack of scientific understanding of the different variations of orientation, even advanced societies have had to first declassify homosexuality from being a mental disorder and now it is understood as a triangular development occasioned by evolution, partial conditioning and neurological underpinnings owing to genetic reasons.	None
Further, we are clear that Article 15 (C) of the constitution of 52 India uses the word sex as including sexual orientation.	None
The prohibition against discrimination under Article 15 on the ground of sex should therefore encompass instances where such discrimination takes place on the basis of ones sexual orientation.	None
In this regard, the view taken by the Human Rights Committee of the United Nations in Nicholas Toonen v. Australia is relevant to cite, wherein the Committee noted that the reference to sex in Article 2, Paragraph 1 and Article 26 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights would include sexual orientation.	None
15.2.	None
In an article titled Reading Swaraj into Article 15 A New Deal For All Minorities, Tarunabh Khaitan notes that the underlying commonality between the grounds specified in Article 15 is based on the ideas of immutable status and fundamental choice.	None
He refers to the following quote by John Gardener to provide context to the aforesaid commonality Discrimination on the basis of our immutable status tends to deny us an autonomous life.	None
Its result is that our further choices are constrained not mainly by our own choices, but by the choices of others.	None
Because these choices of others are based on our immutable status, our own choices can make no difference to them.	None
And discrimination on the ground of fundamental choices can be wrongful by the same token.	None
To lead an autonomous life we need an adequate range of valuable options throughout that life there are some particular valuable options that each of us should have irrespective of our other choices.	None
Where a particular choice is a choice between valuable options which ought to be available to people whatever else they may choose, it is a fundamental choice.	None
Where there is discrimination against people based on their fundamental choices it tends to skew those choices by making one or more of the valuable options from which they must choose more painful or burdensome than others.	None
(emphasis supplied) Race, caste, sex, and place of birth are aspects over which a person has no control, ergo they are immutable.	None
On the other hand, religion is a fundamental choice of a person.	None
Discrimination based on any of these grounds would undermine an individuals personal autonomy.	None
The Supreme Court of Canada in its decisions in the cases of Egan v. Canada, and Vriend v. Alberta, interpreted Section 15(1) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms which is pari materia to Article 15 of the Indian Constitution.	None
Section 15(1), of the Canadian Charter like Article 15 of our Constitution, does not include sexual orientation as a prohibited ground of discrimination.	None
Notwithstanding that, the Canadian Supreme Court in the aforesaid decisions has held that sexual orientation is a ground analogous to the other grounds specified under Section 15(1).	None
Discrimination based on any of these grounds has adverse impact on an individuals personal autonomy, and is undermining of his personality.	None
A similar conclusion can be reached in the Indian context as well in light of the underlying aspects of immutability and fundamental choice.	None
The LGBT community is a sexual minority which has suffered from unjustified and unwarranted hostile discrimination, and is equally entitled to the protection afforded by Article 15.	None
SECTION 377 VIOLATES THE RIGHT TO LIFE AND LIBERTY GUARANTEED BY ARTICLE 21 Article 21 provides that no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to the procedure established by law.	None
Such procedure established by law must be fair, just and reasonable.	None
Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India Anr., (1978) 1 SCC 248 , at paragraph	None
The right to life and liberty affords protection to every citizen or noncitizen, irrespective of their identity or orientation, without discrimination.	None
16.1.	None
RIGHT TO LIVE WITH DIGNITY	None
This Court has expansively interpreted the terms life and personal liberty to recognise a panoply of rights under Article 21 of the Constitution, so as to comprehend the true scope and contours of the right to life under Article 21.	None
Article 21 is the most precious human right and forms the ark of all other rights as held in Francis Coralie Mullin v. Administrator, Union Territory of Delhi and Ors.,(1981)	None
1 SCC 608 wherein it was noted that the right to life could not be restricted to a mere animal existence, and provided for much more than only physical survival.	None
(1981) 1 SCC 608 at para 7 Bhagwati J. observed as under 8We think that the right to life includes the right to live with human dignity and all that goes along with it, namely the bare necessaries of life such as adequate nutrition, clothing and shelter and facilities for reading, writing and expressing oneself in diverse forms, freely moving about and mixing and commingling with fellow human beingsit must in any view of the matter, include the right to the basic necessities of life and also the right to carry on such functions and activities as constitute the bare minimum expression of the humanself.	None
Every act which offends against or impairs human dignity would constitute deprivation pro tanto of this right to live and it would have to be in accordance with reasonable, fair and just procedure established by law which stands the test of other fundamental rights.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
This was reaffirmed by the Constitution bench decision in K.S. Puttaswamy and Anr.	None
v. Union of India and Ors.	Facts
(2017) 10 SCC 1 and Common Cause (A Registered Society) v. Union of India and Anr.	None
(2018) 5 SCC 1 at paragraphs 156, 437, 438, 488 516.	None
Although dignity is an amorphous concept which is incapable of being defined, it is a core intrinsic value of every human being.	Decision
Dignity is considered essential for a meaningful existence.	None
Common Cause (A Registered Society) v. Union of India and Anr., (2018) 5 SCC 1, at paragraphs 437 and 438.	None
In National Legal Services Authority v. Union of India and Ors.	None
(supra), this Court recognised the right of transgender persons to decide their selfidentified gender.	None
In the context of the legal rights of transgender persons, this Court held that sexual orientation and gender identity is an integral part of their personality.	None
The relevant excerpt from Radhakrishnan, J.s view is extracted hereinbelow Each persons selfdefined sexual orientation and gender identity is integral to their personality and is one of the most basic aspects of selfdetermination, dignity and freedom (Emphasis supplied) Sexual orientation is innate to a human being.	None
It is an important attribute of ones personality and identity.	None
Homosexuality and bisexuality are natural variants of human sexuality.	None
LGBT persons have little or no choice over their sexual orientation.	None
LGBT persons, like other heterosexual persons, are entitled to their privacy, and the right to lead a dignified existence, without fear of persecution.	None
They are entitled to complete autonomy over the most intimate decisions relating to their personal life, including the choice of their partners.	None
Such choices must be protected under Article 21.	None
The right to life and liberty would encompass the right to sexual autonomy, and freedom of expression.	None
The following excerpt from the decision of the Constitutional Court of South Africa in National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Equality and Anr.	None
v. Minister of Justice and Ors.1998 ZACC 15 is also instructive in this regard While recognising the unique worth of each person, the Constitution does not presuppose that a holder of rights is an isolated, lonely and abstract figure possessing a disembodied and socially disconnected self.	None
It acknowledges that people live in their bodies, their communities, their cultures, their places and their times.	None
The expression of sexuality requires a partner, real or imagined.	None
It is not for the state to choose or arrange the choice of partner, but for the partners to choose themselves.	None
(emphasis supplied) Section 377 insofar as it curtails the personal liberty of LGBT persons to engage in voluntary consensual sexual relationships with a partner of their choice, in a safe and dignified environment, is violative of Article 21.	Arguments of Petitioner
It inhibits them from entering and nurturing enduring relationships.	None
As a result, LGBT individuals are forced to either lead a life of solitary existence without a companion, or lead a closeted life as unapprehended felons.	None
Section 377 criminalises the entire class of LGBT persons since sexual intercourse between such persons, is considered to be carnal and against the order of nature.	None
Section 377 prohibits LGBT persons from engaging in intimate sexual relations in private.	None
The social ostracism against LGBT persons prevents them from partaking in all activities as full citizens, and in turn impedes them from realising their fullest potential as human beings.	None
On the issue of criminalisation of homosexuality, the dissenting opinion of Blackmun J. of the U.S. Supreme Court in Bowers v. Hardwick 478 U 186 (1986) is instructive, which cites a previous decision in Paris Adult Theatre I v. Slaton 413 U.S. 49 (1973) and noted as follows Only the most wilful blindness could obscure the fact that sexual intimacy is a sensitive, key relationship of human existence, central to family life, community welfare, and the development of human personality.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The U.S. Supreme Court overruled Bowers v. Hardwick (supra) in Lawrence et al. v. Texas.	None
(supra) and declared that a statute proscribing homosexuals from engaging in intimate sexual conduct as invalid on the ground that it violated the right to privacy, and dignity of homosexual persons.	None
Kennedy, J. in his majority opinion observed as under To say that the issue in Bowers was simply the right to engage in certain sexual conduct demeans the claim the individual put forward, just as it would demean a married couple were it to be said marriage is simply about the right to have sexual intercourse It suffices for us to acknowledge that adults may choose to enter upon this relationship in the confines of their homes and their own private lives and still retain their dignity as free persons.	None
When sexuality finds overt expression in intimate conduct with another person, the conduct can be but one element in a personal bond that is more enduring.	None
The liberty protected by the Constitution allows homosexual persons the right to make this choiceThis stigma this criminal statute imposes, moreover, is not trivial.	None
The offence, to be sure, is but a class C misdemeanour, a minor offence in the Texas legal system.	None
Still, it remains a criminal offence with all that imports for the dignity of the persons charged.	None
The petitioners will bear on their record the history of criminal convictions The present case does not involve minors.	None
It does not involve persons who might be injured or coerced or who are situated in relationships where consent might not easily be refused.	None
It does not involve public conduct or prostitution.	None
It does not involve whether the government must give formal recognition to any relationship that homosexuals persons seek to enter.	None
The case does involve two adults who, with full and mutual consent from each other, engage in sexual practices, common to a homosexual lifestyle.	None
The Petitioners are entitled to respect for their private lives.	None
The State cannot demean their existence or control their destiny by making their private sexual conduct a crime.	None
The right to liberty under the Due Process Clause gives them the full right to engage in their conduct without intervention of the government.	None
It is a promise of the Constitution that there is a realm of personal liberty which the government may not enter.	None
Casey, supra at 847.	None
The Texas statute furthers no legitimate state interest which can justify its intrusion into the personal and private life of the individual.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
Thus, Section 377 prevents LGBT persons from leading a dignified life as guaranteed by Article 21.	None
16.2.	None
RIGHT TO PRIVACY The right to privacy has now been recognised to be an intrinsic part of the right to life and personal liberty under Article 21.K.S. Puttaswamy Anr.	None
v. Union of India Ors., (2017) 10 SCC 1 Sexual orientation is an innate part of the identity of LGBT persons.	None
Sexual orientation of a person is an essential attribute of privacy.	None
Its protection lies at the core of Fundamental Rights guaranteed by Articles 14, 15, and 21.	None
K.S. Puttaswamy Anr.	None
v. Union of India Ors., (2017) 10 SCC 1 , at paragraphs 144, 145, 479 and 647 The right to privacy is broadbased and pervasive under our Constitutional scheme, and encompasses decisional autonomy, to cover intimate personal decisions and preserves the sanctity of the private sphere of an individual.	None
K.S. Puttaswamy Anr.	None
v. Union of India Ors., (2017) 10 SCC 1 , at paragraph 248, 250, 371 and 403	None
The right to privacy is not simply the right to be let alone, and has travelled far beyond that initial concept.	None
It now incorporates the ideas of spatial privacy, and decisional privacy or privacy of choice.	None
K.S. Puttaswamy Anr.	None
v. Union of India Ors., (2017) 10 SCC 1 , at paragraphs 248, 249, 371 and 521 It extends to the right to make fundamental personal choices, including those relating to intimate sexual conduct, without unwarranted State interference.	None
Section 377 affects the private sphere of the lives of LGBT persons.	None
It takes away the decisional autonomy of LGBT persons to make choices consistent with their sexual orientation, which would further a dignified existence and a meaningful life as a full person.	None
Section 377 prohibits LGBT persons from expressing their sexual orientation and engaging in sexual conduct in private, a decision which inheres in the most intimate spaces of ones existence.	None
The Constitutional Court of South Africa in National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Equality and Anr.	None
v. Minister of Justice and Ors.	None
(supra) noted as under Privacy recognises that we all have a right to a sphere of private intimacy and autonomy which allows us to establish and nurture human relationships without interference from the outside community.	None
The way in which we give expression to our sexuality is at the core of this area of private intimacy.	None
If, in expressing our sexuality, we act consensually and without harming one another, invasion of that precinct will be a breach of our privacy.	None
Just like other fundamental rights, the right to privacy is not an absolute right and is subject to reasonable restrictions.	None
Any restriction on the right to privacy must adhere to the requirements of legality, existence of a legitimate state interest, and proportionality.	None
K.S. Puttaswamy Anr.	None
v. Union of India Ors., (2017) 10 SCC 1 , at paragraphs 325, 638 and 645	None
A subjective notion of public or societal morality which discriminates against LGBT persons, and subjects them to criminal sanction, simply on the basis of an innate characteristic runs counter to the concept of Constitutional morality, and cannot form the basis of a legitimate State interest.	None
The theme of inclusiveness permeates through Part III of the Constitution.	None
Apart from the equality code of the Constitution comprised in Articles 14, 15(1), 16, and other provisions in the form of Article 17 (Abolition of Untouchability), Article 21A	None
(Right to Education), Article 25 (Freedom of Conscience and Free Profession, Practice and Propagation of Religion), Article 26 (Freedom to Manage Religious Affairs), Article 29 (Protection of Interest of Minorities), Article 30 (Right of Minorities to Establish and Administer Educational Institutions) are aimed at creating an inclusive society where rights are guaranteed to all, regardless of their status as a minority.	None
16.3.	None
RIGHT TO HEALTH	None
The right to health, and access to healthcare are also crucial facets of the right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution.	None
LGBT persons being a sexual minority have been subjected to societal prejudice, discrimination and violence on account of their sexual orientation.	None
Since Section 377 criminalises carnal intercourse against the order of nature it compels LGBT persons to lead closeted lives.	None
As a consequence, LGBT persons are seriously disadvantaged and prejudiced when it comes to access to healthcare facilities.	None
This results in serious health issues, including depression and suicidal tendencies amongst members of this community.	None
Common Cause (A Registered Society) v. Union of India Anr., (2018) 5 SCC 1, at paragraph 304 C.E.S.C. Limited Ors.	None
v. Subhash Chandra	None
Bose Ors., (1992) 1 SCC 441 , at paragraph 32 Union of India v. Mool Chand Khairati Ram Trust, (2018)	None
SCC OnLine SC 675, at paragraph 66 and, Centre for Public Interest Litigation v. Union of India Ors., (2013) 16 SCC 279 , at paragraph 25 LGBT persons, and more specifically the MSM, and transgender persons are at a higher risk of contracting HIV as they lack safe spaces to engage in safesex practices.	None
They are inhibited from seeking medical help for testing, treatment and supportive care on account of the threat of being exposed and the resultant prosecution.	None
Higher rates of prevalence of HIVAIDS in MSM, who are in turn married to other people of the opposite sex, coupled with the difficulty in detection and treatment, makes them highly susceptible to contraction and further transmission of the virus.	None
It is instructive to refer to the findings of the Human Rights Committee of the United Nations in Nicholas Toonen v. Australia (supra) 8.5	None
As far as the public health argument of the Tasmanian authorities is concerned, the Committee notes that the criminalization of homosexual practices cannot be considered a reasonable means or proportionate measure to achieve the aim of preventing the spread of AIDS HIV.	None
The Australian Government observes that statutes criminalizing homosexual activity tend to impede public health programmes by driving underground many of the people at the risk of infection.	None
Criminalization of homosexual activity thus would appear to run counter to the implementation of effective education programmes in respect of the HIV AIDS prevention.	None
Secondly, the Committee notes that no link has been shown between the continued criminalization of homosexual activity and the effective control of the spread of the HIV AIDS virus.	None
(emphasis supplied and internal footnotes omitted)	None
The American Psychological Association, American Psychiatric Association, National Association of Social Workers and the Texas Chapter of the National Association of Social Workers in their Amicus Brief in Lawrence, et al. v. Texas (supra) stated as follows III.	None
Texas Penal Code S. 21.06 reinforces prejudice, discrimination, and violence against gay men and lesbiansAlthough many gay men and lesbians learn to cope with the social stigma against homosexuality, this pattern of prejudice can cause gay people serious psychological distress, especially if they attempt to conceal or deny their sexual orientation (emphasis supplied)	None
It is pertinent to mention that in India the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 came into force on July 7, 2018.	None
Sections 18(1) and (2) read with 21(1)(a) of the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 provide for the right to access mental healthcare and equal treatment of people with physical and mental illnesses without discrimination, inter alia, on the basis of sexual orientation.	None
This gives rise to a paradoxical situation since Section 377 criminalises LGBT persons, which inhibits them from accessing healthcare facilities, while the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 provides a right to access mental healthcare without discrimination, even on the ground of sexual orientation.	None
SECTION 377 VIOLATES THE RIGHT TO FREEDOM of EXPRESSION of LGBT PERSONS 17.1.	None
Article 19(1)(a) guarantees freedom of expression to all citizens.	None
However, reasonable restrictions can be imposed on the exercise of this right on the grounds specified in Article 19(2).	None
LGBT persons express their sexual orientation in myriad ways.	None
One such way is engagement in intimate sexual acts like those proscribed under Section 377.	None
Lawrence et al. v. Texas, 539 U.S. 558 (2003) and, National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Equality Anr.	None
v. Minister of Justice Ors., 1998 ZACC 15 Owing to the fear of harassment from law enforcement agencies and prosecution, LGBT persons tend to stay in the closet.	None
They are forced not to disclose a central aspect of their personal identity i.e. their sexual orientation, both in their personal and professional spheres to avoid persecution in society and the opprobrium attached to homosexuality.	None
Unlike heterosexual persons, they are inhibited from openly forming and nurturing fulfilling relationships, thereby restricting rights of full personhood and a dignified existence.	None
It also has an impact on their mental wellbeing.	None
17.2.	None
In National Legal Services Authority v. Union of India and Ors.	None
(supra), this Court noted that gender identity is an important aspect of personal identity and is inherent to a person.	None
It was held that transgender persons have the right to express their selfidentified gender by way of speech, mannerism, behaviour, presentation and clothing, etc.(2014) 5 SCC 438 , at paragraphs 6972	None
The Court also noted that like gender identity, sexual orientation is integral to ones personality, and is a basic aspect of selfdetermination, dignity and freedom.(2014) 5 SCC 438 , at paragraph 22 The proposition that sexual orientation is integral to ones personality and identity was affirmed by the Constitution Bench in K.S. Puttaswamy Anr.	None
v. Union of India Ors.(2017)	Facts
10 SCC 1 , at paragraphs 144, 145, 647 In this regard, it is instructive to refer to the decision of this Court in S. Khushboo v. Kanniammal and Another (2010) 5 SCC 600 wherein the following observation was made in the context of the phrase decency and morality as it occurs in Article 19(2)	None
Even though the constitutional freedom of speech and expression is not absolute and can be subjected to reasonable restrictions on grounds such as decency and morality among others, we must lay stress on the need to tolerate unpopular views in the sociocultural space.	None
The Framers of our Constitution recognised the importance of safeguarding this right since the free flow of opinions and ideas is essential to sustain the collective life of the citizenry.	None
While an informed citizenry is a precondition for meaningful governance in the political sense, we must also promote a culture of open dialogue when it comes to societal attitudes.	None
46Notions of social morality are inherently subjective and the criminal law cannot be used as a means to unduly interfere with the domain of personal autonomy.	None
Morality and criminality are not coextensive.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
Therefore, Section 377 cannot be justified as a reasonable restriction under Article 19(2) on the basis of public or societal morality, since it is inherently subjective.	None
SURESH KUMAR KOUSHAL OVERRULED The twoJudge bench of this Court in Suresh Kumar Koushal and Another v. Naz Foundation and Others (supra) overruled the decision of the Delhi High Court in Naz Foundation v. Government of NCT of Delhi and Ors.(2009) 111 DRJ 1 (DB) (supra) which had declared Section 377 insofar as it criminalised consensual sexual acts of adults in private to be violative of Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution.	None
The grounds on which the twojudge bench of this Court overruled the judgment in Naz Foundation was that Section 377 does not criminalise particular people or identity or orientation.	None
It merely identifies certain acts which if committed would constitute an offence.	None
Such a prohibition regulates sexual conduct, regardless of gender identity and orientation.	None
Those who indulge in carnal intercourse in the ordinary course, and those who indulge in carnal intercourse against the order of nature, constitute different classes.	None
Persons falling in the latter category cannot claim that Section 377 suffers from the vice of arbitrariness and irrational classification.	None
Section 377 merely defines a particular offence, and prescribes a punishment for the same.	None
ii. LGBT persons constitute a miniscule fraction of the countrys population, and there have been very few prosecutions under this Section.	None
Hence, it could not have been made a sound basis for declaring Section 377 to be ultravires Articles 14, 15, and 21.	None
iii.	None
It was held that merely because Section 377, IPC has been used to perpetrate harassment, blackmail and torture to persons belonging to the LGBT community, cannot be a ground for challenging the vires of the Section.	None
iv.	None
After noting that Section 377 was intra vires, this Court observed that the legislature was free to repeal or amend Section 377.	None
The fallacy in the Judgment of Suresh Kumar Koushal (supra) is that The offence of carnal intercourse against the order of nature has not been defined in Section 377.	None
It is too wide, and openended, and would take within its sweep, and criminalise even sexual acts of consenting adults in private.	None
In this context, it would be instructive to refer to the decision of a Constitution Bench of this Court in A.K. Roy v. Union of India (1982) 1 SCC 271 wherein it was held that The requirement that crimes must be defined with appropriate definiteness is regarded as a fundamental concept in criminal law and must now be regarded as a pervading theme of our Constitution since the decision in Maneka Gandhi.	None
The underlying principle is that every person is entitled to be informed as to what the State commands or forbids and that the life and liberty of a person cannot be put in peril on an ambiguity.	None
However, even in the domain of criminal law, the processes of which can result in the taking away of life itself, no more than a reasonable degree of certainty has to be accepted as a fact.	None
Neither the criminal law nor the Constitution requires the application of impossible standards and therefore, what is expected is that the language of the law must contain an adequate warning of the conduct which may fall within the proscribed area, when measured by common understanding (emphasis supplied)	None
The Judgment does not advert to the distinction between consenting adults engaging in sexual intercourse, and sexual acts which are without the will, or consent of the other party.	None
A distinction has to be made between consensual relationships of adults in private, whether they are heterosexual or homosexual in nature.	None
Furthermore, consensual relationships between adults cannot be classified along with offences of bestiality, sodomy and nonconsensual relationships.	None
Sexual orientation is immutable, since it is an innate feature of ones identity, and cannot be changed at will.	None
The choice of LGBT persons to enter into intimate sexual relations with persons of the same sex is an exercise of their personal choice, and an expression of their autonomy and selfdetermination.	None
Section 377 insofar as it criminalises voluntary sexual relations between LGBT persons of the same sex in private, discriminates against them on the basis of their sexual orientation which is violative of their fundamental rights guaranteed by Articles 14, 19, and 21 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
ii.	None
The mere fact that the LGBT persons constitute a miniscule fraction of the countrys population cannot be a ground to deprive them of their Fundamental Rights guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution.	None
Even though the LGBT constitute a sexual minority, members of the LGBT community are citizens of this country who are equally entitled to the enforcement of their Fundamental Rights guaranteed by Articles 14, 15, 19, and 21.	Reasoning
Fundamental Rights are guaranteed to all citizens alike, irrespective of whether they are a numerical minority.	None
Modern democracies are based on the twin principles of majority rule, and protection of fundamental rights guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution.	None
Under the Constitutional scheme, while the majority is entitled to govern the minorities like all other citizens are protected by the solemn guarantees of rights and freedoms under Part III.	None
The J.S. Verma Committee, in this regard, in paragraph 77 of its Report (supra) states that We need to remember that the founding fathers of our Constitution never thought that the Constitution is mirror of perverse social discrimination.	None
On the contrary, it promised the mirror in which equality will be reflected brightly.	None
Thus, all the sexual identities, including sexual minorities, including transgender communities are entitled to be totally protected.	None
The Constitution enables change of beliefs, greater understanding and is also an equally guaranteed instrument to secure the rights of sexually despised minorities.	None
(emphasis supplied) iii.	None
Even though Section 377 is facially neutral, it has been misused by subjecting members of the LGBT community to hostile discrimination, making them vulnerable and living in fear of the everpresent threat of prosecution on account of their sexual orientation.	None
The criminalisation of carnal intercourse against the order of nature has the effect of criminalising the entire class of LGBT persons since any kind of sexual intercourse in the case of such persons would be considered to be against the order of nature, as per the existing interpretation.	None
iv.	None
The conclusion in Suresh Kumar Koushals case to await legislative amendments to this provision may not be necessary.	None
Once it is brought to the notice of the Court of any violation of the Fundamental Rights of a citizen, or a group of citizens the Court will not remain a mute spectator, and wait for a majoritarian government to bring about such a change.	None
Given the role of this Court as the sentinel on the qui vive, it is the Constitutional duty of this Court to review the provisions of the impugned Section, and read it down to the extent of its inconsistency with the Constitution.	None
In the present case, reading down Section 377 is necessary to exclude consensual sexual relationships between adults, whether of the same sex or otherwise, in private, so as to remove the vagueness of the provision to the extent it is inconsistent with Part III of the Constitution.	None
History owes an apology to the members of this community and their families, for the delay in providing redressal for the ignominy and ostracism that they have suffered through the centuries.	None
The members of this community were compelled to live a life full of fear of reprisal and persecution.	None
This was on account of the ignorance of the majority to recognise that homosexuality is a completely natural condition, part of a range of human sexuality.	None
The misapplication of this provision denied them the Fundamental Right to equality guaranteed by Article 14.	None
It infringed the Fundamental Right to nondiscrimination under Article 15, and the Fundamental Right to live a life of dignity and privacy guaranteed by Article 21.	None
The LGBT persons deserve to live a life unshackled from the shadow of being unapprehended felons.	None
CONCLUSION	None
In view of the aforesaid findings, it is declared that insofar as Section 377 criminalises consensual sexual acts of adults (i.e. persons above the age of 18 years who are competent to consent) in private, is violative of Articles 14, 15, 19, and 21 of the Constitution.	Facts
It is, however, clarified that such consent must be free consent, which is completely voluntary in nature, and devoid of any duress or coercion.	None
ii.	None
The declaration of the aforesaid reading down of Section 377 shall not, however, lead to the reopening of any concluded prosecutions, but can certainly be relied upon in all pending matters whether they are at the trial, appellate, or revisional stages.	None
iii.	None
The provisions of Section 377 will continue to govern nonconsensual sexual acts against adults, all acts of carnal intercouse against minors, and acts of beastiality.	None
iv.	None
The judgment in Suresh K. Koushal Anr.	None
v. Naz Foundation Ors.	Facts
(2014) 1 SCC 1 is hereby overruled for the reasons stated in paragraph 18.	None
The Reference is answered accordingly.	None
In view of the above findings, the Writ Petitions are allowed.	None
FINAL ORDER Honble the Chief Justice (on behalf of himself, and Honble Mr. Justice A.M. Khanwilkar), Honble Mr. Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman, Honble Dr. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud and Honble Mrs. Justice Indu	None
Malhotra pronounced four separate but concurring judgments of the Bench comprising Honble the Chief Justice, Honble Mr. Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman, Honble Mr. Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, Honble Dr. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud and Honble Mrs. Justice Indu Malhotra.	None
The writ petitions are disposed of in terms of the four signed reportable judgments.	None
The interlocutory applications, if any, stand disposed of.	None
