 Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, J. Leave granted.	None
The short point of law that arises in the present appeals is whether Medical Oxygen IP and Nitrous Oxide IP are taxable under Entry 88 of Schedule IV of the Andhra Pradesh Value Added Tax Act 2005 (2005 Act.)	Issue
or as unclassified goods under Schedule V .	Issue
The classification of the two products determines the rate of tax to be levied on them 4/5 (5 substituted for the figure 4 by Act 11 of 2012 dated 20 April 2012.)	Issue
under Entry 88 or 12.5/14 (14.5 substituted for the figure 12.5 by Act 9 of 2010 dated 20 April 2010.)	Issue
under Schedule V.	Issue
The facts in the appeals before this Court being similar, we proceed to elucidate the factual context of the lead appeal.	Facts
The respondent Linde India Ltd, is a registered company under the 2005 Act and is an assessee on the rolls of the Commercial Tax Officer, Gajuwaka and Dwarakanagar Circle.	Facts
The respondent is engaged in the manufacturing and trading of industrial gases as well as Medical Oxygen IP and Nitrous Oxide IP.	Facts
On 12 December 2005, the Commercial Tax Officer communicated to the respondent that an outstanding tax liability of Rs 5,11,062 was due and payable for the period between 1 August 2005 and 31 August 2005.	Facts
Aggrieved, the respondent filled an appeal before the Appellate Deputy Commissioner who, by his order dated 26 June 2006, affirmed the assessment of the Commercial Tax Officer.	Facts
By an order dated 25 November 2014, the Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal, relying on a judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Inox Air Products Ltd v The Assistant Commissioner (CT), Hyderabad 2014 VIL 339 AP , allowed the appeal filed by the respondent.	Facts
The appellants appeal before the High Court for the State of Telangana and the State of Andhra Pradesh was dismissed.	Facts
Aggrieved, the appellant is in appeal before this Court.	Facts
The High Court was of the view that in Section 3(b)(i) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940 (1940 Act) the expression drug covers within its ambit any substance which is used for or in the treatment, prevention and mitigation of a disease or a disorder.	Facts
The High Court held that (i) Medical Oxygen IP is used for the treatment of patients and to mitigate the intensity of diseases and disorders and (ii) Nitrous Oxide IP is used as an anesthetic in surgical operations and procedures of a short duration.	Facts
The High Court held Both nitrous oxide and medical oxygen are clearly identifiable, and are used as surgical aids (Indian Oxygen Ltd. State of Karnataka Southern Gas Ltd).	Facts
Going by the user test and the functional test, it is evident that medical oxygen and nitrous oxide serve as medicines.	Facts
As medical oxygen IP and Nitrous Oxide IP are used in the treatment and mitigation of disorders in human beings, and as they are generally understood in the trade to be surgical aids, both these substances would fall under the definition of drug under Section 3(b)(i) of the Drugs Act, and consequently, fall under Entry 88 of Schedule IV of the Act liable to tax only at 4/5 Assailing the judgment of the High Court, learned counsel for the appellant urged The decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Inox Air, in so far as it held that Medical Oxygen IP and Nitrous Oxide IP are covered by the expression similar articles in Entry 88, is erroneous.	Facts
Applying the principle of ejusdem generis, it cannot be said that gases are similar articles to the other products specified in the entry (ii) The term used for or in employed in Section 3(b)(i) qualifies only substances and not medicines.	Arguments of Petitioner
Consequently, it cannot be used to broaden the scope of Entry 88 (iii)	Arguments of Petitioner
Though Section 3(b)(i) of the 1940 Act includes substances that are necessary aids for treating surgical or other cases, Entry 88 also contains an exclusion clause.	Arguments of Petitioner
Entry 100(36) of Schedule IV specifically excludes medical grade oxygen.	Arguments of Petitioner
Absent a specific inclusion of Medical Oxygen IP and Nitrous Oxide IP in Entry 88, they fall within the ambit of unclassified goods in Schedule V and (iv) Every substance cannot be said to fall within the ambit of Entry 88 merely because it is used for medicinal purposes.	Arguments of Petitioner
For a substance to fall within the ambit of Entry 88, it must accord with the definition stipulated in Section 3(1)(b) of the 1940 Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Opposing the above submissions, learned counsel for the respondents urged Section 3(b)(i) of the 1940 Act defines a drug broadly as a medicine or substance used for or in the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or prevention of any disease or disorder.	Arguments of Respondent
Medical Oxygen IP and Nitrous Oxide IP are widely known for their curative properties and as medicines in the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation and prevention of diseases and disorders Medical Oxygen and Nitrous Oxide are included in the Indian Pharmacopoeia which prescribes standards for drugs.	Arguments of Respondent
The Indian Pharmacopoeia has legal status under Section 16 of the 1940 Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Consequently, Medical Oxygen and Nitrous Oxide are drugs within the ambit of Section 3(1)(b) of the 1940 Act.	Arguments of Respondent
As Medical Oxygen IP and Nitrous Oxide IP are medicines within the ambit of Section 3(1)(b) of the 1940 Act, they are expressly included in Entry 88 of the 2005 Act Goods must be classified according to their popular meaning or as they are understood in their commercial sense.	Arguments of Respondent
Oxygen is used widely as an emergency medicine as well as for the delivery of medical services.	Arguments of Respondent
Nitrous Oxide is used in surgery and dentistry for anesthetic purposes.	Arguments of Respondent
Applying the common parlance test, there is no doubt that the products in question are used in the mitigation of diseases and disorders and fall within the ambit of Entry 88 as drugs defined in Section 3(b)(i) of the 1940 Act Several High Courts in the country have uniformly held that Medical Oxygen IP and Nitrous Oxide IP are medicines within the meaning of their respective state enactments.	Reasoning
These include Southern Gas v State of Kerala 2005	None
(139)	None
STC 504 (Ker) , State of Tamil Nadu v Ram Oxygen 2011 5 GST 87 (Mad HC) , Panki Oxygen v State of Uttar Pradesh 2014 SCC Online All 2144 , Chimanlal v State of Maharashtra 2004 (137) STC 68 , Indian Oxygen v State of Karnataka 1990(79)	None
STC 351 , State of Kerala v Indian Oxygen 2003 (129) STC 471 and ACTO, Special Circle Jodhpur v M s Jodhpur Gases	None
The National List of 2009 SCC Online 2459 Essential Medicines 2011 which constitutes Schedule I of the Drug Price (Control) Order 2013, includes Oxygen and Nitrous Oxide as anesthesia under Section 1 and The decision of the High Court from which the present appeal arises was rightly based on the judgment of that High Court in Inox Air, both of which must be upheld by this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The rival submissions fall for consideration.	None
We must begin with the statutory framework.	None
Schedule IV of the 2005 Act prescribes a uniform tax rate of 4/5 for listed goods.	None
Entry 88 of Schedule IV reads as follows Drugs Medicines whether patent or proprietary, as defined in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of Section 3(b) of Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 (Central Act 23 of 1940), including hypodermic syringes, hypodermic needles, catguts, sutures, surgical cotton, dressing, plasters, catherters, cannulae, bandages and similar articles but not including Medicated goods Products capable of being used as cosmetics and toilet preparations including Toothpastes, Tooth powders, cosmetics, Toilet articles and soaps and Mosquito repellents in any form.	None
Entry 88 includes drugs and medicines, whether patent or proprietary as defined in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of Section 3(b) of the 1940 Act.	None
Any drug or medicine that falls within the ambit of clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of Section 3(b) falls within the ambit of Schedule IV.	None
Entry 88 also stipulates that hypodermic syringes, hypodermic needles, catguts, sutures, surgical cotton, dressing, plasters, catherters, cannulae, bandages and similar articles are also included, save and except for the three specified exclusions.	None
Schedule V of the 2005 Act reads thus Goods taxable at standard rate (RNR) of 14.5 All goods other than those specified in Schedules I, III, IV, VI.	None
Schedule V stipulates that all goods that do not fall within the ambit of Schedules I, III, IV, and VI shall be taxed at a rate of 14.5.	None
Section 3(b) of the 1940 Act defines a drug in the following terms All medicines for internal or external use of human beings or animals and all substances intended to be used for or in the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or prevention of any disease or disorder in human beings, or animals, including preparations applied on human body for the purpose of repelling insects like mosquitoes such devices intended for internal or external use in the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or prevention of disease or disorder in human beings or animals, as may be specified from time to time by the Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette, after consultation with the Board.	None
Clause (i) of Section 3(b) defines a drug as all medicines for internal or external use of human beings or animals and all substances intended to be used for or in the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or prevention of any disease or disorder in human being, or animals , including specified preparations.	Reasoning
Clause (iv) of Section 3(b) includes all devices intended for internal or external use in the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or prevention of disease or disorder in human beings or animals.	None
In the early decision of this Court in Chimanlal Jagjivandas Sheth v State of Maharashtra, AIR 1963 SC 665 the question before a four judge Bench was whether absorbent cotton wool, roller bandages, and gauzes would fall within the ambit of Section 3(b) of the Act of 1940.	None
The Court held The said definition of drugs is comprehensive enough to take in not only medicines but also substances intended to be used for or in the treatment of diseases of human beings or animals.	None
This artificial definition introduces a distinction between medicines and substances which are not medicines strictly socalled.	None
The expression substances, therefore, must be something other than medicines but which are used for treatment.	None
The part of the definition which is material for the present case is substances intended to be used for or in the treatment .	None
The appropriate meaning of the expression substances in the section is things.	None
It cannot be disputed, and indeed it is not disputed, that absorbent cotton wool, roller bandages and gauze are substances within the meaning of the said expression.	None
If so, the next question is whether they are used for or in treatment.	None
It is not necessary for the purpose of this appeal to define exhaustively the substances falling within the definition of drugs and we consider that whether or not surgical instruments are drugs, the articles concerned in this case are.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
This Court held that the comprehensive nature of the definition includes both medicines and something other than medicines, but which are used for treatment.	None
In that case, the question concerned whether absorbent cotton wool, roller bandages and gauze are substances within the ambit of Section 3(b).	None
It is in that context that this Court held that substances are things.	None
The Court clarified that it was not necessary to exhaustively define the substances which fall within the ambit of drugs as defined in Section 3(b).	None
A substance may be a product, which though not specifically used as a medicine is used for diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or prevention of diseases.	None
(Barium, for example, is a substance used as an element in the diagnostic process in Xrays) Where a product other than a medicine is intended to be used for or in the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or prevention of any disease or disorder, the same would be a substance falling within the ambit of Section 3(b)(i).	None
The learned counsel for the appellants urged that the phrase intended to be used for or in the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or prevention of any disease or disorder in Section 3(b)(i) is only applicable to substances and not medicines.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Ishwar Singh Bindra v The State of UP, (1969) 1	None
SCR 219 the central question before a three judge Bench of this Court was the interpretation of Section 3(b)(i) of the 1940 Act.	None
This Court held Now if the expression substances is to be taken to mean something other than medicine as has been held in our previous decision it becomes difficult to understand how the word and as used in the definition of drug in Section 3(b)(i) between medicines and substances could have been intended to have been used conjunctively.	None
It would be much more appropriate in the context to read it disjunctively.	None
In Strouds Judicial Dictionary, 3rd Edn.	None
it is stated at p. 135	None
that and has generally a cumulative sense, requiring the fulfilment of all the conditions that it joins together, and herein it is the antithesis of or.	None
Sometimes, however, even in such a connection, it is, by force of a contexts, read as or.	None
Similarly, in Maxwell on Interpretation of Statutes, 11th Edn., it has been accepted that to carry out the intention of the legislature it is occasionally found necessary to read the conjunctions or and and one for the other.	None
This Court held that as the word substances in the clause is used to mean something other than medicine, it was not the intention of the legislature that the word and was meant to be read conjunctively.	None
Accordingly, this Court held that the two parts of the definitional clause must be read disjunctively.	None
In the above view, Section 3(b)(i) stipulates that medicines or substances used for or in the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or prevention of any disease or disorder in human beings, or animals shall be included within the ambit of the definition.	Reasoning
It is significant to note the use of the phrase for or in in the definitional clause.	Reasoning
Section 3(b)(i) includes both medicines or substances used for the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or prevention of any disease or disorder or in the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or prevention of any disease or disorder.	Reasoning
Where the former highlights the direct use of the product in question in diagnosing, treating, mitigating or preventing a disease or disorder, the latter highlights its instrumental use as a facilitative agent in the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or prevention of any disease or disorder.	Reasoning
The relevant enquiry for this Court is whether Medical Oxygen IP and Nitrous Oxide IP are used in or for any of the purposes specified therein.	Reasoning
The term medicine is not defined in the 1940 Act.	None
It is a trite principle of interpretation that the words of a statute must be construed according to the plain, literal and grammatical meaning of the words.	None
Justice G P Singh in his seminal work Principles of Statutory Interpretation states The words of a statute are first understood in their natural, ordinary or popular sense and phrases and sentences are construed according to their grammatical meaning, unless that leads to some absurdity or unless there is something in the context or in the object of the statute to suggest the contraryin the statement of the rule, the epithets natural, ordinary, literal, grammatical and popular are employed almost interchangeably.	None
It is often said that a word, apart from having a natural, ordinary or popular meaning (including other synonyms i.e. literal, grammatical and primary), may have a secondary meaning which is less common e.g technical or scientific meaning.	None
But once it is accepted that natural, ordinary or popular meaning of the word is derived from its context, the distinction drawn between different meanings loses much of its relevance.	None
Similarly, Craies on Statute Law states One of the basic principles of interpretation of Statutes is to construe them according to plain, literal and grammatical meaning of the words.	None
If that is contrary to, or inconsistent with, any express intention or declared purpose of the Statute, or if it would involve any absurdity, repugnancy or inconsistency, the grammatical sense must then be modified, extended or abridged, so far as to avoid such an inconvenience, but no further.	None
The onus of showing that the words do not mean what they say lies heavily on the party who alleges it.	None
He must advance something which clearly shows that the grammatical construction would be repugnant to the intention of the Act or lead to some manifest absurdity.	None
The words of a statute should be first understood in their natural, ordinary or popular sense and phrases and sentences should be construed according to their grammatical meaning, unless that leads to some absurdity or unless there is something in the context, or in the object of the statute to suggest the contrary.	None
Where a word has a secondary meaning, the assessment is whether the natural, ordinary or popular meaning flows from the context in which the word has been employed.	None
In such cases, the distinction disappears and courts must adopt the meaning which flows as a matter of plain interpretation and the context in which the word appears.	None
In State of HP v Pawan Kumar, (2005) 4 SCC 550	None
it was contended that the safeguards provided in Section 50 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act 1985 regarding search of any person would also apply to any bag, briefcase or any such article or container, which is being carried by the person.	None
The word person was not defined in the Act.	None
A three judge Bench of this Court, having regard to the scheme of the Act and the context in which the word person has been used, rejected the contention and held thus One of the basic principles of interpretation of statutes is to construe them according to plain, literal and grammatical meaning of the words.	None
If that is contrary to, or inconsistent with, any express intention or declared purpose of the statute, or if it would involve any absurdity, repugnancy or inconsistency, the grammatical sense must then be modified, extended or abridged, so far as to avoid such an inconvenience, but no further.	None
The onus of showing that the words do not mean what they say lies heavily on the party who alleges it.	None
He must advance something which clearly shows that the grammatical construction would be repugnant to the intention of the Act or lead to some manifest absurdity.	None
The above canon of statutory interpretation has been consistently followed by this Court in State of Himachal Pradesh v Pawan Kumar 2005	None
Cr.L.J. (SC) 2008 , State of Haryana v Suresh (2007) 15 SCC 186 , State of Rajasthan v Babu Ram (2007) 6 SCC 55 and Commissioner of Customs (Import), Mumbai v Dilip Kumar and Company (2018) 9 SCC 1.	None
The word medicine is defined in	None
Blacks Law Dictionary thus Medicine the science and art dealing with the prevention, cure and alleviation of diseases in a narrower sense that part of science and art of restoring and preserving health which is the province of the physician as distinguished from the surgeon and obstetrician.	None
CollIns Dictionary for Advanced Learners defines medicine thus Medicine is the treatment of illness and injuries by doctors and nurses is a substance that you drink or swallow to cure an illness Cambridge Dictionary defines medicine as A drug that is used to treat illness or injury the science dealing with the preserving of health and with preventing and treating disease or injury.	None
The ordinary or popular understanding of the term medicine is characterized by its curative properties in general andspecifically, its use for or in diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or prevention of any disease or disorder.	None
In State of Goa v Leukoplast (India) Ltd, (1997) 4 SCC 82 the question before this Court concerned whether Zinc Oxide Adhesive Plaster BPC (Leukoplast), Surgical Wound Dressing (Handyplast), Belladona Plaster BPC, Capsicum Plaster BPC and Cotton Crape Bandages BPC (Leukocrapes) are drugs or medicine under the 1940 Act.	None
A two judge Bench of this Court laid down the test to determine whether a product is a medicine in the following terms In our view, whether the products manufactured by the assessee can be treated as drugs or medicines cannot be answered straightaway.	None
The medicinal content of the products, if any, has to be ascertained.	None
Its curative function has to be found out.	None
Can the product be called a medicament at all Is it used to cure or alleviate or to prevent disease or to restore health or to preserve health This Court held that the relevant enquiry is whether the product is understood to be a medicine and is used to cure, alleviate or prevent disease or to restore health or preserve health.	None
The question in the present case does not concern all variants of oxygen and nitrogen, but only Medical Oxygen IP and Nitrous Oxide IP.	None
Chapter IV of the 1940 Act is titled Manufacture, Sale and Distribution of Drugs and Cosmetics.	None
Section 16 stipulates Standards of quality.	None
(1) For the purposes of this Chapter, the expression standard quality means In relation to a drug, that the drug complies with the standard set out in the Second Schedule, and In relation to a cosmetic, that the cosmetic complies with such standards as may be prescribed.	None
Section 16(1)(a) stipulates that drugs that comply with the standards set out in the Second Schedule shall be certified to be of standard quality under the 1940 Act.	None
The Second Schedule is titled Standards to be complied with by Imported Drugs and by Drugs manufactured for Sale, Stocked, or Exhibited for Sale or Distributed.	None
Entry 5 of the Second Schedule reads Other drugs Drugs included in the Indian Pharmacopeia.	Reasoning
Standards of identity, purity and strength specified in the edition of the India Pharmacopoeia for the first time being in force and such other standards as may be prescribed.	None
In case the standards of identity, purity and strength of the drugs are not specified in the edition of the Indian Pharmacopoeia for the time being in force but are specified in the edition of the Indian Pharmacopoeia immediately preceding the standards of identity, purity and strength shall be those occurring in such immediately preceding edition of the Indian Pharmacopoeia and such other standards as may be prescribed.	None
Drugs specified in the Second Schedule are required under the 1940 Act to comply with specified standards.	Reasoning
Entry 5 prescribes that other drugs means drugs included in the Indian Pharmacopeia, for which standards are specified therein.	Reasoning
The Indian Pharmacopoeia Commission (IPC) is an autonomous institution of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India.	Reasoning
The IPC, through its publication titled Indian Pharmacopoeia prescribes standards for the identity, purity and strength of the drugs specified therein.	Reasoning
Medical oxygen (at 99.9 purity) is included as a drug termed as Oxygen IP.	Reasoning
Section 16, read with the Second Schedule and the specification of Medical Oxygen in the Indian Pharmacopoeia lends support to the contention urged by the respondents that Medical Oxygen IP is a drug as defined in Section 3(b)(i) of the 1940 Act.	Reasoning
Furthermore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act 1955, the Central Government issued the Drug (Prices Control) Order 2013 which came into force on the date of its publication in the Official Gazette (15 May 2013).	Reasoning
Para 2(t) stipulates that the National List of Essential Medicines means the National List of Essential Medicines 2011 published by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare as updated and revised from time to time.	Reasoning
It also specifies that the National List of Essential Medicines 2011 is included in the First Schedule to the order.	Reasoning
Para 2(2) stipulates that all other words and expressions used therein and not defined, but defined in the 1940 Act shall have meanings respectively assigned in the 1940 Act.	None
The First Schedule contains the National List of Essential Medicines 2011.	Reasoning
The relevant portion is extracted below Schedule I (See paragraphs 2(t), 2(zb))	None
Symbols P, S and T appearing in NLEM 2011 denote essentially at Primary, Secondary and Tertiary levels respectively.	None
Table Section 1.1 includes both Nitrous Oxide and Oxygen as medicines within the ambit of Anesthesia.	Arguments of Respondent
In the exercise of the power conferred under the 2013 Order, the Government of India, by its order dated 20 December 2013 prescribed the selling price for both Nitrous Oxide Inhalation and Oxygen Inhalation.	None
This was evidently done keeping in mind the regulation of the selling prices of essential medicines in the market.	Reasoning
The inclusion of Oxygen and Nitrous Oxide as Anesthesia lends support to its use in the diagnosis and treatment of a disorder or disease as specified in Section 3(b)(1) of the 1940 Act.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the respondents relied on the judgments of various High Courts which have emphasized the medicinal properties of Medical Oxygen IP and Nitrous Oxide IP.	Arguments of Respondent
In Southern Gas Ltd. v State of Kerala, (2005) 3 KLT 78 the question before the High Court of Kerala was whether Medical Oxygen and Nitrous Oxide were medicines for the purpose of tax assessment under the Kerala General Sales Tax Act 1963.	Arguments of Respondent
Answering this in the affirmative, the Kerala High Court held In the instant case, as already noted, the assessee, who is the manufacturer of medical oxygen and nitrous oxide, has clearly stated that these two items are manufactured only for use in hospitals and that the dominant use of these two items are only as medicinesThere is no dispute that medical oxygen is used for administering it on patients.	Arguments of Respondent
Similarly, the function of nitrous oxide is to act as an anesthetic agent.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, going by the user test and the functional test, it is evident that medical oxygen and nitrous oxide are served as medicines.	Facts
Applying the user test and functional test, the Kerala High Court noted that Medical Oxygen is administered to patients and Nitrous Oxide is used as an anesthetic agent and concluded that both are medicines.	Arguments of Respondent
In Indian Oxygen Ltd v State of Karnataka, 1989 SCC Online Kar 459 the question before the High Court of Karnataka concerned whether Medical Oxygen fell within the ambit of Entry 121 of the Karnataka Sales Tax Act 1957 which stipulated a tax rate for industrial gases.	None
The High Court answered this in the negative and drew a distinction between industrial oxygen and medical oxygen in the following terms The object of Entry 121 is clearly to attract an industrial gas, which cannot, on the face of it include, a gas which is not considered as an industrial gas by those who deal in it.	None
It is clear that a person requiring medical oxygen will not be satisfied if he is supplied with the industrial oxygen and similarly an honest trader would not sell medical oxygen as industrial oxygen.	None
In State of Tamil Nadu v Ram Oxygen (Pvt.) Ltd (2010) 35 VST 478 , the High Court of Madras held that medical oxygen is a drug within the ambit of the 1940 Act It is also not in dispute that medical oxygen has 99.9 purity of purified oxygen and that its use is only for treatment of patients and to mitigate contrary intensity of any disease or disorders in human beings.	None
It is common knowledge at times of emergency, the application of medical oxygen is resorted to in order to prevent any sudden collapse of a patient, which process is nothing but part of a treatment meted out to a patient to recoup the deterioration of health conditions The Madras High Court noted that at times of emergency, the administration of medical oxygen is resorted to prevent the sudden collapse of patients, which forms a part of the treatment meted out to them.	None
In Panki Oxygen v State of Uttar Pradesh, 2014 SCC Online All 2144 the question before the High Court of Allahabad was whether tax on Oxygen IP under the Uttar Pradesh Trade Tax Act was to be levied under the Entry Medicine and Pharmaceutical Preparation or under the Entry Oxygen and other gases.	None
Justice Ashok Bhushan (sitting as a judge of that High Court) relied on the above decisions of various High Courts and held thus In view of the above, we are of the view that oxygen (IP) is fully covered by Entry 26 of the notification dated 15.1.2000 i.e. medicines and pharmaceutical preparation and shall not be covered by Entry 47 of the notification dated 29.1.2001 which relates to oxygen and other gases.	None
The oxygen (IP) i.e. medicinal oxygen being a drug fully covered by Entry 26 of the notification dated 15.1.2000 cannot be included in the general entry i.e. Entry 47 of the notification dated 29.1.2001.	None
In Inox Air, the question before the High Court of Andhra Pradesh was whether Liquid Medical Oxygen IP, Medical Grade Oxygen and Nitrous Oxide IP are liable to be taxed under Entry 88 of the 2005 Act.	Issue
The High Court held As medical oxygen LP and nitrous oxide LP are used in the treatment and mitigation of disorders in human beings, and as they are generally understood in the trade to be surgical aids, both these substances would fall under the definition of drug under Section 3(b)(1) of the Drugs Act, and consequently, fall under Entry 88 of Schedule IV of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Viewed from any angle, both medical oxygen IP and Nitrous Oxide IP fall under Entry 88 of Schedule IV and are liable to tax only at 4/5 and not at12.5 or 14.5.	Facts
The High Court held that medical oxygen is used in the treatment and mitigation of disorders in human beings, and are generally understood in trade to be surgical aids.	None
29.	None
The above judgments highlight the curative and instrumental use of Medical Oxygen IP and Nitrous Oxide IP in the mitigation and prevention of disease or disorder.	Reasoning
Nitrous Oxide is used as anesthetic agent.	Reasoning
Medical oxygen with 99.9 purity is predominantly used in hospitals.	Reasoning
Medical Oxygen is also used for the treatment of patients and to mitigate the intensity of disease or disorder in human beings.	Reasoning
It is utilised to prevent a sudden collapse of patients and to aid in the recovery of health.	Reasoning
As stated in the Counter Affidavit filed by the respondents, in order to carry out critical surgical procedures, supplemental oxygen is administered to patients.	Reasoning
Medical Oxygen is also administered in resuscitation, major trauma, anaphylaxis, major hemorrhage, shock and active convulsions, amongst other conditions.	Reasoning
30.	None
Nitrous Oxide is used in surgery and dentistry for its anesthetic and analgesic effects.	Reasoning
An article published in the British Medical Bulletin titled Past, Present and Future of Nitrous Oxide (V Lew, E McKay, M Maze, Past, present, and future of nitrous oxide, British Medical Bulletin, Volume 125, Issue 1, March 2018, Pages 103119. ) highlights the medical use of Nitrous Oxide in the following terms As an anaesthetic gas, N 2 O has many unique properties that have historically been used to great benefit in the operating room.	Reasoning
These include a high FA FI ratio allowing for rapid onset and offset, anxiolytic as well as analgesic and amnestic properties, lack of an odour and lack of irritation to the tracheobronchial tree.	Reasoning
These same properties have made it increasingly popular in areas outside of the OR including paediatric procedural sedation, the emergency room, obstetrics, and potentially psychiatry, for attenuation of treatmentresistant depression.	None
The World Health Organisation in its publication titled Model Prescribing Information Drugs Used in Anesthesia (WHO Model Prescribing Information Drugs Used in Anaesthesia (1989). ) states that Nitrous Oxide has the following uses Maintenance of surgical anaesthesia in combination with other anaesthetic agents (halothane, ether, thiopental or ketamine) and muscle relaxants.	Reasoning
In subanaesthetic doses, to provide analgesia for obstetric practice, for emergency management of injuries, during postoperative physiotherapy and for refractory pain in terminal illness.	None
K D Tripathi in Essentials of Medical Pharmacology (KD Tripathi, Essentials of Medical Pharmacology, VIIth Ed., at p. 378) states INHALATIONAL ANAESTHETICS 1.	None
Nitrous oxide (N2O)	None
It is a colourless, odourless, heavier than air, noninflammable gas supplied under pressure in steel cylinders.	None
It is nonirritating, but low potency anaesthetic unconsciousness cannot be produced in all individuals without concomitant hypoxia MAC is 105 implying that even pure N2O cannot produce adequate anaesthesia at 1 atmosphere pressure.	None
Patients maintained on 70 N2O 30 O2 along with muscle relaxants often recall the events during anaesthesia, but some lose awareness completely.	None
Nitrous oxide is a good analgesic even 20 produces analgesia equivalent to that produced by conventional doses of morphine.	None
Nitrous oxide The patient is made to breathe 100 oxygen through a nose piece or hood and N2O is added in 10 increments (to a maximum of 50, rarely 70) till the desired level of sedation assessed by constant verbal contact is obtained.	Reasoning
This is maintained till the procedure is performed.	Reasoning
Thereafter, N2O is switched off, but 100 O2 is continued for next 5 min.	Reasoning
The patient is generally roadworthy in 3060 min.	None
The above extracts demonstrate the medical use of Nitrous Oxide as a general anesthetic as well as in operation rooms for its analgesic and anxiolytic properties.	Reasoning
31.	None
In the proceedings before this Court, it was not seriously disputed that Medical Oxygen IP and Nitrous Oxide IP subserve a medicinal purpose.	Reasoning
There is no doubt that Medical Oxygen IP and Nitrous Oxide IP are medicines used for or in the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or prevention of any disease or disorder in human beings falling within the ambit of Section 3(b)(i) of the 1940 Act.	Reasoning
We hold that Medical Oxygen IP and Nitrous Oxide IP fall within the ambit of Section 3(b)(i) of the 1940 Act and are consequently covered in Entry 88 of the 2005 Act.	Reasoning
32.	None
The impugned judgment of the High Court, to the extent it held that Medical Oxygen IP and Nitrous Oxide IP fall within Entry 88 of the 2005 Act is upheld.	Decision
33.	None
The appeals are dismissed, although for the reasons highlighted above.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	None
34.	None
Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of.	Decision
