 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted.	None
The respondent, which is a Company incorporated and registered under the Indian Companies Act, manufactures Hose Pipe.	Facts
It supplies goods manufactured by it to the Indian Railways.	Facts
The goods are manufactured in terms of the specifications of the railway administration.	Facts
Supplies are, however, made against specific contracts.	Facts
The respondents used to pay 30 basic excise duty and 15 special duty.	Facts
The goods came to be classified under SubHeading 4009.92.	Facts
The said classification was in dispute.	Facts
The contention of the manufacturers was that it is classifiable under SubHeading 4009.99.	Facts
The lis ended in favour of the respondent.	Facts
It, however, obtained clearance of the goods on payment of duties under protest as the products had been classified under classification 4009.92.	Facts
The respondent filed two applications for refund of Rs.6.30 lakhs, which had already been paid by way of excise duty.	Facts
The said applications were rejected by the authorities under the Act (Central Excise and Salt Act, 1944) opining that the same would amount to unjust enrichment.	Facts
The respondent preferred an appeal before the Customs, Excise Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal, which was registered as Appeal No.E R79/98.	Facts
The question, which arose before the Tribunal, was As to whether the goods supplied to the railway administration included the element of excise duty?	Facts
The Tribunal for determining the issue went through the correspondences exchanged by and between the contracting parties, as also the certificate issued by the railway administration and held I have perused the records and considered the rival submissions.	Facts
According to the contract, the prices were inclusive of excise duty.	Facts
The subsequent letter from the railways indicated that no amount was provided towards excise duty while pricing was worked out.	Facts
One letter specifically stated E.D.Nil.	Facts
This would suggest that the price fixed under the contract did not provide for an element towards the Central Excise duty.	Facts
While arriving at the said finding, the Tribunal relied upon its own judgment in Cimmco Ltd.	Facts
Vs.	Facts
Collector of Central Excise, Jaipur 1999 (107) ELT 246 (Tribunal), wherein it was held We have given careful consideration to the rival submissions.	Facts
The clue to the problem in this case lies in a proper understanding of the provisions in the work order particularly with reference to the rates.	Facts
There is an apparent conflict in what is stated in different parts of the schedule of rates.	Facts
Thus, as against a note that the rates are inclusive of all duties, taxes and to and fro handling charges in one place there is another remark regarding the rates under the caption condition of contract which is more elaborate than the earlier referred to sentence.	Facts
This reads as follows (1)	Facts
RatesThe rates are inclusive of all materials, labour, equipment, lifts, leads, Sales tax, octroi required in connection with completion of work to the entire satisfaction of the Corporation.	Facts
All the materials are to be supplied by the Contractor unless otherwise stated.(2) Rates shall be valid till the entire work is 100 complete, and no escalation will be considered at any stage.	Facts
An application for reference was filed by the appellant herein before the Calcutta High Court.	Facts
The Tribunal was directed to refer to the High Court the following questions Whether or not the bar of unjust enrichment will be attracted in a case where duty has been passed on to the buyer of goods not separately as duty but by inclusion in the price as one component of the same?(ii) Whether the Learned Tribunal was justified in holding that the bar of unjust enrichment would not be attracted when the price is inclusive of duties and taxes following the case of CIMMCO Ltd. Reported in 1999 (107) ELT 246 (Tribunal)?(iii) Whether the Honble Tribunal was justified in passing the order ignoring the principles of law laid down in the case of Mafatlal Industries reported in 1997 (89) ELT 247 (SC) and the findings of the department indicated in the order in original?	Facts
The High Court, by its impugned judgment, affirmed the findings of the Tribunal, holding Having regard to the definite view expressed by the learned Tribunal that the bar of unjust enrichment was not attracted in the instant case the questions as framed in our view do not require any answer since we agree that having paid the excise duty under protest and there being a subsequent finding that no excise duty was payable in respect of the goods, the respondent company was entitled to refund and there was no question of unjust enrichment in the instant case.	Facts
Mr. Harish Chander, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant submitted that (i) The Tribunal and consequently, the High Court committed an error in passing the impugned judgment in so far as they failed to take into consideration that the question, As to whether the price included excise duty or not?, was a comprehensible one, having regard to the terms of the contract.(ii)	Arguments of Petitioner
Subsequent correspondence by and between the respondent and the railway administration were wholly irrelevant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. K.V. Vishwanathan, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent, on the other hand, contendedi)	Arguments of Respondent
The findings of the Tribunal being findings of fact, this Court should not interfere therewith.ii) The question as to whether the assessee has passed on the element of excise duty to its customers, being essentially question of fact, this Court may not exercise its jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Respondent
It is now well settled that despite levy of excise duty in a given situation being held to be illegal, in the event it is found that the assessee in fact passed on the burden of excise duty to its customers, applying the principle of unjust enrichment, the Court would not ordinarily direct refund thereof.	Reasoning
The question whether the excise duty had been passed on to the consumer, however, is essentially a question of fact.	None
It is not in dispute that prior to 1993 goods were being classified under the SubHeading 4009.92 of the Schedule appended to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 attracting 30 advalorem as basic excise duty and 15 as special basic duty.	None
It is furthermore not in dispute that the Bombay High Court in the case of M s. Rubber Products Ltd. vs. Union of India, reported in 1992 (43) ECR 520 held The duty was recovered from the Company on the basis that the product manufactured attracts sub heading 4009.92 of the Tariff and that was the basis of order passed by the Assistant Collector.	None
The order of the Assistant Collector was set aside by the Appellate Collector and it was ordered that the duty is payable under subheading 4009.99 of the Tariff.	None
The order of the Appellate Collector has acquired finality and, therefore, excess duty recovered by the Department is liable to be refunded.	None
In this case also, the respondent had, in view of the decision rendered by the excise authorities as affirmed by the High Court in M s. Rubber Products Ltd. (supra), filed a revised classification list.	None
It is only during the pendency of the said application it received four orders from the Railway Administration.	None
The prices fixed for the goods were as under Order Date  Price per unit16.02.1993  Rs. 48.90 p.18.02.1993  Rs. 46.90 p.06.04.1993  Rs. 47.90 p.10.05.1993  Rs. 48.65 p.	None
The excise duty was specified as Nil in the order dated 10th May, 1993.	None
So far as the order dated 6th April, 1993 is concerned, no excise duty was specified.	None
However, in the order dated 16th February, 1993 a stipulation was made by the Railway Administration that the price was inclusive of duty, with a view to avoid the claim made by the respondent at a later stage on the ground that a duty had to be paid.	None
It is also not in dispute that clarifications were obtained by the respondent from the Railway Administration specifically in this behalf.	None
The railway administration by its letter stated Assistant Controller Controller of StoresCentral Excise Department N. Rly.	None
Khardah Division Bonda House4,Barabourne Road New Delhi.Calcutta700	None
001Sub	None
This Office Purchase order of 07938759101595 Dt. 10.5.93 for the supply of Hose Pipe VB504/ M Fix 10,000.Ref	None
Firm Letter No.BPE Sales M2 (19D11701).This Office Purchase order 07923259101595 dated 10593 for the supply of Hose Pipe VB504/M Rs. 48.65 each and 4/CST  E.DC	None
Nil Spare copy of the same enclosed for your ready reference Sd IllegibleFor Controller of Stores A certificate was also issued by the Railway Administration on 26.9.1994 stating This is to certify that M s. BAJORIA RUBBER INDUSTRIES LIMITED, CALCUTTA had supplied the full quantity of 7,000 Nos. of Vaccum Hose Pipe VB 504/M at Rs.48.90 each (inclusive of Excise Duty) plus CST 4.	None
It is confirmed that the firm has supplied the materials at the ordered rate and payment has been arranged at contracted rate which was always payable irrespective of the Central Excise Duty rate being NIL or otherwise.	None
No separate payment has been arranged for actual CED.	None
In a letter dated 18.7.1995, the Eastern Railway Administration furthermore contended as under To Dated 18.7.95.The Assistant CollectorCentral ExciseKhardah Division,4, Braboune Road,Calcutta700001.Dear Sir,Sub Purchase from M s. Bajoria Rubber Industries Ltd. 27, Bentinck Street Calcutta1.Ref Letter No.	None
i)	None
Case	None
No.V(18)KDH BRU/94/ 2600 dt.	None
21.6.95.ii)	None
Case No.V(18) 1KDH BRU 94/57 dt.4.1.95.In case of Purchase order No.11/98/23/4/1/81288 dated .4.93, the rate was Rs.47.90 each and WBST 4.6 extra, Ex. duty not mentioned in the said P O payment was made to the diem as purchasers of the P	None
O.In case of P.O. No. 11/93/2313/1/78290 dated 18.2.93, the rate was Rs. 46.90 each inclusive of Excise duty and WBST 4.6 extra.	None
Payment made accordingly.	None
If the price for supply of Hose Pipes in respect of the contract dated 10th May, 1993 being Rs. 48.65p.	None
did not include the element of excise duty, the same being Nil, the Tribunal may be correct in its opinion that the question of excise duty having been passed by the respondent to the Railway Administration would not arise.	None
In respect of the other three orders, wherein the rates quoted was Rs.46.90p., Rs.47.90p.	None
and Rs.48.65p.	None
also the said question would not arise as the rate included the element of excise duty.	None
The respondents, in our opinion, rightly contended that as the Central Excise Authorities were unwilling to accept the classification under the Sub Heading 4009.99 with Nil rate of duty, they had no other option but to clear the said goods upon payment of duty under protest, wherein they were required to compute the value in terms of Section 4(4)(d) of the Central Excise Act, 1944.	Reasoning
The respondent, in his counter affidavit, categorically stated According to the said provision, the value on which duty was payable did not include the amount of excise duty payable.	None
Accordingly, though the contract price did not include any amount on account of duty, the respondent had to deduct from the contract price the amount of duty it was required by the Central Excise Authorities to pay under subheading No. 4009.92 in order to arrive at the value and the amount paid under protest was worked out accordingly.	None
In the Central Excise gatepasses in form No. GP1 and the Central Excise pricelists filed under rule 173C of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 (hereinafter referred to as the Rules), the respondent mentioned the assessable value and duty in accordance with the provisions of Section 4(4)(d)(ii) by breaking up the contract price although the same did not include any amount on account of excise duty.	None
In the invoices raised on the Railways, the respondent mentioned the contractprice without any breakup.	None
In this connection, specimen copies of excise gatepasses in form GP1 and corresponding invoices raised on the Railways are annexed hereto and collectively marked D.	None
It is well settled that the findings of fact arrived at by the Tribunal should ordinarily be accepted by this Court.	None
It is not the case of the appellant that while arriving at its finding that the respondent had not passed the amount of excise duty, the Tribunal had not considered all relevant facts.	Reasoning
The contention of the appellant herein that the railway administration colluded with the respondent herein in issuing the aforementioned letters and certain certificate is, in our considered opinion, wholly misconceived.	Reasoning
We have no hesitation to reject the same.18.	Reasoning
Our attention has been drawn to a decision of this Court in Commissioner of Central Excise, MumbaiII vs. Allied Photographics India Ltd. (2004) 4 SCC 34 , wherein this Court opined that the doctrine of unjust enrichment would be attracted, although, the duty might have been paid under protest.	Reasoning
In that case the manufacturer has passed on the burden of duty to the distributor.	Reasoning
The question, therefore, which fell for consideration was Whether the distributor in turn passed on a duty burden to its dealers?	Reasoning
It was in the said factual matrix held It is important to note that M s AGIL was the sole distributor of NIIL.	Reasoning
Therefore, it is highly improbable for a distributor to incur cost of purchase which included 20 element of duty in addition to the purchase price without passing on the burden to its dealers.	Reasoning
From the record it appears that during the disputed period 1974 to 1984, M s AGIL was in trading which further supports the above improbability.	Reasoning
In the present case, there is no material placed on record by M s AGIL as to how it had accounted for the cost of purchase in its books and the accounting treatment it gave to the said item at the time of payment of the purchase price.	Reasoning
No record as to costing of that item has been produced.	Reasoning
This material was relevant as in the present case NIIL conceded that it had passed on the burden of duty to its distributor M s AGIL (buyer) and it was the buyer who claimed refund.	Reasoning
It has been urged on behalf of the respondent and which argument has been accepted by the authorities below that 20 of the total price paid by M s AGIL to NIIL represented total excess excise duty levied and not the excess duty collected by NIIL in the form of sale price from its distributor M s NIIL.	Reasoning
It was argued that excess duty collected by NIIL represented only 1.62 of the total price.	Reasoning
It was argued that resale price charged by M s AGIL to its dealers had no relevance to excess excise duty paid by M s AGIL to NIIL at the time of purchase as the sale price charged by M s AGIL to its dealers was based on the prevailing market price.	Reasoning
We do not find any merit in this argument.	Reasoning
In the present case, the refund claim is made by a buyer and not by the manufacturer.	Reasoning
The buyer says that he has not passed on the burden to its dealers.	Reasoning
The buyer has bought the goods from the manufacturer paying the purchase price which included cost of purchase plus taxes and duties on the date of purchase.	Reasoning
In such cases, cost of purchase to the buyer is a relevant factor.	Reasoning
None of the authorities below have looked into this aspect.	Reasoning
Even the Appellate Tribunal has not gone into this relevant factor.	Reasoning
It has merely quoted the passages from the order of the lower authority, whose order was impugned before it.	Reasoning
Costing of the goods in the hands of the distributor, the cost element and the treatment given to purchases by the buyer in his own account were relevant circumstances which the authorities below failed to examine.	Reasoning
It was submitted that cost of purchase was not a relevant factor.	Reasoning
It was submitted on behalf of the respondent that the resale price charged by the buyer was not a relevant factor.	Reasoning
It was submitted that since the sale price of the goods before and after the assessment remained the same, the burden of excess duty was absorbed by the respondent.	Reasoning
It was submitted that in any event the sale price of the goods increased much less than the amount of duty (differential) involved in this case and, therefore, incidence of duty was not passed on to the consumers.	Reasoning
The said decision, therefore, was rendered on its own facts.	Reasoning
We, however, as noticed hereinbefore, are not in a position to agree with the contention of the appellant that the finding of fact arrived at by the tribunal is based on no material.	Reasoning
There is, thus, no merit in this appeal.	Decision
It is accordingly dismissed.	Decision
The appellant is directed to comply with the Tribunals order within four weeks from today.	Decision
The appellant shall bear the costs of the respondent which is assessed at Rs.10,000/.	Decision
