 N. RAY.	None
J. This appeal is directed against the judgment dated 2121984 passed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Criminal Appeal No.	Issue
691DB of 1981.	None
By the impugned judgment, the High Court has set aside the order of acquittal dated 2751981 passed in favour of the appellant by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Sirsa in Sessions Trial No. 59 of 1980 and has convicted the appellant Bhagirath, Accused 1 in the Sessions Trial under Section 302 IPC and sentenced his to suffer imprisonment for life and also to pay a fine of Rs. 20, 000 with a direction that if the fine was realised, it would be paid to the next heirs of the deceased as compensation.	None
The appellant and four other accused were committed to Sessions Trail No. 59 of 1980 for offences under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC and Section 120B IPC.	Facts
The prosecution case in short was that on 2951980 the accused Chhotu and Bhagirath hatched a conspiracy to murder one Nihal Singh and pursuant to such conspiracy, the accused had murdered Nihal Singh on 2951980 in Mandi Dabwali.	Facts
The accused Bhagirath was individually charged for offence under Section 302 IPC for causing the murder of Nihal Singh in the area Mandi Dabwali.	Facts
According to the prosecution case, at about 2.50 p.m. on 2951980 PW 25, Head Constable Dharambir of Police Station Dabwali received a telephone message from Dr. S. Gulati (PW 17) of Civil Hospital, Dabwali that Nihal Singh was admitted in the said hospital with gunshot injuries.	Facts
Such message was entered in Daily Diary Roznamcha being Entry No. 19 (Ex. PJJ).	Facts
Dharam Sing, H.C. of P. S. Dabwali (PW 25) with Constable Vijay Kumar (PW 10) came to the Civil Hospital at 3.10 p.m. and moved an application (Ex. PZ) for obtaining fitness certificate of the said injured and the doctor gave certificate that the injured was in a position to make a statement (Ext. PA1).	Facts
The said Dharam Singh also requisitioned the service of SDJM Dabwali and SDM(C) for recording the dying declaration of the injured Nihal Singh.	Facts
Dharam Singh recorded the statement of Nihal Singh (Ex. PAA).	Facts
Nihal Singh in his statement stated that there was enmity between him and Chhotu.	Facts
Chhotu and the accused Bhagirath were on the lookout for Nihal Singh to get him murdered.	Facts
On the date of the incident at about 2 p.m., Nihal Singh was going to Dabwali Mandi after being free from Court and Sohan Lal (PW 19) and Manswarup were ahead of him and PW 20, Kishan Lal was following him.	Facts
When Nihal Singh reached in front of the shop of Lekh Ram, tobacco dealer then the accused Bhagirath being accompanied by another person, whose description was given by Nihal Singh in his statement, was standing there.	Facts
When Nihal Singh crossed Bhagirath, he fired a shot from a countrymade pistol at his back which hit him and when Nihal Singh turned around and raised a lalkara, Bhagirath and the person accompanying him had run away.	Facts
Kishan Lal (PW 20), Sohan Lal (PW 19) and Manswarup came running and Manswarup and Kishan Lal brought Nihal Singh to the Civil Hospital.	Facts
After the statement was recorded by Dharambir, the same was read over to Nihal Singh and having admitted that the statement was correctly recorded, Nihal Singh signed the said statement in presence of Dr. Gulati (PW 17).	Facts
The said doctor also attested the said statement.	Facts
Such statement was sent to the police station with the endorsement of the said Dharambir and on the basis of such statement, FIR (Ex. PAA2) was recorded by PW 9 Gulzari Lal, a Head Constable.	Facts
Prior to recording of the said statement by Dharam Singh, Dr. Gulati had prepared a ruqa (Ex PY) at 3.10 p.m. and medicolegal report (Ex. PX) was also prepared at 4, 00 p.m.	Facts
However, Constable Vijay Kumar returned to the hospital at 4.45 p.m. with a report (Ex. PKK1) that both SDJM and SDM (C) were away.	Facts
The investigating officer took into possession the shirt Ex. P5, and vest Ex.	None
P6 of the injured from the said doctor and the sealed parcel of such shirt and vest is Ex. PD.	Facts
The investigating officer took Manswarup and Sohan Lal (PW 19) and reached the place of occurrence and recovered one empty cartridge (Ex. P7) from the said place and such cartridge was sealed and the recovery memo (Ex. PEE) was attested by Sohan Lal and Manswarup.	Facts
The statements of Manswarup and Sohan Lal and Kishan Lal were also recorded by the investigating officer.	Facts
The investigating officer went to the house of Chhotu on the next day and recorded the statement of Pokkar (PW 22).	Facts
In view of such statements, offence under Section 120B	None
IPC was added.	None
The accused Bhagirath was arrested for his house.	None
Further investigation in the case was undertaken by PW 24, SI Ram Singh on 3051980.	None
The accused Om Prakash and Balwant were arrested at the busstand in Village Goriwala at 1.30 p.m. on 961980 and on search, a countrymade pistol of 12 bore was recovered from Om Parkash (Ex. P8) with a cartridge inside (Ex. P9).	None
Such pistol and cartridge were sealed after preparing a rough sketch of the pistol.	None
A separate case under Arms Act was initiated against Om Parkash because he had no licence for possessing the said pistol.	Facts
The injured Nihal Singh was taken to Civil Hospital, Sirsa where he was examined in OPD by Dr. Garg and referred to a bigger hospital at Rohtak.	Facts
The injured was admitted and underwent operation by Dr. Verma, Registrar, Surgery (PW 1).	Facts
The doctor had removed pellets (Ex. P11 to 3) from the body of the injured after performing operation.	Facts
The injured Nihal Singh, however, succumbed to his injuries in the hospital on 3051980 at 3.45 p.m. PW 3, Dr. Bhupinder Singh held postmortem examination vide report Ex. PC.	Facts
It was noted by PW 3, Dr. Singh, that there were 10 punctured wounds on the back of right side of the chest and back of upper part of the right side of the abdomen.	None
It appears that the learned Sessions Judge entertained doubts about the correctness of the statements contained in the dying declaration recorded by PW 25 Dharambir.	None
Dharambir has deposed that he had recorded the statement not as a dying declaration but for recording the statement for registering a case and such recording was made in the presence of Doctor Gulati (PW 17) and after recording the statement, he had read over the statement twice to Nihal Singh.	Facts
The learned Sessions Judge was of the view that there was no necessity of reading the said recorded statement twice to Nihal Singh.	Facts
That apart, Dharambir did not give any endorsement that the statement was read over by him to Nihal Singh.	Facts
Doctor Gulati only endorsed the recorded statement but he was not asked by Dharambir to write that the statement was read over to the injured Nihal Singh.	Facts
The learned Sessions Judge has also indicated that although Dharambir has deposed that when the statements made by Nihal Singh were not clear to him, the injured again made statement and he had recorded such statement but he did not remember at the time of giving deposition, on what points, he had asked the injured to again make the statement.	Facts
The learned Sessions Judge has also indicated that Dr. Gulati has deposed that the statement was not recorded within his hearing as he was not attentive when the statements were recorded by Dharambir because he was busy with preparing the medicolegal report.	Facts
The learned Sessions Judge has also indicated that after about three months from the date of the incident i.e. on 2281980 on police query, Dr. Gulati stated that he had signed the statement recorded by Dharambir after enquiring from Nihal Singh whether he had given the statement and the reply of Nihal Singh was in the affirmative.	Facts
The learned Sessions Judge has observed that such statement of Dr. Gulati only indicates that the statement was not read over to Nihal Singh in this presence otherwise such enquiry by Dr. Gulati was not necessary.	Facts
In view of the aforesaid facts, the learned Sessions Judge has held that the dying declaration was not a convincing document.	None
If may be stated here that the learned Sessions Judge has also entertained doubt about the genuineness of the said dying declaration because such dying declaration was recorded at 4 p.m. at Dabwali Civil Hospital and the injured Nihal was referred to Sirsa Hospital at 5 p.m. by Dr. Gulati but PW 4 Dr. Garg, the Medical Officer of Rohtak Civil Hospital, Sirsa has deposed that the said injured came to the hospital at 2.15 p.m. to 3 p.m.	Facts
but he was referred to Rohtak Civil Hospital.	Facts
The learned Sessions Judge has held that if the injured had already reached Sirsa Hospital by 2.15 p.m. to 3 p.m. which was 35 miles away from Dabwali Civil Hospital, the dying declaration could not have been recorded at 4 p.m. at Dabwali Hospital.	Facts
The learned Sessions Judge has also entertained doubt about the MLR Ex. PX of the injured recorded by Dr. Gulati.	None
The learned Sessions Judge has observed that the first part of the report containing the name of the injured was written in thick lead marking but the contents were recorded in thin lead marking but at the bottom of the report the doctor had again signed in thick lead marking.	Facts
Dr. Gulati has deposed that he first recorded the name position at the top and then sharpened the lead of the pencil and had written the middle portion of the report and then had written the third portion containing his signature at the bottom.	Facts
The learned Judge has observed that if the pencil was sharpened, the signature of the doctor should also have been with sharpened lead with then impression.	Facts
The learned Sessions Judge has also doubted the genuineness of the MLR because addresses and other particulars of the persons who accompanied the injured Nihal Singh were correctly mentioned but in other MLRs prepared by Dr. Gulati, such particulars of the accompanying persons were not mentioned.	None
The learned Sessions Judge has also held that the said dying declaration was not admissible because death was not due to injuries sustained by Nihal Singh but on account of toxaemia resulting from peritonitis as deposed by PW 3 Dr. Bhupinder Singh of Rohtak Hospital.	None
As the death was not directly on account of injuries, the statement of the injured was not admissible as dying declaration.	Facts
The learned Sessions Judge has also held by relying on the observation of this Court at p. 852	Facts
para 53 SCC (Cri) in the decision in Balak Ram v. State of U.P. 1974 SCC(Cri) 837 1975 (3) SCC 219 1974 (80) CrLJ 1486, that the investigating officer is keenly interested in the fruition of his efforts and though this Court did not suggest that any assumption would be made against veracity of investigating officer, it was observed that it was not prudent to base conviction on a dying declaration made to an investigating officer.	Facts
The learned Session Judge has also not placed reliance on the depositions of eyewitnesses PW 19 Sohan Lal and PW 20 Kishan Lal.	None
It has been pointed out by the learned Sessions Judge that both the said eyewitnesses have deposed that Nihal Singh was on foot when he was shot at but Munshi Ram a panch witness to inquest report Ex.	Facts
PE has stated that Nihal Singh had stated in the hospital that he was sitting on a rickshaw when he was fired at the back side.	Facts
The other witness to the inquest report Sohan Ram has also supported Munchi Ram, who is stated to be the brother of the deceased Nihal Singh.	Facts
The learned Sessions Judge has indicated that although the incident had taken place in the main bazar at 2 p.m. but no shopkeeper or disinterest witness has been examined.	Facts
Sohan Lal (PW 19) is a relation of the deceased and is inimical to the accused and he is a resident of a place which is about 14 miles away from the place of occurrence.	Facts
The other witness (PW 20) Kishan Lal is also not trustworthy and he hails from a village which is 100 Kms away from the place of occurrence.	None
The learned Sessions Judge has indicated that PW 22 Pokkar who has deposed about the conspiracy hatched by Chhotu and the accused Bhagirath for murdering Nihal Singh has deposed that in the village there were two groups  one led by the deceased Nihal and the other led by Chhotu.	Facts
PW 22 has also deposed that Rawat Takki and Saheb Ram were relations of Nihal Singh and PW 19 Sohan Lal has admitted that Rawat and others were murdered long back and in that case, Kalu, brother of Chhotu and husband of accused Kalawati was challaned.	Facts
The learned Sessions Judge has also held that PW 22 Pokkar deposed falsely when he denied that Chhotu was involved in the case for causing gunshot injuries on his brother Ram Rattan.	Facts
The learned Judged has held that Ex. D5 which is the copy of the judgment dated 2221986 passed by Additional Sessions Judge, Hissar shows that the brother of Pokkar (PW 22) was injured by the firearm at the hands of Chhotu and others.	None
The learned Sessions Judge has further held that PW 19 Sohan Lal is illiterate and he cannot say what was inscribed on the seal in which the spentup cartridge recovered from the spot in his presence was seized and kept in sealed pack with inscription DSR.	None
PW 19 has stated that at the time of recovery of the cartridge, Krishan Lal was also present but PW 20 Kishan Lal does not state that he was was present at the time of recovery of the empty cartridge.	Facts
The learned Sessions Judge has not placed any reliance on the deposition of the eyewitness Sohan Lal because he was a resident of a place about 14 miles away from Dabwali.	Facts
Sohan Lal has deposed that he had come to purchase some articles of use in Dabwali but he could not name the shop from where he had purchased such articles.	Facts
He could not even state what articles and of what quantity were purchased by him.	Facts
Even to the police, he did not tell that he had gone to Dabwali for some purchases.	None
According to learned Sessions Judge, PW 20 also does not inspire confidence.	None
Apart from the discrepancy as to the presence of PW 20 at the time of recovery of empty cartridge in the depositions of PW 19 and PW 20, PW 20 stated that after firing a shot on the deceased, accused Bhagirath reloaded the pistol but in this statement to the police, such fact of reloading was not mentioned.	Facts
Though he deposed that he knew both Bhagirath and Om Parkash and he had stated such fact to the police, in his statement to the police, there was no such statement.	Facts
PW 20 Kishan Lal is resident of place 100 kms away from Dabwali	Facts
but he has deposed that in those days he was living in a rented house at Dabwali and was on a long leave because of his illness.	Facts
This witness however did not pay any rent to the landlord.	Facts
He had no chit of any medical practitioner for the medicine which was stated to have been purchased by him on that day in Dabwali Bazar.	Facts
Even, he could not give the name of the shop from where such medicine was purchased by him.	Facts
The learned Sessions Judge has also indicated that PW 20 has deposed that in the hospital on their query the deceased Nihal had stated to him and Manswarup that accused Bhagirath had fired on the deceased.	Facts
The learned Judge has expressed doubt about the presence of PW 20 Kishan Lal by indicating that if he was present at the place of occurrence, there was no occasion for such enquiry as to who had fired on the deceased.	None
As the learned Sessions Judge could not accept the dying declaration as genuine or convincing and as he also could not place any reliance on the eyewitnesses PW 19 and PW 20 for the aforesaid reasons, the learned Sessions Judge acquitted all the accused by giving them benefit of doubt.	None
The State of Haryana preferred Criminal Appeal No. 691 DB of 1981 in the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the order of acquittal.	None
The High Court by the impugned judgment has upheld the order of acquittal in favour of all the accused excepting the accused Bhagirath by holding that the reasonings given by the learned Sessions Judge in discarding the dying declaration and also the depositions of PW 19 and PW 20 were wholly unsound and as such, reappreciation of evidences by the Court of Appeal is warranted.	Facts
On such reappreciation of evidences, the High Court has held that it has been clearly established that the accused Bhagirath caused fatal injuries on the deceased by firing from a pistol and the deceased despite the operation, ultimately succumbed to such injuries caused by Bhagirath.	Facts
In that view of the matter, the High Court has set aside the order of acquittal in favour of Bhagirath and has convicted him for offence under Section 302 IPC and has sentenced him to imprisonment for life and also a fine of Rs. 20, 000.	Facts
The High Court has accepted the dying declaration as genuine and reliable and has also indicated that if the dying declaration can be safely accepted to be genuine and if the statement in such dying declaration rings truth in it, a conviction can be based on the dying declaration itself without requiring corroboration from other evidences.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court has observed that although there was enmity between the deceased and the accused, the deceased in this dying declaration did not make any attempt to rope in Chhotu or other accused persons by naming them.	Facts
On the contrary, he had named only Bhagirath as his assailant being present in the company of an unidentified person.	Facts
Such statement according to the High Court only indicates that the deceased was not tutored to give a false statement nor was he impelled by any motive to make false accusation against his enemies.	None
The High Court has held that the deceased was physically fit to make a statement to Dharambir.	None
Apart from the deposition of Dharambir to that effect, Dr. Gulati has given a certificate that the deceased was fit to make a statement.	Facts
He has supported the prosecution case that the physical condition of the deceased was good enough to enable the deceased to make a statement.	Facts
The High Court has held that although there was no bar for Dharambir to record the dying declaration but he has deposed that he requisitioned the service of SDJM and SDM(C) for recording the dying declaration and he recorded the statement of the injured for the purpose of sending such statement to the police station for drawing an FIR.	Facts
That Dharambir was not (sic) keen in recording the dying declaration is evident from the fact that service of SDJM and SDM(C) was requisitioned but unfortunately none of them was available at their respective residences.	Facts
Such fact has also come out in the evidence of PW 10.	None
About the time of reporting of the injured Nihal Singh at Sirsa Hospital, the High Court has pointed out that Dr. Garg of Sirsa Hospital just superficially examined the injured Nihal Singh at OPD without admitting him and referred him to Rohtak Hospital.	Facts
The time of reporting at Sirsa Hospital mentioned by Dr. Garg not with reference to any record but on the basis of this memory when he deposed after a long lapse appears to be wrong.	Facts
But Dr. Gulati has mentioned the time of referring Nihal Singh to Sirsa Hospital as 5 p.m. with reference to the record of Dabwali Hospital.	Facts
The distance of Rohtak Hospital was about 102 miles from Sirsa.	Facts
Nihal Singh reached Rohtak Hospital at 11.45 p.m. Such timing of reporting at Rohtak Hospital tallies with the time recorded by Dr. Gulati at Dabwali Hospital.	Facts
If the injured had left for Rohtak at about 2.30 p.m. from Sirsa, he would have reached Rohtak Hospital long before 11.45 p.m.	Facts
The High Court has held that the time of coming at Sirsa Hospital as stated by Dr. Garg is erroneous because of his memory failing after lapse of time.	Facts
The High Court has also indicated that Dharambir made requisition for SDJM and SDM(C) at 3.10 p.m. at Dabwali.	None
Such fact also indicates that the injured was present in the Dabwali Hospital at that time.	Facts
The High Court has also held that it cannot be accepted that Dr. Gulati and the head Constable Dharambir conspired to fabricate the dying declaration by manipulating the records.	Facts
The High Court has also held that no adverse inference against the genuineness of medicolegal report concerning the injured as prepared by Dr. Gulati need be drawn simply because names and particulars of the person bringing the inured to the hospital were recorded.	Facts
The High Court has observed that there is a special column for recording such particulars and if the requirement has been complied with, no exception should be taken.	Facts
With regard to nonmention of such particulars in other MLRs the High Court has observed that there was no record to indicate what was the nature of injuries suffered by such other persons.	Facts
If the injuries were simple the persons might have come on their own accord to the hospital for treatment.	None
The High Court has also held that the learned Sessions Judge erred in holding the dying declaration as inadmissible on the finding that as the death was due to toxaemia resulting from peritonitis, the death had not occurred directly due to injuries suffered by the deceased.	Facts
The High Court has pointed out that the facts in the said decision in Balak Ram case 1974 SCC(Cri) 837 1975 (3) SCC 219 1974 (80) CrLJ 1486 since relied on by the trial court are quite different.	Facts
In that case, the injured had received two gunshot wounds on the abdomen but he left hospital either because the wounds had healed up by that time or were healing up and two weeks thereafter, the injured died.	Facts
In such circumstances, it was held that the proximate cause of death was not the gunshot injury.	None
The High Court has also not approved the reasoning of the learned Sessions Judge in discarding the evidence of PW 19 Sohan Lal.	None
The High Court has held that only because this witness who is illiterate had mentioned on one occasion Ram Swarup in place of Manswarup and could not explain why some English word as DSR was given in the seal containing empty cartridge recovered from the place of occurrence, his deposition was required to be discarded by doubting his presence.	Facts
In the medicolegal report of Dr. Gulati the name of Sohan Lal was mentioned as the person who brought the injured Nihal Singh.	Facts
Such recording suggests that Sohan Lal was likely to be present when Nihal suffered gunshot injuries.	Facts
The High Court has also disapproved the reasonings of the learned Sessions Judge in discarding the testimony of PW 20.	Facts
It has been indicated by the High Court that it was not unusual in not remembering the name of the shop from which some articles were purchased by a person and on such account the testimony should not be disbelieved.	None
As the High Court was of the view that the dying declaration was recorded by Dharambir for the purpose of recording the statement of the injured so that the case could be registered and as the injured was physically fit to make such statement and as there was no occasion to disbelieve both Dr. Gulati and Dharambir without being influenced or tutored that the injured made the statement to Dharambir and as it approved that the deceased was not impelled by any motive to falsely implicate his enemies in the dying declaration which was demonstrable from the fact that the name of Chhotu or other accused was not mentioned by the injured Nihal in his statement to Dharambir, the dying declaration has been held by the High Court as fully reliable.	Facts
The High Court has also held that on the basis of such reliable dying declaration alone, the accused Bhagirath can be convicted for the offence of murder without the need of any other evidence.	Facts
In that view of the matter, the High Court has allowed the States appeal only in respect of Bhagirath and after setting aside, his order of acquittal passed by the trial court, Bhagirath has been convicted under Section 302 IPC.	Facts
Mr. B. S. Malik, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant, has submitted that the trial court has passed an order of acquittal after considering the materials on record and the evidences adduced in the case in great detail by giving very cogent reasons for his finding.	Arguments of Petitioner
The law is well settled that if on appreciation of evidence the view taken by the trial court is not a perverse one, but is also a possible view, then no interference by the appeal court is called for by reappreciating the evidence and taking another view, even if the other view intended to be taken by the appeal court is also a possible view.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Malik has submitted that the vies taken by the learned Sessions Judge is not at all perverse but quite consistent with the evidence adduced in the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, in any event, there was no occasion for the High Court to interfere with the wellreasoned order of acquittal passed by the trial court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Malik has also submitted that on the basis of the dying declaration, a conviction can be based provided the Court can come to a clear finding that such dying declaration was made honestly without any motive to falsely implicate any accused and the dying declaration has been correctly recorded.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the instant case, the trial court has given cogent reasons why the dying declaration cannot be accepted to be free from doubt and a genuine one.	Arguments of Petitioner
The dying declaration was recorded by the Head Constable Dharambir.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said Head Constable deposed that on some occasions the injured was required to speak again for recording his statement but he did not remember on what points such request for restating was made.	Arguments of Petitioner
PW 17 Dr. Gulati has also deposed that though the dying declaration was recorded by PW 25 Dharambir, he had not listened to the statement as he was busy in preparing his medical report.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is also no endorsement on the statement recorded by Dharambir that such statement was read over to the deponent in the presence of the said Dr. Gulati and the deceased after accepting the statement to be correct, signed it.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Malik has also submitted that even in respect of the timing of the said alleged dying declaration, there is enough scope to doubt and the learned Sessions Judge has indicated that the dying declaration is alleged to have been recorded at 4.00 p.m. at Dabwali Civil Hospital when in fact the injured was not in the said hospital at that time, because Dr. Garg has deposed that by 2.00 to 2.15 p.m. he had occasion to examine the injured at Sirsa Civil Hospital which is about 35 miles away from Dabwali.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Malik has also submitted that both the eyewitnesses, namely, Sohan Lal PW 19 and Kishan Lal PW 20, could be accepted as reliable witnesses for the reason indicated by the learned Sessions Judge.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, their deceptions cannot be accepted to be reliable.	Arguments of Petitioner
As a result, the statement contained in the dying declaration also does not get corroboration from the depositions of the said witness.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Malik has further submitted that though as a rule it cannot be held that the dying declaration recorded by an investigating officer should be scrapped but rules of prudence dictate that no reliance shall be placed on such dying declaration unless the same is corroborated by other reliable evidences as indicated in the decision of this Court in Dalip Singh v. State of Punjab 1979 (4) SCC 332 1979 SCC(Cri) 968.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Malik has further contended that both PW 19 and PW 20 are partisan witnesses.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has also come out in the evidence that there are two factions in the village  one being led by the deceased Nihal Singh and the other being led by the accused Chhotu.	Arguments of Petitioner
PWs 19 and 20 were admittedly not residents of Dabwali and normally their presence at the place of occurrence was to expected.	Arguments of Petitioner
Although PW 20 Kishan Lal tried to explain his presence at Dabwali by stating that he was on a long leave and at the relevant time was living in a rented house at Dabwali but the said witness miserably failed to satisfy the Court as to whether he was really a tenant by making payment of rents to the landlord.	Arguments of Petitioner
So far as PW 19 Sohan Lal is concerned, although the said Sohan Lal deposed that he came to Dabwali Bazaar for making some purchases but the said witness also failed to state what articles were purchased and in what quantity.	Arguments of Petitioner
Considering the fact that the said witnesses were partisan witnesses and they were inimical to the accused party, the learned Sessions Judge has not rightly placed any reliance on the depositions of PWs 19 and 20.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Malik has submitted that unfortunately the High Court has not considered the reasonings given by the learned Sessions Judge in discarding the depositions of the said two witnesses and by referring to one or two aspects of the finding of the learned Sessions Judge, the High Court has practically glossed over the infirmities in the depositions of the said witnesses which were cogently pointed out by the learned Sessions Judge.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Malik has submitted that the incident had taken place in broad daylight in the bazaar are but not independent witness or any shopkeeper has been examined by the prosecution in support of this case.	Arguments of Petitioner
If one the aforesaid facts the learned Sessions Judge had entertained a reasonable doubt about the complicity of the appellant in committing the murder, there was no occasion to take any exception to the finding of the learned Sessions Judge.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has, therefore, submitted that the appeal should be allowed by setting aside the conviction passed against the appellant and the order of acquittal should be maintained.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Rao Ranjit, learned counsel appearing for the respondent, has, however, disputed the submissions made by Mr. Malik.	Arguments of Respondent
He has contended that the Head Constable Dharambir recorded the statement not for the purpose of treating it as dying declaration because at that time it was not apprehended that the injured would die shortly.	Arguments of Respondent
Such statement recorded by the police office can be treated as the dying declaration if such declaration is made by the deceased about the cases for the injuries sustained by him and also about the person causing such injuries on the person of the deceased.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of this contention the learned counsel has relied on the decision of this Court in Munnu Raja v. State of M.P. 1976 (3) SCC 104 1976 SCC(Cri) 376	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Ranjit has also submitted that the Head Constable Dharambir made genuine attempts to get the dying declaration recorded by a Magistrate.	Arguments of Respondent
For the said purpose, he requisitioned the services of the both SDJM and SDM(C) but both of them were not available in their respective houses.	Arguments of Respondent
Such attempt of getting the statement recorded by a Magistrate is amply corroborated by the requisition in writing made by the Head Constable and also by the deposition of the police constable PW 10 who went with such requisition but could not meet the learned Magistrates.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Ranjit has also submitted that even in the decision of Dalip Sing 1976 (3) SCC 104 1976 SCC(Cri) 376 it has been indicated by this Court that it is better to leave the dying declaration recorded by a police officer during the course of investigation even though the same is admissible under Section 32 of the Indian Evidence Act until and unless the prosecution satisfies the Court as to why it was not recorded by the Magistrate or by a doctor.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Ranjit has submitted that in the instant case, it has been clearly established as to why the dying declaration could not be recorded by a Magistrate despite genuine attempts made for recording by a Magistrate.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Ranjit has also submitted that the injured was in a fit condition to make the dying declaration which is evident from the certificate issued by Dr. Gulati.	Arguments of Respondent
The contents of the dying declaration were read over to the injured who accepted such recorded statement to be correct.	Arguments of Respondent
The endorsement to that effect has been attested by Dr. Gulati.	Arguments of Respondent
It has also come out in the evidence that shortly after the incident when an enquiry was made to Dr. Gulati as to whether he was satisfied that the injured had made a statement to the said Head Constable Dharambir, the doctor gave not to the effect that he had asked the injured by putting question to him and the said injured told that he had made the statement which was recorded by the said Head Constable.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Ranjit has submitted that there is not evidence to suggest that Dr. Gulati had any reason to depose falsely or to be a party to a false dying declaration concocted by PW 25 Dharambir.	Arguments of Respondent
Similarly, there is no evidence to indicate that PW 25 was inclined to fabricate a false dying declaration.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore was, therefore, no occasion to discard the deposition of PW 17 Dr. Gulati and PW 25 Dharambir.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Ranjit has submitted that from the records of the Civil Hospital, Dabwali, it has been clearly demonstrated that the injured was in the said hospital up to 5.00 p.m.	Arguments of Respondent
After that he was taken to Sirsa Civil Hospital where he was examined in the OPD without admitting him and no record has been maintained in the said hospital at Sirsa.	Arguments of Respondent
Since he was referred to the Civil Hospital at Rohtak, the injured was immediately rushed to the said hospital where he was admitted at 11.45 p.m. Such timing of admission at Rohtak Hospital appears from the records maintained in the Civil Hospital at Rohtak.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court, in the aforesaid facts, has very rightly said that as Dr. Garg who had hurriedly examined the injured at Sirsa Hospital without admitting him in the said hospital, must have been confused about the time when he had examined the injured at the time of deposing after a long lapse of time.	Arguments of Respondent
On the contrary, the time of admission in the Rohtak Hospital clearly supports the prosecution case that the patient was in the Dabwali Civil Hospital up to 5.00 p.m. and after undertaking journey via Sirsa, the injured was admitted in the Civil Hospital at Rohtak at 11.45 p.m. Mr. Ranjit has also submitted that the learned Sessions Judge has also erred in holding that the dying declaration was not admissible in evidence because the death was not attributable to the injuries caused on Nihal Singh but he died of toxaemia resulting from peritonitis.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Ranjit has submitted that it has come out from the medical evidence and also from the postmortem report that Nihal Singh had suffered 10 punctured wounds for which he was ultimately referred to a bigger hospital at Rohtak where the deceased had undergone an operation but within two days he succumbed to such injuries.	Arguments of Respondent
It is quite apparent from the postmortem report and also from the deposition of the doctor that the injuries suffered by the deceased were serious and were likely to cause death the ordinary course.	Arguments of Respondent
Simply because attempt to save his life had been taken by performing an operation on the injured but such attempt ultimately failed because he developed toxaemia resulting from peritonitis on account of the injuries suffered by him, it cannot be held that the death is not due to the injuries sustained by the deceased.	Arguments of Respondent
The dying declaration is, therefore, admissible in evidence and the rejection of the same on the score of being not admissible is illegal.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Ranjit has also submitted that if the view taken by the trail court in passing the order of acquittal is not in conformity with the evidence adduced in the case and such view does not appear to be a reasonable view which can be taken in the facts of the case, interference with the order of acquittal after appreciating evidences on record is fully justified.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court has analysed in detail as to how the learned Sessions Judge bad gone wrong and has taken the view against the weight of the evidence.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, interference by the High Court in exercise of the power of the court of appeal should not be interfered and this appeal should be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
After giving our careful consideration to the facts and circumstances of the case and the judgments passed by the learned Sessions Judge and also by the High Court and on consideration of the materials on record and evidences through which we have been taken by the learned counsel for the parties, it appears to us that the dying declaration which was recorded by the Head Constable PW 25	Reasoning
Dharambir is fully convincing and can be safely relied upon.	Reasoning
The Head Constable, on getting message from Dr. Gulati that a person with gunshot injuries had been admitted in the Civil Hospital at Dabwali, immediately rushed to the said place and after making entry in the police register and after obtaining certificate from Dr. Gulati about the condition of the injured, took statement from the injured Nihal Singh for the purpose of registering a case.	Reasoning
At the time of recording such statement, the said Head Constable had no intention to record the statement as a dying declaration.	Reasoning
On the contrary, he genuinely made an attempt to get the dying declaration recorded by a Magistrate and for the said purpose he requisitioned the services of both SDJM and SDM(C).	Reasoning
Unfortunately, both the said Magistrates were not available in their respective houses.	Reasoning
Such facts have been clearly proved with reference to the records and also from the depositions given by PW 10 and PW 25.	Reasoning
Simply because Dr. Gulati did not listen to the statement made by the injured Nihal Singh to Dharambir, it cannot be held that the statement recorded by Dharambir was unfounded and no reliance should be placed on the same.	Reasoning
Dr. Gulati has attested the statement recorded by Dharambir wherein it was specifically stated that the statement was read over to the patient who had admitted the same to be correct.	Reasoning
It has been rightly indicated by the High Court that even in answer to the query made to Dr. Gulati as to whether he was satisfied about the correctness of the statement recorded by the Head Constable Dharambir, the said Dr. Gulati had recorded that he had satisfied himself about the correctness of the statement recorded by Dharambir by putting questions to that effect to the injured Nihal Singh.	Reasoning
It may also be indicated here that although there were inimical relations between the accused Chhotu and his followers and the deceased Nihal Singh, Nihal Singh did not implicate Chhotu or the other accused Kalawati	Reasoning
but he had only implicated the appellant Bhagirath in his dying declaration by indicating that it was Bhagirath in his dying declaration by indicating that it was Bhagirath who was then accompanied by an unidentified person, who had fired a shot at him from a pistol.	Reasoning
In our view, the High Court has rightly held that Dr. Garg had no occasion to examine the injured Nihal Singh at 2.00 to 2.15 p.m. on the said date because Nihal Singh was in the Civil Hospital at Dabwali up to 5.00 p.m.	Reasoning
The statement as to the time of his examination of Nihal Singh was made by Dr. Garg from his memory after a long lapse of time because no record had been kept in the Sirsa Hospital about the time of examination by Dr. Garg.	Reasoning
The prosecution case that Nihal Singh made statement to Dharambir at Dabwali Civil Hospital and the injured Nihal Singh was in the said hospital up to 5.00 p.m. has been clearly established from the deposition of Dr. Gulati and of the said Dharambir and also from the records of Dabwali Civil Hospital.	Reasoning
In our view, the trail court has also gone wrong in proceeding on an erroneous view that the dying declaration was not admissible in evidence because the death was not due to the injuries sustained by the injured at the hands of the accused Bhagirath.	Reasoning
Although ultimately toxaemia had developed because of peritonitis, all such complications are directly attributable to the injuries suffered by the deceased Nihal Singh by the gunshot at the hands of the accused Bhagirath.29.	Reasoning
So far as the two eyewitnesses PW 19 and PW 20 are concerned, it has however transpired from the evidence that both of them had occasion to be partisan witnesses for being inimical against the accused Chhotu and the other accused person.	Reasoning
The learned Sessions Judge has also rightly indicated that there are some contradictions in the depositions of PW 19 and PW 20 but in our view such contradictions are not very material for which their depositions are to be discarded.	Reasoning
Both the said witnesses have clearly stated that the accused Bhagirath had fired a shot from the pistol from a close range.	Reasoning
Such deposition gets corroboration from the medical evidence as to the nature of the injuries suffered by the deceased and also from the dying declaration given by the deceased Nihal Singh.	None
As it appears to us that view taken by the learned Sessions Judge in passing the order of acquittal in favour of the accused Bhagirath is not consistent with the evidences adduced in the case, it cannot be held that the trial court has taken a view which is also a reasonable view for basing the order of acquittal in favour of the accused Bhagirath.	None
In our view, the High Court has rightly placed reliance on the dying declaration on the basis of which conviction against the accused Bhagirath is warranted.	Reasoning
The statements contained in the said dying declaration also get corroboration from other evidences adduced in the case.	Reasoning
Hence, the order of conviction and sentence passed against the accused Bhagirath by the High Court are just and proper and the same need not be interfered with.	Reasoning
This appeal, therefore, fails and is dismissed.	Decision
The appellant has been released on bail.	Decision
His bail bonds will stand cancelled and he should be taken into custody to serve out the sentence.	Decision
