 Mitter, J. 1.	None
These are two appeals from a common judgment and order of the High Court of Mysore covering a number of Writ Petitions filed in that Court on special leave granted by this Court.	Issue
2.	None
The appellants are two out of a total number of 43 persons who filed separate petitions under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution before the Mysore High Court on October, l, 1964.	Facts
The main prayer in all the petitions was that a writ of mandamus should be issued commanding the State of Mysore to promote each petitioner to the cadre of Assistant Engineers from the date on which the petitioner was placed in charge of a subdivision with all consequential benefits.	Facts
To put in short, the demand of the petitioners was that they should all receive benefits which others promoted before and after them had received.	Facts
According to the petitions, some of these persons had received such benefits before the petitioners and some had been accorded similar advantages although they were promoted as Assistant Engineers long after the petitioners, but the State of Mysore had, without any reason, declined to give similar benefits to the petitioners.	Facts
3.	None
The facts as they emerge from the affidavits and the documents referred to therein are as follows.	Facts
The State of Mysore, before the Reorganisation of States Act l956, used to employ engineering graduates for a long time past designating them as surveyors.	Facts
The State had another cadre of engineers know as Assistant Engineers.	Facts
Surveyors who were posted as officers in Charge of subdivisions were from time to time promoted to the cadre of Assistant Engineers.	Facts
Between March 24, 1944 and December 15, 1944, a batch of 27 surveyors were placed in charge of different subdivisions in the State.	Facts
This bewitch was promoted to the cadre of Assistant Engineers with effect from May 21, 1945.	Facts
Another batch of officers who were placed in charge of subdivisions between May 11, 1945 and January 2, l946 were similarly promoted with effect from January 17, 1947.	Facts
By a notification dated May 17, 1950 the Government of Mysore decided to give all these 41 persons the benefit of promotion as Assistant Engineers with effect from the dates of occurrence of vacancies according to seniority.	Facts
They were further to have the benefit of the grant of initial pay with weightage from October 1, 1948 in the revised scale of pay.	Facts
The petitioners comprising a batch of 63 surveyors were placed in charge of subdivisions on diverse dates between December 28, 1945 and November 13, 1949.	Facts
With regard to most of these the Chief Engineer of the State recommended to the Government of Mysore that they should be promoted as Assistant Engineers with retrospective effect from the dates they were placed in charge of subdivisions.	Facts
By a letter dated December 5, 1948 addressed by the Secretary to the Government of Mysore to the Chief Engineer, the latter was requested to post most of this batch of surveyors including one Siddaveerappa in charge of subdivisions as shown in the accompanying statement pending issue of orders on the question of filling up vacancies existing in the Assistant Engineers cadre.	Facts
By notification dated December 21, 1949 these 63 persons were directed to be promoted as temporary Assistant Engineers in the Public Works Department against existing vacancies.	Facts
On the same date, the Chief Engineer was requested to forward to Government an allocation statement showing the vacancies against which the newly promoted Assistant Engineers were counted, the dates from which the posts were vacant and the dates on which they had been in charge of subdivisions.	Facts
On March 7, 1950 the Chief Engineer by his communication No. l83940 Est.	Facts
supplied particulars to Government of the dates on which each of these 63 persons had assumed charge of a subdivision.	Facts
On September 28, 1953, the Chief Engineer addressed D. O. letters to all the 63 Assistant Engineers for particulars of dates on which each of them had taken such charge.	Facts
This was complied with by all the addressees.	Facts
By a letter dated December 13, 1956, the Chief Engineer drew the attention of the State Government to the fact that these 63 persons had been promoted in respect of vacancies which had existed long prior to December 21, 1949 (the date of notification mentioned above) and that some of the vacancies had existed for over four year prior to that date.	Facts
According to the Chief Engineer, had these persons been promoted as and when vacancies occurred, they would not only have been in receipt of a much higher pay in their progressive grade but also would have been senior to many of the Assistant Engineers who had come in from the newly merged areas of Hyderabad, Bombay and Madras.	Facts
The Chief Engineer also commented that in addition to this double disadvantage to which these persons had been exposed, they were also going to lose all chances of promotion to the higher ranks because the Assistant Engineers from the merged areas were all younger to then in age.	Facts
The attention of the Government was drawn to the promotion of a previous batch of 41 supervisors already mentioned.	Facts
The letter ended with a recommendation that a similar consideration should he extended to these 63 persons and their ranks in the common civil list be fixed with reference to the date of occurrence of the vacancies.	Facts
It appears that the Chief Engineer pursued this subject from time to time making his recommendation about these persons By letter dated July 10, 1957 the Chief Engineer pointed out that as the InterState seniority list of Assistant Engineers was soon to be finalised and the service in the cadre was to be the criterion for fixing relative ranks, it was right that these 63 persons should be reckoned as promoted from the dates of occurrence of the vacancies and their relative ranks in the integrated seniority list be fixed accordingly.	Facts
Another letter on the subject was addressed by the Chief Engineer to the State Government on December 98, 1957.	Facts
With regard to the recommendation already made by him, the Chief Engineer enclosed a modified Inter State seniority list from serial numbers 28 to 92 to show that only a few Deputy Engineers of Bombay who were far junior in age and service would be ranked below these 63 persons of the erstwhile Mysore State and this would not affect these men from Bombay inasmuch as the 63 Mysore Engineers were very much older and would not bar the prospects of promotion of the juniors.	Facts
4.	None
There was another batch of 107 per sons who were promoted to the cadre of Assistant Engineers by notification dated November 15, 1958.	Facts
Their appointments were given retrospective effect not from the dates on which they had assumed charge but from November 1, 1956.	Facts
Although these officers did not receive the benefit of promotion from the dates on which the vacancies had occurred, they certainly received some benefit which had been denied to these 63 persons.	Facts
Similarly, two batches of 32 surveyors and 124 surveyors were promoted by notifications dated July 3, l963 and October 9, 1963.	Facts
5.	Arguments of Petitioner
During the argument, our attention was drawn by the learned Solicitor General appearing for the appellants to another instance where some clerks had received benefit of promotion with retrospective effect.	Arguments of Petitioner
6.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the appellants, they had been clearly discriminated against considering the case of 41 persons who had been appointed before them as well as the subsequent batches of surveyors who had been promoted after them.	None
The petitioners complaint was that the order of May 17, 1950 gave special concession to these 41 officers to which they were not entitled under the rules.	None
At the same time, it was argued that there was nothing in the service rules which prevented the Government from granting such concessions to the petitioners and the sum and substance of the argument of the learned Solicitor General was that if such concessions could be given to persons who had been appointed before these 63 persons as well as persons who had been appointed subsequently, there was no reason why such concessions should have been withheld from his clients.	Arguments of Petitioner
In conclusion, it was urged that it was just and proper that the State of Mysore should be directed to fix the scale of seniority of these 63 persons on the basis that they had become Assistant Engineers from the dates on which the vacancies to which they had been posted had occurred so that they would not lose their chances of promotion in higher posts, for if the seniority list was allowed to remain as it is, persons who were younger in age and junior in service to this batch of 63 persons would receive promotions ahead of them for no fault of theirs.	Arguments of Petitioner
7.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the counter affidavit of the State of Mysore used before the High Court, the idea behind giving some concession to the batch of 41 persons was to give them some financial benefit as from a particular date, viz., 1101948 and no more.	Arguments of Respondent
This does not appear to be strictly accurate in view of the order dated May 17, 1950.	None
With regard to the batch of 63 persons it was said that the necessary details regarding their seniority and dates of occurrence of vacancies were not available when the notification dated December 12, 1949 was published.	None
According to Government, these people could not be given promotion with retrospective effect as the dates of assumption of charge in subdivisions by them was not strictly in accordance with the seniority.	None
Antedating their promotions to the dates on which they had taken charge would result in some junior officers being ranked above some senior persons and it was for this reason that Government had ordered the promotion of these 63 persons to take effect from the date of notification irrespective of the dates from which they were put in charge of the subdivisions.	None
It was also said that the promotion of this batch was subject to the condition that they should be ranked in the order of seniority as per gradation list that obtained just before promotion.	None
This state of affairs continued right up to the date of Reorganisation of the State in November 1956.	None
The affidavit goes on to state that in view of the Reorganisation of the State .	None
and the statutory recognition of the position of several officers as on 31101956 it was no longer open to the new Mysore Government to reopen the issue settled in 1949.	None
With regard to the batch of 107 persons it was said that Government had ordered their promotion only from November 1, 1956 and it was not competent to order the same from an earlier date.	None
In regard to the two batches of 32 surveyors and 124 surveyors promoted in 1963 it was said that they were all in charge of subdivisions from the dates subsequent to November 1, 1956 and there was no difficulty in promoting them from the dates on which they had assumed charge of subdivisions.	None
According to the State as .	None
these incidents occurred after the Reorganisation and the formation of a new State, the new State of Mysore was perfectly justified in giving effect to their promotions accordingly.	None
8.	None
With regard to the 63 persons the point of view of the State of Mysore is that the new State which emerged after the Reorganisation of States in 1956 was not competent to interfere with the state of affairs prior to 1111956 and Government had no power to reopen their cases.	Reasoning
9.	None
According to Mr. Iyengar who appeared for the State, assuming that law included executive directions for the purpose of Art.	Arguments of Respondent
14 of the Constitution, we have to see (a) whether there is a rude which has been unevenly applied as among equals (b) if a principle has been evolved whether it has been unevenly applied and (c) whether there has been an equal treatment in applying executive orders.	Arguments of Respondent
10.	None
Mr. Iyengar argued that there was no rule which had been violated in this case nor any principle had been evolved which could be said to have been unevenly applied nor was there any executive order which has been given effect to in different ways in different cases.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Iyengars second submission was that if the 63 persons were to be fixed in the cadre with respect to the dates on which they were first put in charge of subdivisions the seniority list with regard to the whole cadre of engineers would have to be altered thus affecting persons who are not before us and who would be condemned unheard.	Arguments of Respondent
His third submission was that giving effect to the contention of the appellants would be projecting Art.	Arguments of Respondent
14 to a date before the Constitution came into force and this could not be allowed.	Arguments of Respondent
He also argued that the appellants had been guilty of laches in making their applications in 1964 when they were really complaining of an order which had been passed as far back as May 17 1950.	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended that the appellants had been able to give no explanation as to why they did not apply in between the date of the impugned order and the 1st of November 1956 when the Reorganisation of States became effective.	Arguments of Respondent
11.	None
Mr. Iyengar further contended that in reality a concession had been shown to some persons and the petitionerappellants had no legal right to claim such concession.	Arguments of Respondent
He also argued that giving effect to the contention of the petitioners would be going against S. 115 subs.	Arguments of Respondent
(7) of the States Reorganisation Act 1956.	Arguments of Respondent
12.	None
There is some force in some of the contentions put forward on behalf of the State of Mysore.	Reasoning
It is not necessary to test them as we find ourselves unable to uphold the contention of the appellants.	Reasoning
No doubt some concession had been shown to the first batch of 41 persons and the batches of persons who had come in after the batch of 63 persons also received some concession but after all these were concessions and not something which they could claim as of right.	Reasoning
The State of Mysore might have shown some indulgence to this batch of 63 persons but we cannot issue a writ of mandamus commanding it to do so.	Reasoning
There was no service rule which the State had transgressed nor has the State evolved any principle to be followed in respect of persons who were promoted to the rank of Assistant Engineers from surveyors.	Reasoning
The indulgence shown to the different batches of persons were really ad hoc and we are not in a position to say what, if any, adhoc indulgence should be meted out to the appellants before us.	Reasoning
13.	None
There is also a good dead of force behind the contention that the appellants are guilty of laches.	Reasoning
After the passing of the order of May 17, 1950, they should have made an application within a reasonable time thereafter.	Reasoning
Merely because the Chief Engineer had espoused their cause and was writing letters from time to time to the State Government to do something for them did not mean that they could rest upon their oars if they were really being discriminated against.	Reasoning
As we cannot hold that the appellants were entitled to any particular indulgence or concession, the only way of meting out equality to all surveyors who had been promoted to the cadre of Assistant Engineers would be to say that promotions should in all cases be effective from the date of the notification.	Reasoning
This is obviously beyond our powers.	Reasoning
14.	None
In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed but on the facts of this case we make no order as to costs of this appeal.	Decision
This order will also govern the case of S. A. Muni Reddy who alone out of 37 persons was allowed to intervene in this appeal by our order made on 11th October.	Decision
1966.	Decision
15.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
