 C. AGRAWAL, J. The se appeals, by certificate of fitness granted by the Madras High Court under Section 66(A)(2) of the Income Tax Act, 1922(hereinafter referred to as the 1922 Act) and Section261 of the Income Tax Act, 1961(hereinafter referred to as the 1961 Act) read with Article133 of the Constitution of India , are directed against the Judgment of the Said High Court dated March 1, 1976 in Tax Cases Nos. 160 of1969 and 239 of1971 (References Nos. 52 of 1969 and 1 of T.C. No. 160 of 1969 Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in upholding the basis of valuation adopted by the Incometaxofficer for the shares In Messrs. Sri Rama Vilas Service (Private) Ltd. as on January 1, 1954?	Issue
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in holding that the proviso to section 12B(2) has no application in regard to the sale of shares to M s Simpson Company Ltd ? C.No.	None
239 of 1971 (1) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in holding that the proviso to section 12B(2) has no application in regard to the sale various shares by the assesseecompany to M s Simpson General Finance Co. (Private) Ltd. and that the assessee was entitled to a capital loss of Rs. 9, 47, 541/ in the assessment year 195859?	None
(2) Whether, on the fact and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in l	None
aw	None
in holding that the second proviso to section 12B(2) had no application and that the full value of the consideration accounted for by the assessee should not be altered ?	None
These questions arise in the following facts and circumstances.	None
M s Amalgamation Private Limited (hereinafter referred to as the assesseeCompany )is a company incorporated on December 22, 1938 as a private limited Company.	Facts
The assessee Company held shares in several companies, such as simpson and Company Ltd., Addison Company Pvt. Ltd., George Oakes (Private) Ltd., Addison Paints Chemicals private Ltd., India pistons Private ltd., etc.	Facts
Out of the issued capital of Rs. 7, 50, 000shares of Rs. 10 in Simpson and Company Ltd. the a ssesseecompany held, at the material time, 7, 06, 933 ordinary shares.	Facts
Simpson and Company Ltd, had a subsidiary by name simpson and General Finance Company (private)Ltd, Carrying on the business of financing by way of hire purchase transactions to outsiders and by way of loans and advance to the companies of this group.	Facts
As on July 1, 1956 a sum of Rs. 1, 85, 16, 000/ was due to Simpson and General Finance company (Private) Ltd. from the assesseecompany.	Facts
Under Section 295 of the Companies Act, 1956 which came into force on April1, 1956 no company could, without obtaining the previous approval of the Central Government in that behalf , directly or indirectly, make any loan to a company, which is its holding company .	Facts
In subsection (3) of Section 295 it is provided that where any loan made by a lending company and outstanding at the commencement of the companies ace, 1956, could not have been made without the previous approval of the Central Government If that section had then been in force, then the lending company had to, within six months from the commencement of the Actor such further time not exceedingsix months as the Central Government might grant for that purpose, either obtain the approval of the Central Government to the transaction or enforce the repayment of the Loan made.	Facts
The liability of Rs. 1, 85, 16, 000/ to Simpson and General Finance company (Private ) Ltd. by the assesseecompany was affected by the aforesaid provision and, therefore , it became necessary for the asesseecompany to liquidate this liability.	Facts
Simpson and General Finance Company (Private) Ltd. owed a sum of Rs. 1, 05, 21, 750/ to Simpson and Company ltd.	Facts
The assessee company approached the Government of India for necessary approval to put through certain transactions sale of shares held by it tosimpson and General Finance Company(Private) Ltd. in liquidation of the liability.	Facts
Simpson and General Finance Company(Private) Ltd., in its turn, would discharge its liability to Simpson and Company Ltd. by selling its holdings to simpson and General Finance Company (	Facts
Private) Ltd.	Facts
The assesseecompany as well assimpson and General Finance Company (private) Ltd. proposed to sell the shares at certain specified price per share and sought the approval of the Central Government for such sale .The Central Government, in approving the sale, fixed its own prices and stated that the said fixation was without prejudice to any valuation of shares for purposes of capital gains.	Facts
There after the shares held by the assess eecompany in Various companies in respect of which approval had been Granted by the Central Government were transferred by the assesseecompany to Simpson and General Finance Company (Private ) Ltd. with effect from June13, 1957at the price fixed by the Company Law Administration and Simpson and General Finance company (Private) Ltd.sold part there of to Simpson and Company Ltd.	Facts
The Transaction between Simpson and General Finance Company (Private) Ltd. And Simpson and Company Ltd. was also at the same prices.	Facts
In submitting its income tax return for the assessment year 195859, the relevant previous year ending June 30, 1957, the assesseecompany claimed a capital loss of Rs. 4, 37, 703/ in respect of the above the transaction.	Facts
In arriving at this loss the assesseecompany opted for the substitution of the Market Value as on June1, 1954 in respect of shares in (1) S.R.V.S (Private) ltd., (2) Addison Company Ltd., (3) George Oakes (private Ltd., and (4) India Pistons (Private) Ltd.	Facts
As regards the rest of the shares, the assesseecompany adopted the cost prices.	None
The Income Tax Officer, while making the assessment, proceeded on the basis that the price structure approved by the department of Company Law Administration for the transfer of the aforesaid shares was pure and simple on an add hoc basis and meant to serve the limited purpose of approval to be given under section 372 of the Companies Act, 1956 and that the price at which the sales took place could not, therefore , be taken to represent the fair market value of the Shares.	Facts
He took the break up value as on January 1, 1954 for the purpose of computation of capital gains and revised the sale prices and arrived at Rs. 6, 95, 082/ as the net capital gains.	Facts
Even according to his computation the re were certain capital determined by him.	Facts
In the case of S.R.V.S. (Private) Ltd. the Income Tax Officer took the breakup value as on January 1, 1954 at Rs. 36, 35, 350/ and their sale value at Rs.21, 88, 395/ resulting i n the capital loss ofRs.	Facts
14, 46, 955/. The assesseecompany appealed against the assessment of the capital gains to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	Facts
While the said appeal was pending, the Commissioner, of Income Tax proceeded Under Section 33B of the 1922 Act as he was of the view that the order of the Income Tax officer was erroneous and prejudicial to the interest of revenue in so far ashe had wrongly allowed the capital loss amounting to Rs. 14, 46, 955/ on the sale of the sharesin S.R.V.S. (Private) Ltd.	Facts
After considering the submission of the assesseecompany, the Commissioner held that the appreciation in value of the shares of Simpson and Company Ltd. held by S.R.V.S.(Private) Ltd. should not have been taken into account and if the value of the shares held by S.R.V.S.(Private) ltd. in Simpson Company Ltd. , as on January1, 1954had been Rs. 24, 38, 578/ S.R.V.S. (Private) Ltd. would not have parted with the se shares at cost on July 31, 1955.	None
The commissioner revised the capital lo ss of Rs. 14, 46, 955/ allowed by the Income Tax Officer and considered that the re was capital gain liable for assessment of Rs. 3, 91, 579/.	Facts
This figure was directed to be substituted and the assessment of capital gains was revised accordingly.	Facts
The assesseecompany appealed against the said order of he Commissioner to the Tribunal contending that the sale value fixed by the Company law Administration represented the correct value of the shares and the transactions were without any motive to avoid capital gain and they had been necessitated by the various provisions of the Companies Act which prohibited intercompany loans and that the method adopted by the Income Tax officer, viz., the secondary valuation, was proper.	Facts
The said appeal was allowed by the Tribunal and the order of the Commissioner of Income Tax was set aside and the method adopted by the Income Tax Officer of Secondary Valuation was held to be proper, The Appellant Assistant Commissioner took up the appeals of the assessee Company for this and Other years subsequent to the order of the Tribunal and following the Tribunals order he worked out the Capital loss in respect of the Other shares under consideration and in effect accepted the assesseecompanys claim of capital loss of Rs. 4, 37, 703/.	Facts
The said order led to appeals both by the assesseecompany and the Revenue to the Tribunal.	Facts
The assesseecompanys appeal related to computation of the capital loss of Rs. 4, 37, 703/ as emerging from the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner instead of Rs. 4, 90, 244/ which would be the Correct figure.	Facts
The Revenue contested the acceptance of the Claim of the assesseecompany with reference to the capital loss of Rs. 4, 37, 703/as shown in the returns.	Facts
Onthe first occasion when the matter come before the Tribunal it remanded the case to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and called for a specific finding whether the sales under consideration were effected with the object of avoidance of tax or reduction of liability to tax and also Wanted the full value of consideration to be worked out, in case the first proviso to section 12B(2) of the 1922 Act was held to be applicable The Appellate Assistant Commissioner observed that the re was ample evidence to show that the sale of shares was a forced one and that the assesseecompany had no option but to comply with the statutory provisions and that the evidence produced clearly established the assessee companys contention that the sale was not motivated by any desire to avoid capital gains and that the Revenue had not proved by any conclusive evidence that the motive underlying the transaction was the avoidance or reduction of the liability to capital gains tax .He worked out the figures in accordance with the rules framed under the wealth Tax Act and found that the pricesfixed by the Company Law Administration were not very much different from the figures worked out by him.	Facts
After receiving the report of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, the Tribunal considered the matter again and held that the proviso to Section 12B of the 1922 Act could not be invoked in the instant case as the re was no evidence to support the view that the sales were effected with a view to avoid the provisions of Section 12B.	Facts
The Tribunal accepted the contention of the assessee company and held that the Revenue was not justified in computing the capital gains and disturbing the figures fixed by the Government of India.	Facts
The two questions referred in T.C. No. 160 of 1969 arise out of proceedings under Section 33B of the 1922Act, while questions Nos. land 2 referred in T.C. No. 239 of 1971 arise out of the order of the Tribunal in the appeal against the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner inrespect of the assessment year 195 859.Since the second question in T.C. No. 160 of 1969 and questions Nos.1 and 2 in T.C. No. 239 of 1971 raisedmore or less the same issue, they were taken up together by the High Court.	Facts
After referring to the provisions of Sections 12b (2) and m ore particularly the first proviso to the said subsection, the High Court has observed that the first requisite for the application of the said proviso, namely, that the person to whom the sale is made should be a person with whom the assessee is directly or indirectly connected, was satisfied in the present case because the sale of shares to a subsidiary of a sub sidiary is one to a person with whom the assesseecompany is directly or indirectly or indirectly connected.	Facts
As regards the second requirement of the proviso, as to whethe r the sale was effected with the object of avoidance or reduction of the liability of the assessee company under that Section, the High Court has pointed out that the object with which the transaction was put through was the avoidance or reduction of the liability to capita gains.	Facts
According to the High Court, such a finding of taking the result as if it was the object would not satisfy the requirement of the first proviso to Section 12B(20 of the 1922 Act.	Facts
The High Court was of the view that the tribunal had rightly called for a finding on this point specifically from the appellate Assistant Commissioner.	Facts
After referring to the finding recorded by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, which was accepted b y the Tribunal, that the Object of the transaction was not to avoid or reduce such liability to capital gains tax, that the sales was a forced case since the assesseecompany had no option and that the prices had been fixed by the company law Administration , the High Court held that the first proviso to Section 12B(2) cannot be attracted to the present case.	Facts
The High Court did not accept the contention urged on behalf of the Revenue that the sale price had been fixed by the company law Administration on ad hoc basis and, in this context, it has observed that the letter dated May 18of	Facts
1957(Annexure G. VII.	Facts
At the remand report of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner) clearly shows that the company Law Administration worked out the figure s in consultation.	Facts
with the Central Board of Revenue and when the assesseecompany sold the shares at those prices, it could not be validly contended that the assesseecompany transferred the shares at certain prices with the object of avoidance or reduction of liability to capital gains.	None
On that view the High Court answered the second question in T.C. No.160 of1969 and the second question in T.C.No.	None
239 of 1971 in the affirmative and against the Revenue.	None
As regards the first question in T.C. No. 160 of1969 which raises the question of valuation, the High Court felt that on the view it had taken as regards the second question it would not survive for consideration because the question of valuation would be material only if the proviso applied.	None
The High Court has, however, considered the said question and has indicated the answer to that question also.	None
The High Court has expressed the view that this is a case of substantial holding and that the re is textual backing to the method adopted by the Income T ax officer and that the Commissioner had found fault with it without any valid reason.	None
The High Court, therefore , answered the first question in T.C. No. 160 of 1969 in affirmative and in favour of the assesseecompany.	None
As regards the first question in T.C. No.239 of 1971, the High Court felt that it did not require any independent treatment in view of the answer given with regard to second question in T.C. No. 160 of 1969 which would answer that question also.	None
Therefore , that question also was answered in the affirmative and in favour of the assesseecompany.	None
We have heard Shri K.N. Shukla , the learned senior Counsel appearing for the Revenue in support of the appeals in respect of the answers given by the High Court to the se questions, .	Arguments of Respondent
Having considered the submissions of the learned counsel, we are of the view that the High Court to the se questions, Having considered the submissions of the learned counsel, we are of the view that the High Court has rightly construed the provisions contained in the proviso to section 12B(2) of the 1922 Act and, in view of the finding recorded by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner , which finding was accepted by the Tribunal, that the object of the transaction was not to avoid or reduce the liability to capital gains, the said proviso was not attracted.	Arguments of Respondent
In our opinion, the said finding of the High Court does not suffer from any legal infirmity and the re is no ground to interfere with the judgment of the High Court on this aspect of the case .We	Arguments of Respondent
may now take up the appeals of the Revenue in Respect of questions Nos. 4, 5 and 6 in T.C. No. 239 of 1971.	Arguments of Respondent
The said questions were as follows Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Appellate Tribunal was right in law In holding that the loss sustained by the assessee on account of standing guarantee to sembiam Saw Mills (Private) Std.	None
(in voluntary liquidation) should be allowed in 196263 assessment after taking into account the amountsreceived from the liquidators during the years 195960 to 196263 ?	None
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case , the Tribunal was right in law in deleting the receipts of Rs. 1, 41, 000/, Rs.2, 29, 627/, Rs. 1, 10, 500/and Rs.4, 381/from the liquidators of Sembiam Saw Mills (Private) Ltd. (in voluntary liquidation), from the assessments for 195960, 19 6061, 196162 and 196263 respectively?	None
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Appellate Tribunal was right in law In holding that an amount of Rs. 4, 23, 256/ representing the real loss sustained by the assessee on account of standing guarantee of Sembiam Saw Mills (Private) Ltd. (in voluntary liquidation) should beallowed in the assessment year 196263?	None
The re was a company by name	None
Sembiam Saw Mills (Private) Ltd. (for short SSM), which was originally a subsidiary of	None
Addisoncompany (Private) Ltd.	None
On and from February 1, 1954, the assesseecompany purchased all the shares of SSM from M s Addison company (Private)Ltd, and SS Mthus became the direct subsidiary of the assesseecompany.	None
SSM had borrowed monies from the National Bank of India Ltd, and the assesseecompany had guaranteed the loan to said company by the said Bank.	None
SSM went into liquidation some time in 1995.	None
For the purpose of over draft facilities SSM executed a promissory note in favour of the assesseecompany which was endorsed by the assesseecompany to the Bank along with a separate guarantee letter in favour of the Bank.	None
When SSM went into liquidation , the assesseecompany, as guarantor, was required to clear those overdrafts in accordance with the terms of the guarantee.	None
After adjusting the amount recovered from the liquidators , the sumdue to the assessee company from the liquidated company on account of the said over draft was Rs. 9, 08, 764/.The assesseecompany claimed this amount as a loss which arose in the Course of and incidental to its business in the assessment for the 1958 59.	None
The re were receipts by the assesseecompany in the course of the liquidation of SSM in the later years, The total amount received came to Rs. 4, 58, 508, 28 spread over the relevant accounting years for the assessment years 1959 60 to 196263.The assesseecompany relied on the clause in the memorandum of association authorising it to be the guarantor for the loans and contended that the transactions in question sprang out of normal business transactions and hence the loss was an allowable deduction in the assessment for 195859.	None
The Income Tax Officer held that the loss in qu estion did not arise during the course of or incidental to the business of the assesseecompany and in his view it was at best a capital loss which did not come within the scope of Section 12Bof the 1922 Act.	None
In making the assessments for the years 195 960to 196263 the Income Tax officer treated the receipts from the liquidator as income as a protective measure.	None
In appeal the Appellate Assistant Commissioner did not accept the claim of the assessee Company for allowance of the loss in1 95859as he was of the view that it was not a loss which arose during the course of or was incidental to its business.	None
But the appeals for the years 195960to 196263 we real lowed in so far as they related to the question of the receipts in the respective years from the liquidator.	None
As the guarantee loss had not been allowed as a deduction in 195859, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner heldthat the subsequent recoveries could not be included in the total income in the later years.	None
The assess eecompany as well asthe Revenue Preferred appeals against the said order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner before the Tribunal.	None
The Tribunal held that the assesseecompany had guaranteed the loan in the course of carrying on its own business and that the loss was clearly admissible as a deduction.	None
But since the assesseecompany had received the last of the payments from the liquidator in the previous year relevant to the assessment year 196263 it was held that the balance of Rs. 4, 2 3, 256/ remaining unrecoverable represented the real business loss allowable for the assessment year 196263.	None
At the instance of the Revenue the Tribunal referred the aforementioned questions Nos. 4, 5 and6 for the opinion of the High Court.	None
The High Court, while dealing with said questions, has observed that the real point in issue was whether the guarantee that was executed in favour of the Bank in respect of the loan to SSM, the subsidiary of the assesseecompany, was done in the course of its own business.	None
The High Court has referred to its earlier judgment in Amalgamations P. Ltd. V. Commissioner of Income Tax, Where in the nature of the business of the assesseecompany has been considered and it has been held that the provisions of Section 23Aof the 1922 Act were applicable to the assesseecompany since the assesseecompanys business includes furnishing guarantee to debts borrowed by subsidiary companies.	None
The High Court has held that the said finding given in that case is clearly applicable to the questions under consideration before it and that the assesseecompany had incurred the loss in carrying on its own business which includes furnishing guarantees to debts borrowed by its subsidiary companies.	None
According to the High Court, the loss was allowable as a deduction in the year in which it came to be ascertained and in the instant case the High Court held that the assesseecompany could have ascertained whether there was loss in the transaction of guarantee only at the stage of final payment by the liquidators which was received in the relevant previous year for the assessment year 196263 and that the Tribunal was right in allowing it in that year, The High Court, the ref ore, answered questions Nos. 4, 5 and 6 in the affirmative and against the Revenue.	None
After hearing Shri Shukla on the appeals filed by the Revenuein respect of the se questions, we are unable to hold that the judgment of the High Court in respect of the se questions suffers from any legal infirmity.	None
We, therefore , affirm the answer given by the High Court to questions Nos. 4, 5 and 6 referred to it .	None
In the circumstances, it must be held that Civil Appeals Nos. 139142of 1980filed by the Revenue are liable to be dismissed.	None
We would now come to Civil Appeals Nos.711 of1980 filed by the assesseecompany in relation to questionNo.3 in T.C.No.	None
239of 1971, which was as under Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Appellate Tribunal was right in law In holding that the sums of Rs. 437, 066/, Rs. 90, 896/, Rs. 1, 08, 978/, Rs. 1, 18, 102and Rs. 1, 11, 740/ are admissible as a deduction in the assessments of the assessee for the assessment years 195859 to196263respectively ?	None
The assesseecompany was a bulk shareholder in several companies and in the relevant year there were sixteen companies.	None
The assesseecompany was rendering certain common services t o its subsidiaries by having (1) a finance committee (2)a liaison office in Delhi (3) an export promotion department and (4) an internal audit department.	None
The expenditure on account of maintenance of liaison office in Delhi and the departments of export promotion and internal audit was borne by the assesseecompany and was recovered from the subsidiaries.	None
The finance committee was working in an advisory capacity to the various subsidiary companies to help the m to carry on their business more efficiently.	None
All purchase requisitions for the purchase of capital equipment beyond Rs. 500/ of each purchase and Rs. 2, 500/with reference to purchase of raw materials were submitted to the finance committee for their approval.	None
The purpose of such control was to judiciously use the funds of the company to the best advantage of each company.	None
Various data were gathered before such sanction was accorded or refused, Technical matters or Other matters of management were also referred to the members of the finance committee who were experienced in their respective fields.	None
The finance committee went through the financial position of each company daily.	None
The directors of the assessee company were also Directors managers in the subsidiary companies.	None
As per the service agreements between the m and the concerned subsidiary company they were entitled to payment of remuneration and also a certa in percentage of the profits as commission.	None
Similar service agreements had been entered by Other directors of the subsidiary companies who were not the directors of the assesseecompany.	None
In view of the provisions of Section 198of the Companies Act, 1956, fixing a ceiling on the over all managerial remuneration at 11 of the net profits of the company, it was not possible for the subsidiary companies to pay the contracted remuneration to the persons concerned.	None
On April 4, 1959 the Board of Directors of the assesseecompany passed a resolution Where by it was resolved that the remuneration pay able to nine directors of the subsidiary companies would be paid to the m in full in accordance with the terms of the contract respectively entered into by the m and the amount in excess of the maximum amount permissible under the Companies Act, 1956 would be met by the assesseecompany.	None
Out of the senine directors three were directors of the assesseecompany and out of the se three directors two were members of the finance committee, None of the Other six directors of the subsidiary companies was a member of the finance committee.	None
In accordance with the said resolution the assesseecompany paid diverse amounts to the said directors.	None
The total amounts so paid to the several persons for the different years are mentioned in question No.3.The assessee company claimedthe said amounts as deduction under Section 10 (2) (XV) of the 1922 Act for the assessment years 195859 to 196162and under Section 37of the 1961 Act for the assessment year 196263.	None
Before the Income Tax Officer it was not disputed that the se payments were in respect of services rendered by respective persons to the various subsidiary companies of which they were directors managers and that no part of the payment could be related to any service directly rendered by the m to the assesseecompany.	None
It was submitted that though the services were rendered by the m to Other companies, they should be deemed to have rendered the service to the assesseecompany in view of the nexus between the holding company and its subsidiaries, The Income Tax officer did not accept this submission and held that the excess remuneration over and above what was admissible under Section 198 of the Companies Act, which was not borne by the respective companies could not be allowed as deduction under Section 10(2)(XV) of the 1922 Act and Section37 of the 1961 Act as expenditure wholly and exclusively incurred for the purpose of the business of the assesseecompany.	None
It was also stressed that the resolution of the Board of Directors of the assess eecompany was passed on April 4, 1959, after the previous years relevant to the assessment years 195859 and 195960, On appeal the Appellate Assistant Commissioner took the same view, The Matter was remanded by the Tribunal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner for consideration and submission of report on the points mentioned in the order of remand.	None
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner after taking further evidence submitted his report wherein he reported that deduction may be allowed in respect of remuneration paid to persons who were directors of the assesseecompany and were members of the finance committee, but such deduction could not be allowed in respect of remuneration paid by the assesseecompany in respect of the persons who were only directors and employees of the subsidiaries but neither directors of the assesseecompany nor members of the finance Committee.	None
The Tribunal was of the view that looking to the nature of the business of the assesseecompany of holding shares of a number of subsidiary companies and that it was looking after the interest and welfare of those companies with a view to earn dividends , the whole of the expenditure referable to the remuneration paid by the assesseecompany was admissible as a deduction.	None
Rejecting the contention urged on behalf of the Revenue that the assesseecompany was not carrying on any business because merely holding of investments would not constitute business, the High Court has held that in view of Section 23A of the 19 22 Act holding of investments, in appropriate cases, would equally be a business as dealing in the m and what is required is that the re must be a real substantial and system at icororganised course of activity or conduct with the set purpose of earning profit which is the test for a business.	None
The High Court has observed that the assessee company is not a mere investor in a single company but has investments in sixteen companies and had taken active Interest in the business of the se companies as is clear from the services that had been rendered in the shape of export promotion, liaison office at Delhi and internal audit and it also rendered consultation in respect of finance by its directors meeting every day with reference to the needs and requirements of each company and that it is not a case where the assesseecompany contented it self with merely making an investment and looking for the dividend, The High Courthas, therefore , held that the re was a business activity in the matter of holding of investments.	None
While dealing with the question whether the expenditure that has been incurred was wholly and exclusively laid out for the purpose of the assesseecompanys business, the High Court has negatived the contention that the said question is purely factual because in order to be deductible the expenditure must satisfy two tests (1) the expenditure must be uncured by the assessee in his capacity as a trader and(ii) it must be incidental to the carrying on of his business.	None
The High Court w as of the view that the re must be a nexus between the expenditure and the business of the assessee.	None
Applying the se tests the High Court has held that the purpose of the payment in the present case was only to take out the subsidiary from an inconvenient situation in which it found itself as a result of statutory change restricting the remuneration payable to it as director and that the expenditure had not been incurred wholly and exclusively for the business of the assesseecompany and it could not be allowed as deduction.	None
The alternativeclaim put forward on behalf of the assesseecompany that at any rate the expenditure incurred by the assesseecompany in remunerating its own directors who were also members for the finance committee should be allowed as deduction as the re is a nexus between the expenditure and the business of the assessee company in rendering services to its subsidiaries, was not accepted by the High Court for the reason that the resolution passed by the assessee company does not say that the expenditure was incurred for the purpose of remunerating its own directors is so far as they rendered services to it as members of the finance committee.	Reasoning
The High Court has observed that the resolution treated the directors, whether they be the members of the finance committee or not as a class and with reference to all of them the assesseecompany incurred the expenditure only because they could not be remunerated to that extent by the subsidiary companies and the fact that they were members of the finance committee had not been taken in to account in taking over the remuneration payable to the m, Question No. 3 was, therefore , answered in the negative and against the assesseecompany.	Reasoning
The amounts paid by the assesseecomp any to the directors of its subsidiary companies can be admissible as a deduction under Section 10(2)(XV)of the 1922 Act exclusively for the purposes of the business of the assesseecompany, This expression was also used in the Income Tax Ac t, 1918 in U.K. In A ther t on V. British Insulated and Helsby Cables Limited, (1925)	None
10 TC 155(HL), Viscount Cave, L.C., has thus explained the said expression a sum of money expended, not of necessity and with a view to a direct and immediate benefit to the trade, but voluntarily and on the grounds of commercial expediency, and in order indirectly to facilitate the carrying on of the business , may yet beexpended wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the trade.	None
p.191	None
The se observations have been referred to with approval by this Court while construing Section 10(2)(XV) of the 1922 Act.	None
See Eastern Investments Ltd.V. Commissioner of Income Tax, V. Chandula l Keshavlal Co.,	None
In Travancore Titanium Products Ltd. V. Commissioner of Income Tax, Kerala, (966) 1966 (60) ITR 227, this Court while construing the expression for the purpose of business in Section10(2) (XV) of the 1922 Act, has said The expenditure must be incidental to the business and must be necessitated or justified by commercial expediency.	None
It must be directly and intimately connected with the business and belaid out by the tax payer in his character as at rader.	None
To be a permissible deduction, there must be a direct and intimate connection between the expenditure and the business i.e. between the expenditure and the character of the assessee as a trader, and not as owner of assets, even if they are assets of the business.	None
InThe Indian Aluminium Co. Ltd. V. Commissioner of Income Tax, decided by a Constitution Bench of this Court, the aforementioned test laid down in Travancore Titanium Products ltd.	None
V. Commissioner of Income Tax, Kerala (supra), was qualified in the se terms In our view, the test adopted by this Court in Travancore Titanium case that to be a permissible deduction , there must be a direct and intimate connection between the expenditure and the business i.e., between the expenditure and the character of the assessee as a trader, and not as owner of assets, even if they are assets of the business needs to be qualified by starting that if the expenditure is laid out by the assessee as ownercumtrader, and the expenditure is really incidental to the carrying on of his business, it must be treated to have been laid out by him as a trader and as incident al tohes business.	None
p.747	None
The High Court, in our opinion, has rightly proceeded on the basis that there must be a nexus between expenditure and business of the assessee.	None
Shri T. A. Ramachandran , the learned senior counsel appearing for the assesseecompany, has submitted that the said test is satisfied in the present case since the purpose of the payment of remuneration to the directors of the subsidiary companies was to enable the se companies to earn higher profits which would be passed on to the assessee company as and by way of dividends.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel has placed strong reliance on the decisionof Bombay High Court in J. R. Patel and	Arguments of Petitioner
Sons (P) Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
V. Commissioner of Income Tax, Gujarat, and has urged that the High Court has committed an error in distinguishing the se cases on ground that they related to managing agents whereas the present caserelates to holding company and its subsidiaries, Shri Ramachandran has contended that the principle laid down in the said decisions is equally applicable to a case of holding company.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to accept this contention.	None
The High Court, in our opinion, has rightly pointed out that the business of the assesseecompany is the holding of investments any expenditure had been incurred that could have been allowed as deduction.	None
The expenditure incurred in payment of managerial remuneration to the directors of the subsidiary companies cannot be said to be expenditure incurred in carrying on the business of the assesseecompany of holding It s investments.	None
The assesseecompany couldhold its investments and earn its dividends the entire profits earned on account of their managerial remuneration paid by the assesseecompany and the assesseecompany was only entitled to dividend from the subsidiary company as and when declared, it cannot be said that the re was a direct and immediate connection between the expenditure incurred and the business of the assesseecompany.	None
The decisions in Tata Sons Ltd. V. Commissioner of Income Tax, BombayCity (supra) and J.R. Pateland Sons (P) Ltd. V. Commissioner of Income Tax, Gujarat (supra) ar not applicablein the facts oft his case.	None
In Tata sons Ltd. V. Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay City (supra) the assessee was the managing agent of an Other Company and under the managing agency agreement the asessee was to be paid a commission at a certain rate which was to be computed upon the net profits of the managed company.	None
During the relevant years the assessee paid voluntarily certainsums as half share of the bonus which the managed company paid to some of its officers and it claimed deduction of the said amounts underSection10(2)(XV) of the 1922 Act.	None
The Bombay High Court upheld the claim of the assessee for such a deduction on the view that from the point of view of commercial principles what the assessee had done was something which had as its object increasing the profits of the managed company and there by increasing its own shares on commission and, therefore , the deduction claimed by the as sessee was wholly and exclusively for the purposes of its business and was an allowable deduction under section 10(2)(XV) of the 1922 Act.	None
While dealing with the contentionurged on behalf of the Revenue that the payment had been made not to the employees of the assessee but to the employees of a managed company a different entity altogether  the High Court has observed Here again if it can be shown that there was a very important nexus between the assessee company and the managed company which necessitated the assessee company making the payment to the employees of the managed company, taken again it would be possible for the assessee company to satisfy us that the expenditure was one which fell within the ambit of Section 10(2)(XV).	None
Nowit cannot be seriously disputed that the bonus was paid by the managed company to their employees in order to increase the efficiency of the order to increase the efficiency of the working of the company.	None
An increased efficiency of that company would incidentally result in higher and better profits, and the assessee company would be as much interested in the working of the managed company being more efficient as the managed company itself.	None
Whatever tended to increase the profits of the managed company would also tend to increase the income and profits of the assessee company, Therefore , it cannot be suggested that the assessee company had an indirect or ulterior motive in making this payment.	None
The only motive by which it was actuated was a purely commercial and pecuniary one and that was to see that more profits were made by the managed company so that its own commission should there by be increased.	None
p.468In that case the re was a direct nexus between the increased profits of the managed company and the managerial commission payable to the assessee since the managing agency commission was a prescribed percentage of the net profits of the managed company.	None
As indicated earlier, there was no such nexus between the increased profit of the subsidiary company and the profit earned by the assesseecompany by way of dividend on the shares held by it in the subsidiary comp any.	None
InJ.R. Patel and Sons (P) Ltd, V. Commissioner of Income Tax, Gujarat (supra) the assessee was the managing agent and its managing director was also the director of the managed company.	None
Prior to coming in to force of the Companies Act, 195 6 on April 1, 1956, he was getting monthly salary from the assessee and in addition he was getting monthly remuneration as technical adviser of the managed company as well as commission at a prescribed rate on the sale price of heals and reeds manufactured and sold by the managed company.	Reasoning
After the passing of the Companies Act, 1956, the remuneration that could be received by him was reduced and he could not also be paid the commission.	Reasoning
The assessee, therefore , increased the emoluments.	Reasoning
The said excess payment made by the as sessee was disallowed and the expenditure incurred was restricted to the amount that was being paid prior to coming in to force of the companies Act, 1956.	Reasoning
The Gujarat High Court held that the assessee had paid extra payment to its managing director so that the affairs of the managed company could be properly looked after and that as a result of the remuneration the profits of the managed company and the share of the commission of the assessee increased and, therefore , the excess amount paid by the assessee to its managing directing was expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of its business and was an allowable deduction under Section 10(2)(XV) of the 1922 Act, Reliance was placed on the decision in Tata Sons Ltd. (supra ).	Reasoning
This was also a case where the profits of the assessee in the form of managing agency commission were directly linked to the profit of the managed company which is not the position in the present case.	Reasoning
The alternative claim by the assesseecompany for deduction in respect of the expenditure incurred by the assesseecompany in respect of amount paidto its own directors who were also the members of the finance committee has been rightly rejected by the High Court in view of the resolution passed by the assesseecompany where in the directors, whether they be the members of the finance committee or not, have been treated as a class and with reference to all of the m the assesseecompany incurred the expenditure only because they could not be remunerated to that extent by the subsidiary companies.	Reasoning
The fact that they were directors of the assesseecompany and members of the finance committee was not taken into account in taking over the remuneration payable to the m. In the circumstances, Civil Appeals Nos. 711 of 1980 filed by the assessee Company are also liable to be dismissed.	None
In the result, Civil Appeals Nos. 139142 of 1980 filed by the Revenue and Civil Appeals Nos. 711 of 1980 filed by the assesseecompany are dismissed.	Decision
No order as to costs.	Decision
