 Venkataswami .J. 1.	None
Leave granted in all the special leave petitions.	Facts
2.	Arguments of Petitioner
In all these cases.	Facts
common questions of law arise and arguments were also addressed on that footing and consequently, they are disposed of by this common judgment.	Facts
The principal common question of law that arises for consideration can be broadly stated as follows Whether the Food Corporation of India (hereinafter called the FCI) is liable to pay sales purchase tax to the States while purchasing foodgrains or in distributing fertilizers pursuant to orders issued under Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955?	Facts
There is a difference of opinion among the High Courts on this question.	None
A division Beach of the Allahabad High Court (Lucknow Bench) has taken the view that the FCI is liable to pay purchase tax in the light of the provisions of the U.P. Sales Tax Act, 1948 (hereinafter called the Act).	Facts
A Division Beach of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, however, has taken a view that the FCI is not liable to pay tax, on the purchase of foodgrains.	Facts
We may at once state here that the Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court in taking the view that the FCI is liable to pay tax after elaborately dealing with t he case law up to the date of the judgment has come to a conclusion that the decision of this Court in M.s Chitter Mai Narain Das vs. Commissioner of Sales Tax in view of subsequent decisions of larger benches of this Court does not hold good.	Facts
The Division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, however, has taken exactly the opposite view holding that the decision of this Court in Chitter Mals case holds good notwithstanding subsequent decisions of this Court and on that basis held that the FCI was not liable to pay tax.	Facts
The Andhra Pradesh and Kerala High Courts while dealing with the liability of the FCI to pay tax on the distribution of fertilizers have taken the view that the FCI is liable to pay tax.	Facts
It is under this background, arguments were advanced before us supporting and opposing the view taken by this Court in Chitter Mals case.	Facts
4.	Arguments of Petitioner
Undoubtedly this Court in Chitter Mals case positively has taken a view that there was no sale within the meaning of the definition of the word sale under Section 2(h) of the U.P. Sales Tax Act, 1948, when the stocks of wheat supplied by the appellants (in that case dealers in foodgrains) in compliance with the provisions of U.P .	None
Wheat Procurement (Levy) Order, 1959 to the Regional Food Controller.	None
Armed with that decision of this Court, Mr. Thakur, learned Senior Counsel addressed elaborate arguments distinguishing the subsequent decision of larger benches of this Court projection a liberal interpretation of the definition of sale occurring in various State statutes and tried to persuade us to hold that the ratio laid down by this Court in Chitter Mals case holds the field.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, learned Senior Counsel, appearing for the States, placing reliance on the subsequent decisions of larger benches of this Court tried to persuade us to hold that the ratio laid down by this Court in Chitter Mals case is no longer good law.	None
5.	Arguments of Petitioner
As an illustrative of the cases, we would like to refer to the facts in the common judgment of the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court in W.P. 2077/1986 (corresponding to C.A. No. 2532/1987) and then apply the same to other cases.	None
6.	Arguments of Petitioner
The facts as noticed by the High Court in the common judgment are given below in brief.	None
7.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Food Corporation of India is a Corporation incorporated under the Food Corporation Act, 1964, (Central Act No.37 of 1964).	Arguments of Respondent
As one of its functions it maintai ns a national pool of foodgrains.	Arguments of Respondent
The different States have to make their contributions to this pool.	Arguments of Respondent
The State issued different orders under the Essential Commodities Act known by different names as Levy Orders, Procurement Orders or Requisition Orders, for purchasing part of the produce or stocks of the foodgrains in question from farmers or millers.	Arguments of Respondent
The procurement is made through different agencies.	Arguments of Respondent
On obtaining the required quantity of the goodgrains, it is purchased by the Food Corporation of India from the State Governments for the purpose of maintaining the national pool of foodgrains.	Arguments of Respondent
The Sales Tax Department of U.P. sought to levy purchase tax upon the Food Corporation of India on the point it makes purchases from the State of U.P.	Arguments of Respondent
The Food Corporation of India denied its liability to pay the said tax.	Arguments of Respondent
8.	None
Although the purchase made by the FCI from the State is a second sale or purchase in view of Explanation II to Section 3D(i) of the U.P. Sales Tax A ct, it is deemed to be the first purchase.	None
The Explanation II was added with retrospective effect by the U.P. Act No. 23 of 1976.	None
It is specifically in respect of purchase of foodgrains in pursuance of orders made under Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act.	None
The Explanation II reads as follows Explanation II For the purpose of this sub section, in relation to purchases of foodgrains in pursuance of any orders made under Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 including any purchase in excess of the levy share, the purchase first made by a dealer from the State Government or its purchasing agent shall be the first purchase of such foodgrain s and the tax shall accordingly be levied at the point on such dealer.	None
An additional tax was also payable at the rate of five per cent over the turnover by the dealer whose yearly turnover exceeded rupees ten crores as provided under Section 3F of the U.P. Sales Tax Act, which now stands omitted by the U.P. Act No. 4 of 1982 with effect from 7th September, 1981.	None
Section 3F as it existed was as follows	None
3F.	None
Every dealer liable to pay tax under this Act.	None
the aggregate of whose total turnover of purchases of goods notified under subsection (1) of section 3D, the turnover of sales liable to tax under subsection (2) of section 3 D and the total turnover of sales of all other goods in any assessment year exceeds rupees two lakhs, shall, in addition to the said tax, pay for that assessment year an additional tax at the rate of one per cent, of his turn over liable to tax Provided that in case of foodgrains, the date of additional tax payable by any dealer, the aggregate of whose turnover or turnover of purchases or both, as the case may be, liable to tax, exceeds rupees ten crores in an assessment year shall be five percent.	None
Since the turnover of the FCI has been more than ten crores, it was also required to pay additional tax for the period Section 3F remained in operation.	None
11.	None
The appellant has challenged the validity of Explanation II to Section 3D(i) of the U.P. Sales Tax Act as well as that of Section 3F of the Act on the ground that the said provisions are discriminatory, arbitrary and unreasonable.12.	None
In addressing the arguments challenging the view taken by the Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court, Mr. Thakur, learned Senior Counsel placed before us the following six propositions for our decision That levy procurement of foodgrains pursuant to levy orders issued under Section 3 of Essential Commodities Act by the Government of Uttar Pradesh are not sales within the meaning of Entry 54, List II of Seventh schedule to the Constitution of India.	None
The legislation authorising such imposition, proceedings and recovery of Sales Tax is wholly ultra vires the said Entry 54 of Constitution of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
Levy procurement in effect is compulsory acquisition by State in exercise of powers of the State under Eminent Domain.	Arguments of Petitioner
2.	Arguments of Petitioner
That Explanation II added to Section 3D (i) of the U.P. Sales Tax Act by Act No. 23 of 1976 is ultra vires the Entry No.54 since it assumed, by fiction of law, the existence of sale, even when there is none, by the State of U.P. and its nominees in favour of Food Corporation of India and t hereafter declare that fictional sale to be the first sale for the purpose of levy of sales tax.	Arguments of Petitioner
3.	Arguments of Petitioner
That Food Corporation of India for the procurement from 1968 to 1976 had been bearing the burden of Sales Tax o n the first purchase made by the Regional Food Controller by reimbursing the same to them.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Tax being single point tax, the same could not be levied twice.	Arguments of Petitioner
Explanation II retrospectively levies sales tax at more than one point.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is impermissible under the provisions of U.P. Sales Tax Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
4.	Arguments of Petitioner
That Section 3(F) which levied surcharge of 5 on dealers whose turnover in foodgrains exceeding Rs. 10 crores was arbitrary and discriminatory and hit by Article 14, particularly when the same was made effective retrospectively from 1st April 1975.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.	Arguments of Petitioner
That the 46th Constitutional Amendment which came into force from 2nd February 1983 was made retrospective only in a limited sphere and not covering the legislation affection the appellants.	Arguments of Petitioner
6.	Arguments of Petitioner
That the interest calculated by the respondents is not payable and, therefore, in any case the respondents have no right to recover the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
From the judgment of the High Court, we do not find any discussion on the proposition No.6.	None
We, therefore, presume no such plea was taken or if taken no such plea was argued before the High Court.	None
Therefore, we do not propose to deal with that proposition.	None
Regarding proposition No.5, this was not seriously pursued by either side warranting any decision on that.	None
14.	None
The principal argument appears to be that levy procurement did not amount to a sale and, therefore, the same was not taxable under the U.P. Sales Tax Act, 1948.	None
To put it differently the argument was that the levy procurement is a compulsory acquisition and therefore, falls outside the purview of Entry 54 of List II of 7th Schedule to the Constitution of India.	None
Consequently, the levy procurement is not at all taxable under the U.P. Sales Tax Act.	None
After referring to relevant provisions in the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 and the levy control orders, it was pointed out that the persons holding stocks of foodgrains are required compulsorily by force of the statutory orders to part with the foodgrains in favour of the Stat e Government or its nominee and such procurement constitutes clearly a case of compulsory acquisition rather than a sale as popularly understood.	None
Elaborating this aspect, it was submitted that there was absolutely no contract between the seller and buyer and failure to comply with the procurement orders will result in the prosecution and ultimate punishment at the hands of the law enforcing agency apart from the power to enter upon the premises, search, seize the foodgrains and confiscate the same.	None
Under those circumstances, it was contended that the transactions of levy procurement cannot be treated as a sale within the purview of Entry 54 List II of the Seventh Schedule.	None
In the case of millers, they have to part with a specified portion of rice, milled from the paddy given by farmers though the millers have no right or title over the paddy, they cannot resist the procurement pursuant to the levy order.	None
In the absence of any volition on the part of the miller, no sale could be attracted to such transaction.	None
It is also contended that there is no consensus in levy procurement.	None
After referring to the decision of this Court in M s New India Sugar Mills India Ltd, vs. Commissioner Oil Sales Tax Bihar and Chitter Mals case (supra) the learned Senior Counsel submitted that the cases subsequent to these two decisions taking different view are all under regulatory orders and as such distinguishable and the ratio laid down therein will have no application to the procurement under Levy Orders which amounts to compulsory acquisition.	None
According to the learned counsel, there is nothing left to be decided for the parties and everything is determined in the levy orders.	None
Even the place of delivery of the foodgrains if fixed by the control orders.	None
Even if there is any small matter left to the discretion of the parties, the same being unimportant, insignificant and peripheral, cannot be said to be determinative of the existence of the consensus.	None
According to the learned Senior Counsel, it is the consensus, which is vital aspect for determining the character of the transaction.	None
The levy orders leave no option to the seller but to sell compulsorily to the State Government or its nominee.	None
There is no discretion left to the parties in regard to price or any other matter and, therefore no area is left out for the parties to operate unlike matters coming under regulatory orders.	None
According to the learned Senior Counsel.	None
Chitter Malls case has rightly laid down the law when it held that the levy procurement is a compulsory acquisition and not a sale.	None
After referring to the transactions under regulatory orders and transactions under levy control orders, the learned Senior Counsel has summarised his submissions on the first proposition as followsThat the transaction of levy procurement are a class by themself and are wholly distinguishable from the cases where the sale and purchase is regulated by statutory authorities in exercise of the power available to them under respective legislations.	None
Whereas in the case of levy orders, there is absolutely n o area left for consensual agreement in the case of regulatory orders, only statutory controls were imposed for identification of a class of people who would be eligible either to sell or to purchase goods in keeping with the welfare policy of the State.	None
Those are not the cases in which the failure to part with the goods results in the commission of an offence which is punishable nor does the failure give corresponding right to the authorities to seize and confiscate the goods and impose penalties as prescribed under the control orders.	None
Therefore, it cannot be contended that a compulsory acquisition of foodgrains by Government in exercise of its sovereign powers should constitute a sale so as to attract the liability under the Sales Tax Act.	None
The transactions entered into in exercise of the power under the levy order between the millers and the dealers on the one hand and the State on the other hand, and thereafter between the States and the Corporation i.e. FCI and then between the Corporation and the States was one composite process which owed its origin to the arrangements arrived at between the State Governments and Central Government under which the States were required to contribute to the Central Pool which in turn passes on to the deficit States through the agency of the Corporation.	None
As such, the process was an integrated process and was not at all bifurcable or divisible into one or ot her transaction.	None
Totality of the acts clearly established that it was not a case where there were any sale of foodgrains.	None
It was a case of compulsory taking over of a particular percentage of foodgrains from licenced dealers and millers on payment of an amount of compensation which too was fixed by the Central Government and not by the State Government although the same is notified by the State Government.	None
Not only centres at which the foodgrains were deliverable, were prescribed by the State Government, the payment of compensation was also pre determined by the orders themselves.	None
Centres for each area were also fixed.	None
There was, therefore, no area where the parties could have any volition.	None
15.	None
Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the States in support of the common judgment under appeal and other judgments submitted that the transactions under levy orders are definitely sales and there was no compulsory acquisition of property as contended by the learned Senior Counsel for the appellants.	None
According to them, there is an area of consensual arrangement between the parties and the element of volition is not completely excluded under the levy orders.	None
It is their further submission that the decision in Chitter Mals case stands practically overruled and, therefore, it is not more good law in view of latter decisions of larger benches of this Court.	None
Though an argument referring to 46th Amendment of the Constitution was faintly raised, it was not pursued seriously.	None
To support the contention, reliance was placed on the following judgments	None
M s Vishnu Agencies (Pvt.) Ltd. vs. Commercial Tax Officer and Others Salar Jung Sugar Mills Ltd. etc. vs State of Mysore and others State of Punjab and Others vs. Dewans Modern Breweries Ltd. Coffee Board, Karanataka, Bangalore vs. Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Karanataka and other ( 1988 (3) SCC 262)	None
Oil and Natural Gas Commission vs State of Bihar and Others 1977 (1) SCR 34).	None
16.	None
To substantiate the argument that there was an element of volition though minimal between the parties in the transactions under consideration, reliance was placed on the observations of the full Bench of the Allahabad High Court in Commissioner of Sales Tax vs. Ram Bilas Ram Gopal 1970 AIR(Allahabad) 518).	None
Though those observations did not find approval by the Bench which decided Chitter Mals case, the same found approval by the later larger Bench which decided Vishnu Agencies case.	None
We shall refer to the relevant portions of the abovesaid full Bench passage at the appropriate place.	None
In addition to that, reliance also was placed on certain portions in the pleadings (to which also we shall make reference at the appropriate place) to the effect that the FCI has not always accepted the foodgrains procured under levy orders and there were occasions when the FCI rejected certain stocks on the ground that they were not upto the quality prescribed.	None
This also, according to the learned Sr. Counsel negatives the contention of the learned Sr. Counsel for the appellants that the entire transaction was single integrated process.	None
The learned Sr. Counsel submitted that the Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court was fully justified in holding that the transactions are exigible to tax under the State Sales Tax Act and also in holding that the judgment of this Court in Chitter Mals case stands practically overruled.	None
17.	None
We will first deal with this principal point as the other points depend upon the answer to this principal point.	None
18.	None
We prefer to take up the decision in Chitter Mals case of consideration.	None
As pointed out already in Chitter Mals case, the issue was whether the supplies made to the Regional Food Controller under the U.P Wheat Procurement (Levy) Order, 1959 are sales within the meaning of sale under Section 2(h) of the U.P. Sales Tax Act and.	None
if so , are the assessees liable to pay sales tax on the price for wheat supplied to the Regional Food Controller	None
We must at once, point out that the Food Corporation of India was not a party in that case.	None
The assessee in that case was a dealer in foodgrains who supplied wheat to the Regional Food Controller, a nominee of the U.P. Government for procuring wheat under the Levy Order.	None
The learned Judges, it is apparent from the judgment, were very much influenced by the view expressed in New India Sugar Mills case (supra) in arriving at a decision that those supplies were not sales and, consequently, not exigible to tax.	None
It is pertinent to point out that in the Chitter Mals case itself, the learned Judges have noticed that certain amount of volition was left between the parties.	None
However, it was felt that that volition was not sufficient to make the transaction contractual.	None
While referring to a full bench judgment of the Allahabad High Court in Commissioner of Sales Tax vs. Ram Bilas Ram Gopal 1970 AIR(Allahabad) 518), this Court in Chitter Mals case has observed in paras 8 and 9 as follows The High Court relied upon the following observations in Ram Bilas Ram Gopals case, 1969 All 1 .1.424 1970	None
All 518 Analysing Clause 3 of the Levy Order it is clear that a licensed dealer is obliged to sell to the State Government fifty per cent, of he wheat held in stock by him at the commencement of the Order, and thereafter fifty per cent, of the wheat daily procured or purchased by him beginning with the date of commencement of the Order until such time as the State Government otherwise directs.	None
The price at which the wheat is sold is the maximum price fixed in the Wheat (Uttar Pradesh) Price Control Order. 1959, as notified by the Government of India.	None
Delivery of the wheat has to be given by the dealer t o the Regional Food Controller of a person authorised by him in that behalf.	None
The dealer has no option but to sell the specified percentage of wheat to the State Government.	None
The State Government has also no option but to purchase fifty per cent, of the wheat held in stock by the dealer at the commencement of the Levy Order.	None
As regards the wheat procured or purchased daily by the dealer thereafter, it is open to the State Government to say that from any particular date it will not purchase any or all the specified percentage of wheat.	None
Therefore, as regards that wheat the Levy Order leaves it open to one of the parties, namely, the State Government to decide when it will stop purchasing wheat from the dealer.	None
That in substance is Clause 3 of the Levy obligations imposed on the dealer and the State Government.	None
All other details of the transaction are left open to negotiation.	None
It leaves it open to the parties to negotite in respect of the time and mode of payment of the price, the time and mode of delivery of whea , and other conditions of the contract.	None
Clause 3 of the Order compels the licensed dealer to deliver to the controller or his authorised agent every day 50 per cent, of the wheat procured or purchased by him.	None
There is no scope for negotiations there.	None
Assuming that the Controller may designate the place of delivery and the place of payment of price at the controlled rate, and the licensed dealer acquiesces therein, or even when in respect of those two matters there is some consensual arrangement, in our judgment, supply of wheat pursuant to Clause 3 of the Order and acceptance thereof do not result in a contract of sale.	None
The High Court observed that whatever compulsive or coercive force is used to bring about a transaction under Clause 3 of the Levy Order, it must be traced to legislation.	None
It cannot be attributed to the State Government as a party to the transaction.	None
This, then, is clear.	None
There is nothing in the Levy Order which can be accused of vitiating the free consent of the parties as defined under Section 14 of the Indian Contract Act, when entering into the contract of sale.	None
But these observations assume a contract of sale which the Order does not contemplate.	None
If there be a contract, the restrictions imposed by statute may not vitiate the consent.	None
But the contract cannot be assumed.	None
9.	None
We may refer to certain decisions of this Court on which reliance was placed at the Bar.	None
In M s New India Sugar Mills case , 1963 SC 1207 under the Sugar and Sugar products Control Order. 1946, a scheme was devised for equitable distribution of sugar.	None
The consuming States intimated to the Sugar Controller of India their requirements of sugar and the factory owners sent statements of stocks of sugar held by them.	None
The Controller made allotments to various States in question in accordance with the despatch instructions from the State in question in accordance with the despatch instructions from the State Governments.	None
Under the allotment orders, M s New India Sugar Mills Ltd. in Bihar, despatched stocks of sugar to the State of Madras.	None
The State of Bihar treated the transaction as a sale and levied tax thereon under the Bihar Sales Tax Act, 1947.	None
The tax payer contended that the supplies of sugar, pursuant to the directions of the controller, did not result in sales and that no tax was exigible on such transactions.	None
A majority of the Court observed the despatches of sugar pursuant to the directions of the Controller, did not result in sales and that no tax was exigible on such transactions.	None
A majority of the Court observed that despatches of sugar pursuant to the directions of the Controller were not made in pursuance of any contract of sale.	None
There was no offer by the taxpayer to the State of Madras, and no acceptance by the latter the tax payer was under the Control Order compelled to carry out the directions of the Cont roller and it had no volition in the matter.	None
Intimation by the State of its requirements of sugar to the Controller or communication of the allotment order to the assessee did not amount to an offer.	None
Nor did the mere compliance with despatch instructions issued by the Controller, which the assessee had not the option to refuse to comply with, amount to acceptance of an offer or to making of an offer.	None
A contract of sale of goods postulates a voluntary arrangement regarding goods between the contracting parties.	None
It was held that in the case before the Court there was no such voluntary arrangement .	None
The above judgment came up for consideration inter alia in Vishnu Agencies case.	None
That decision was given by a bench of seven learned Judges.	None
The learned Judges in the first place did not approve the ratio laid down in New India Sugar Mill case and further did not approve the view taken in the Chitter Mals case disagreeing with the observations of Allahabad full bench case.	None
The learned Judges observed as follows We would, however, like to clarify that though compulsory acquisition of property would exclude the element of mutual assent which is vital to a sale, the learned Judges were, with respect, not right in holding in Chitter Mal that even if in respect of the place of delivery and the place of payment of price, there could be a consensual arrangement, the transaction will not amount to a sale (p. 677 SCC(p) 314).	None
The true position in law is as stated above, namely, that so long as mutual assent, express or implied, is not totally excluded the transaction will amount to a sale.	None
The ultimate decision in Chitter Mal can be justified only on the view that Clause 3 of the Wheat Procurement Order envisages compulsory acquisition of wheat by the State Government from the licensed dealer.	None
Viewed from this angle, we cannot endorse the Courts criticism of the Full Bench decision of Allahabad High Court in Commissioner.	None
Sales Tax, U.P. vs. Ram Bilas Ram Gopal which held while construing Clauses 3 that so long as there was freedom to bargain in some areas the transaction could amount to a sale though effected under compulsion of a statute.	None
Looking at the scheme of the U.P. Wheat Procurement Order, particularly Clause 3 thereof, this Court in Chitter Mal seems to ave concluded that the transaction was in truth and substance, in the nature of compulsory acquisition, in the nature of compulsory acquisition, with no real freedom to bargain in any area.	None
Shah, J. expressed the Courts interpretation of clause 3 in no uncertain terms by saying that it did not envisage any consensual arrangement.	None
We may also usefully extract a passage from the separate but concurring judgment of Beg C.J. as he then was.	None
The same reads ad follows It is true that a considerable part of the field over which what are called sales take place under either regulatory orders or levy orders passed or directions given under statutory provisions is restricted and controlled by these orders and directions.	None
If, what is called a sale is, in substance, mere obedience to a specific order, in which the socalled price is only a compensation for the compulsory passing of property in goods to which an order relates, at an amount fixed by the authority making the order, the individual transaction may not be a sale although the compensation is determined on some generally fixed principle and called price.	None
This was for example, the position in New India Sugar Mills vs. Commissioner of Sales Tax, Bihar.	None
That was a case of delivery according to an order given by the Government which could amount to a compulsory levy by an executive order although there was no legislative levy order involved in that case.	None
On the other hand.	None
In Commissioner, Sales Tax, U.P. vs. Ram Bilas Ram Gopal the Order under consideration was actually called a levy order, but the case was distinguishable from New India Sugar Mills vs. Commissioner of Sales Tax, Bihar (supra) on facts.	None
It was held in the case of Ram Bilas (supra) that the core of what is required for a sale was not destroyed by the socalled levy order which was legislative.	None
It is true that passages from the judgment of Pathak, J. in the case of Ram Bilas Ram Gopal (supra) were cited and specifically disapproved by a bench of this Court in Chitter Mal Narain Das vs. Commissioner of Sales Tax.	None
But, perhaps the view of this Court in Chitter Mal Narain Das (Supra) goes too far in this respect.	None
It is not really the nomenclature of the order involved, but the substance of the transaction under consideration which matters in such cases.	None
In Dewans Breweries case (supra), the question for consideration was whether the supplies of Indian made foreign liquor by distilleries and brewery company from its wholesale depots to permit holders on the permit issued by the Excise and Taxation Officer are sales and liable to sale tax under the Punjab General Sales Tax Act, 1948.	None
The contention was that there was no sale at all as the prices were fixed by the competent authorities and dealers had to charge the fixed price from its retailers holding licences and there was no volition in the distribution of liquor which was received from the manufacturing concern at Jammu.	None
This contention was negatived by the Court.	None
In the course of the argument, attention of the learned Judges was invited to Chitter Mals case.	None
In that connection, the learned Judges observed as follows This case, in our opinion, is squarely covered by a recent decision of this Court delivered by a Bench of seven Judges in Vishnu Agencies (Pvt. Ltd.) vs. Commercial Tax Officer.	Reasoning
The High Court in the case of Jagatjit Distilling and Allied Industries Ltd. had mainly relied upon the decision of this Court to hold that the transactions in that case were not sales.	Reasoning
The said decisions are New India Sugar Mills Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Sales Tax, Bihar and Chittar Mal Narain Das vs. Commissioner of Sales Tax, U.P.	Reasoning
In the case of Vishnu Agencies, the former case was considered in paragraphs 37 to 39 of AIR volume at pages 463464 (pages 5152 of 42 STC) and it was held that the view expressed in the majority judgment was not good law and the one contained in the minority judgment was approved.	Reasoning
Chittar Mals case was also considered in paragraphs 4445 at pages 467 (pages 5657 of 42 STC) and it was distinguished on the ground that t he said decision can be justified only on the view that clause 3 of the Wheat Procurement Order envisages compulsory acquisition of wheat by the State Government from the licensed dealer.	None
But then the criticism in that case of the Full Bench decision of Allahabad High Court in Commissioner of Sales Tax, U.P. vs. Ram Bilas Ram Gopal, which held while construing clause 3 that so long as there was freedom to bargain in some areas the transaction could amount to a sale though effected under compulsion of a statute was not endorsed.	None
It is, therefore, plain that to that extent Chitter Mals case is no longer good law.	None
(Emphasis supplied) 22.	None
In Coffee Board, Karnataka, Bangalore, vs. Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Karnataka and others 1983 (3) SCC 263), this Court had occasion to consider more or less an identical issue.	None
In that case also arguments identical to the one advanced before us on behalf of the appellants, were advanced.	None
This Court repelled such arguments.	None
As this case dealt with an issue more or less similar to the one on hand, we propose to extract liberally for m this judgment.	None
The question involved in that case was as to the exigibility of tax on sale, if there be any, by the growers of coffee to the Board.	None
The principal features of the legislation connected therewith as noticed in that judgment were Compulsory registration of all lands plated with coffee (Section 14 of the Coffee Act).	None
(b) Mandatory delivery of all coffee grown in the registered estates except the quantities permitted by the Board to be retained for domestic consumption and for seed purposes, (see section 25 (1) of the Coffee Act).	None
Estates situated in remote areas specified in the notification issued by the Central Government under the proviso to Section 25(1) of the Coffee Act are exempt from this provision, (c) Seizure by the Board of Coffee wrongly withheld from the pool.	None
Prosecution for failure to deliver and confiscation of quantity not delivered.	None
(d) Delivery to be effected at such times and at such places as designated by the Board (section 25(2) the extinguishment on delivery of all rights of the growers in respect of the coffee delivered to the Board excepting the right to receive payment under Section 34 of the Act (section 25(6)).	None
(e) Sale of coffee in the pool by the Board in the domestic market and for exp ort through auctions and other channels in regulated quantities and at convenient intervals (section 26(1).	None
(f) Payment to growers in such amounts and at such times as decided by the Board (section 3 4).	None
The payment o be made on the basis of the value as determined by the price differential scale (section 24(4)), and in proportion to the value of such coffee to the total realisations in the pool (section 3 4(2).	None
(g) Sale or contracts to sell coffee by growers in the years in which internal sale quota was not allotted were prohibited by Section 17 of the Act.	None
All contracts for the sale of coffees at variance with the provisions of the Act were declared as void by Section 47 of the Act.	None
The contention in that case was that there was no sale and it was nothing but a compulsory acquisition of the coffee by the Coffee Board.	None
In repel ling that contention, this Court in the said case observed as follows In 1966 this Court in the case of State of Kerala vs. Bhavani Tea Produce Co. (unanimous decision of a Bench of five learned Judges) which arose under the Madras Plantations Agricultural Income Tax Act. 1955 held that when growers delivered coffee under section 25 of the Act to the Board all their rights therein were extinguished and the coffee vested exclusively in the Board.	None
This Court observed that when growers delivered coffee to the Board, though the grower does not actually sell the coffee to the Board, there was a sale by operation of law.	None
This was in connection with section 25 of the Act.	None
The Court, however, did not hold that there was a taxable sale by the grower to the Board in the year in question.	None
The sale, according to this Court in that case took place in earlier years in which the Agricultural Income Tax Act did not operate.	None
All the States in which coffee is grown and all the persons concerned with the coffee industry, it is asserted on behalf of the Additional Solicitor General, understood this decision as laying down that the sale by operation of law mentioned therein only meant the compulsory acquisition of the coffee by the Coffee Board.	None
(Emphasis supplied) 19.	None
We are, however, bound by the clear ratio of this decision.	None
The Court considered this question was there a sale to the Coffee Board?	None
at page 99 of the Report and after discussing clearly said the answer must be in the affirmative.	None
It was rightly argued, in our opinion, by Dr. Chitale on behalf of the respondents that the question whether there was sale or not or whether the Coffee Board was a trustee or an agent could not have been determined by this Court, as it was done in this case unless the question was specifically raised and determined.	None
We cannot also bypass this decision by the argument of the learned Additional Solicitor General that Section 10 of the Act had not been considered or how it was understood by some.	None
This decision in our opinion concludes all the issues in the instant appeal.	None
While referring to the Vishnu Agencies case (supra), the following was observed in that case All parties drew our attention to the decision in the case of Vishnu Agencies Pvt.	None
Ltd.	None
There the Court was concerned with the Cement Control Order and the transactions taking place under the provisions of that control order.	None
The Cement Control order was promulgated under the West Bengal Cement Control Act, 1948 which prohibited storage for sale and sale by a seller and purchase by a consumer of cement except in accordance with the conditions specified in accordance with the conditions specified in licence issued by a designated officer.	None
Its also provided that no person should sell cement at a higher price than the notified price and no person to whom a written order had been issued shall refuse to sell cement at a price not exceeding the notified price.	None
any contravention of the order became punishable with imprisonment or fine or both.	None
Under the A.P. Procurement (Levy and Restrictions on Sale) Order 1967.	None
(Civil appeal Nos. 2488 to 2497 of 1972) every miller carrying on rice milling operation was required to sell to the agent or an officer duly authorised by the government, minimum quantities of rice fixed by the Government at the notified price, and no miller or other person who gets his paddy milled in any rice mill can move or otherwise dispose of the rice recovered by milling at such rice mill except in accordance with the directions of the Controller.	None
Breach of these provisions became punishable.	None
It was held dismissing the appeals that sale of cement in the former case by the allottees to the permitholders and the transaction between the growers and procuring agents as well as those between the rice millers on the one hand and the wholesalers or retailers on the other, in the latter case, were sales exigible to sales tax in the respective States.	None
It was observed by Beg C.J. that the transactions in those cases were sales and were exigible to tax on the ratio of Indian Steel and Wire Products Ltd., Andhra Sugars Ltd., and Karam Chand Thapar.	None
In cases like New India Sugar Mills, the substance of the concept of a sale itself disappeared because the transaction called price did not amount to a sale when all that was done was to carry out an order so that the transaction was substantially a compulsory acquisition.	None
On the other hand, a merely regulatory law, even if it circumscribed the area of free choice, did not take away the basic character or core of sale from the transaction.	None
Such a law which governs a class obliges a seller to deal only with parties holding licenses who may buy particular or allotted quantities of goods at specified prices, but an essential element of choice was still left to the parties between whom agreements took place.	None
The agreement, despite considerable compulsive elements regulating or restricting the area of his choice, might still retain the basic character of a transaction arose from the a general order or law applicable to a class.	None
In the latter type of cases, the legal tie which binds the parties to perform their obligations remains contractual.	None
The regulatory law merely adds other obligations, such as the one to enter into such a tie between the parties.	None
Although the regulatory law high specify the terms, such a price, the regulations is subsidiary to the essential character of the transaction which is consensual and contractual.	None
The parties to the contract must agree upon the same thing the same sense.	None
Agreement on mutuality of consideration, ordinarily arising form an offer and acceptance, imports to it enforceability in courts of law.	None
Mere regulation or restriction of the field of choice does not take away the contractual or essentially consensual binding core or character of the transaction.	None
Analysing the Act, it was observed that according to the definition of sale in the two Acts the transactions between the appellants in that case and the allottees or nominees, as the case may be, were patently sales because in one case the property in the cement and in the other property in the paddy and rice was transferred for case consideration by the appellants.	None
When the essential goods are in short supply, various types of orders are issued under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 with a view to making the goods available to the consumer at a fair price.	None
Such orders sometimes provide that a person in need of an essential commodity like cement, cotton, coal or iron and steel must apply to the prescribed authority for a permit for obtaining the commodity.	None
Those wanting to engage in the business of supplying the commodity are also required to possess a dealers licence.	None
The permit holder can obtain the supply of goods, to the extent of quantity specified in the permit and from the named dealer only and at a controller price.	None
The dealer who is asked to supply the stated quantity to the particular permitholder has no option but to supply the stated quantity of goods at the controlled price.	None
Then the decisions in State of Madras vs. Gannon Dunkerley Co. Ltd. and New India Sugar Mills vs. CST, were discussed and the correctness of the view taken in the former case was doubted and the majority opinion in the latter case was overruled.	None
28.	None
Since all persons including the Coffee Board are prohibited from purchasing selling coffee in law, there could be no sale or purchase to attract the imposition of sales purchase tax it was urged.	None
Even if there was compulsion there would be a sale as was the position in Vishnu Agencies.	None
This Court therein approved the minority opinion of Hidayatullah, J. in New India Sugar Mills vs. CST.	None
In the nature of the transactions contemplated under the Act mutual assent either express or implied is not totally absent in this case in the transactions under the Act.	None
Coffee growers have a violation or option, though minimal or nominal to enter into the coffee growing trade.	None
coffee growing was not compulsory.	None
If any one decides to grow coffee or continue to grow coffee, he must transact in terms of the regulations imposed for the benefit of the coffee growing industry.	None
Section 25 of the Act provides the Board with the right to reject coffee if it is not up to the standard.	None
Value to be paid as contemplated by the Act is the price of the coffee.	None
Fixation of price is regulation but is a matter of dealing between the parties.	None
There is no time fixed for delivery of coffee either to the board or the curer.	None
These indicate consensuality which is not totally absent in the transaction.	None
43.	None
The true principle or basis in Vishnu Agencies case applies to this case.	None
Offer and acceptance need not always be in an elementary form, nor does the law of contract or of sale of goods require that consent to a contract must be express.	None
Other and acceptance can be spelt out from the conduct of parties which cover not only their acts but o missions as well.	None
the limitations imposed by the Control Order on the normal right of dealers and consumers to supply and obtain goods, the obligations imposed on the parties and the penalities prescribed by the order do not militate against the position that eventually, the parties must be deemed to have competed the transaction under an agreement by which one party binds itself to supply the stated quantity of goods to the other at a price not higher than the notified price and the other party consents to accept the goods on the terms and conditions mentioned in the permit or the order of the allotment issued in its favour by the concerned authority.	None
46.	None
Because coffee is grown on the estate, the owner of the land can be presumed to have consented to surrender his produce to the Board it was submitted.	None
But the surrender is thus clearly an act of violation.	None
The planting of the seeds of a coffee plant by a grower can be regarded as his act of volition in respect of the surrender to the Board of the coffee yielded by the plant.	None
In Oil and Natural Gas Commissions case (supra), this Court referred the arguments similar to the one advanced before us and repelled the same in the following manner The Commission is described b y the Solicitor General to be a statutory body which has no option either with regard to the production or supply and the directions and the directions and decisions of the Government leave no choice with the Commission in regard to supplies.	None
This Court in Salar Jung Mills Ltd. etc. vs. State of Mysore and Others laid down the following propositions first, statutory orders regulating the supply and distribution of goods by and between the parties under control orders in a State do not absolutely impinge on the freedom to enter into contract.	None
Second, directions, decisions and orders of agencies of the Government to control production and supply of commodities, may fix the parties to whom the goods are to be supplied, the price at which these are to be supplied, the time during which these are to be supplied and the persons who have to carry out these directions.	None
In such cases at cannot be said that compulsive directions rob the transactions of the character of agreement.	None
The reason is that the transfer of property which constitutes the agreement in spite of the compulsion of law is neither void nor voidable.	None
It is not as a result of coercion.	None
The state supplies the consensus and the modality of consensus is furnished b y the statutes.	None
There is privity of contract between the parties.	None
The other third, fourth, fifth and sixth propositions are these.	None
Third, such a transaction is neither a gift nor a loan.	None
It is a transfer of property from one person to another.	None
There is consideration for the transfer.	None
There is assent.	None
The law presumes the assent when there is transfer of goods from one to the other.	None
Fourth, a sale m ay not require the consensual element and that there may, in truth, be a compulsory sale of property with which the owner is compelled to part for a price against him will and the effect of the statute in such a case is to say that the absence of the sale is to proceed without it, in truth, transfer, is brought into being which ex facie in all its essential characteristics is a transfer of sale.	None
Fifth, delimiting areas for transactions or denoting parties or denoting price for transactions are all within the area of individual freedom of contract with limited choice by reason of ensuring the greatest good for the greatest number of achieving proper supply at standard or fair price to eliminate the evils of boarding and scarcity on the one hand and ensuring availability on the other.	None
Sixth, after all the transactions in substance represent the out going of the business and the price would come into computation of profits.	None
One other important aspect to be noted is that though the main judgment of this Court in Vishnu Agencies case dealt with West Bengal Cement Control Act by the same reasonings, this Court has rejected similar arguments relating to transactions under the A.P. Paddy Procurement (Levy) Order.	None
In other words, the ratio laid down by this Court in respect of Control Orders were applied to the issues under levy Orders.	None
Therefore, the distinction sought to be made by the learned counsel appearing for the appellant that the subsequent judgment of larger Benches of this Court are relating to Control Orders and they do not apply to levy Orders is without substance.	None
We have noticed the latter trend in the judgments of this Court in particular the Coffee Boards case (supra) was not making out any serious distinction between the transaction s under the Control Orders on the one hand and Levy Orders on the other.	None
27.	None
We would also like a emphasise one other relevant factor at this stage which has also been noticed by the High Court.	None
Placing reliance on the averments in paragraph 13 of the counter affidavit filed on behalf of the FCI, learned counsel appearing for the State before the High Court pointed out that it was open to the FCI to reject the foodgrains offered by the State Government it the FCI thought t hat the foodgrains did not conform to the standard of quality as required by it.	None
The relevant averment made in para 13 of the counter affidavit was to the effect that the FCI had rejected 142 MT of wheat which was offered by the State Government.	None
This shows that the FCI had reserved the right to accept or reject the offer of the State.	None
This also negatives the contention of the learned counsel appearing for the appellants that the transaction in question is one single integrated process and the re is no break in it.	None
28.	None
On facts and in the light of observations of Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court (supra) we are satisfied that some area of consensual arrangement and some field for volition is left untouched by the Legislation in all disputed transactions.	None
The disputed transactions are sales, may be, under the compulsion of a statue.	None
Nevertheless, they are sales exigible to tax.	None
Whatever coersive force is used to bring about the transactions, the same must be traced to legislation and not to the State Government as a party to such transactions.	None
29.	None
We, therefore, answer the principal common point holding that the levy procurement is a sale purchase and therefore, falls within the purview of Entry 54.	None
List II of Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	Reasoning
The States were competent to levy sales purchase tax on such transactions.	None
In the light of the rulings of this Court referred to above in detail, we are unable to agree with the submission of the learned Senior Counsel for the appellants that there was no area left for consensual agreement in the parties to the procurement transactions.	None
The view taken by the Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court in Ram Bilas Ram Gopal case is the correct view, and the High Court of Allahabad (Lucknow Bench) was right in applying the same in the judgment under appeal.	Reasoning
We also hold that the view of the Punjab and Haryana High Court challenged before us in some of these cases taking a different view does not lay down the correct law.	Reasoning
To put the matter beyond controversy, we hold, with respect, that the decision in Chitter Mals case is no longer good law in the light of later larger Bench decisions of this Court referred to above.	None
30.	None
Now coming to the second proposition regarding the constitutionality of Explanation (II) added to Section 3(D)(1) of the U.P. Sales Tax Act, it must be answered against the assessee following our answer to proposition No.1 and in favour of the Revenue.	None
We have held that the transactions in questions are all sale and exigible to tax under the State Sales Tax Act.	Reasoning
The contention that the Explanation newly added was ultra vires Entry 54 List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, on the assumption that the disputed transactions are not sales and, therefore, by a fiction the impugned Explanation cannot deem a sale which is not a sale, is without substance.	Reasoning
The learned counsel fairly concedes that it is open to the State Legislature to shape a point at which tax is levied, if may be equally permissible to the legislature to treat a particular sale or purchase as the first sale or purchase, but it cannot by legislative device or fiction of law make something as a sale purchase which in fact is not.	Reasoning
This argument has to fail in view of our answer to proposition No.1 in favour of the Revenue.	Reasoning
We, therefore, do not find any substance in the proposition No.2 advanced by the learned Senior counsel for the appellants.	None
Regarding the third proposition concerning retrospective effect and consequently, compelling the appellants to pay tax twice on the same transaction, the learned counsel appearing for the State has filed a written note explaining the position in the following manner From 15.11.1971 to 18.5.1973, on the one hand State Government and its agencies were liable to pay tax on their purchase and on the other hand Food Corporation of India was also liable to pay tax on his purchase as tax on Foodgrains, was at all points of purchases.	None
Therefore, ExplanationII of Section 3D(i) of U.P. Sales Tax Act which deals only with first purchase, does not affect this period.	Reasoning
From 2.9.1976 to 30.4.1977 tax on foodgrains was at the point of sale to consumer.	Reasoning
The Explanation II of Section 3D(i) of U.P. Sales Tax Act, which deals only with first purchase does not affect this period.	Reasoning
However, if any tax has been levied upon Food Corporation of India for this period, it is on account of their failure to supply the requisite forms etc., whereupon the liability, under the law, devolves on them.	Reasoning
There is no challenge specifically to any such assessment.	Reasoning
3.	Arguments of Petitioner
For the period commencing from 196869 and afterwards (excluding the period 15.11.71 to 18.5 .73 and 2.9.76 to 30.4.77) provision of ExplanationII of section 3D(i) is applicable because this ExplanationII in section 3D(i) has been inserted with complete retrospective effect by the U.P. Sales Tax (Amendment and validation) Act, 1976 (U.P. Act No.23 of 1976) published on 20.5.76.	Reasoning
Therefore, Food Corporation of India had been taxed rightly because under the provision of ExplanationII of section 3D(i), the tax is collected only at one point viz.	Reasoning
from the Food Corporation of India.	Reasoning
Credit is however given where Food Corporation of India furnishes proof that it ha s already paid the tax to Food Department (RFCs) and its agencies and they (Food department and its agencies) have deposited that tax.	Reasoning
By this procedure assessing authority has given credit of the following sums	None
Year Amount of Tax 196970 Rs. 931249.92 197172 Rs. 2132428.63 197273 Rs. 8059065.00  Total R s. 11122743.55	None
In future also if Food Corporation of India gives the proof that it has paid further tax to Food Department (RFCs) and its agencies and they have deposited that tax to sales tax department (excluding the period between 15.11.71 to 18.5.73 because in this period tax was not at all points of purchases) the above procedure will be followed and after verification benefit of the deposit of tax will be given to Food Corporation of India.	Reasoning
Thus, there is no question of multiple taxation for any period other than 15.11.1971 to 18.5.1973.	None
In view of the above, the appellants ca n work out remedy before the concerned authorities in accordance with law.	None
There is nothing to be decided by this Court.	Reasoning
33.	None
Now coming to the fourth proposition, the grievance appears to be that the appellant has been singled out for harsh treatment and there was no other dealer in foodgrains in the State of U.P. whose annual turnover would exceed Rs.10 crores.	Reasoning
It is now wellsettled that it is within the competency of the State Legislature to classify the dealers and to impose surcharge upon those who were placed in one category taking into consideration their economic superiority.	Reasoning
A classification on the basis of gross turnover was held by this Court in the earlier case as reasonable one vide M s Hoechst Pharmaceuticals Ltd. vs. State of Bihar.	Reasoning
34.	None
We do not think that we should spend more time on this as the High Court had dealt with fairly elaborately on this issue and we see no reason to differ from the view taken by the High Court.	None
Accordingly, the fourth proposition also is answered against the appellant.	Reasoning
We have already dealt with the fifth and sixth propositions.	None
35.	None
There is a group of special leave petitions preferred by millers.	None
They challenged before the High Court the demand of market fee under the U.P. Krishi Utpadan Mandi Adhiniyam.	Reasoning
1964 on rice.	Reasoning
The basis of their challenge was that there was no safe to demand the market fee when the rice was procured under the levy orders.	Reasoning
According to the appellants in these matters there was compulsory acquisition of stocks under the levy orders and therefore, there was no safe.	Reasoning
In the earlier paragraphs, we have dealt with and have arrived at a finding that the disputed transactions are sales.	Reasoning
The same view was taken by the High Court and consequently, the writ petitions filed by the millers were dismissed.	Reasoning
We affirm the view of the High Court.	None
36.	None
The Food Corporation of India have distributed fertilizers to the State Governments their nominees under Fertilizer (Control) Order.	Reasoning
The levy of sales tax on such distribution of fertilizers was challenged by the food Corporation of India.	Reasoning
The High Courts of Andhra Pradesh and Kerala upheld the levy and aggrieved by that, the Food Corporation of India have filed civil appeals.	Reasoning
The argument advanced before the High Court on behalf of the FCI was discharging a statutory obligation vested in it under the Control Order and there is no element of volition or consensus of agreement in those transactions.	Reasoning
This was negatived by the High Courts holding that there is no provision in the Control Order excluding the exercise of violation of the freedom of contract totally.	Reasoning
Only the price of fertilizers was controlled, quoted standard has been prescribed for mixture of fertilizers and persons carrying on the business of selling fertilizers are required to obtain licences.	Reasoning
It was also noticed by the High Court that there was no statutory compulsion in the matter of sale or purchase of fertilizers and parties are left to enter into consensual contractual agreement in the exercise of their volition subject only to the restrictions regarding price fixation, quota requirements etc. 37.	Reasoning
We have in the earlier paragraphs noticed that the appellants have conceded that there are sales in the transactions falling under Control Orders.	None
The challenge was only regarding transaction falling under Levy Orders.	Reasoning
Wee have held that the transaction falling under Levy Orders would amount to sales.	Reasoning
Therefore, we have no difficulty or hesitation in approving the view taken by the high Court that the activity of distribution of fertilizers amounts to sale exigible to sale tax.	None
38.	None
We have noticed in the course of the discussion that the Punjab and Haryana high Court has taken a different view and we have also held that the view taken by the Punjab and Haryana High Court was not the correct one, the State of Punjab aggrieved by the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has filed appeals.	None
Our discussion concerning the six propositions would equally apply to the appeals filed by the State of Punjab and one additional point arises in the appeals filed by the State of Punjab, namely, whether the gunny bags used in the course of the disputed transactions as a packing material are liable to be included in the taxable turnover or not?	Reasoning
The Punjab and Haryana High Court held that the gunny bag in these transactions are not exigible to tax as the contents, namely, rice paddy are not liable to tax as there was no sale at all.	Reasoning
An additional ground given by the High Court was that there was nothing to show whether there was any agreement between the parties for the sale of gunny bags.	Reasoning
Now that we have held that the disputed transactions are exigible to tax, one reason given by the High Court as mentioned above, cannot be supported.	Reasoning
Further, the facts are not clear regarding the agreement.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, we consider that the matter has to be left open to be decided by the Assessing Officer while finalising the assessment in the light of the judgment.	None
39.	None
In the result all the civil appeals except Civil Appeal Nos. 890, 892, 893 and 1995 of 1978 file d by the State of Punjab and Haryana are dismissed.	Reasoning
The appeals filed by the States of Punjab and Haryana are allowed as indicated above.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs.	None
40.	None
The issue as to who has to pay the market fee has been argued and answered by the High Court but was not argued before us.	None
Hence, it was not decided.	Decision
Therefore, the civil appeals arising out of S.L.P.(C)Nos.	Decision
877274/87, 6775/91, 747/91, 7478/91, 8541/91, 15719/94 and 13131/91 preferred by the Rice Miller will be posted for further arguments on this issue in Court.	Decision
