 SARKARIA J. 1.	None
Whether any payment by a company not being a company in which the public are substantially interested within the meaning of section 23A, of any sum by way of advance or loan to a shareholder, not exceeding the accumulated profits possessed by the company is to be deemed as his dividend under section 2(6A)(e) read with section 12(1B) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, even if that advance or loan is subsequently repaid in its entirety during the relevant previous year in which it was taken, is the only question that falls to be determined in this appeal by special leave The assessment year is 195758 and the corresponding previous year is the calendar year 1956.	Issue
The assessee is a shareholder and the managing director of M s. Dolaguri Tea Co. (P.) Ltd.	Facts
The company is admittedly one in which the public are not substantially interested within the meaning of section 23A of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 (for short, the Act ).	Facts
At the commencement of the previous year, there was in the books of the company a credit balance of Rs. 65, 246 in the assessees account, which had been brought forward from the earlier year.	Facts
Between the 11th January and the 12th November, 1956, the assessee withdrew in cash from time to time from the company, amounts aggregating Rs. 4, 97, 442.	Facts
The first two cash amounts of Rs. 3, 50, 000 and Rs. 40, 400 were taken by the assessee on 11th January, 1966.	Facts
Deducting therefrom the opening balance of Rs. 65, 246 and two more items, namely, Rs. 1, 40, 000, being outstanding dividends declared on 31st December, 1955, of his major son, and transferred to his account, and a further dividend of Rs. 19, 493 credited to his account from Kathoni Tea Estate, there remained a sum of Rs. 2, 72, 703 to the debit of the assessee in the books of the company as on the 12th November, 1956.	Facts
On December 29, 1956, the assessee paid back to the company a sum of Rs. 1, 90, 000.	Facts
On December 31, 1956, his account was credited with another sum of Rs. 80, 000 in respect of the dividend due to him and his wife, and with a further sum of Rs. 29, 326 for hypothecation.	Facts
In this manner before the end of the previous year, the assessees account was credited with an aggregated amount of Rs. 2, 99, 326 which exceeded the debit balance of Rs. 2, 72, 703 as on November 12, 1956.	Facts
Thus at the end of the relevant previous year, no advance or loan was due to the company by the assesseeThe Incometax Officer found that the accumulated profits of the company as on January 1, 1956, amounted to Rs. 6, 83, 005.	Facts
He, therefore, deducted the two aforesaid items of Rs. 1, 40, 000 And Rs. 19, 493 aggregating Rs. 1, 59, 493 from the amount paid in cash to the assessee and treated the balance of Rs. 2, 72, 703 as the net dividend income in the hands of the assessee within the meaning of section 2(6A)(e).	Facts
The Incometax Officer grossed up that amount under section 16(2) and gave credit for tax in accordance with that section to the assessee.	None
2.	None
The assessees appeal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner having failed, he preferred a further appeal to the Incometax Appellate Tribunal.	None
There was a divergence of opinion between the members of the Tribunal.	Facts
The Accountant Member took the view that the moment a payment is made as envisaged in section 2(6A)(e) it becomes clothed with the character of a dividend and has to be treated as such income of the assessee, and no subsequent action or repayment by the shareholder can take it out of the mischief of this provision.	Facts
He, therefore, held that the sum of Rs. 2, 72, 703 was taxable as dividend under section 2(6A)(e).	None
3.	None
The Judicial Member expressed a contrary opinion.	None
In his view, the total income of the assessee during the relevant previous year could be computed and assessed only at the end of that year it could not be computed at interim periods during the previous year.	Facts
If it is found that although the shareholder had taken by way of advance or loan an amount from the company during the course of a previous year but had returned the same to the company before the close of that previous year, it can only be said while computing the shareholders total income at the end of that previous year that no advance or loans from the section 23A company of which he was a shareholder stood for his benefit at the time relevant for computation of his total income.	Facts
The advances or loans taken during the interim periods of the previous year would just have to be ignored.	Facts
On these premises, the Judicial Member came to the conclusion that the sum of Rs. 2, 72, 703 grossed up to Rs. 3, 19, 345 was not a dividend within the fiction under section 2(6A)(e) of the Act 4. account of this difference of opinion, the following question was referred to the President of the Tribunal Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the cases, the sum of Rs. 2, 72, 703 net (Rs. 3, 19, 245 gross) is to be treated as dividend income in the hands of the assessee within the meaning of section 2(6A)(e) ?	Facts
5.	None
The President agreed with the Accountant Member and held that an advance or loan received by the shareholder of a private company forthwith assumes the character of a dividend and becomes his income by virtue of the fiction created by section 2(6A)(e) and it ceases to be a liability for the purpose of taxation, although the assessee may, in fact or in law, remain liable to the company to repay it.	Facts
If the assessee repays the loan subsequently, such repayment would not liquidate or reduce the quantum of the income which had already accrued, as such repayment is not to be allowed as a permissible deduction under section 12(2).	Facts
On these premises, he answered the question in the affirmative 6.	None
In accordance with the majority opinion, the Tribunal dismissed the assessees appeal but, at his instance, referred the same question for opinion to the High Court under section 66(1) of the Act 7.	None
The High Court held that the tax was attracted at the point of time when the said loan was borrowed by the shareholder and it was immaterial whether the loan was repaid before the end of the accounting year or not.	None
On this reasoning it answered the question in favour of the revenue and against the assessee 8.	Facts
Hence, this appeal by the assessee 9.	None
Before dealing with the contentions canvassed, it is necessary to have a look at the general scheme and the relevant provisions of the Act.	None
Section 2(6A)(e) of the Act reads as follows2.	None
(6A) dividend includes (e) any payment by a company, not being a company in which the public are substantially interested within the meaning of section 23A, of any sum (whether as representing a part of the assets of the company or otherwise) by way of advance or loan to a shareholder or any payment by any such company on behalf or for the individual benefit of a shareholder, to the extent to which the company in either case possesses accumulated profits but dividend does not include (i) a distribution made in accordance with subclause (c) or subclause (d) in respect of any share issued for full cash consideration where the holder of the share is not entitled in the event of liquidation to participate in the surplus assets (ii) any advance or loan made to a shareholder by a company in the ordinary course of its business where the lending of money is a substantial part of the business of the company (iii) any dividend paid by a company which is set off by the company against the whole or any part of any sum previously paid by it and treated as a dividend within the meaning of clause (e), to the extent to which it is so set off Explanation.	None
The expression accumulated profits, wherever it occurs in this clause, shall not include capital gains arising before the 1st day of April, 1946, or after the 31st day of March, 1948, and before the 1st day of April, 1956.	None
Subsection (15) defines total income as meaning total amount of income, profits and gains referred to in subsection (1) of section 4 computed in the manner laid down in this Act.	None
Section 3 is the charging section.	None
Two of the principles deducible from the section are (1) That the tax is levied on the total income of the assessable entity(2) That each previous year is a distinct unit of time for the purpose of assessment, and the profits made or liabilities or losses incurred before or after the relevant previous year are wholly immaterial in assessing the profits of that year unless there is a statutory provision to the contrary Section 4(1), so far as it is material, reads as follows 4.	None
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the total income of any previous year of any person includes all income, profits and gains from whatever source derived which (a) are received or are deemed to be received in the taxable territories in such year by or on behalf of such person, or (b) if such person is resident in the taxable territories during such year.	None
(i) accrue or arise or are deemed to accrue or arise to him in the taxable territories during such year, or (ii) accrue or arise to him without the taxable territories during such year, or (c) if such person is not resident in the taxable territories during such year, accrue or arise or are deemed to accrue or arise to him in the taxable territories during such year (Emphasis supplied)	None
The principles deducible from section 4(1) are (1) The charge is on accrual or receipt basis.	None
Such receipt or accrual may be actual or statutory, i.e., the result of any statutory fiction created by the Act (2) If a particular amount of income is taxed under any of the clauses (a), (b) or (c) of the subsection the same amount cannot be taxed under any other clause either in the same year or in a different year.	None
That is to say, income which is taxed on accrual under clause (b)(ii) cannot be taxed again on receipt under clause (a) or on remittance under clause (b)(iii) (3) The receipt spoken of in this clause is the first receipt after the accrual of the income.	None
See the decision of this court in Keshav Mills v. Commissioner of Incometax 1953 23 ITR 230 (SC) Subsection (1) of section 4 also highlights the basic principle embodied in the charging section 3, that the accrual or receipt of income (actual or deemed) is taxed with regard to the relevant previous year Section 12 deals with the residuary head Income from other sources Its subsection (1A) says that Income from other sources shall include dividends Subsection (1B) is crucial.	None
It provides Any payment by a company to a shareholder by way of advance or loan which would have been treated as a dividend within the meaning of clause (e) of subsection (6A) of section 2 in any previous year relevant to any assessment year prior to the assessment year ending on the 31st day of March, 1956, had that clause been in force in that year, shall be treated as a dividend received by him in the previous year relevant to the assessment year ending on the 31st day of March, 1956, if such loan or advance remained outstanding on the first day of such previous year.	None
Subsection (2), inter alia, lays down that in computing any income by way of dividend, allowance shall be given for any reasonable sum paid by way of commission or remuneration to a banker or any other person realising such dividend on behalf of the assessee	None
It is to be noted that subsection (6A) of section 2 and subsections (1A) and (1B) were inserted in the Act by the Finance Act, 1955, with effect from the 1st April, 1956 In the relevant assessment year, section 16(2) of the Act was operative and ran as follows 16.	None
(2) For the purposes of inclusion in the total income of an assessee any dividend shall be deemed to be income of the previous year in which it is paid, credited or distributed or deemed to have been paid, credited or distributed to him, and shall be increased to such amount as would, if incometax (but not supertax) at the rate applicable to the total income of the company for the financial year in which the dividend is paid, credited or distributed or deemed to have been paid, credited or distributed, were deducted therefrom, be equal to the amount of the dividend.	None
Mr. G. C. Sharma, counsel for the appellants, contends that the scope of the fiction created by section 2(6A)(e) should be confined to those advances and loans only, which are not repaid but remain subsisting at the end of the previous year in which they were taken.	None
It is argued that the sole object of this provision is to curb the evil of distributing profits under the guise of loans or advances that if an advance or loan is repaid in the same accounting year, it cannot be said that it was a device for distribution of profits.	None
It is submitted that only in the case of an advance or loan which remains outstanding at the end of the accounting year, section 2(6A)(e) raises an irrebuttable presumption that it was a payment of dividend under the cloak of a loan.	None
It is maintained that if this construction of section 2(6A)(e) is not adopted, it will lead to extremely oppressive, unreasonable and anomalous results, including double taxation.	None
To illustrate his point counsel compares and contrasts the position of a shareholder who promptly, after a short period, repays the loan in the same year, with one who does not do so but allows it to remain outstanding and be carried over to the next year, and thereafter a dividend is declared.	None
If the interpretation adopted by the High Court is correctsays Mr. Sharmathe shareholder in the prior case who had promptly repaid the loan would not be entitled under subclause (iii) of clause (e) of section 2(6A) to set off any part of the subsequently declared dividend against the loan which he had repaid earlier, but will have to pay double tax on the same item once on it as deemed dividend and then on it as declared dividend.	None
His liability cannot be reduced to the extent of the dividend because at the date on which the dividend was declared no loan was outstanding against which it could be set off.	None
As against the former, the latter shareholder who makes full use of the loan and does not repay any part of the loan in the same year, but leaves it unpaid till a dividend is declared next year, will get relief by setoff of the subsequently declared dividend, in whole or in part, against the loan outstanding against himAnother example cited by Mr. Sharma is of a case where the accumulated profit, say is Rs. 9, 000, and the shareholder takes an advance or loan of Rs. 3, 000 and he repays it after a week, and again gets the same amount (Rs. 3, 000) back as a loan, and again repays it after a week, and again retakes the same amount as loanall the three loans being taken and repaid in the same year.	None
If the unrestricted interpretation of the provision sought by the revenue were to be adopted, the same amount of loan in all the three transactions of loan would be subjected to triple taxation.	None
Such an absurd and oppressive result, says the counsel, would be against the intendment of the provision and inconsistent with the scheme of the Act which generally avoids double taxation.	None
The upshot of the arguments of Mr. Sharma is that under the Act only that item or entity is taxable which is rationally capable of being considered as the income of the assessee that an advance or loan which is genuine and not a subterfuge for payment of dividend and is not subsisting or outstanding at the end of the previous year on account of its repayment by the shareholder, cannot reasonably be deemed to be his dividend income within the contemplation of section 2(6A)(e) read with section 12 of the Act.	None
Mr. Sharma has taken us through various decisions having a bearing on the problem.	None
The cases referred to, discussed or sought to be distinguished by him are K. M. S. Lakshmana Aiyar v. Addl.	None
Incometax Officer 1960 40 ITR 469 (Mad) , Navnit Lal C. Javeri v. K. K. Sen, Appellate Assistant Commissioner of Incometax 1965 56 ITR 198 (SC), Commissioner of Incometax v. K. Srinivasan 1963 50 ITR 788 (Mad), Walchand Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax 1975 100 ITR 598 (Bom) and Commissioner incometax v. P. K. Badiani 1970 76 ITR 369 (Bom)	None
Mr. Sharma also has referred to section 108 of the Commonwealth Incometax Act as in force in Australia, and submitted that since the substance of section 2(6A)(e) and section 12(1B) has been borrowed from section 108 of the said Act and the object of these provisions in the two enactments is the same, it will not be illegitimate to determine and circumscribe the scope of the fiction created by the provision in question in the light of the principles indicated in section 108 of the Commonwealth Act.	None
10.	None
On the other hand, Mr. Ahuja appearing for the revenue, submits that subclause (iii) which permits a setoff against a loan deemed as dividend, does not apply in cases where the dividend is not declared in the same accounting year because to hold otherwise would be against the basic, scheme ingrained in sections 3 and 4 of the Act, according to which the unit of time for the purpose of assessment is the previous year of the assessee.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Ahuja further maintains that even if during the same accounting year after repayment of the loan, a dividend is declared, subclause (iii) will apply, and the Incometax Officer will not be debarred from reducing, in an appropriate case, the amount treated by him as dividend under clause (e) of section 2(6A) to the extent of the subsequently declared dividend, on the principle of notional setoff underlying subclause (iii).	Arguments of Respondent
The point sought to be made out is that since the treatment of the loan to the assesseeshareholder as his dividend rests oil a legal fiction, it will not be an illegitimate use of subclause (iii) to allow a notional setoff to meet such a situation.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus construed, says the counsel, there would be no anomaly.	Arguments of Respondent
11.	None
Mr. Ahuja further submitted that section 2(6A)(e) was enacted to suppress the evil of receiving profits or dividends under the guise of loans by the shareholders of a controlled company as such a malpractice resulted in evasion of tax.	Arguments of Respondent
This provision, it is urged, should be construed in a manner which suppresses the mischief and advances the remedy.	Arguments of Respondent
It is maintained that the language of the provision is in question is plain and unambiguous and no question of seeking external aid for its interpretation arises the court must give effect to it regardless of the hardship, if any, resulting therefrom.	Arguments of Respondent
The sum and substance of his arguments is that since all the factual ingredients necessary for raising the fiction contemplated by section 2(6A)(e) and section 12(1B) have been found to exist by the incometax authorities and the Tribunal, the loan had to be treated as the assessees dividend income, the moment it was received, and the subsequent repayment of the loan could not neutralise or take it out of that category of income.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel has drawn our attention to the observations of this court in Navnit Lal C. Javeri v. K. K. Sen, Appellate Assistant Commissioner of Incometax 1965 56 ITR 198 (SC).	Arguments of Respondent
He has further adopted the reasoning of the Bombay High Court in Walchand Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income tax 1975 100 ITR 598 (Bom) Section 2(6A)(e) and section 12(1B) were inserted in the Act by the Finance Act, 1955, which came into operation on April 1, 1955.	None
These provisions seem to have been adapted with alterations from section 108 of the Commonwealth Incometax Assessment Act in force in Australia.	Reasoning
Section 108 reads as follows Loans to shareholders.(1)	None
If amounts are paid or assets distributed by a private company to any of its shareholders by way of advances or loans, or payments are made by the company on behalf of, or for the individual benefit of, any of its shareholders, so much, if any, of the amount or value of those advances, loans or payments, as, in the opinion of the Commissioner, represents distributions of income shall, for the purposes of this Act other than the purposes of Division 11A of Part III and Division 4 of Part VI be deemed to be dividends paid by the company on the last day of the year of income of the company in which the payment or distribution is made (2) Where the amount or value of an advance, loan or payment is deemed, under the last preceding subsection, to be a dividend paid by a company to a shareholder, and the company subsequently sets off the whole or a part of a dividend distributed by it in satisfaction in whole or in part of that advance, loan or payment, that dividend shall, to the extent to which it is so set off, be deemed not to be a dividend for any purpose of this Act. 12.	None
It will be seen that under section 108(1) formation of the opinion of the Commissioner is the sine qua non for bringing this provision into operation.	None
It has been held by the Australian Board of Review that the mere fact that a shareholder in a private company has become indebted to it does not justify the formation of the opinion by the Commissioner such as is indicated in subsection (1) of section 108 There must be something that goes beyond a mere debt automatically arising upon a taking of accounts and which points to a subterfuge whereby a payment which, upon examination, is found to relate to the income of the company and to represent the distribution thereof, is made to appear to be a loan or advance.	Reasoning
(I.C.T.B.R.(N.S) Case No.80) 13.	None
It is noteworthy that at least in one material aspect the Indian law is different from that under section 108(1) of the Commonwealth Act as explained and interpreted by the Board in the case mentioned above.	None
Under section 108, the raising of the fiction is dependent upon a positive finding recorded by the Commissioner of Incometax that the payment represents distribution of the companys income.	None
But section 2(6A)(e) and section 12 of the Act do not leave this question to the adjudication of the incometax authorities.	None
Parliament has itself in the exercise of its legislative judgment raised a conclusive presumption, that in all cases where loans are advanced to a shareholder in a private limited company having accumulated profits, the advances should be deemed to be the dividend income of the shareholder.	None
It is this presumption juris et de jure which is the foundation of the statutory fiction incorporated in section 2(6A)(e).	None
Thus, section 108 of the Commonwealth Act appears to be more reasonable and less harsh than its Indian counterpart 14.	None
From the above discussion it emerges clear that the fiction created by section 2(6A)(e) read with section 12(1B) of the Act is inexorably attracted as soon as all the conditions necessary for its application exist in a case.	Reasoning
In Navnit Lals case 1965 56 ITR 198 , 202 (SC) this court, after an analysis of these provisions, listed these conditions, as follows the combined effect of these two provisions is that three kinds of payments made to the shareholder of a company to which the said provisions apply, are treated as taxable dividend to the extent of the accumulated profits held by the company.	None
There three kinds of payments are (1) payments made to the shareholder by way of advance or loan (2) payments made on his behalf and (3) payments made for his individual benefit.	None
There are five conditions which must be satisfied before section 12(1B) can be invoked against a shareholder.	None
The first condition is that the company in question must be one in which the public are not substantially interested within the meaning of section 23A as it stood in the year in which the loan was advanced.	Reasoning
The second condition is that the borrower must be a shareholder at the date when the loan was advanced it is immaterial what the extent of his shareholding is.	Reasoning
The third condition is that the loan advanced to a shareholder by such a company can be deemed to be dividend only to the extent to which it is shown that the company possessed accumulated profit at the date of the loan.	Reasoning
This is an important limit prescribed by the relevant section.	Reasoning
The fourth condition is that the loan must not have been advanced by the company in the ordinary course of its business.	Reasoning
In other words, this provision would not apply to cases where the company which advances a loan to its shareholder carries on the business of moneylending itself and the last condition is that the loan must have remained outstanding at the commencement of the shareholders previous year in relation to the assessment year 195556.	Reasoning
(Emphasis supplied)The first four conditions factually exist in the instant case.	Reasoning
The last condition is not applicable because it was a transitory provision applicable to the assessment year 195556 only, while we are concerned with the assessment year 195758, and the previous year is the calendar year 1956.	Reasoning
There is no dispute that the company is a controlled (private limited) company in which the public are not substantially interested within the meaning of section 23A. Further, the assessee is admittedly a shareholder and managing director of that company.	Reasoning
It is also beyond controversy that at all material times, the company possessed accumulated profits in excess of the amount which the assesseeshareholder was paid during the previous year.	Reasoning
The Incometax Officer found that on January 1, 1956, the accumulated profits of the company amounted to Rs. 6, 83, 005 while from January 11, 1956, to November 12, 1956, the assessee received in cash from time to time from the company payments aggregating Rs. 4, 97, 442.	Reasoning
After deducting the opening credit balance and some other items credited to his amount, the Incometax Officer found that in the previous year the assesseeshareholder had received a net payment of Rs. 2, 72, 703 by way of loan or advance from the company.	Reasoning
The companys business is not moneylending and it could not be said that the loans had been advanced by the company in the ordinary course of its business.	Reasoning
Thus, all the factual conditions for raising the statutory fiction created by sections 2(6A)(e) and 12(1B) appeared to have been satisfied in the instant case.	None
15.	None
Mr. Sharma, however, contends that in order to attract the statutory fiction one other essential condition is that the loan or advance must be outstanding at the end of the previous year, and if the loan had ceased to exist owing to repayment or otherwise before the end of the yearas in the present casethe fiction cannot be invoked.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection, counsel has again referred to the last limb of section 108(1) of the Commonwealth Incometax Act according to which the payment to a shareholder by way of advance or loan is to be treated as a dividend paid by the company on the last day of the year of income of the company in which the payment is madeIt is urged that the principle in the last limb of subsection (1) of section 108 of the Commonwealth Act should also be read into the Indian statute.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is maintained that the omission of such words from sections 2(6A)(e) and 12(1B) does not show that the intendment of the Indian legislature was different.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the counsel what is explicit in section 108(1) of the Commonwealth Act, is implicit in sections 2(6A)(e) and 12(1B) and the general scheme of the Act which requires that the assessment is to be made on the basis of total income of the whole previous year.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such a view, concludes Mr. Sharma, would also be in consonance with reason and justice 16.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have given anxious thought to the persuasive arguments of Mr. Sharma.	None
His arguments, if accepted, will certainly soften the rigour of this extremely drastic provision and bring it more in conformity with logic and equity.	Reasoning
But the language of sections 2(6A)(e) and 12(1B) is clear and unambiguous.	Reasoning
There is no scope for importing into the statute words which are not there.	Reasoning
Such importation would be, not to construe, but to amend the statute.	Reasoning
Even if there be a casus omissus, the defect can be remedied only by legislation and not by judicial interpretation.	None
To us, there appears no justification to depart from the normal rule of construction according to which the intention of the legislature is primarily to be gathered from the words used in the statute.	None
It will be well to recall the words of Rowlatt J. in Cape Brandy Syndicate v. Inland Revenue Commissioners 1921 1 KB 64 (KB) at page 71, that in a taxing Act one has to look merely at what is clearly said.	None
There is no room for any intendment.	None
There is no equity about a tax There is no presumption as to a tax.	None
Nothing is to be read in, nothing is to be implied.	None
One can only look fairly at the language used.	None
Once it is shown that the case of the assessee comes within the letter of the law, he must be taxed, however great the hardship may appear to the judicial mind to be 17.	None
In our opinion, the Indian legislature has deliberately omitted to use in sections 2(6A)(e) and 12(1B) words analogous to those in the last limb of subsection (1) of section 108 of the Commonwealth Act.	None
When sections 2(6A)(e) and 12(1B) were inserted by the Finance Act, 1955, Parliament must have been aware of the provision contained in section 108 of the Commonwealth Act.	Reasoning
In spite of such awareness, Parliament has not thought it fit to borrow whole hog what is said in section 108(1) of the Commonwealth Act.	Reasoning
So far as the last limb of section 108(1) is concerned our Parliament imported only a very restricted version, and incorporated the same as the fifth condition in subsection (1B) of section 12 to the effect, that the payment deemed as dividend shall be treated as a dividend received by him in the previous year relevant to the assessment year ending on the 31st day of March, 1956, if such loan or advance remains outstanding on the last day of such previous year .	Reasoning
The word such prefixed to the previous year shows that the application of this clause is confined to the assessment year ending on March 31, 1956.	Reasoning
In the instant case we are not concerned with the assessment year ending March 31, 1956.	Reasoning
This highlights the fact that the legislature has deliberately not made the subsistence of the loan or advance, or its being outstanding on the last date of the previous year relevant to the assessment year, a prerequisite for raising the statutory fiction.	Reasoning
In other words, even if the loan or advance ceases to be outstanding at the end of the previous year, it can still be deemed as a dividend if the other four conditions factually exist, to the extent of the accumulated profits possessed by the companyAt the commencement of this judgment we have noticed some general principles, one of which is, that the previous year is the unit of time on lot which the assessment is based (section 3).	Reasoning
As the taxability of an income is related to its receipt or accrual in the previous year, the moment a dividend is received, whether it is actual dividend declared by the company or is a deemed dividend, income taxable under the residuary head, income from other sources , arises.	Reasoning
The charge being on accrual or receipt the statutory fiction created by section 2(6A)(e) and section 12(1B) would come into operation at the time of the payment by way of advance or loan, provided the other conditions are satisfied 18.	Reasoning
We do not propose to examine the soundness or otherwise of the illustrations given by Mr. Sharma since they are founded on assumed facts which do not exist in the present case 19.	None
For the foregoing reasons we would answer the question proposed in favour of the revenue and dismiss this appeal with costs 20.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
