 PATHAK, J.1.	None
The question raised in these appeals is whether the Rayon Tyre Cord Fabric manufactured by the appellant is a rayon fabric covered by item 18 of the Schedule to the Rajasthan Sales Tax Act, 1954, and therefore exempt from sales tax under the Central Sales Tax Act.2.	Issue
The appellant owns an industrial unit, Shriram Rayons, situated at Kota in the State of Rajasthan.	Facts
It manufactures a product described as Rayon Tyre Co rd Fabric.	Facts
The appellant claims that the product falls within item 18 of the Schedule to the Rajasthan Sales Tax Act which exempts from sales tax and purchase taxAll cotton fabrics, rayon or artificial silk fabrics, woollen fabrics as defined in the Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of Special Importance) Act, 1957 (Central Act 58 of 1957).3.	Facts
Section 2(c) of the Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of Special Importance) Act, 1957 declares that the express ion rayon or artificial silk fabrics shall have the meaning assigned to it in Item 22 of the First Schedule to the Central Excise and Salt Act, 1944.	None
Item 22 readsRayon or artificial silk fabrics means all varieties of fabrics manufactured either wholly or partly from rayon or artificial silk and includes embroidery in the piece, in strips or in motifs and fabrics impregnated or coated with preparations of cellulose derivatives or of other artificial plastic materials, 4.	None
The appellant was assessed to sales tax by the Commercial Tax Officer for the years 196970 and 197071 on the turnover of rayon tyre cord fabric.	None
The plea that the product was exempt from sales tax was not accepted.	Facts
Two writ petitions were filed by the appellant in the Rajasthan High Court against the assessments while appeals were also filed before the Deputy Commissioner (Appeals).	Facts
The Rajasthan Hig h Court dismissed the writ petitions on the ground that disputed questions of fact were involved in the controversy and recourse should be had to the remedy by way of appeal.	Facts
Against the order of the High Court the appellant obtained from the Supreme Court special leave to appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution.	Facts
Meanwhile, the Commercial Tax Officer made a provisional assessment on the turnover of rayon tyre cord fabric for the period 197172.	Facts
Against the assessment the appellant filed a writ petition directly in this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution.	Facts
The two appeals and the writ petition were dismissed by this Court on 3rd May, 1976.The Court observed that the controversy requires careful consideration of the technical processes of manufacturing, of the composition of the tyre cord fabric, and an evaluation of opinions of experts on the subject, to be able to decide the question satisfactorily, as well as some examination of commercial usage and terminology or the language of the market in goods of this type.	Facts
It upheld the view taken by the High Court that the matter was one for determination by the taxing authorities.5.	None
The Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) was meanwhile seized of not only the two appeals pertaining to the assessment years 196970 and 197071 but also appeals against the assessment order for 197172 and a provisional assessment for the first six months of the assessment year 197273.	None
When t he appeals were taken up by the Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) voluminous evidence, both oral and documentary, was led before him.	Facts
The appeals were, nevertheless, dismissed.	Facts
Thereafter, the appellant applied in revision to the Board of Revenue for Rajasthan, but again met with no success.	Facts
The Board expressed the view that the product was not a fabric and dismissed the revision petitions by their order dated 6th October, 1977.	Facts
The present appeals are directed against that order.6.	None
Some undisputed facts concerning the product manufactured by the appellant may be set out.	None
Rayon fibre is spun into rayon and twisted into cord.	Facts
The cords are arranged lengthwise, and are commonly described as the warp.	Facts
They are packed 25 to the inch.	Facts
By a process of weaving, cotton threads are wefted through a loom across the cords.	Facts
The wefts are thinner and fewer than the cords, being not more than two to five per inch.	Facts
The cord component comprises the major content of the product.	Facts
The unprocessed rayon tyre cord fabric so produced is sold in the form of rolls in the market.	Facts
After initial chemical treatment it is put through a process of rubberizing in the tyre manufacturing plant.	Facts
The rayon tyre cord fabric is used as a reinforcing base in the manufacture of tyres.	Facts
It is a product generally intended for industrial use.	Facts
The rayon tyre cord employed as a component in the manufacture of rayon tyre cord fabric is also sold directly as such.	Facts
It is sold packed on cones, somewhat like yarn is sold.	Facts
Tyre cord is purchased directly by some tyre manufacturers, who by applying the same process of putting in the wefts, convert it into a tyre cord fabric for use in the tyre.7.	None
In holding that the rayon tyre cord fabric is not a fabric, the Board has noted that the tyre body or carcass consists of a series of layers of cord fabric in the form of plies buried in rubber, and that the significant factor in the tyre cord fabric is represented by the tyre cord.	Facts
The properties and characteristics of the fibre constituting the tyre cord, it is said, determines the tyre performance.	Facts
The weft in the fabric, it is pointed out, merely plays the subsidiary role of holding the cord in place before the process of tyre manufacturing is commenced.8.	Facts
Now, in determining the meaning or connotation of words and expressions describing an article or commodity the turnover of which is taxed in a sales tax enactment, if there is one principle fairly well settled it is that the words or expressions must be construed in the sense in which they are understood in the trade, by the dealer and the consumer.	None
It is they who are concerned with it, and it is the sense in which they understand it that constitutes the definitive index of the legislative intention when the statute was enacted.	None
As sales tax the liability falls on the seller, who in his turn passes it on to the consumer.	None
As purchase tax, the liability falls directly on the purchaser.	None
A long train of authorities supports that view, and we need refer only to the recent Judgment of this Court in Porritts and Spencer (Asia) Ltd. v. State of Haryana, in which reference has been made to some of them.9.	None
In the record before us, a wide range of material has been incorporated for determining how those who manufacture and deal in fabrics and, in particular, tyre cord fabric, understand them.	None
And so, a brief reference to that material is appropriate at this point.10.	None
What is a fabric?	None
The Mercury Dictionary of Textile Terms defines fabric as a term which covers all textiles no matter how constructed, how manufactured, or the nature of the material from which made, and the expression textile is described as any product manufactured from fibres through twisting, interlacing, bonding, looping, or any other means, in such a manner that the flexibility, strength, and other characteristic properties of the individual fibres are not suppressed.	None
The ManMade Textile Encyclopaedia (1959) defines fabric as a collective term applied to cloth no matter how constructed or manufactured and regardless of the kind of fibre from which made.	None
In structure it is planar produced by interlacing yarns, fibres or filaments.	None
Textile fabrics include the following varieties, bonding, felted, knitted, braided and woven.	None
The Fairchilds Dictionary of Textiles (1959) says that fabric is a cloth that is woven or knit, braided, netted, with any textile fibre, and textile is said to refer to a broad classification of any material that can be worked into fabric, such as fibres and yarns including woven and knitted fabric, felt, netted fabric, lace and croched goods.	None
In Textile Terms and Definitions (1960)	None
the word cloth is defined as a generic term embracing all textile fabrics and laminar felts and textile is applied in its modern sense to any manufacture from fibres, filaments, or yarns, natural or artificial, obtained by interlacing.	None
The 1967 Annual Book of ASTM Standards defines cloth as any textile fabric but specially one designed for apparel domestic or industrial use, and textile fabric as a planar structure consisting of interlaced yarns or fibres.	None
The 1973 Annual Book of ASTM Standards reproduces those definitions.11.	None
We may now examine whether a tyre cord fabric has been understood as a fabric.	Reasoning
A publication IS 4910 (Part VI) 1970, put out by the Indian Standards Institution, defines a tyre cord fabric as a fabric consisting of tyre cord warp with widely spaced weft threads.	Reasoning
Another publication IS 13241966 of the same institution gives the definition of tyre cord fabrics as fabrics which comprise the main carcass of pneumatic tyres constructed predominantly of warp cords (cabled yarns) with light wefts.	Reasoning
The latter merely serve to hold the cords together for processing.	None
The Mercury Dictionary of Textile Term s defines cord tyre fabric as a cloth made with strong corded sheets for the warp with as little weft as possiblethe warp takes all the strain The Fairchilds Dictionary of Textiles declares that a tyre cord fabric is not a true fabric today, but originally a square woven fabric was employed in making the pneumatic automobile tyre.	Reasoning
The modern tyre fabric is not woven or knitted, but consists of cabled yarns with hawser twists formerly mostly cotton, now usually of high tenacity viscose rayon or nylon.	None
These cords are arranged in parallel order and rubberized.	None
The tyre cord fabric manufactured by the appellant admittedly consists of warp and weft and therefore this definition, which does not refer to an interlaced structure, would not apply.	None
On the contrary, the further definition in the same publication appears to be more pertinent.	None
It says When these tyre cords were first made they were assembled as a warp on a loom and held in place until rubberized by an occasional fine single filling yarn, and it is probably due to this that the term fabric has remained in use.	None
Some doubt is created by the definitions included in Lintons Modern Textile Dictionary and Rivers Dictionary of Textile Terms.	None
But tyre cord fabric is clearly described as a fabric by the 1973 Annual Book of ASTM Standards the Textile Terms and Definitions (1960), and in India by the Indian Standard Glossary of Textile Terms Relating to ManMad e Fibre Fabric Industry.	None
The ManMade Textile Encyclopaedia in its chapter on Industrial Fabrics gives a structural description of tyre fabrics and refers to the series of layers of cord fabric buried in rubber in the tyre body or carcass.	None
The Wellingtion Sears Hand Book of Industrial Textiles describes in some detail the process of manufacturing tyre cord fabrics.	None
It states that the tyre cords are woven into a fabric with a very fine cotton or rayon filling yarn, just strong enough to hold the cords together during subsequent handling.12.	None
Now let us see how the Government of India itself, in its various departments, looks at tyre cord fabrics.	None
The Revised Indian Trade Classification (1965) published by the Central Government in the Department of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics lists Viscose tyre fabric (Code 653.6125) under the classification Group 653Textile Fabrics, Woven (not including narrow or special fabrics), other than cotton and jute fabrics.	None
The Ministry of Foreign Trade Resolution dated 27th February, 1971 refers separately to rayon tyre yarn, cord and fabric, and speaks of tyre cord units producing both twisted cords and woven fabric.	None
And the Indian Customs Tariff Guide (11t h Edition) shows as item 53 in the Tariff Schedule Rayon tyre fabrics, a loosely woven material with extremely thin cotton threads running breadthwise and introduced merely for keeping the artificial silk threads running lengthwise in position .	None
The item is repeated in the same terms in the Tariff Schedule to the Indian Customs Tariff Guide (13th Edition).	None
The Table appended to the Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback Rules lists Viscose tyre cord fabric (2621) under Serial No. 26 Textile Fabrics and Hosiery.13.	None
On a comprehensive consideration of the material before us, there is no escape from the conclusion that by and large a tyre cord fabric is regarded as a textile fabric.	Reasoning
The peculiar feature that the tyre cord constitutes the dominating element indicating the use to which the fabric is put and the close concentration in which it is packed in contrast to the light density with which the weft thread is woven does not detract from the conclusion that what we have is a textile fabric.	Reasoning
We are concerned with the product manufactured and sold by the appellant.	Reasoning
It is wholly immaterial that once tyre cord fabric has, in the hands of the tyre manufacturer, undergone the process of rubberizing and is embedded in the tyre body the significance of the weft thread is greatly reduced.	Reasoning
It may also be that in the more modern process of manufacturing tyres what is used is cabled rayon with hawser twists with the cords assembled in parall el order and rubberized without the intermediate process of weaving on a loom.	Reasoning
The material on the record, however, indicates that the product manufactured by the appellant does not fall in that category.	Reasoning
It is a woven fabric in which th e intermediate process of weaving the weft thread across the warp cord is an integral stage of manufacture.	Reasoning
When the purchaser buys the product, it is the entire integrated woven fabric which he buys, it is not merely the tyre cord by itself .	Reasoning
If tyre cord was all that he desired, he would purchase that commodity, which is readily available, and not tyre cord fabric.	Reasoning
We may also point out that Item 22 of the First Schedule to the Central Excises and Salt Act speaks of all varieties of fabrics, language wide enough to include the rayon tyre cord fabric manufactured by the appellant.14.	None
It was contended by Shri L. N. Sinha, for the respondents, that industrial fabrics are not envisaged within the expression rayon fabric in Item 22 of the First Schedule to the Central Excise and Salt Act.	None
As we have already pointed out, the item refers to all varieties of fabrics and it will be noticed that Item 22(3) speaks of fabrics impregnated or coated with preparations of cellulose derivatives or of other artificial plastic materials which, we are told, would include rubberized cloth, tarpaulin cloth, P.V.C. cloth, water proof cloth and tent cloth.	Reasoning
A whole range of fabric is included.15.	None
It is then urged by Shri Sinha that when the Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of Special Importance) Act, 1957 was enacted Parliament could not have intended the expression rayon fabric to include rayon tyre cord fabric.	None
It is pointed out that the Statement of Objects and Reasons pertinent to the Act refers to millmade textiles, and the submission is that the item in the First Schedule to that Act refers to fabric which affects the common man, which finds place in a popular market and is intended for popular use, and does not refer to a commodity which caters to the needs of a special category of consumers and is devoted to a particular use only.	None
Now, the tyre manufacturing industry is of growing importance and has an increasingly import ant role to play in everyday life.	Reasoning
That is evident from the overwhelming expansion of automobile traffic prompted by the complex needs of a constantly enlarging economy.	Reasoning
The daily life of the average citizen is profoundly effected by the automobile, be it passenger bus or a goods truck or the ubiquitous scooter.	Reasoning
Tyres are needed for all.	Reasoning
In rural areas tyres are now coming into use for bullock carts.	Reasoning
It is futile to suggest that the tyre plays a less substantial role than other popular commodities in modern life.	Reasoning
And, therefore, it is but a short step to recognising the status of what goes into the manufacture of a tyrethe rayon tyre cord fabric as goods of special importance.	Reasoning
It may be that unlike the cotton, silk, woollen and rayon fabrics used as wearing apparel or furnishing material the rayon tyre cord fabric is not directly employed for the satisfaction of a domestic need.	Reasoning
Nonetheless, as an integral and vital constituent of an automobile tyre it is intimately involved in the diurnal activity of human life.16.	None
We are then told that when the Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of Special Importance) Act, 1957 was enacted there was in existence a Circular dated 11th February, 1957 issued by the Revenue Board laying down that tyre cord fabric could not be described as a fabric within the meaning of the Central Excise Tariff.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is said that when that was the popular conception of tyre cord fabrics it could not have been envisaged as a fabric when the statute was enacted.	Arguments of Petitioner
To our mind, the view taken by the Revenue Board cannot be regarded as resolving the question before us.	None
Whether Parliament understood the word fabric to include tyre cord fabric must be gathered from all the relevant material and with reference to tests and criteria accepted in law rather on the basis of a single notification.17.	Reasoning
We may now turn to the contention of Shri Sinha that the benefit of exemption from sales tax is available to the appellant only if he has paid the additional duty of excise on the product.	None
It is pointed out that the appellant has not been assessed to additional excise duty under the Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of Special Importance) Act, 1957 and is, therefore , not entitled to exemption from sales tax under the Central Sales Tax Act.18.	None
The Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of Special Importance) Act, 1957 came into force on 24th December, 1957.	None
Subsection (1) read with subsection (2) of s.3 of the Act provide for the levy and collection of an additional excise duty, over and above the excise duty chargeable under the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 on certain goods at the rate specified in the Schedule to that Act.	None
Rayon fabrics are mentioned in the Schedule to the Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of Special Importance) Act, and are classified by reference to Item 22 in the First Schedule to the Central Excises and Salt Act.19.	None
In the present appeals, we are concerned with a claim to exemption from sales tax, and in order to consider the contention of the Revenue that no such exemption was available to the appellant because he had not paid any additional excise duty on rayon tyre cord fabric it is necessary to determine whether indeed the exemption from sales tax was subject to the condition of payment of additional excise duty.20.	None
S.4(2) of the Rajasthan Sales Tax Act, 1954 empowers the State Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, to exempt from tax the sale of any goods or class of goods on such conditions as may be specified in the notification.	Reasoning
By a notification dated 1st July, 1958, the Rajasthan Government unconditionally exempted all varieties of textiles made wholly or partly of rayon from 1st July, 1958.	Reasoning
S.4(1) of the Rajasthan Sales Tax Act, 1954 provides for exemption from sales tax of the goods specified in the Schedule to that Act provided the conditions mentioned in the Schedule are satisfied.	Reasoning
Item 18, inserted in the Schedule by the Rajasthan Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1964, included rayon fabrics as defined in the Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of Special Importance) Act, 1957.	Reasoning
On this, the notification dated 1st July, 1958 was withdrawn as redundant.	Reasoning
Now when Item 18 was inserted in the Schedule, no conditions were specified therein as a qualification for the exemption.	Reasoning
Therefore, in respect of the assessment years with which these appeals are concerned, the turnover of rayon tyre cord fabric was clearly exempt from sales tax under the Rajasthan Sales Tax Act, and there was no condition in that Act that the exemption was dependent on payment of additional excise duty.	Reasoning
That being so, there was an unconditional exemption from central sales tax also.21.	None
The unconditional exemption from sales tax granted on the sale of rayon fabrics, that is to say, without the condition that additional excise duty was paid by the manufacturer, was withdrawn by a notification dated 5th March, 1973 made by the Rajasthan State Government under S.4(2) of the Rajasthan Sales Tax Act.	Reasoning
The notification provided that in the case of unprocessed rayon and artificial silk fabrics the exemption from sales tax would apply only if the additional duty is leviable on them under the Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of Special Importance) Act, 1957 and such goods had not specifically bee n exempted from the said duty and the dealers thereof furnished proof to the satisfaction of the assessing authority that such duty had been paid.	Reasoning
Therefore, as from 5th March, 1973 the exemption from tax under the Rajasthan Sales Tax Act was available only if additional excise duty was leviable and the dealer had established that he had paid such duty.	Reasoning
About the same time, the Rajasthan Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1973 deleted Item 18 in the Schedule to the Rajasthan Sales Tax Act wit h effect from 5th March, 1973.	Reasoning
It is evident, therefore, that a dealer was entitled to exemption from sales tax up to 4th March, 1973 without the requirement of payment of the additional excise duty.	Reasoning
The conclusion is inescapable that even if the appellant did not pay additional excise duty, he was exempt from sales tax on the turnover of rayon tyre cord fabric for the assessment years under consideration.22.	Reasoning
Finally, it is urged by Shri Sinha that the question whether the rayon tyre cord fabric falls within the expression rayon fabrics is a question of fact and the assessing authority, the appellate authority and the revenue Board are all agreed that it cannot be classified as a rayon fabric and, therefore, this Court should not interfere in these appeals.	None
It is also pointed out that under s. 15 of the Rajasthan Sales Tax Act a proceeding by way of reference is available to the appellant and this Court, even if it were to consider these appeals on the merits, should exercise no wider jurisdiction than that available to it if it had entertained a reference.	Arguments of Respondent
We are unable to agree that the question is one of fact.	Reasoning
It is a question which concerns the consideration of Item 22 of the Schedule to the Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of Special Importance) Act, 1957.	Reasoning
If the rayon tyre cord fabric manufactured by the appellant is recovered by that item it is exempt from sales tax and there is no jurisdiction in the sales tax authorities to assess the appellant on its turnover.	Reasoning
The question is one of substantial importance, and having regard to the circumstances there is good reason for entertaining the appeals and deciding them on the merits.23.	Reasoning
In the result the appeals are allowed, the assessments in respect of the turnover of rayon tyre cord fabric manufactured by the appellant relating to the assessment years 196970, 197071, 197172 and the first six months of 197273 are quashed.	Decision
In the circumstances there is no order as to cost.24.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
