 Ramaswami, J. 1.	None
This appeal by certificate is brought on behalf of the 3rd defendant against the judgment and decree of the High Court of Kerala dated July 18, 1962 in A. S. No. 561 of 1961 which affirmed the judgment and decree of the Court of the Subordinate Judge of Alleppey in O. S. No. 114 of 1957.	Facts
2.	None
By a resolution Ex.	Facts
BD dated November 25, 1946 the Board of Directors of the 1st defendant Company authorised the 2nd defendant to obtain financial accommodation from the plaintiffbank to the extent of Rs. 15 lakhs under different kinds of loans.	Facts
Pursuant to this resolution the Company by its letter	Facts
Ex. DE dated November 26, 1946 asked for accommodation for Rs. 1 lakh under clean overdraft, for Rs. 4 lakhs under open loan and for S. 10 lakhs under out agency and key loans.	Facts
On November 26, 1946 all the three defendants executed a promissory note Ex. B in favour of the plaintiffbank for a sum of Rs. 4 lakhs.	Facts
The promissory note was sent to the plaintiffbank along with a letter Ex.	Facts
A styled letter of continuity dated November 26, 1946.	Facts
Ex.	Facts
A reads as follows Alleppey, 26th November, 1946.	None
The Agent, The Central Bank of India Limited, Alleppey.	None
Dear Sir, We beg to enclose an on demand pro note p.	None
Rs. 4,00,000/  (Rupees Four lacs only) singed by us which is given to you as security for the repayment of any overdraft which is at present outstanding in our name and also for the repayment of any overdraft to the extent of Rs. 4,00,000  (Rupees four lacs only) which we may avail of hereafter and the said ProNote is to be a security to you for the repayment of the ultimate balance of sum remaining unpaid on the overdraft and we are to remain liable to the ProNote notwithstanding the fact that by payments made into the account of the overdraft from time to time the overdraft may from time to time be reduced or extinguished or even that the balance of the said accounts may be at credit.	Facts
Yours faithfully, for CASHEW Products Corporation Ltd. For General Agencies Ltd., (Respondent 2)	None
Sd  P. S. George Managing Director, Managing Agents	None
Sd  P. S. George, (Respondent 3)	None
Sd  S. Chattanatha Karayalar (Appellant), Exhibit B, states Br.	None
Rs. 4,00,000 Alleppey, 26th November 1946 On Demand we, the Cashew Products Corporation Ltd., S. Chattanatha Karayalar and P. S. George jointly and severally promise to pay The Central Bank of India Limited or order the sum of British Rs.	Facts
Four Lacs only together with interest on such sum from this date at the rate of two per cent over the Reserve Bank of India rate with a minimum of Five per cent per annum with quarterly rests for value received.	Facts
For Cashew Products Corporation Ltd., For General Agencies Ltd.	None
Sd  P. S. George (Respondent 2) Managing Director, Managing Agents.	None
Sd  P. S. George (Respondent No. 3) Sd  S. Chattanatha Karayalar (Appellant).	None
On the same day, defendant No. 1 as Borrower executed in favour of the plaintiff  Bank Ex.G, a deed of hypothecation of its stocks of goods for securing the Demand Cash credit.	Facts
Ex. G is to the following effect Hypothecation of goods to secure Demand Cash Credit.	None
No.	None
Amount	None
No. 4,00,000/ Name.	None
The Cashew Products Corporation, Limited, Quilon.	None
The Central Bank of India, Limited (hereinafter called the Bank) having at the request of the Cashew Products Corporation Ltd., Quilon, (hereinafter called the Borrowers) opened or agreed to open in the Books of the Bank at Alleppey a Cash Credit account to the extent of Rs.	Facts
Four lacs only with the Borrowers to remain in force until closed by the Bank and to be secured by goods to be hypothecated with the Bank it is hereby agreed between the Bank and the Borrowers (the Borrowers agreeing jointly and severally) as follows.	Facts
14.	None
The Borrowers agree to accept as conclusive proof of the correctness of any sum claimed to be due from them to the Bank under this agreement a statement of account made out from the books of the Bank and signed by the Accountant or other duly authorised officer of the Bank without the production of any other voucher, document or paper.	Facts
15.	None
That this Agreement is to operate as a security for the balance from time to time due to the Bank and also for the ultimate balance to become due to on the said Cash Credit Account and the said account is not to be considered to be closed for the purpose of this security and the security of hypothecated goods is not to be considered exhausted by reason of the said Cash Credit Account being brought to credit at any time or from time to time or of its being drawn upon to the full extent of said sum of Rs. 4,00,000/ if afterwards reopened by a payment to credit.	None
In witness whereof the Borrowers have hereunto set their hands this Twenty sixth day of November the Christian Year one thousand nine hundred and fortysix.	None
For Cashew Products Corporation Ltd., For General Agencies Ltd.Sd  Managing Director, Managing Agents, Sd Schedule of goods referred to in the foregoing Instrument, Stocks of cashewnuts, cashew kernals, tin plates, Hoop Iron and other packing materials stored and or to be stored in the factories at Kochuplamood, Chathanoor, Ithikara, Kythakuzhi, Paripalli, Palayamkunnu and any other factories in which we may be storing from time to time and at Cochin awaiting shipment.	None
For Cashew Products Corporation Ltd For General Agencies Ltd Sd Managing Director, Managing Agents.	None
On the basis of these documents the plaintiffbank opened an overdraft account in the name of the defendant No. 1.	None
On December 21, 1949, the three documentsExs. A, B and G were renewed in identical terms by Exs. C, D and F.	Facts
On January 1, 1950 a sum of Rs. 3,24,645 /12/2 became due to the plaintiffbank and on that date a demand noticeEx.	Facts
O was sent by the plaintiffbank for repayment of the amount.	Facts
A second noticeEx.	Facts
L was sent by the plaintiffbank on April 26, 1950.	Facts
On September 8, 1950 the plaintiffBank brought a suit for the recovery of Rs. 2,86,292/11/11 from all the three defendants.	Facts
The suit was contested by all the defendants.	Facts
The case of defendant No. 1 was that it had sustained loss on account of sudden termination of credit facilities by the plaintiffbank and the amount of loss sustained should be set off against the claim of the plaintiffbank.	Facts
Defendants Nos. 2 and 3 pleaded that they had executed the promissory notes only as a surety for the 1st defendant and that they are not coobligants.	Facts
It was further alleged that the plaintiffbank had granted loan to the 1st defendant in other form such as Out Agency loans against goods which were security for the open loan.	Facts
It was said that the plaintiffbank had made adjustments in the open loan account and in the clean overdraft account by debiting and correspondingly crediting in other accounts without the consent of defendants 2 and 3.	Facts
The plaintiffbank had also allowed defendant No. 1 to overdraw freely in the clean overdraft and open loan accounts far beyond the limited agreed upon.	Facts
It was alleged that the plaintiffbank had converted secured loans into simple loans by releasing goods covered by Bills of Lading against trust receipts and had thereby deliberately frittered away such securities.	Facts
They contended that they were discharged from obligation as sureties to the contract for these reasons.	Facts
Upon these rival contentions the learned Subordinate Judge of Alleppey took the view that defendants 2 and 3 were not merely sureties but they were coobligants, because they had executed the promissory notes,Exs. B and D. In view of this finding the learned Subordinate Judge considered it unnecessary to go into the question whether defendant No. 3 was absolved from his liability for all or any reasons set forth in para 5 of the Consolidated Written Statement filed by him.	Facts
Against the judgment and decree of learned Subordinate Judge, Alleppey defendant No. 3 presented an appeal in the High Court of Kerala under A. S. 561 of 1961.	Facts
Defendants 1 and 2 did not appeal.	Facts
The appeal was dismissed by the High Court of Kerala on July 12, 1962.	Facts
It was held by the High Court that defendant No. 3 was a coobligant and not a surety.	Facts
On July 16, 1962 defendant	Facts
No. 3 filed C.M. P. No. 5032 of 1962 praying that the argument of the appellant with regard to his liability as coobligant may be expressly dealt with in the judgment of the High Court and complaining that the appellant would be seriously prejudiced if the omission was allowed to remain.	Facts
Thereupon the learned Judges of the High Court wrote a supplementary judgment on July 18, 1962 rejecting the further arguments addressed on behalf of the appellant.	Facts
3. The first question presented for determination in this case is whether the status of the 3rd defendant in regard to the transaction of overdraft account is that of a surety or of a coobligant.	Issue
It was argued by Mr. Desai on behalf of the appellant that the High Court has misconstrued the contents of Exs.	Arguments of Petitioner
A and B in holding that the 3rd defendant has undertaken the liability as a coobligant.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that there was an integrated transaction constituted by the various documentsExt.	Arguments of Petitioner
A, B and G executed between the parties on the same day and the legal effect of the documents was to confer on the 3rd defendant the status of a surety and not of a coobligant.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion, the argument put forward on behalf of the appellant is well founded and must be accepted as correct.	None
It is true that in the promissory noteEx.	None
B all the three defendants have jointly and severally promised to pay the Central Bank of India Ltd. or order a sum of Rs. 4 lakhs only together with interest on such sum from this date, but the transaction between the parties is contained not merely in the promissory noteEx.	None
B.  	Arguments of Respondent
but also in the the letter of continuity dated November 26, 1946Ex.	None
A which was sent by the defendants to the plaintiffbank along with promissory note Ex. B on the same date.	None
There is another document executed by defendant No. 1 on November 26, 1946Ex.	None
GHypothecation agreement.	None
The principle is well established that if the transaction is contained in more than one document between the same parties they must be read and interpreted together and they have the same legal effect for all purposes as if they are one document.	None
In Manks v. Whiteley, 19121 Ch 735 at p. 754, Moulton, L. J. stated Where several deeds form part of one transaction and are contemporaneously executed they have the same effect for all purposes such as are relevant to this case as if they were one deed.	None
Each is executed on the faith of all the other being executed also and is intended to speak only as part of the one transaction, and if one is seeking to make equities apply to the parties they must be equities arising out of the transaction as a whole.	None
It should be noted in the present case that the promissory noteEx.	None
B was enclosed by the defendants along with the letter of continuity Ex.	None
A before sending it to the plaintiffbank.	None
In the letterEx.	None
A it is clearly stated that the promissory note Ex. B was given to the plaintiffbank as security for the repayment of any overdraft to the extent of Rs. 4,00,000/ .	None
It is further stated in Ex.	None
A, that the said promissory note is to be a security to you for the repayment of the ultimate balance or sum remaining unpaid on the overdraft.	None
In the hypothecation agreementEx.	None
G it is stated that the plaintiffbank has agreed to open a Cash Credit account to the extent of Rs. 4 lakhs at the request of the Cashew Products Corporation ltd., Quilon.	None
According to para 18 of the hypothecation agreement it operates as a security for the balance due to the plaintiffbank on the Cash Credit account.	None
Para 12 of the hypothecation agreement states that if the net sum realised be insufficient to cover the balance due to the plaintiffbank, defendant No. 1 should pay the balance of the account on production of a statement of account made out from the books of the bank as provided in the 14th Clause.	None
Under this Clause defendant No. 1 agreed to accept as conclusive proof of the correctness of any sum claimed to be due from it to the bank a statement of account made out from the books of the Bank and signed by the Accountant or other duly authorised officer of the Bank without the production of any other document.	None
If the language of the promissory noteEx.	None
B it is manifest that the status of the 3rd defendant with regard to the transaction was that of a surety and not of a coobligant.	None
This conclusion is supported by letters  Exs.	None
AF dated November 27, 1947.	None
AM dated December 17, 1947 in which the Chief Agent of the plaintiffbank has addressed defendant No. 3 as the guarantor.	None
There are similar letters of the plaintiffbank, namely,	None
Exs. CE dated December 28, 1947, GG dated January 13, 1948, AS dated February 23, 1949, V dated October 21, 1949, III dated December 16, 1949, IV dated January 12, 1950 and	None
O dated March 29, 1950 in which defendant	None
No. 3 is referred to either as a guarantor or as having furnished a guarantee for the loan.	None
Our concluded opinion, therefore, is that the status of the 3rd defendant with regard to the overdraft account was that of a surety and not of coobligant and the finding of the High Court on this issue is not correct.	None
4.	None
On behalf of respondent No. 1	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Pathak stressed the argument that there is no contract of suretyship in the present case in terms of S. 126 of the Contract Act and the plaintiffbank is not legally bound to treat the 3rd defendant merely in the character of a surety.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Pathak relied upon the decision of the Madras High Court in Vyravan Chettiar v. Official Assignee of Madras AIR 1933 Mad 39 in which it is pointed out that persons who are jointly and severally liable on promissory notes are not sureties under S. 126 of the Contract Act, do such persons occupy a position analogous to that of a surety strictly so called to attract the provisions of S. 141 of the Contract Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference was made, in this connection to the decision of the House of Lords to Duncan Fox and Co. v. North and South Wales Bank (1880) 6 AC 1 in which Lord Selbourne, L.C. distinguished between three kinds of cases (1) those in which there is an agreement to constitute, for a particular purpose, the relation of principal and surety, to which agreement to creditor thereby secured is a party (2) those in which there is a similar agreement between the principal and surety only, to which the creditor is a stranger, and (3) those in which, without any such contract of suretyship, there is a primary and a secondary liability of two persons for one and the same debt, the debt being as between the two that of one of those persons only, and not equally of both, so that the other if he should be compelled to pay it, would be entitled to reimbursement from the persons by whom (as between the two) it ought to have been paid.	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed out by the learned Lord Chancellor that in all these kinds of cases the person who discharged the liability due to the creditor, would be entitled to the benefit of the security held by the creditor though a case of suretyship strictly speaking would fall only under class 1, as a contract of guarantee is confined to agreements where the surety agrees with the creditor that he would discharge the liability of the principal debtor in cast of his default.	Arguments of Respondent
It is manifest that classes 2 and 3 are not cases of suretyship stricly so called.	Arguments of Respondent
Lord Selbourne observed that the case before him did not fall within the first or the second class but it fell within the 3rd class in which stricly speaking there was no contract of suretyship.	Arguments of Respondent
But the Lord Chancell held in that case that even in the second and third class of cases the surety has some right to be placed in the shoes of the creditor where he paid the amount.	Arguments of Respondent
The argument of Mr. Pathak was that the position in Indian Law Lord Selbourne, L.C. in (1880) 6 AC 1 did not apply to the present case.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Pathak referred, in this connection, to the illustration to S. 132 of the Contract Act in support of his argument.	Arguments of Respondent
We consider that the legal proposition for which Mr. Pathak is contending, is correct, but the argument has not much relevance in the present case.	Arguments of Respondent
It is true that S. 126 of the Contract Act requires that the creditor must be a party to the contract of guarantee.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also true that under S. 132 of the Contract Act the creditor is not bound by any contract between the codebtors that one of them shall be liable only on the default of the other even though the creditor may have been aware of the existence of the contract between the two codebtors.	Arguments of Respondent
In the present case, however, the legal position is different, because the plaintiffbank was a party to the contract of guarantee  Ex.	Arguments of Respondent
A which is contemporaneous with the promissory note  Ex.	Arguments of Respondent
B. The plaintiffbank was also a party to the contract of hypothecation executed by defendant No. 1 in which it is stated that the plaintiffbank had agreed to open a Cash Credit Account to the extent of Rs. 4 lakhs in favour of defendant No. 1.	Arguments of Respondent
It is manifest, therefore, in the present case that the requirements of S. 126 of the Contract Act are satisfied and defendant No. 3 has the status of a surety and not of a coobligant in the transaction of overdraft account opened in the name of defendant No. 1.	Arguments of Respondent
by the plaintiffbank.	Arguments of Respondent
On behalf of the respondent No.	Arguments of Respondent
I Mr. Pathak also referred to the decision in Venkata Krishnayya v. Karnedan Kothari AIR 1935 Mad 643 and submitted that defendant No. 3 cannot be permitted to give evidence in regard to a collateral transaction in view of the bar imposed by S. 92 of the Evidence Act and his position is as a coobligant and that the terms of the promissory note cannot be altered by any other transaction.	Arguments of Respondent
We are unable to accept this argument as correct.	Arguments of Respondent
The provisions of S. 92 of the Evidence Act do not apply in the present case, because defendant No. 3 is not attempting to furnish evidence of any oral agreement in derogation of the promissory note but relying on the existence of a collateral agreement in writing Exs.	Arguments of Respondent
A and G which form parts of the same transaction as the promissory noteEx.	Arguments of Respondent
B.	Arguments of Respondent
The decision of the Madras High Court in AIR 1935 Mad 643 is, therefore, not applicable and Mr. Pathak is not able to make good his submission on this aspect of the case.	Arguments of Respondent
5.	None
It was also contended by Mr. Pathak on behalf of respondent No. 1 that the suit is based on the promissory noteEx.	Arguments of Respondent
B against all the three defendants and not on the overdraft account.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not think there is any substance in this argument.	Arguments of Respondent
In this connection Mr. Pathak took us through the various clauses of the plaint but there is no mention about the promissory note dated December 21, 1949 that the defendant executed a promissory note as security for the repayment of the balance outstanding under the overdraft.	Arguments of Respondent
We are satisfied, on examination of the language of the plaint, that the suit is based not upon the promissory note but upon the balance of the overdraft account in the book of the plaintiffbank.	None
In para 11 of the plaint the plaintiffbank asked for a decree against the defendants jointly and severally for the recover of Rs. 2,86,292/11/11 as per accounts annexed.	None
In the plaint it is stated that the plaintiff had given two notices to the defendantsEx.	None
Odated January 1, 1950 and Ex.	None
L dated April 26, 1950 but in neither of these notices has the plaintiff referred to the promissory note executed by the defendants or that the suit was based upon the promissory note.	None
On the contrary, the plaintiff bank referred in Ex.	None
Oto the open loan accounts and asked the defendants to pay the amounts due to the bank under these accounts.	None
It is therefore, not possible for us to accept the contention of Mr. Pathak that the suit is based upon the promissory note and not upon the amount due on the overdraft account.	None
In this connection, we may incidentally refer to the fact that in its statement of the case before this Court, respondent No. I has clearly stated that the claim on the overdraft account against the appellant was valid because the overdraft was treated as in favour of all the defendants .	None
(appellant and respondents 2 and 3 herein) and that respondent No. 2 was only authorised to operate independently on that amount and that the limit under the overdraft was placed at the disposal of respondent No. 2 by an express authority given by all the defendants (the appellant and respondents 2 and 3, This shows that respondent No. 1s case is that a suit is based on an overdraft, and since the overdraft was treated as in.	None
favour of all the defendants the appellant is liable for the balance due on it.	None
6.	None
We shall then consider the question whether defendant No. 2 is discharged of his liability as a surety by reason of the alleged conduct of the plaintiffbank is violating the terms of the agreement  Ex. G or by the alleged fraudulent or negligent conduct of the plaintiffbank in other ways.	Issue
It was submitted on behalf of the appellant that the plaintiffbank had made adjustments in the open loan account and in the clean overdraft account with the 1st defendant by debiting and correspondingly credting in other accounts without the consent of the appellant.	Reasoning
It was further alleged that the plaintiffbank had granted loans to the lst defendant against goods covered by open loan agreement and that it had converted secured loans into simple loans by releasing goods covered by the Bills of Lading against trust receipts and had thereby deliberately frittered away such securities.	Reasoning
The question at issue is a mixed question of law and fact and it is unfortunate that the High Court has not properly dealt with this question or given a finding whether the appellant would be discharged from the liability as a surety for the overdraft account because of the alleged conduct of the plaintiffbank.	Reasoning
We consider it necessary that this case should go back on remand to the High Court of Kerala for deciding the issue and to give proper relief to the parties.	Reasoning
In this connection, it is necessary to point out that after the High Court delivered its judgment on July 12, 1962, an application was made by the learned Advocate appearing for the appellant that some grounds which had been urged by him before the High Court had not been considered by it.	Reasoning
The High Court, therefore, adopted the somewhat unusual course of delivering a supplemental judgment.	Reasoning
Mr. Desai contends that even the supplemental judgment has failed to consider the appellants contention that he had been discharged by reason of the fact that adjustments were made by respondent.	Reasoning
No. 1 indiscriminately in respect of its dealings in three or four different accounts with respondent No. 2 to the prejudice of the appellant.	Reasoning
We have broadly indicated the nature of the contention raised by Mr. Desai.	Reasoning
7.	None
Ordinarily, we do not permit parties to urge that points raised on their behalf in the High Court had not been considered, unless it is established to our satisfaction that the points in question had in fact been urged before the High Court and the High Court, through inadvertence, has failed to consider them.	Reasoning
In the presem case, we are not prepared to take the view that the grievance made by Mr. Desai is not wellfounded.	Reasoning
It does appear that after the first judgment was delivered, an application was made by the learned Advocate who argued the appeal himself before the High Court in which he set out his complaint that some of the points which he had argued before the High Court had not been considered by it.	Reasoning
That is why the High Court delivered a supplemental judgment.	Reasoning
Aggrieved by the said judgment, the appellant filed an application for certificate before the High Court, and in this application again he has taken specific grounds, e.g. under paragraph 6(k) and paragraph 8 that even the supplemental judgment has failed to consider some of the points, urged by him.	Reasoning
While granting the certificate, the High Court has made no comment on these grounds.	Reasoning
It is to be regretted that when these grounds appear to have been urged before the High Court, the High Court should have failed to deal with them even in its supplemental judgment.	Reasoning
That is the reason why we think it is necessary that the matter must go back to the High Court for disposal of the appeal in the light of this judgment.	Reasoning
8.	None
Mr. Pathak, no doubt, seriously contested the validity of Mr. Desais argument.	Reasoning
He urged that the adjustments on which Mr. Desai has founded his claim for discharge do not really support his case.	Reasoning
We propose to express no opinion on this point.	Reasoning
As we have just observed, the contention thus raised amounts to a mixed question of fact and law and we do not think it would be expedient for us to deal with it ourselves when the High Court has omitted to consider it.	Reasoning
9.	None
For these reasons we allow this appeal, set aside the judgment and decree of the High Court of Kerala dated July 18, 1962 in A. S. 561 of 1961and order that the case should go back for being reheard and determined by the High Court in accordance with the observations made in our judgment.	Decision
The parties will bear their own costs up to this stage.	Decision
10.	None
Case remanded.	None
