 S	None
By reason of this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India, the writ petitioners herein have questioned the validity of an order dated 24th September, 1991 as also one dated 16th October, 1991 issued by the Special Secretary, Government of Uttar Pradesh, whereby and whereunder a direction had been issued to the effect that at the time of payment of bills for publication of Government advertisements in all newspapers having a circulation of more than 25,000 copies, 5 of the amount thereof, forming part of a fund for the purpose of granting pension to the working journalists, would be deducted.2.	Issue
Petitioner No.1 herein is a company incorporated under the Companies Act and is engaged in the business of publishing newspapers including the Hindustan Times.	Issue
Petitioner No.2 is a shareholder of Petitioner No.1 and Petitioner No.3 is its Director.	Facts
The petitioners have questioned the legality validity of the said orders, inter alia, on the following grounds The impost, is not leviable either as a tax or as a fee having regard to the fact that the legislative field in relation to the payment of retiral benefit to the working journalists is covered by a Parliamentary Act known as the Working Journalists and other Newspapers Employees (Conditions of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955 (the said Act).(2)	Arguments of Petitioner
As the State of Uttar Pradesh had no legislative competence, it could have issued the impugned orders in exercise of its power under Article 162 of the Constitution of India or otherwise.(3) Assuming, that welfare of the working journalists is a field falling within Entry 24 of List III of the VIIth Schedule of the Constitution of India, any State legislation would be the subject to the Central legislation and in that view of the matter too, the impugned orders are ultra vires Article 14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
The contention of the respondents, on the other hand, is that the scheme in question was made upon obtaining suggestions from the managements of the leading newspapers in terms whereof a beneficent measure for grant of pension to the working journalists was taken and in the event the petitioners are not agreeable thereto, they are free not to accept the offer of the respondents.	Arguments of Respondent
In any event, as issuance of advertisements is a matter of contract by and between the State and the publishers of the newspapers, the petitioners cannot claim any legal right in relation thereto.	Arguments of Respondent
The matter relating to grant of pension to the accredited journalists is said to have been under consideration of the RespondentState for a number of years.	Arguments of Petitioner
A Bill to the said effect was presented in the Vidhan Sabha and referred to the Select Committee.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, following dissolution of the Vidhan Sabha, the said Bill lapsed.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
With a view to give effect to the scheme, despite lapse of the said Bill, by reason of the impugned executive instructions issued under Article 162 of the Constitution of India, the Respondent No.1 upon inviting suggestions from several newspaper publishers, made a scheme, known as the Pension and Social Security Scheme for Fulltime Journalists the etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
the relevant portions whereof are as under This Scheme will be for full time working Journalists Group Scheme.	None
In this no individual Policy will be issued.	None
Life Insurance Corporation will issue one policy in favour of Director of Information.(2)	None
The Scheme will be voluntary.	None
This will be sharing Scheme in which 50 of the amount will be taken from member journalists and the remaining 50 will be deposited by the State Government.	None
The amount of contribution on the basis of average will be divided into the following three categories(2)	None
The following Journalists will be entitled to adopt the said scheme(1)	None
These working Journalists who are regularly working for at least 5 years in news papers agencies in Uttar Pradesh.	None
The circulation of such newspapers should be atleast 10000.(2)	None
Those workers who are covered by the definition of Journalists and are in full time service.(5) If any Journalist after paying instalment for continuous 10 years in Uttar Pradesh under the Pension scheme is transferred to other States then he can voluntarily continue this scheme and continue to contribute the instalments and during this period he will have to contribute cent per cent instalments.	None
If he returns to Uttar Pradesh then from the date of his return to Uttar Pradesh he will be entitled to get 50 contribution from the Government.6.	None
By a letter dated 16th October, 1991 the Special Secretary of the First Respondent communicated the following to the Director.	Facts
Information and Public Relations Department, Uttar Pradesh (Press Division) Advertisement Division, LucknowOn the above subject drawing your attention to para 5 of the Government order No.	Facts
460/	Facts
Nineteen 19132/77 dated 24th September, 1991 I have been directed to state that for the implementation of the scheme the Governor sanctions the deduction of 5 from bills for publicity tender advertisement of those papers journals, besides the specified newspapers whose circulation is over 25000.	Facts
The said Government order will be deemed to be amended.	Facts
Pursuant to or in furtherance of the said communication, 5 of the amount from the advertisement bill of the petitioners was deducted.8.	Facts
Admittedly the petitioner objected thereto.9.	Facts
However by a letter dated 9th April, 1992, the Editor in charge Advertisement of Information and Public Relation Department of the respondent wrote to the Chief Advertisement Manager of Petitioner No.1, to the following effect Kindly refer to your letter dated 26.3.92.In this connection I have to inform you that deduction 5 from your advertisement bills has been done in accordance with the government orders issued in this regard.	Facts
If you are not agreeable to this deduction as per government order then it will not be possible to use your newspaper for government advertisement.10.	Facts
In the aforementioned premise, this writ petition has been filed by the petitioner.11.	Facts
The impugned order, as noticed hereinbefore, was apparently issued only because the bill presented before the Vidhan Sabha in this behalf lapsed.	Facts
The respondents thus, sought to achieve the same purpose which it intended to do by reason of a legislative enactment.	Facts
The question posed in this writ petition must be viewed from this angle also.12.	Facts
The backdrop of formulation of the said scheme as also the impugned orders clearly go to suggest that by reason thereof the respondents have exercised its constitutional powers and the matter does not relate to a contract qua contract.13.	Facts
The benefits sought to be granted to the working journalists, indisputably, is covered by Entry 92 of the VIIth Schedule of Constitution, which reads thus92.	Facts
Taxes on the sale or purchase of newspapers and on advertisements published therein.	None
The Parliament, as noticed hereinbefore, enacted the said Act.	None
It is also not in dispute that the matter relating to grant of benefits under the said Act, is subjectmatter of various reports Awards of wage boards including the Bachawat Award wherein the matter relating to payment of pension to the working journalists was considered in the following terms Pension6.89	Facts
Pension constitutes an important clement of wages and its importance as a social security measure is well recognised the world over.	None
Indeed, the committee on Fair Wages (1949) categorically mentioned that living wages should enable the worker to provide important misfortunes, including old age.	Facts
The Directive Principles of State Policy enshrined in the Constitution and the Supreme Court verdicts fully support the position.6.90 Though on strictu sensu construction of the definition of the term wages in Section 2(rr) of the Industrial Disputes Act which becomes applicable (i) newspaper employees by virtue of Section 2(g) of the Working Journalists and other Newspaper Employees (Conditions of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955, there was some hesitation as to whether provision of pension fell with the jurisdiction of the Wage Boards, the Wage Boards on a thorough consideration of the question took a view that it did Accordingly, the Questionnaire issued by the Wage Boards and its subsequent proceedings continued to abide by this decision till the Finance Minister in his Budget Speech on 29th February, 1988 came out with the following announcement.	Facts
Working journalist have contributed a lot to the country by their intellectual toil, and should be considered by the Parliament to provide a reasonable pension scheme for them Government will be taking appropriate steps in this direction after consulting all concerned.	None
6.91	None
This was followed by the appointment of an Expert Group by the Government to go into the question of providing a pension scheme for journalists as well as nonjournalist employees of newspaper establishment.	None
Thus the scope got extended to nonjournalists newspapers employees as well.6.92 The abovementioned budget speech and the order constituting Expert Group by the Government was taken by the Wage Boards as a message not to proceed further in the matter.	Facts
Accordingly, on recommendations are being made in regard to pension and the various statements on capacity to pay so not include any burden that might fall on the newspaper establishments as a result of any pension Scheme.15.	Facts
It is, furthermore, not in dispute that no State legislation in terms of Entry 24 of List II of the VIIth Schedule of the Constitution has been enacted.16.	Facts
Entry 92 of List I of the VIIth Schedule provides for taxes on the sale or purchase of newspapers and on advertisements published therein.	Facts
Entry 55 of List II authorizes the State to impose taxes on advertisements other than advertisements published in the newspaper and advertisements broadcast by ratio or television.17.	Facts
On advertisements published in the newspapers, no fee in respect thereto can be imposed by the State Legislative, inasmuch as Entry 96 of List I and Entry 66 of List II makes it clear that the respective Legislatures have the requisite legislative competence to legislate only in respect of any of the matters contained in the list.18.	Reasoning
As noticed hereinbefore, the State of Uttar Pradesh intended to make a legislation covering the same field but even if the same was to be made, it would have been subject to the Parliamentary legislation unless assent of the President of India was obtained in that behalf.	Reasoning
The State Executives was, thus, denuded of any power in respect of a matter with respect whereto the Parliament has power to make laws, as its competence was limited only to the matters with respect to which the Legislature of the State has the requisite legislative competence.	Reasoning
Even assuming that the matter relating to the welfare of the working journalists is a field which falls within Entry 24 of the Concurrent List, unless and until a legislation is made and assent of the President is obtained, the provisions of 1955 Act of the Working Journalists (Fixation of Rates and Wages) Act, 1958 would have prevailed over the State enactment.19.	Reasoning
Thus, the directive of the State to the effect that 5 of the amount to be deducted on the amount payable for publication of Government advertisements in all newspapers having a circulation of more than 25,000 copies, would be part of the fund meant to be used towards retiral benefits of the working journalists, must be held to be bad in law.	Reasoning
As the said Act, as also the Bachawat Award specifically deal with the matter relating to pension scheme for journalists, we have no hesitation in holding that the impugned orders were beyond the legislative competence of the State.	Reasoning
In Sudhir Chandra Sarkar vs. Tata Iron Steel Co. Ltd. others (1984) 3 SCR 325 ).	None
It was held that the pension and gratuity are wellknown measures of social security.	None
It was observed that the employer cannot have an absolute discretion not to pay any gratuity even when it is earned.	None
It is not the contention of the respondents that the State had been delegated with any power to levy tax or impose any fee.	None
Article 162 of the Constitution is subject to the other provisions contained therein.	None
By reason of the impugned directives of the State, the petitioners have been deprived of their right to property.	None
The expression law, within the meaning Article 300A, would mean a Parliamentary Act or an Act of the State Legislature a statutory order having the force of law.	None
In Bishambhar Dayal Chandra Mohan others etc. vs. State of Uttar Pradesh others etc.	None
(1982) 1 SCC 39 ), this Court held as under There still remains the question whether the seizure of wheat amounts to deprivation of property without the authority of law.	None
Article 300A provides that no person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law.	None
The State Government cannot while taking recourse to the executive power of the State under Article 162, deprive a pension of his property.	None
Such power can be exercised only by authority of law and not by a mere executive fiat or order.	None
Article 162, as is clear from the opening words, is subject to other provisions of the Constitution.	None
It is, therefore, necessarily subject to Article 300A.	None
The word law in the context of Article 300A must mean an Act of Parliament or of a State legislature, a rule, or a statutory order, having the force of law, that is positive or Statemade law.	None
It is not the contention of the respondents that any service is rendered to the petitioners herein.	None
It is also not the contention of the respondents that the petitioners are bound to pay the amount in question by reason of their statutory obligation to pay retiral benefits to the working journalists.	None
It is also not the case of the respondents that the petitioners herein have not been discharging their statutory obligations in the matter of payment of retiral benefits to the working journalists working in their own establishment in terms of the provision of the Central Acts as well as in terms of the Bachawat Award.	None
The term taxation has been defined in Article 366 (28) of the Constitution of India in the following terms 28.	None
taxation include the imposition of any tax or impost, whether general or local or special, and tax shall be construed accordingly The imposed by reason of the impugned orders may come within the purview of the aforesaid definition.	None
See Corporation of Calcutta vs. Liberty Cinema (AIR 1965 SC 1107 ), Hoechst Pharmaceuticals Ltd. vs. State of Bihar, (1983) 4 SCC 45 ), and Gasket Radiators (P) Ltd. vs. E.S.I. Corporation (1985) 2 SCC 68 ).	None
The question which is required to be posed and answered is as to whether the petitioners herein can be directed to bear the burden although they have no statutory liability in this behalf.	None
We may at this juncture notice that a Constitution Bench of this Court in Koluthara Exports Ltd. vs. State of Kerala others (2002(2) SCC 459) has observed that even if a State in exercise of its legislative power under Entry 23, List III of the VIIth Schedule of the Constitution of India can make a welfare legislation, yet the burden of impost cannot be placed upon a person who is neither the member of society nor the employer of a person who is member of such society.	None
It was held that There can be no doubt that Entry 23 enables the State Legislative to enact a law in respect of social security and social insurance or dealing with employment and unemployment.	None
The provisions of subsection (4) of Section 3 of the Act (quoted above) postulate social security and welfare measures for the fishermen.	None
The State can, therefore, justify its competence under this entry.	None
But, in our view, the State cannot in an Act under Entry 23 of the List III, place the burden of an impost by way of contribution for giving effect to the Act and the Scheme made thereunder for the social security and social welfare of a section of society upon a person who is not a member of such section of society nor an employer of a person who is a member of such section of society.	None
The burden of the impost may be placed only when there exists the relationship of employer and employee between the contributor and the beneficiary of the provision of the Act and the Scheme made thereunder.	None
The burden of the impost, thus, can be placed only when there exists relationship of employer and employee between the contributor and the beneficent of the provisions of the Scheme.	None
In the instant case, also, no such relationship exists.	None
In any event, the State cannot make any compulsory exaction from any citizen unless there exists a specific provision of law operating in the field.	None
In relation to a compulsory payment, it is wellsettled, there is no room for any intendment.	None
In Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority vs. Shardkumar Jayantikumar Paswalla and others (1992) 3 SCC 285 ), it has been held as follows After giving our anxious consideration to the contentions raised by Mr. Goswami, it appears to us that in a fiscal matter it will not be proper to hold that even in the absence of express provision, a delegated authority can impose tax or fee.	None
In our view, such power of imposition of tax and or fee by delegated authority must be very specific and there is no scope of implied authority for imposition of such tax or fee.	None
It appears to us that the delegated authority must act strictly within the parameters of the authority delegated to it under the Act and it will not be proper to bring the theory of implied intent or the concept of incidental and ancillary power in the matter of exercise of fiscal power The contention of Shri Verma, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents to the effect that the petitioners are at liberty not to accept any advertisement issued by the respondents, may now be examined.	None
The newspapers serve as a medium of exercise of freedom of speech.	None
The right of its shareholders to have a free press is a fundamental right.	None
In Sakal Papers (P) Ltd. others vs. Union of India (AIR 1962 SC 305 ), this Court held as follows We would consider this matter in another way also.	None
The advertisement revenue of a newspaper is proportionate to its circulation.	None
Thus the higher the circulation of a newspaper that larger would be its advertisement revenue.	None
So if a newspaper with a high circulation were to raise its price its circulation would go down and this in turn would bring down also the advertisement revenue.	None
That would force the newspaper either to close down on to raise its price.	None
Raising the price further would affect the circulation still more and thus a vicious affect the circulation still more and thus a vicious cycle would set in which would ultimately end in the closure of the newspaper.	None
If, on the other band the space for advertisement is reduce the earnings of a newspaper would go down and it would either have to run at a loss or close down or raise its price.	None
The object of the Act in regulating the space for advertisements is stated to be to prevent unfair competition.	None
It is thus directed against circulation of a newspaper.	None
When a law is intended to bring about this result there would be a direct interference with the right of freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under Art. 19(1)(a).	None
Advertisements in a newspaper have a direct nexus with its circulation.	None
In Tata Press Ltd. vs. Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Ltd. others (1995) 5 SCC 139 ), it was held as under Advertising is considered to be the cornerstone of our economic system.	None
Low prices for consumers are dependent upon mass production mass production is dependent upon volume sales, and volume sales are dependent upon advertising.	None
Apart from the lifeline of the free economy is a democratic country, advertising can be views as the lifeblood of free media, paying most of the costs and thus making the media widely available.	None
The newspaper industry obtains 60/ 80 of its revenue from advertising.	None
Advertising pays a large portion of the costs of supplying the public with newspaper.	None
For a democratic press the advertising subsidy in crucial.	None
Without advertising, the resources available for expenditure on the news would decline, which may lead to an erosion of quality and quantity.	None
The cost of the news to the public would increase, thereby restricting its democratic availability.	None
It is not in dispute that advertisements play important roll in the matter of revenue of the newspapers.	None
This Court in Bennett Coleman Co.	None
Ors. etc. vs. Union of India others etc.	None
(1972) 2 SCC 788 ) observed as under Publication means dissemination and circulation.	None
The press has to carry on its activity by keeping in view the class of readers, the conditions of labour, price of material, availability of advertisements, size of paper and the different kinds of news comments and views and advertisements which are to be published and circulated.	None
The law which lays excessive and prohibitive burden which would restrict the circulation of a newspaper will be saved by Article 19(2).	None
If the area of advertisement is restricted, price of paper goes up.	None
If the price goes up circulation will go down.	None
This was held in Sakal Papers case (supra) to be the direct consequence of curtailment of advertisement.	None
The freedom of a newspaper to publish any number of pages or to circulate it to any number of persons has been held by this Court to be an integral part of the freedom of speech and expression.	None
This freedom is violated by packing restraints upon something which is an essential part of that freedom.	None
A restraint on the number of pages, a restraint on circulation and restraint on advertisements would affect the fundamental rights under Article 19(1)(a) on the aspects of propagation, publication and circulation.43.	None
The various provisions of the newsprint import policy have been examined to indicate as to how the petitioners fundamental rights have been infringed by the restrictions on page limit, prohibition against newspapers and new editions.	None
The effect and consequence of the impugned policy upon the newspapers is directly controlling the growth and circulation of newspapers.	None
The direct effect is the restriction upon circulation of newspapers.	None
The direct effect is upon growth of newspapers through pages.	None
The direct effect is that newspapers are deprived of their area of advertisement.	None
The direct effect is that they are exposed to financial loss.	None
The direct effect is that freedom of speech and expression is infringed.45.	None
It is indisputable that by freedom of the press is meant the right of all citizens to speak, publish and express their views.	None
The freedom of the press embodies the right of the people to read.	None
The freedom of the press is not antithetical to the right of the people to speak and express.37.	None
It is neither in doubt nor in dispute that for the purpose of meeting the costs of the newsprint as also for meeting other financial liabilities which would include the liability to pay wages, allowances and gratuity etc to the working journalists as also liability to a pay a reasonable profit to the shareholders viaavis making the newspapers available to the readers at a price at which they can afford to purchase it, the petitioners have no other option but to collect more funds by publishing commercial and others advertisements in the newspapers.	None
The respondents being a State, cannot in view of the equality doctrine contained in Article 14 of the Constitution of India, resort to the theory of take it or leave it.	Reasoning
The bargaining power of the State and the newspapers in matters of release of advertisements is unequal.	Reasoning
Any unjust condition thrust upon the petitioners by the State in such matters, in our considered opinion, would attract the wrath of Article 14 of the Constitution of India as also Section 23 of the India Contract Act.	Reasoning
See Central Inland Water Transport Corporation Limited Anr.	None
vs. Brojo Nath Ganguly others etc.	None
(1986) 3 SCC 156 ) and Delhi Transport Corporation vs. D.T.C. Mazdoor Congress others (AIR 1991 SC 101 ).	None
In is trite that the state in all it activities must not act arbitrarily.	Reasoning
Enquiry and good conscience should be at the core of all governmental functions.	Reasoning
It is now wellsettled that every executive action which operates to the prejudice of any person must have the sanction of law.	Reasoning
The executive cannot interfere with the rights and liabilities of any person unless the legality thereof is supportable in any court of law.	Reasoning
The impugned action of the State does not fulfill the aforementioned criteria.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, of the considered view that the impugned orders dated 24th September, 1991 and 16th October, 1991 are unconstitutional and void and must be declared as such.	Reasoning
This writ petition is therefore, allowed.	Decision
However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, we make no order as to costs.	Decision
