 Abhay Manohar Sapre, J.1.	None
This appeal is filed by the defendants against the final judgment and order dated 24.07.2006 passed by the High Court of Bombay in Second Appeal No. 426 of 2004 whereby the High Court dismissed the second appeal filed by the appellants herein and affirmed the judgment and order dated 03.10.2002 passed by the 8th Additional District Judge, Satara in R.C.A. No.9/1996, which arose out of judgment decree dated 29.11.1995 passed by the 2nd Joint Civil Judge, Satara in R.C.S. No. 265 of 1989.2.	Issue
In order to appreciate the controversy, which lies in a narrow compass, few relevant facts need mention hereinbelow.3.	Facts
The appellants are the defendants whereas the respondent is the plaintiff in a suit out of which this appeal arises.4.	Facts
The respondent filed a suit being Civil Suit No.	Facts
265/89 in the Court of 2nd Joint Civil Judge, Satara against the appellants for specific performance of the two agreements, dated 11.10.1982(Ex.48) and 11.04.1983(Ex.68) to purchase 1/12th share of the appellants in the land which belonged to them situated at Eastern potion of Gat.	Facts
No.594/1 admeasuring 2 hectares 18 Acre situated at Malegaon Taluka and District Satara(hereinafter referred to as suit land).5.	Facts
The sale consideration was fixed at Rs. 10,000/.	None
The respondent had paid Rs. 3,000/ by way of earnest money to the appellants.	Facts
The sale deed was to be executed within 6 months.	Facts
Since the dispute arose between the parties and no sale deed was executed, the respondent filed a suit to seek specific performance of the said agreement against the appellants in relation to the suit land.6.	Facts
The appellants contested the suit by filing their written statement.	Facts
Parties adduced evidence.	Facts
The Trial Court, by judgment decree dated 29.11.1995 in R.C.S. No.265/1989, dismissed the suit.7.	Facts
The respondent (plaintiff) felt aggrieved and filed first appeal being Regular Civil Appeal No. 9/1996 in the Court of VIIIth Additional District Judge, Satara.	Facts
By judgment decree dated 03.10.2002, the VIIIth Additional District Judge, allowed the appeal, set aside the judgment decree of the Trial Court and decreed the respondents suit.8.	Facts
Felt aggrieved, the appellants (defendants) filed second appeal in the High Court of Bombay being S.A. No. 426/2004.	Facts
By impugned judgment decree, the High Court dismissed the defendants second appeal, which has given rise to filing of the present appeal by way of special leave in this Court by the defendants.9.	Facts
Initially, there were two appellants.	None
By order dated 28.10.2013 passed by this Court, the appeal against appellant No.1 was held abated.10.	None
Heard Mr. Sudhanshu Chaudhari, learned counsel for the appellant and Mr. Varun Mathur, learned counsel for the respondent.11.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant (defendant No.2) while assailing the legality and correctness of the impugned judgment argued that, firstly, the respondents suit was misconceived inasmuch as no specific performance in relation to the agreement in question was permissible in the light of bar created by Section 31 of the Bombay Prevention of Fragmentation and Consolidation of Holdings Act (hereinafter referred to as the Act) which, according to learned counsel, prohibited any transfer of holding and, more particularly, a fragment such as the one in the case at hand.12.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the second place, learned counsel attacked the findings of the High Court recorded on three pleas raised by the appellant in the second appeal and contended that all the three pleas deserve to be upheld in appellants favour.13.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondent, in reply, supported the reasoning and the conclusion of the High Court and contended that the impugned judgment does not call for any interference and hence deserves to be upheld.14.	Arguments of Respondent
Having heard the learned counsel for the parties and on perusal of the record of the case, we are inclined to dismiss the appeal finding no merit therein.15.	Reasoning
This is how the High Court dealt with three pleas in the impugned judgment2.	None
Shri Thorat appearing for the Appellants submitted that as the suit agreement for sale was executed in contravention of section 48(d) of the Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act, 1960 the agreement itself was void and therefore, specific performance of the agreement could not have been granted.	None
He submitted that the finding of the trial Court on the issue of readiness and willingness of the original Plaintiff has been upset by the Appellate Court without dealing with the reasoning of the trial Court.	None
Lastly he submitted that the suit filed by the original Plaintiff was barred by limitation.3.	None
I have considered the submissions.	None
In my view section 48(d) of the said Act of 1960 will not affect the legality of the suit agreement.	None
In view of section 54 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 agreement for sale does not create any interest in favour of the purchaser in respect of the immovable property.	None
Therefore, agreement for sale cannot be treated as alienation or transfer within the meaning of clause (d) of section 48 of the said Act of 1960.	None
Apart from this fact, the Appellate court has observed that the original Defendant Nos. 1 and 2 have agreed to sell only a small portion of the property over which charge has been created in favour of the Land Development Bank and part of the loan has been repaid.4.	None
So far as the second submission regarding readiness and willingness is concerned, I find that the Appellate Court has discussed the entire evidence.	None
The Appellate Court after considering the pleadings and oral and documentary evidence on record has come to the conclusion that the Plaintiff has established his readiness and willingness to perform his part of the contract.	None
The Appellate Court has observed that if at all any permission for transfer was to be obtained, the same was the obligation of the Defendants.	None
So far as the bar of limitation is concerned, I find that in the Appellate Court the said issue was not specifically raised.	None
The same was the case with the trial Court.	None
The issue of limitation is a mixed question of law and fact considering the relevant provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963 which deal with the limitation for suit for specific performance.16.	None
In our considered opinion, no fault could be found in the three findings of the High Court recorded on three pleas as the reasoning and the conclusion arrived at by the High Court is just and proper calling for no interference by this Court in the appeal.17.	Reasoning
So far as the plea relating to validity and enforceability of the agreement in question is concerned, it was rightly held by the High Court to which we concur that the agreement in question is not hit by Section 48 of the Maharashtra Cooperative Society Act inasmuch as the agreement to sell in itself does not create any interest in the land nor does it amount to sale under Section 54 of the T.P. Act.	Reasoning
It only enables the intending buyer to claim specific performance of such agreement on proving its terms.	Reasoning
In other words, there lies a distinction between an agreement to sell, and sale.	Reasoning
The latter creates an interest in the land once accomplished as defined under Section 54 of the T.P. Act.	Reasoning
It was also rightly held on facts to which we concur that since the dues of the Land Development Bank were repaid, the question of applicability of Section 48 did not arise.	Reasoning
We, therefore, find no ground to disagree with this factual finding.18.	Reasoning
So far as the plea relating to readiness and willingness is concerned, it was again rightly held by the High Court to which we concur that this being a finding of fact, it could not be disturbed in second appeal and was binding on the High Court.	Reasoning
It was more so when the first Appellate Court had recorded its finding by appreciating the entire evidence on record.	Reasoning
We, therefore, find no ground to disagree with this finding of the High Court.19.	Reasoning
So far as the plea relating to limitation is concerned, it was rightly held by the High Court to which we again concur that, firstly, it was neither raised before the Trial Court and nor before the first Appellate Court and secondly, it being a mixed question of law and fact, the same could not be examined, for the first time, in second appeal by the High Court.	Reasoning
We agree with the finding of the High Court calling for no interference.20.	Reasoning
Now, so far as the plea relating to applicability of Section 31 of the Act to the agreement in question is concerned, the appellant, in our view, cannot be permitted to raise such plea, for the first time, in this appeal.21.	Reasoning
It is for the reason that, firstly, this plea was neither raised by the appellant before the Trial Court and nor before the first Appellate Court and lastly, nor before the High Court.22.	Reasoning
Secondly, in order to enable the appellant to raise any challenge to any plea, the party concerned has to first lay foundation in the pleadings of such plea which, in this case, was not.	Reasoning
It is more so when a plea is a mixed question of law and fact.23.	Reasoning
This Court being the last Court of appeal does not, therefore, consider it proper to allow the appellant to raise such plea, for the first time, under Article 136 of the Constitution in this appeal.24.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the appellant, however, contended that the appellant had raised this point in the arguments before the High Court but the same was not considered.	None
We do not find it to be so.	None
When we read the impugned judgment, we find that the High Court has specifically noted in Para 2 the three pleas raised by the appellant, which did not include this plea.25.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the appellant next contended that the agreements in question were not meant for sale of the land but were in the nature of security for the loan transaction entered between the parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are afraid we can go into this question in this appeal.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is again for the reason that firstly, it is a question of fact and secondly, it was not urged before the High Court.26.	Reasoning
In the light of foregoing discussion, we find no merit in any of the submissions urged by the learned counsel for the appellant dealt with supra.27.	Reasoning
As a result, the appeal is found to be devoid of any merit and thus it fails and is accordingly dismissed.	Decision
