 Das Gupta, J.1.	None
The dispute in this appeal is on a question of revision of wages.	Issue
The Reference to the Industrial Tribunal mentioned three matters as in dispute but neither party having appealed against the award on the other two disputes we are concerned now with only the third dispute.	Issue
This dispute after an amendment by a later notification is in these wordsWhether the existing rates of basic wages given to unskilled, semiskilled, skilled and highly skilled workmen employed in this concern need any revision?	Issue
If so, with what details and from which date?2.	Issue
The workmen claimed that scales and grades of different categories of workers should be fixed.	Facts
The Tribunal was however of opinion that the reference as made did not authorise it to fix any scales or grades of wages but that it related only to increase over the existing minimum wages.	Facts
After considering the rival contentions as regards the minimum rates which should be fixed, it fixed daily rates for unskilled workers at 12 annas per head and for semiskilled workers at one rupee per head for skilled workers it thought no revision was called for as regards their minimum daily rate.	Facts
For monthly workers it fixed the minimum wage for unskilled workers at Rs. 25/, for semiskilled workers at Rs. 40/ and for skilled workers at Rs.	Facts
60/. On a consideration of the evidence and on a result of personal inspection it came to the conclusion that there was no highly skilled worker employed in the concern.	Facts
Accordingly it fixed no minimum wages for highly skilled workers.	Facts
The workmen have appealed.3.	Facts
Five main contentions are raised before us in appeal.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first is that the Tribunal was wrong in thinking that the reference as made did not authorise it to fix time scales of wages.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged that under the reference as made it had fully authority to fix time scales wages for the different categories and that it should have done so.	Arguments of Petitioner
The second contention is that though the Tribunal rightly thought that the Wimco and Katha factories are comparable to the respondent concern, the Indian Turpentine and Rosin Co., Ltd., it had erred in thinking that this concerns position is slightly inferior to those factories and that this error coloured the fixation of the minimum rates.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thirdly it was contended that the minimum rates as fixed for certain workmen in the semiskilled and skilled categories are lower than what they had admittedly been getting on the date of the reference.	Arguments of Petitioner
Fourthly it was contended that the Tribunal was wrong in thinking that there were no highly skilled workmen.	Arguments of Petitioner
Lastly it was contended that the new rates should have been made effective not from December 1, 1957, as ordered by the Tribunal but from an earlier date.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
The question whether rates of wages includes the concept of scales of wages or not fell to be considered by this Court in Express Newspapers Ltd. v. Union of India, 1959 SCR 12 (AIR 1958 SC 578 ).	None
Answering the question in the affirmative it observed at p. 88 of the Report (of SCR) (at p. 603 of AIR)Rates of wages therefore mean the manner, mode or standard of the payments of remuneration for work done whether at the start or in the subsequent stages.	None
Rates of wages would thus include the scales of wages and there is no antithesis between the two expressions, the expression being applicable both to the initial as well as subsequent amounts of wages.	None
It is true that in references made to Industrial Tribunals fixing of scales of pay has been specifically mentioned, e. g., in the industrial dispute between certain banking companies and their workers.	None
But that is not sufficient to exclude the scales of wages from being comprised within the larger connotation of the expression rates of wages which is capable to including the scales of wages also within its ambit.	None
Even without the specific mention of the scales of wages it would be open to fix the same in an enquiry directed towards the fixation of the rates of wages.5.	None
In view of this authority Mr. Aggarwal, who appeared before us on behalf of the respondent, could not and did not argue that the words rates of wages were not wide enough to include time scales of wages.	Arguments of Respondent
He argued however that though ordinarily fixing rates of wages may include the fixing of time scales it will not be proper to read the reference made in the present case as covering a question of time scales of wages.	Arguments of Respondent
The words which have already been set out are Whether the existing rates of basic wages given to unskilled, semiskilled, skilled and highly skilled workmen employed in the concern need any revision?	Arguments of Respondent
If so, with what details and from which date ?	Issue
Mr. Aggarwal concentrates on the words existing rates and argues that in this collocation of words used, the dispute as regards the rates of wages must be held to be limited to the question whether there should be any increase in the present rates or not, for, he points out, the existing rates of wages are not time scale rates.	Arguments of Respondent
If the existing rates were time scale rates the revision of rates of wages would necessitate the introduction of new time scales.	None
Where, however, as in the present case, the existing rates are not time scales wages, revision means only the increase of these minimum rates which are not on time scale.6.	None
In our opinion, there is no substance in this argument.	Reasoning
If the dispute was only on the question whether the present rates should be increased it would not have been necessary to use the word revision and it will be more proper to say whether the existing rates need to be raised.	Reasoning
There were the existing rates of basic wages.	Reasoning
Assuming they were not time scale wages there is no reason to think that the dispute could only be whether these present rates of wages should be raised.	Reasoning
The dispute could very well be whether the existing rates should be substituted by time scale rates.	Reasoning
The word revision used in the reference aptly includes this question.	Reasoning
Whether in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, a time scale should be introduced or not is for the Tribunal to decide but there is no warrant for saying that the words used in the referencewhether the existing rates of basic wagesneed any revision Do not authorise the Tribunal to consider the question at all.7.	Reasoning
Besides, it is conceded that under the present system of wages workmen in the same categories drawn different wages and that this disparity is due partly to their respective lengths of service.	Reasoning
It is true that the increments in wages due to the length of service is at present at the sweet will and pleasure of the respondent but even to there is a scale of wages with increments in operation at present.	Reasoning
Its revision would mean putting the said wage scale on a rational basis, and that is what the appellants demand.	Reasoning
In our opinion, such a demand is clearly included in the terms of reference.8.	Reasoning
We have therefore come to the conclusion that the Tribunal has erred in thinking that the reference as made did not authorise it to introduce time scales of wages.	Reasoning
It is necessary therefore to remand the matter to the Tribunal below for reconsideration of the question on the basis that it is open to it to fix time scales of wages if it thinks fit and proper.9.	Reasoning
In view of this decision on the first contention raised we think it unnecessary and indeed undesirable to consider the other contentions that have been raised before us.	Reasoning
In fixing time scales of wages if it so thinks fit the Tribunal will undoubtedly have to fix a minimum as the starting rate for each time scale.	Reasoning
The question of this starting rate will have to be considered and decided as part of the bigger question as to hat the time scale should bethe minimum, the maximum, as also the rate of increment.	Reasoning
In deciding these questions the Tribunal will undoubtedly take into account all relevant considerations including, inter alia, the financial capacity of the respondent concern, as well as the rates paid by any comparable concerns in the same region.	Reasoning
We express no opinion one way or the other on the other contentions raised before us including the contention that the Tribunal erred in thinking that the respondent concern was slightly inferior in financial prosperity than the other two concerns, viz., Wimco and Katha factories with which it thought this concern comparable.	Reasoning
All these questions should be considered by the Tribunal afresh.10.	Reasoning
Both the parties prayed that they might be allowed to adduce fresh evidence before the Tribunal.	Reasoning
We see no objection to this.	Reasoning
Both the employer and the workmen should be allowed proper opportunity to adduce evidence and the Tribunal should decide the matter in accordance with law and in the light of our decision that it is open to it to fix time scales of wages, after considering the evidence already on the record as also the evidence that may be adduced hereafter.11.	Reasoning
We therefore allow the appeal, set aside the award made by the Tribunal below on the third matter in dispute, viz., as regards the revision of wages, and remand this cases for disposal by the Tribunal in accordance with law.	Decision
In the circumstances of the case, there will be no order as to costs.12.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	Decision
