 Hidayatullah, C.J.1.	None
These are 13 appeals by certificate against the common judgment in second appeal, April 17, 1957, of the High Court of Patna.	Facts
The appellants are the original plaintiffs.	Facts
The appellants had filed 12 title suits for ejectment in the Court of the Second Munsif at Buxar.	Facts
Eleven suits were dismissed.	Facts
It was held that the plaintiffs had no title to suit lands.	Facts
One suit was compromised and decreed in terms of the compromise.	Facts
Two other suitsone by Kedar Nath (one of the plaintiffs in the 12 title suits) and the other by one Udholal  were filed for rent for 13351337 Fasli in respect of some lands comprised in Survey No. 3385 of Mouza Buxar against the tenant Ram Chhabi Lal.	Facts
The two rent suits were heard together.	Facts
Kedar Nath was held to be the landlord and not Udholal.	Facts
The suit of the former was decreed and that of the latter dismissed.	Facts
On appeals filed by Udholal the decision was reversed.	Facts
Appeals by Kedar Nath to the High Court were dismissed on the ground that in the title suits from which eleven appeals were filed it was held by the High Court affirming the decision of the Courts below that Kedar Nath had no title.	Facts
Since the success of the last two appeals depended on whether Kedar Nath had title or not it is not necessary to refer to them at this stage.	Facts
We shall deal with the other eleven appeals first.2.	Facts
In these appeals, plaintiffs and defendants 1 to 3 are common.	Facts
Plaintiffs are purchasers from the mortgagees of the suit lands who had purchased the suit lands in an auction sale in execution of the mortgage decree.	Facts
Defendants 1 to 3 were the former owners of these suit lands and the other defendants were either purchasers at auctionsales in execution of money decrees against the owners or transferees from the auctionpurchasers.3.	Facts
The suits concern plots formed out of two Survey Nos. 3384 and 3385.	Facts
It is thus that the other two suits get connected with the title suits because in those suits the rent of certain plots from Survey No. 3385 was involved.	Facts
The history of the plots is as follows 4.	Facts
One Laxmi Narain was the previous owner of these two Survey Nos.	Facts
On his death his daughters sons Ram Narain Ram, Sheonarain Ram and Gopal Ram inherited these Survey Nos. along with other properties.	Facts
The first two sons were defendants 1 to 2 in the suits and defendant 3 is the son of Sheonarain Ram.	Facts
In 1930 the other two brothers sued Gopal Ram for a partition.	Facts
Preliminary decree was passed on April 15, 1931 and the final decree on September 10, 1932.	Facts
Half share in the property went to Gopal Ram and other half jointly to the other two brothers.	Facts
The suit Survey Nos. came to the share of Ram Narain Ram and Sheonarain Ram.5.	Facts
On April 27, 1931, Ram Narain Ram executed a mortgage of a half share in 27 plots made in the two Survey Nos.	Facts
and some other property with Buxar Trading Cooperative Society.	Facts
On 2041933, the Society released Ram Narain Rams share in the 27 plots from the mortgage by a registered release deed.	Facts
On September 20, 1932 Sheonarain Ram filed a suit for partition against Ram Narain Ram.	Facts
The preliminary decree was passed in May 1933, that is to say, after the release by the Society.	Facts
The two brothers divided the two Survey Nos. half and half between them.	Facts
No final decree in this partition suit seems to have been passed.6.	Facts
Devendra Nath (one of the defendants) obtained settlement of 3 k 13 d of land out of Survey No. 3384 from Sheonarain Ram on June 10, 1933 and in execution of a money decree against Ram Narain Ram and Sheonarain Ram purchased on August 13, 1934 the remaining portion of Survey No. 3384 and Survey No. 3385.	Facts
He obtained possession on February 27, 1935.	Facts
He had obtained attachment of the two plots before judgment, on April 23, 1934.	Facts
Devendra Nath disposed of 3 k 13 d by settling them on his wife and she was one of the defendants in the suits.	Facts
Devendra Naths title depends on whether the release by the Society was valid and binding on the Society or not.	Facts
If the release was valid and binding on the Society, the Society could not obtain a decree in respect of these two Survey Nos. and bring them to sale.	Facts
This is one of the points for consideration in these appeals.	Facts
The High Court and the Court below have decided unanimously that the release was not binding on the Society and Devendra Nath obtained no title.7.	Facts
On April 26, 1934, that is to say, before Devendra Naths purchase but after attachment by him, the Society applied to the Registrar, Cooperative Societies, for a mortgage award.	Facts
In that application the surety of Ram Narain Ram was also joined.	Facts
On August 16, 1934, a money award was given against Ram Narain Ram and his surety.	Facts
On September 20, 1934, the money award was cancelled and a preliminary mortgage award was passed.	Facts
Admittedly the mortgage award had the force of a mortgage decree.	Facts
The final mortgage award was made on May 28, 1935.	Facts
The award ordered sale of all mortgage properties including the half share of Ram Narain Ram in Survey Nos. 3384 and 3385.	Facts
No mention was made of the earlier release of the Survey Nos.	Facts
by the Society	Facts
by a registered deed.	Facts
In execution of the decree the Society purchased the two Survey Nos.	Facts
on February 7, 1936 and obtained possession on July 20,1937.8.	Facts
One Dwarikanath had a money decree against the Society and he attached the two disputed Survey Nos. and brought them to sale.	Facts
The Buxar Central Cooperative Bank purchased the two Survey Nos. in auctionsale on February 8, 1940, obtaining possession on July 5, 1941.	Facts
On March 26, 1943 the Society and the Bank went into liquidation.	Facts
The right, title and interest of the Society and the Bank was sold by the common Liquidator to Kedar Nath including the 27 plots made in the two Survey Nos.	Facts
Kedar Naths purchase was on March 20, 1943 but he took the sale benami in the name of Dhanesar Pandey, who was plaintiff No. 2 in the title suits while Kedarnath was plaintiff No. 1.	Facts
The title of the plaintiffs Kedar Nath and Dhanesar Pandey is based on this purchase.	Facts
After the release of the two Survey Nos.	Facts
by the Society, Ram Narain Ram and Sheonarain Ram, and after his purchase, Devendra Nath, made settlement of the plots to various persons.	Facts
They are the remaining defendants in the suits and respondents in the various appeals before us.	Facts
The High Court has given a chart of these persons and the dates of pattas but as nothing turns upon these details it is not necessary to mention them here.9.	Facts
The plaintiffs (Kedar Nath and Dhanesar Pandey) in these title suits asked for declaration of title and possession.	Arguments of Petitioner
Their case was that the release was void and inoperative and not binding on the Society.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the mortgage award and the auction sale were binding on Ram Narain Ram and all those who derive title from him.	Arguments of Petitioner
Their next contention is that, in any event, the transfers to the defendants were effected during the pendency of the mortgage award proceedings and were affected by the doctrine of lis pendens.	Arguments of Petitioner
These two grounds were not accepted by the High Court and the Courts below and it is these two grounds which were urged before us in these appeals.	None
The other side seeks to avoid the effect of lis pendens by pleading that the mortgage award was claimed mala fide against the suit plots after their release and, in any event, their was attachment of these plots before the petition for the mortgage award was made.10.	Arguments of Respondent
Before we deal with these two points it may be mentioned at once that neither ground of appeal applies to the transfers by Sheonarain who was not a mortgagor and who was not affected by the release deed made by the Society.	Reasoning
Mr. C. B. Aggarwal frankly conceded that the transfer by him could not be assailed and must stand.	Reasoning
He, therefore, did not press Civil Appeals Nos. 1091, 1092, 1093 and 1094 of 1964.	Reasoning
These appeals are accordingly dismissed with costs.11.	None
We may first consider whether the release was binding on the Society or not.	None
When Ram Narain Ram mortgaged the property to raise a loan from the Society of which he was a member, half share in the plots belonged to him because these plots had fallen in the preliminary decree to the share of his brother Sheonarain Ram and himself.	None
That preliminary decree was passed on April 15, 1931.	Facts
The Society had fixed a ceiling on the amount which could be borrowed, at Rs. 3,000.	None
The mortgage deed recited that the amount borrowed was Rs. 3,000 with interest at 12 1/2 percent.	None
Actually Rs. 1,890 were given as a loan.	None
The release deed, releasing the suit plots was executed in pursuance of a resolution of the Society (Res.	None
No. 4 dated April 4, 1933).	None
The release stated thus relinquished and released the properties, specified below, from the debt due by the said Ram Narain Ram, to the said Society, entered in the said mortgage bond, in favour of Ram Narain RamThe said property shall not be made liable for any debt of the said Society nor shall any incumbrance be recovered from the said property.	None
The said property shall come in possession of Ram Narain Ram.	None
The said Ram Narain Ram shall have right to sell the property or to keep the same in whatever ways he likes.	None
The said Society neither has nor shall have any objection thereto.	None
Why the release was granted by the Society was stated in the following words A petition was filed on behalf of the said Ram Narain Ram in the meeting of the members in the presence of all the members of the society for releasing some land from the said mortgage in order to repay the debt of Rs. 500 forming part of the debt due by the said Ram Narain Ram to the said cooperative society which was put up before all the members and accepted by them. .	None
.It appears that Ram Narain Ram did not pay the amount of Rs. 500 to the Society and the Society considered itself free to include these two plots, notwithstanding the release, in their application for an award decree.	None
In our opinion the release was binding on the society.	None
The argument in opposition to the binding nature of the release is that it was conditional on payment of Rs. 500.	Reasoning
This is not true.	Reasoning
No doubt the motive for the release was the payment of Rs. 500 to the Society promised by Ram Narain Ram, but the payment was not made a condition of the release.	Reasoning
There was no attempt to realise this amount from Ram Narain Ram.	Reasoning
Therefore, the release being absolute and unconditional and by a registered deed must be treated as binding.	Reasoning
It is open to the promisee to waive the performance of any part of the contract or to release any property from the operation of a mortgage or charge.	Reasoning
If he wishes his rights to continue in the event of some condition simultaneously imposed on the promisor, he must see that the release is made dependent on the performance by the promisor of his part of the agreement.	Reasoning
Here the Society merely released the two plots without making the payment a condition precedent, and the release operated.12.	Reasoning
That, however, is not the end of the matter.	Reasoning
The Society filed on April 5, 1934 a petition for a mortgage award before the Assistant Registrar, Co operative Societies.	Reasoning
The petition is headed Petition for mortgage decree.	Reasoning
The petition mentioned that the mortgage was made on April 27, 1931 and that the amount secured was Rs. 3000 with interest at 12 1/2 per cent per annum.	Reasoning
The petition then described the property mortgaged and it included plots Nos. 3385 and 3384.	Reasoning
The amount due on December 31, 1933 was said to be Rs. 2440/3.	Reasoning
The relief asked for was We the punches therefore pray that a decree may be passed by your honour against the said member and he may be directed under the decree to pay the debt, principal and interest, amounting, to Rs. 2440/3/ within 3 months, that in case of nonpayment this order may be passed that the entire amount may be realised by auction sale of the mortgaged property and that if the mortgaged property would not be sufficient for the satisfaction of the entire amount of the decree the punches of the committee be allowed to pray for passing a personal decree against the said member.13.	None
When the Registrar made his order he overlooked that a mortgaged award had to be passed.	None
On August 16, 1934 he ordered that an award jointly with sureties be issued.	None
However, on September 2, 1934, he corrected his earlier order thus S. 1.6 read along with Section 1.5.	None
By mistake of the 2nd Assistant simple award was issued instead of mortgage award.	None
Issue mortgage award and ask the C. B. to return the simple award which will be cancelled here.	None
S. Syed Ozair D. F. A.Addl.	None
A. R. 2934.After this mortgage award which had the force of a preliminary decree, the Society on December 16, 1934 resolved that a final mortgage decree be obtained from the Assistant Registrar, and a final decree was obtained and the property brought to sale on February 7, 1936 and purchased by the Society itself with the permission of the court executing the decree.	None
Possession was obtained on July 20,1937.	Reasoning
Therefore, litigation in respect of this mortgage remained pending from April 5, 1934 to July 20, 1937.	Reasoning
Under Explanation to Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act the whole of this period denoted pendency of the proceeding for purposes of application of the doctrine of lis pendens.14.	Reasoning
All the leases made by Devendranth were after the proceedings commenced.	Reasoning
Devendranath purchased the right, title and interest of Ram Narain Ram on August 13, 1934.His acquisition was prima facie hit by the doctrine of lis pendens.	Reasoning
Three arguments were advanced before us to meet this situation and we shall now deal with them seriatim.15.	None
The first argument is that there could be no lis pendens till August 16, when the money award was issued because a money suit or proceeding cannot lead to the application of the doctrine of lis pendens.	Arguments of Respondent
As a proposition of law the argument is sound but it is wrongly grounded on fact.	None
The proceeding was to get a mortgage award, the equivalent of a mortgage decree.	Reasoning
The Court made a mistake and treated it as a proceeding for a money decree.	Reasoning
When the Court corrected its order, the mortgage award related back to the petition as made and the whole of the proceeding must be treated as covered by the doctrine.	Reasoning
We cannot, therefore, accede to the suggestion that the doctrine did not apply at any rate, on this suggested ground.16.	None
The second ground of attack is that before the proceeding commenced before the Registrar these fields had been attached and therefore, the doctrine of lis pendens again cannot apply.	Arguments of Respondent
We are unable to accept this argument either.	None
If the property was acquired pendente lite, the acquirer is bound by the decree ultimately obtained in the proceedings pending at the time of acquisition.	None
This result is not avoided by reason of the earlier attachment.	None
Attachment of property is only effective in preventing alienation but it is not intended to create any title to the property.	None
On the other hand, Section 52 places a complete embargo on the transfer of immovable property right to which is directly and specifically in question in a pending litigation.	None
Therefore the attachment was ineffective against the doctrine.	None
Authority for this clear position is hardly necessary but if one is desired it will be found in Moti Lal v. KarrabulDin, (1897) 24 Ind App 170 (PC).17.	None
Lastly it was contended that the sale was by court auction and the doctrine of lis pendens would not apply to such a sale.	Arguments of Respondent
This point was considered in Samarendra Nath Sinha v. Krishna Kumar Nag, 19672 SCR 18 (AIR 1967 SC 1440 ) by one of us (Shelat J.) and it was observed as follows . . .	None
The purchaser pendente lite under this doctrine is bound by the result of the litigation on the principle that since the result must bind the party to it so must it bind the person deriving his right, title and interest from or through him.	None
This principle is well illustrated in Radhamadhub Holder v. Monohar, (1887) 15 Ind App 97 where the facts were almost similar to those in the instant case.	None
It is true that Section 52, strictly speaking, does not apply to involuntary alienations such as court sales but it is well established that the principle of lis pendens applies to such alienations.(See Nilkant v. Suresh Chandra, (1885) 12 Ind App 171 and (1897) 24 Ind App 170 (PC)).This ground also has no validity.18.	None
Lastly it was argued that if the fields were released from the operation of the mortgage they could not be made the subject of a mortgage decree, and whatever was done in the mortgage proceedings was not of any consequence.	Arguments of Respondent
To this there are two answers.	None
Firstly, the respondent before the Registrar (Ram Narain Ram) made no objection to the inclusion of the plots in the petition for a mortgage award.	Reasoning
Secondly, the doctrine of lis pendens applies irrespective of the strength or weakness of the case on one side or other.	Reasoning
See Gouri Dutt Maharaj v. Sukur Mohammed, 75 Ind App 165 (AIR 1948 PC 147 ).	None
There is, however, one condition that the proceedings must be bona fide.	None
Here no doubt the Society knew that the plots had been released from the mortgage, but it was also clear that the release was to enable Ram Narain Ram to dispose of some of the plots and pay Rs. 500 to the Society.	Reasoning
This amount was never paid and the Society must have bona fide felt that the plots still remained encumbered.	Reasoning
In fact the attitude of Ram Narain Ram in not claiming that these plots be removed from the mortgage award shows that he too felt that this was the true position.	Reasoning
In Gouri Dutt Maharajs case, 75 Ind App 165 (AIR 1948 PC 147 ), referred to by us, it was said that if the proceedings were bona fide, the applicability of Section 52 was not avoided.19.	None
For the above reasons we are clear that the purchase by Kedarnath was protected by the doctrine of lis pendens, the prior transfer to the defendants notwithstanding.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter the judgment of the High Court cannot be sustained.	Decision
The appeals will, therefore, be allowed.	Decision
The judgment and decree of the High Court will be set aside and the suits of the appellant will be decreed with costs throughout.	Decision
In this Court the cost will be one set.20.	None
Appeals allowed.	None
