 Amitava Roy, J. The dissension centers around the exposition of an eligibility norm engrafted in the tender conditions qua a prestigious project with global participation.	Issue
The appellant stands disqualified by the respondent on the touchstone of its perception of the relevant qualifying criterion as endorsed by the High Court vide judgment and order dated 18.11.2016 rendered in Special Civil Application No.18439 of 2016, thus propelling it to this Court for redress.	None
We have heard Mr. C.A. Sundaram, learned senior counsel for the appellant and Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned senior counsel for the respondent.	None
The pleaded facts though encompass various facets, those having a direct bearing on the issue raised, only would be alluded to.4.	Facts
The appellantcorporation has introduced itself to be an amalgam of M s. CSR Corporation Ltd. and M s. CNR Corporation Ltd., both claimed to be the worlds largest and oldest suppliers of rail transport equipments with most complete product lines and leading technologies with their business activities enfolding RD design, manufacture, repair, sale, lease and technical services for railway rolling stock, EMUs, metro coaches, urban rail transit vehicles, engineering machinery, consulting services etc. along with several subsidiaries under their full control.	Facts
On 09.03.2015, these two entities namely M s. CSR Corporation Ltd. and M s. CNR Corporation Ltd. got merged after securing the approval of the concerned state authorities, as a result whereof, all assets of these two integrant corporations, together with liabilities, businesses, qualifications, staff, contracts along with all rights and obligations stood transferred to the appellantcorporation w.e.f. 01.06.2015.	Facts
Following such assimilation, the appellantcorporation was, as a joint stock limited company incorporated in the Peoples Republic of China with limited liability and owned and controlled by the Chinese Central Government.	None
As a consequence of such merger, the subsidiaries of M s CSR.	Facts
Corporation Ltd. and M s CNR.	Facts
Corporation Ltd., became the subsidiaries of the appellantcorporation and their names were changed as well.	Facts
According to the appellant, thereafter it successfully participated and was awarded various international contracts, based on the experience of its subsidiary companies.5.	Facts
On 15.01.2016, the respondent company (hereinafter to be referred to also as MEGA) invited tenders bids for the project Design, manufacture, supply, installation, testing, commissioning of 96 nos.	Facts
of standard gauge cars and training of personnel and organized a prebid meeting, amongst others on 12.03.2016 inviting all prospective bidders.	Facts
The last date for submission of the bids was eventually fixed on 25.05.2016.6.	Facts
As per the tender conditions, the offer was to be made in three envelopes, to be submitted simultaneously, as hereunder(i) First Envelope called  Initial FiltercumQualification Requirement Bid.(ii)	Facts
Second Envelope  Technical Bid(iii)	None
Third Envelope  Price Bid7.	None
In response to the notice inviting tender, the appellant and three others namely (i) Consortium of Bombardier Transportation India Pvt.	Facts
Ltd.	Facts
Bombardier Transportation GmbH (ii) M s. Hyundai Rotem Company (HRC) and (iii) Consortium of Alstom Transport India Ltd., A1stom Transport SA, offered their bids by the date fixed.8.	Facts
As per the tender prescriptions, an affirmative determination of the eligibility and qualification criteria, on the basis of the particulars furnished in the first envelope was to be the prerequisite for the opening of the envelopes containing the technical bids and the price bids in that order applying the same test.	Facts
Prior thereto, prebid meetings were held, as referred to hereinabove, in which representatives of various participating bidders attended and submitted their queries for clarifications as per clause No.7 of Instructions to Bidders, which were accordingly deliberated upon.	Facts
Clarifications, as sought for, were furnished accordingly.	Facts
The appellant has averred that it did submit the envelopes, as required, containing all essential documents certificates, as mandated fulfilling, amongst others, the requirements of the General Specific Experiences.	Facts
On 25.05.2016, as scheduled, the envelopes containing the Initial FiltercumQualification Requirement Bid of the four bidders were opened and thereafter on 09.06.2016, the respondent raised 16 queries and required the appellant to submit its response thereto.9.	None
The queries, amongst others, related to the norm of experience as contained in clause 2.4 of Section III of the Tender Documents.	Facts
It is inessential to detail the queries and the replies offered by the appellant, having regard to the focused contentions raised before us, as would be referred to shortly hereinafter.	Facts
Suffice it to state, as claimed by the appellant, it did adequately and completely answer the queries and supplemented the same with contemporaneous records.10.	Facts
It was thereafter that the appellant came to learn that the respondent on 15.10.2016 had rejected its Initial FiltercumQualification Requirement Bid and thus had disqualified it for further participation in the tender process.	Facts
The appellant thereafter unsuccessfully pleaded with the respondent corporation by filing various representations and requests and the same having failed to evoke any affirmative response, sought refuge of the legal process.	Facts
Prior thereto, it was served as well with a caveat application filed by the respondent in the High Court mentioning about its disqualification following the rejection of its Initial FiltercumQualification Requirement Bid .11.	Facts
The respondentcorporation, apart from raising preliminary objection to the maintainability of the writ petition filed by the appellant, pleading nonjoinder of necessary parties, i.e. the surviving tenderers in the fray, asserted that the project was financed through budgetary resources of State of Gujarat, Government of India and Japan International Cooperation Agency (for short hereinafter to be referred to as JICA).	Facts
It also mentioned that through international competitive Bidding, the General Engineering Consultant, which is a consortium of four renowned companies, had been appointed to provide independent expert professional advice regarding the preparation of tender documents, evaluation of tender offers etc. for works related to the Ahmadabad Metro Rail Project  Phase I, i.e. the project in hand.	Facts
While generally admitting the facts pertaining to the issuance of the notice inviting tender on 15.01.2016 and the participation of the four bidders including the appellant, MEGA, however, categorically asserted that in course of the prebid meetings, it was clarified in response to a pointed query, that the experience of subsidiary companies group companies will not be taken into account in any case and that if the parties are desirous of such experience being counted, the subsidiary companies group companies would have to form a Joint Venture (hereafter referred to also as JV) or a Consortium.12.	Facts
According to it, the first envelope containing the Initial FiltercumQualification Requirement Bid of the participating bidders were opened in presence of their representatives and on the next date, those were forwarded to the General Engineering Consultant (for short, hereinafter referred to as GEC) for evaluation thereof and submission of report in connection therewith.	Facts
The GEC, in turn, vide its letter dated 09.06.2016 submitted its interim report recommending that further clarifications be sought for from the respective bidders, on the points as outlined therein.	Facts
It was thereafter that the respondent forwarded 16 queries to the appellant inter alia on the aspect of experience, as contemplated in clause 2.4 of the Evaluation and Qualification Criteria of the tender documents.13.	Facts
It is the stand of the MEGA that the appellant, instead of furnishing the clarifications as sought for, submitted additional details, thereby virtually revising its original offer and further endeavoured to make up the deficiency in its experience, as prescribed, by falling back on the experience of its so called subsidiary companies.	Facts
According to MEGA, as the subsidiary companies of the appellant, retained their independent existence as separate legal entities, their experience, in terms of the relevant tender norms, could not be counted to be that of the appellant as it (appellant) did submit its offer as a single entity and neither as a joint venture nor as a consortium with its subsidiary companies.	Facts
Though in its reply, the MEGA also expressed its reservation with regard to the appellants stand alone financial credentials, it is unnecessary to refer thereto, as the same did not figure in course of the rival exchanges in the appeal.14.	Facts
The GEC, according to the MEGA, after scrutinizing the bid documents together with the clarifications relaid before it, opined that the appellant was found to be nonresponsive to the requirements of clauses 2.3 and 2.4 of Section III relating to Evaluation and Qualification Criteria of the Tender Document.	Facts
It would be sufficient for the present purpose to extract the relevant excerpt of the findings of the GEC visavis clauses 2.4.1 and 2.4.2 for immediate reference ClausesRelevant Eligibility and Qualification Criterion of Tender Document in questionGist of Finding arrived at by GEC2.4.1General ExperienceExperience in the role of prime contractor(single entity or JV member), Subcontractor, or management contractor for at least last ten (10) years starting 1st January, 2006CRRC does not meet this criterion.	Facts
Since the Parent Company cannot claim experience of its Subsidiary Company even if it has 100 ownership as long as a company is a separate legal entity.	Facts
CRRC has submitted its offer as a sole Bidder.	Facts
It has also not submitted any intent of forming a joint venture consortium with its Subsidiary Company, supported by a letter of intent in terms of ITB para 4.1.As per prebid meeting clarification issued to all bidders The subsidiary company group company may bid together with the parent company as a DV consortium member for parents group company experience to be taken into account.2.4.2(a)Specific ExperienceA minimum number of two (2) similar contracts that have been satisfactorily and substantially completed as a prime contractor considered in favour considered of CRRC (single entity or JV member) between 1st January, 2006 and the Bid submission deadline.	Facts
CRRC does not meet this criterion, since the execution completion of any contract by its Subsidiary companies cannot be considered in favour of CRRC.	None
This report dated 28.07.2016 of the GEC was thereafter forwarded to JICA for its concurrence and the latter gave its no objection and instructed MEGA to proceed with the technical evaluation of the bids of the remaining bidders and to finalize the process early.16.	None
Accordingly, the remaining three bidders were declared to be qualified at the stage of Initial FiltercumQualification Requirement Bid by discarding the appellant, as it failed to fulfill the requirements contemplated in clause 2.3 Financial Situation and clause 2.4 Experience of Section III of the Evaluation and Qualification Criteria of the Tender Document.17.	Facts
According to MEGA, the appellant was intimated of its disqualification by letter dated 02.11.2016.	Facts
It has maintained that the impugned action is strictly in accordance with the tender norms and being objective and transparent, is unassailable.18.	Facts
Referring to clause 4.1 of Section I of the Tender Document, the appellant, in reiteration, pleaded that the clarification referred to by MEGA excluding the experience of the subsidiary group companies from being accounted for in absence of a joint venture or consortium was in respect of a query in a totally different context and was wholly inapplicable to its bid.	Facts
According to the appellant, the query was raised by a subsidiary company before the respondent as to whether it could avail the experience of its parent group company and in response thereto, it was explained that if a subsidiary company did wish to use the experience of the parent company, the parent company or the group company should form with it a Consortium or a JV, as the case may be.	Facts
The appellant thus insisted that it having submitted its bid, as a single entity being the holding company of its subsidiaries and had claimed the experience of its fully owned subsidiaries, the clarification relied upon by the GEC and acted upon by MEGA to oust it (appellant) from the process as disqualified, was patently flawed.	Facts
It further stood by its responses to the queries made, contending that those adequately did answer the same and demonstrate that its bid was fully compliant of the essential tender conditions.19.	Facts
The High Court on an analysis of clause 2.4 of the Evaluation and Qualification Criteria contained in Section III of the Tender Documents, in the backdrop of the rival orientations founded on the pleaded facts and the documents in support thereof, held that while a holding company may control its subsidiary companies, which may have the requisite experience, as the subsidiary companies would not be required to execute the work, the holding company cannot avail the benefit of their experience.	Facts
It was of the view that since the subsidiaries have an identity separate from the holding company, they ipso facto, by virtue of they being subsidiaries of the holding company, do not become a party to the contract and are in no manner liable to the employer for the execution thereof.	Facts
It distinguished the contingency, where a J.V. or a Consortium of different companies persons is formed, each constituent whereof would be liable for execution of the contract.	Facts
It was of the estimate that in such a formation of a J.V. or a Consortium, the benefit of experience of the constituent companies would be available to the J.V. or a Consortium and not otherwise.	Facts
In essence, it thus held that the appellantcorporation on a stand alone basis, did not possess the requisite experience, as laid down in the tender conditions and that it was not permissible for it to avail the experience of its subsidiaries to make up such deficiency.	Arguments of Respondent
As a community of interest in the performance of the work between the appellant and its subsidiary companies, was absent, the impugned action of disqualifying it for lack of experience in terms of clause 2.4 of the Evaluation and Qualification of Criteria could not thus be faulted.	Facts
To reiterate, the parties before us are at issue only on the aspect as to whether the appellantcorporation, to meet the experience norm, as prescribed by clause 2.4 of the Evaluation and Qualification of Criteria, can utilize the experience of its subsidiary companies to qualify in the Initial FiltercumQualification Requirement Bid.	None
No other contention has been raised.	Issue
The present scrutiny thus would be limited only to this facet of the lis.	None
It has been insistently urged on behalf of the appellant that the exposition of clause 2.4 of the Evaluation and Qualification of Criteria furnished on behalf of MEGA and endorsed by the High Court is patently erroneous and is wholly incompatible with the letter and spirit of clause 4.1 and disregardful of the materials on record pertaining to the constitution of the appellant and the functional mechanism qua its subsidiary companies and is thus liable to be dismissed as absurd, arbitrary and in defiance of logic.22.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sundaram has argued that it being apparent on the face of the records that the query in response to which, the clarification provided by the appellantcorporation was that a subsidiary company group company may bid together with the parent company as a J.V. Consortium member, for parent group company experience to be taken into account, had been raised by a subsidiary company with a request to allow the experience of the parent company group company to be taken into account for meeting the qualification requirement of experience of a subsidiary company.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned senior counsel has thus maintained that this clarification had no application whatsoever to the appellantcorporation who had offered its bid as the single entity, as permissible under clause 4.1 and in view of its formational and functional configuration, it was legally entitled to avail the experience of its subsidiaries to meet the tender conditions.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Sundaram, the disqualification of the appellantcorporation, in this overwhelming legal and factual premise, is grossly arbitrary, unreasonable and unjust calling for the intervention of this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned senior counsel principally relied in endorsement of his assertions on the decision of this Court in New Horizons Ltd. and another v. Union of India and others  (1995) 1SCC 478.	Arguments of Petitioner
In persuasive refutation, learned senior counsel for the respondent has maintained that as the appellant squarely failed to meet the technical eligibility, predicated in clauses 2.4.1 and 2.4.2(a),(b) and (c) on a correct interpretation of the scope and ambit of clause 4.1, in conjunction with the clarifications provided, no interference with the view taken by the High Court is warranted.	Arguments of Respondent
As admittedly the appellants experience sans that of its subsidiaries falls short of the one mandated by the tender conditions, the impugned action of MEGA is unimpeachable, he urged.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Rohatgi argued that merely because the subsidiary companies of the appellant, which by themselves are separate legal entities, are eligible in terms of experience, it does not ipso facto confer eligibility to it (appellant), the parent holding company.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, the appellant having applied as a single entity in the contract if awarded would be inter se, the appellant and the MEGA and the subsidiary companies would not figure in the deal, so much so that it would be impossible to secure their performance or to hold the subsidiary companies responsible in case of an eventuality necessitating such an initiative.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned senior counsel argued that as was demonstrable from clause 4.1 as well as 2.4 of the tender conditions in question, the experience of a subsidiary company was permissible to be availed only if it was a member of a J.V. or a Consortium.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellant, having offered its bid as a single entity, as a holding company, it was not entitled to utilize the experience of its subsidiary companies to make up the short fall in its experience, as prescribed by the tender conditions.	Arguments of Respondent
While contending that the dictum in New Horizons Ltd. (supra) was of no avail to the appellant in the facts of the case, the learned senior counsel sought to draw sustenance principally from the following decision of this Court Afcons Infrastructure Ltd. v. Nagpur Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. Anr.  	Arguments of Respondent
2016 (8) SCALE 765 (2) Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Ltd. v. CSEPDI  Trishe Consortium  2016 (10) SCALE 69(3) Montecarlo Ltd. v. NTPC Ltd.  2016 (10) SCALE 50 (4) Core Projects and Technologies Ltd. v. The State of Bihar  2011 (59) BLJR 183 (5) Rohde and Schwarz Gmbh and Co.	Arguments of Respondent
Kg.	Arguments of Respondent
v. Airport Authority of India and Anr.  	Arguments of Respondent
(2014) 207 DLT 1	None
The contentious pleadings and the assertions based thereon have been duly evaluated.	None
The issue that confronts the present adjudicative pursuit, did fall for the scrutiny of this Court, albeit in the context of another project, in which the appellant (respondent No. 2 therein) had been awarded the contract, a decision that stood upheld in C.A. Nos. 13531354 of 2017  Consortium of Titagarh Firema Adler SPA Titagarh Wagons Ltd. v. Nagpur Metro Rail Corporation Limited (decided on 9.5.2017).	None
Clause 4.1 dealing with eligibility criteria of the prospective tenders, as involved in that decision, deserves extraction to facilitate an immediate comparison of the text thereof with that of clause 4.1 as involved herein.	None
4.1	None
A bidder may be a firm that is a private entity, a governmentowned entity  subject to ITB 4.3  or any combination of such entities in the form of a joint venture (JV) under an existing agreement or with the intent to enter into such an agreement supported by a letter of intent.	None
In the case of a joint venture, all members shall be jointly and severally liable for the execution of the contract in accordance with the contract terms.	None
The JV shall nominate a representative who shall have the authority to conduct all business for and on behalf of any and all the members of the JV during the bidding process and, in the event the JV is awarded the contract, during contract execution.	None
Unless specified in the BDS, there is no limit on the number of members in a JV.	None
Section V of the Tender Documents of that contract dwelling on eligibility criteria and social and environmental responsibility further mandated that bidders that are government owned enterprises or institutions may participate, only if they can establish that they are (i) legally and financial autonomous (ii) Operate under commercial law.	None
The award of the contract for design, manufacture, supply, testing, commissioning of 69 passenger rolling stock (Electrical Multiple Units) and training of personnel at Nagpur Metro Rail Project, which was funded by KfW Development Bank, Germany in favour of the appellant was unsuccessfully assailed before the High Court, a verdict that was upheld by this Court, as referred to hereinabove.	None
One of the principle limbs of challenge against the eligibility of the appellant was its lack of experience as a single entity and that it having submitted its bid on the strength of the experience of the subsidiaries of its erstwhile parent original companies, following the merger whereof it had come into existence, it was not eligible as per the qualification norms.	None
It was urged there as well that unless the subsidiaries are the constituents of a J.V. or a Consortium, their experience cannot be taken into consideration to gauge the experience of the holding company and that as it on a standalone basis, was not possessed of the requisite experience as prescribed, it ought to have been disqualified on that count alone.	None
Following an exhaustive analysis of the facts, the relevant tender conditions as well as the law adumbrated by the pronouncements of this Court, this plea against the eligibility of the appellantcorporation was negated.	None
It would be advantageous, in view of the striking analogy of the overall perspectives, to recount the relevant observations recorded therein and having a decisive bearing on the issue under scrutiny.	None
The core issue, as we perceive, pertains to acceptance of the technical bid of the respondent No. 2 by the 1st respondent and we are required to address the same solely on the touchstone of eligibility criteria regard being had to the essential conditions.	None
The decision on other technical aspects, as we are advised at present, is best left to the experts.	None
We do not intend to enter into the said domain though a feeble attempt has been made on the said count 26.	None
What is urged before this Court is that the respondent No. 2 could not have been regarded as a single entity and, in any case, it could not have claimed the experience of its subsidiaries because no consortium or joint venture with its subsidiaries was formed.	None
With regard to relationship of holding and subsidiary companies, we have been commended to the authorities in Balwant Rai Saluja (supra) and also the judgment of the Delhi High Court in Rohde and Schwarz Gmbh and Co. K.G. (supra).	None
The essential submission is that respondent No. 2 as the owner of the subsidiary companies including their assets and liabilities, cannot claim their experience and there is necessity to apply the principle of lifting the corporate veil, as has been laid down in Renusagar Power Co. (supra) and Life Insurance Corporation of India v. Escorts Ltd. and others, (1986) 1 SCC 264.	None
It is also argued that the Government owned entity cannot be treated differently, for a Government owned entity is distinct from the Government and, for the said purpose, inspiration has been drawn from the authority in Western Coalfields Limited v. Special Area Development Authority, Korba and another, (1982) 1 SCC 125.	None
It has also been urged that when the tender has required a particular thing to be done, it has to be done in that specific manner, for the law envisages that where a power is given to do a certain thing in a certain way, the thing must be done in that way or not at all.	None
For the aforesaid purpose, inspiration has been drawn from the authority in Central Coalfields Ltd. (supra) wherein reliance has been placed on Nazir Ahmad v. King Emperor, AIR 1936 PC 253 .27.	None
Before we proceed to deal with the concept of single entity and the discretion used by the 1st respondent, we intend to deal with role of the Court when the eligibility criteria is required to be scanned and perceived by the Court.	None
In Montecarlo Ltd. (supra), the Court referred to TATA Cellular (supra) wherein certain principles, namely, the modern trend pointing to judicial restraint on administrative action the role of the court is only to review the manner in which the decision has been taken the lack of expertise on the part of the court to correct the administrative decision the conferment of freedom of contract on the Government which recognizes a fair play in the joints as a necessary concomitant for an administrative body functioning in an administrative sphere or quasiadministrative sphere, were laid down.	None
It was also stated in the said case that the administrative decision must not only be tested by the application of Wednesbury principle of reasonableness but also must be free from arbitrariness not affected by bias or actuated by mala fides.	None
The twoJudge Bench took note of the fact that in Jagdish Mandal (supra) it has been held that, if the decision relating to award of contract is bona fide and is in public interest, courts will not, in exercise of power of judicial review, interfere even if a procedural aberration or error in assessment or prejudice to a tenderer, is made out.	None
The decisions in Master Marine Services (P) Ltd. v. Metcalfe Hodgkinson (P) Ltd. and another, (2005) 6 SCC 138 , B.S.N. Joshi Sons Ltd. v. Nair Coal Services Ltd. and others, (2006) 11 SCC 548 and Michigan Rubber (India) Ltd. (supra) have been referred to.	None
The Court quoted a passage from Afcons Infrastructure Ltd. (supra) wherein the principle that interpretation placed to appreciate the tender requirements and to interpret the documents by owner or employer unless mala fide or perverse in understanding or appreciation is reflected, t he constitutional Courts should not interfere.	None
It has also been observed in the said case that it is possible that the owner or employer of a project may give an interpretation to the tender documents that is not acceptable to the constitutional Courts but that by itself is not a reason for interfering with the interpretation given.	None
After referring to the said authority, it has been ruled thus24.	None
We respectfully concur with the aforesaid statement of law.	None
We have reasons to do so.	None
In the present scenario, tenders are floated and offers are invited for highly complex technical subjects.	None
It requires understanding and appreciation of the nature of work and the purpose it is going to serve.	None
It is common knowledge in the competitive commercial field that technical bids pursuant to the notice inviting tenders are scrutinized by the technical experts and sometimes third party assistance from those unconnected with the owners organization is taken.	None
This ensures objectivity.	None
Bidders expertise and technical capability and capacity must be assessed by the experts.	None
In the matters of financial assessment, consultants are appointed.	None
It is because to check and ascertain that technical ability and the financial feasibility have sanguinity and are workable and realistic.	None
There is a multiprong complex approach highly technical in nature.	None
The tenders where public largesse is put to auction stand on a different compartment.	None
Tender with which we are concerned, is not comparable to any scheme for allotment.	None
This arena which we have referred requires technical expertise.	None
Parameters applied are different.	None
Its aim is to achieve high degree of perfection in execution and adherence to the time schedule.	None
But, that does not mean, these tenders will escape scrutiny of judicial review.	None
Exercise of power of judicial review would be called for if the approach is arbitrary or malafide or procedure adopted is meant to favour one.	None
The decision making process should clearly show that the said maladies are kept at bay.	None
But where a decision is taken that is manifestly in consonance with the language of the tender document or subserves the purpose for which the tender is floated, the court should follow the principle of restraint.	None
Technical evaluation or comparison by the court would be impermissible.	None
The principle that is applied to scan and understand an ordinary instrument relatable to contract in other spheres has to be treated differently than interpreting and appreciating tender documents relating to technical works and projects requiring special skills.	None
The owner should be allowed to carry out the purpose and there has to be allowance of free play in the joints 29.	None
In Reliance Telecom Ltd. and another v. Union of India and another, the Court referred to the authority in Asia Foundation Construction Ltd. v. Trafalgar House Construction (I) Ltd. and others wherein it has been observed that though the principle of judicial review cannot be denied so far as exercise of contractual powers of Government bodies are concerned, but it is intended to prevent arbitrariness or favouritism and it is exercised in the larger public interest or if it is brought to the notice of the court that in the matter of award of a contract power has been exercised for any collateral purpose.	None
Thereafter, the Court in Reliance Telecom Ltd. (supra) proceeded to state thus75.	None
In the instant case, we are unable to perceive any arbitrariness or favouritism or exercise of power for any collateral purpose in the NIA.	None
In the absence of the same, to exercise the power of judicial review is not warranted.	None
In the case at hand, we think, it is a prudent decision once there is increase of revenue and expansion of the range of service.	None
And again76.	None
It needs to be stressed that in the matters relating to complex auction procedure having enormous financial ramification, interference by the Courts based upon any perception which is thought to be wise or assumed to be fair can lead to a situation which is not warrantable and may have unforeseen adverse impact.	None
It may have the effect potentiality of creating a situation of fiscal imbalance.	None
In our view, interference in such auction should be on the ground of stricter scrutiny when the decision making process commencing from NIA till the end smacks of obnoxious arbitrariness or any extraneous consideration which is perceivable 32.	None
Respondent No. 2, as is evident, is a company owned by the Peoples Republic of China and, therefore, it comes within the ambit of Clause 4.1 of the bid document as a Government owned entity.	None
We have already reproduced the said clause in earlier part of the judgment.	None
As perceived by the 1 st respondent, a single entity can bid for itself and it can consist of its constituents which are wholly owned subsidiaries and they may have experience in relation to the project.	None
That apart, as is understood by the said respondent, where the singular or unified entity claims that as a consequence of merger, all the subsidiaries form a homogenous pool under its immediate control in respect of rights, liabilities, assets and obligations, the integrity of the singular entity as owning such rights, assets and liabilities cannot be ignored and must be given effect.	None
While judging the eligibility criteria of the second respondent, the 1 st respondent has scanned Article164 of the Articles of Association of the respondent No. 2 which are submitted along with the bid from which it is evincible that the Board of Directors of the respondent No. 2 has been entrusted with the authority and responsibility to discharge all necessary and essential decisions and functions for the subsidiaries as well.	None
According to the 1 st respondent, the term Government owned entity would include a government owned entity and its subsidiaries and there can be no matter of doubt that the identity of the entities as belonging to the Government when established can be treated as a Government owned entity and the experience claimed by the parent of the subsidiaries can be taken into consideration.	None
Learned senior counsel for the 1 s t respondent has drawn our attention to the lifting of corporate veil principle or doctrine of piercing the veil and in that context, reliance has been placed on Littlewoods Mail Order Stores, Ltd. v. McGregor, (1969)	None
3 All ER 855, DHN Food Distributors Ltd. and others v. London Borough of Tower Hamlets, (1976) 3	None
All ER 462 and Harold Holdsworth Co. (Wakefield) Ld. v. Caddies, (1955) 1 WLR 352.	None
Learned senior counsel has also placed reliance upon the principles stated in Renusagar Power Co. (supra) that have been reiterated in New Horizons Ltd. (supra).	None
In the written submission filed on behalf of the 1st respondent, the relevant paragraphs from Renusagar Power Co. (supra) have been copiously quoted.	None
It is also urged that in the current global economic regime the multinational corporations conduct their business through their subsidiaries and, therefore, there cannot be a hypertechnical approach that eligibility of the principal cannot be taken cognizance of when it speaks of the experience of the subsidiaries.	None
It is also contended by Mr. Subramaniam that in the context of fraud or evasion of legal obligations, the doctrine of piercing the veil or lifting of the corporate veil can be applied but the said principle cannot be taken recourse to in a matter of the present nature.33.	None
With regard to the satisfaction of the 1st respondent, it has been highlighted before us that the said respondent had thoroughly examined the bid documents and satisfied itself about of the capability, experience and expertise of the respondent No. 2 and there has been a thorough analysis of the technical qualification of the respondent No. 2 by the independent General Consultant and the reports of the Appraisal and Tender Committee of the 1 s t respondent and also the noobjection has been received from KfW Development Bank, Germany which is funding the entire project.	None
Narrating the experience of the respondent No. 1, it has been stated in the written submission filed on behalf of the 1st respondent36.	None
That it is further clear from the record that besides being the lowest bidder, the experience of R 2 in supplying Metro Trains across the world exceeds the Petitioners experience by a huge margin.	None
Where for clause 12, R 2 has shown a figure of 594 Metro Cars, Petitioner has shown only 72 Cars and for clause 12.1 where R 2 has shown 432 Cars, Petitioner has again shown only 72 Cars.	None
This vast experience of R 2 would be beneficial for the project and would further public interest.37.	None
That R 1 without any malice, or malafide has treated R 2 along with its 100 subsidiaries as one entity.	None
This understanding of the clause has been at the ends of both parties viz.	None
R 1 and R 2, who were ad idem visavis the eligibility of the parent company to bid using the experience and executing the contract through its various 100 wholly owned subsidiaries.38.	None
That the above understanding of R 1 of treating R 2 along with its 100 subsidiaries is supported by the understanding of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd., which has on a similarly, if not same, worded biddocument granted the tender agreement to R 2, which had even there bid as a parent company claiming experience of and execution through 100 wholly owned subsidiaries.39.	None
That moreover, there is no bar, whatsoever, express or implied, in the tender document to treat the parent company along with its 100 wholly owned subsidiaries as one entity.	None
Therefore, the scope of judicial review should be limited in adjudging the decision taken by R 1 in the best interest of the project, and thereby, the public.40.	None
That arguendo, no prejudice, whatsoever, has been caused to the project or to other bidders including the Petitioner by the above understanding of the tender conditions by R 1.	None
It is humbly submitted that R 2 fulfilled all the technical requirements.	None
The biddocument itself provided for bidding as a consortium, and did not require in such a case fulfilment of any material condition, which if not fulfilled would prejudice any parties or the project.	None
Moreover, the scheme of the biddocument is such that it itself provides for a Parent Company Guarantee.	None
According to this Parent Company Guarantee Form, a parent company would have to perform the works under the agreement in case the subsidiary failed.	None
Therefore, the objections raised by the Petitioner are hypertechnical and have been raised only to stall the project once it was found to be unsuccessful.34.	None
As is noticeable, there is material on record that the respondent No. 2, a Government company, is the owner of the subsidiaries companies and subsidiaries companies have experience.	None
The 1st respondent, as it appears, has applied its commercial wisdom in the understanding and interpretation which has been given the concurrence by the concerned Committee and the financing bank.	None
We are disposed to think that the concept of Government owned entity cannot be conferred a narrow construction.	None
It would include its subsidiaries subject to the satisfaction of the owner.	None
There need not be a formation of a joint venture or a consortium.	None
In the obtaining fact situation, the interpretation placed by the 1st respondent in the absence of any kind of perversity, bias or mala fide should not be interfered with in exercise of power of judicial review.	None
Decision taken by the 1st respondent, as is perceptible, is keeping in view the commercial wisdom and the expertise and it is no way against the public interest.	None
Therefore, we concur with the view expressed by the High Court.	None
Be that as it may, it would notwithstanding the above, be indispensable to examine and decipher the import of the relevant clauses pertinent to the question to be addressed.	None
Clause 4.1 of Section 1 of the Instructions to Bidders which defines eligible bidders is in following terms Eligible Bidders4.1.	None
A Bidder may be a firm that is a single entity or any combination of such entities in the form of a joint venture (JV) under an existing agreement or with the intent to enter into such an agreement supported by a letter of intent .	None
In the case of a JV Consortium formation is acceptable.	None
Tender condition Prevails.(a)	None
All members shall be jointly and severally liable for the execution of the Contract in accordance with the Contract terms, and(b)	None
The JV shall nominate a Representative who shall have the authority to conduct all business for and on behalf of any and all the members of the JV during the bidding process and, in the event the JV is awarded the Contract during Contract execution.	None
A relevant extract of Clause 7.1 of the same Section, which provides for clarification of bidding documents, site visit prebid meeting, is furnished hereinbelow	None
A Bidder requiring any clarification of the Bidding Documents shall contact the Employer is writing at the Employers address specified in the BDS or raise his enquiries during the prebid meeting if provided for in accordance with ITB.7.4.	None
Clauses 2.4.1 and 2.4.2 (a) (b) of the Evaluation and Qualification of Criteria, Section III are also extracted as hereunder General Experience (Clause 2.4.1)Experience in the role of prime contractor (single entity or JV member), Subcontractor or management contractor for at least last ten (10) years starting 1st January, 2006.Specific Experience Clause 2.4.2 (a)A minimum number of two (2) similar contracts that have been satisfactorily and substantially completed as a prime contractor (single entity or JV member) between 1st January, 2006 and the Bid submission deadline.	None
Specific Experience (2.4.2(b)Experience under contracts in the role of prime contractor (single entity or JV member) for Vehicle Design, Interface (with other designated Contractors such as signaling, Track Traction, etc.), Assembly Supply, Testing and Commissioning of minimum of total 150 metro (i.e. MRT, LRT, Suburban Railways or high speed railways) cars made of either Stainless Steel or Aluminum with similar features including three phase traction propulsion system ATP ATO systems, etc. between 1st January, 2006 and the Bid submission deadline.	None
ANDOut of 150 or more cars supplied and commissioned as above have minimum of total 75 metro (i.e. MRT, LRT, Suburban Railways or high speed railways) cars supplied and in satisfactory revenue operation continuously for at least five yearsEITHER in at least 1 (one) country outside the country of origin OR in India.	None
It is a matter of record that between 16.03.2016 and 30.04.2016, in course of the prebid meetings with the bidders, certain queries were raised by them to which clarifications had been furnished by MEGA.	None
The following queries and clarifications as available from the records being preeminently relevant are quoted hereinbelow Query raisedClarification issuedSerial No. 50Existing requirement that the consortium members experience shall only be counted for qualification Kindly allow Parent companies Group companies experience to be taken into account for meeting the qualification requirement as this will simplify the Contract structure.	None
The same has been allowed in several large tenders in India recently.	None
The subsidiary company.	None
group company may bid together with the parent company as a JV consortium member, for parents group company experience to be taken in to account.	Reasoning
Tender Condition prevails.	None
Serial No.52Kindly accept letter of credit facility issued by the bank in favor of JV Consortium or companies belong to same global group of companies rather than individual cap in case the applicant is JV Consortium.	None
Each member of JV Consortium is a separate entity with a distinct role assigned as per MOU and, therefore, the requirement are specifiedTender Condition prevails.	None
Serial No.	None
54.For a proper local management, we suggest you to kindly allow a fully owned Indian subsidiary can use the date and references of the parent company and participate in tender on its own and or as consortium with parent company borrowing the technical financial credentials or the parent	None
companyThe subsidiary company group company may bid together with the parent companyas a JV consortium member, for Parents group company experience to be taken in to account.	Reasoning
Each member must meet the requirement.	None
Serial No.56For a proper local management, we suggest you to kindly allow a fully owned Indian subsidiary can part of consortium JV with their parents company, even 100 subsidiary doesnt have 10 years experience and doesnt meet other eligibility conditions mentioned in Clause No.2 of SectionIII of Evaluation and Qualification Criteria.	None
The subsidiary company group company may bid together with the parent companyas a JV consortium member, for Parents group company experience to be taken in to account.	Reasoning
A plain reading of clause 4.1 reveals that a bidder can be a single entity or a combination of such entities in the form of a J.V. or a Consortium under an existing agreement or with the intent to enter into such an agreement supported by a letter of intent.	Reasoning
Thus a single entity has been construed to be a valid bidder for all intents and purposes.35.	Reasoning
Having regard to the magnitude of the project as well as the experience and expertise essential for the quality execution thereof, there seems to be no justification to infer, at the first place, to exclude a government owned entity with its 100 wholly owned subsidiaries to be ineligible to participate in the process.	Reasoning
A single entity, in our comprehension, would assuredly include such a government owned entity along with its 100 wholly owned subsidiaries.	Reasoning
This is more so on the touchstone of otherwise imperative facilitation of a broad based participation of entities with competing worth and capabilities, in the overall interest of the timely and quality execution of a public project.36.	Reasoning
As recorded in Consortium of Titagarh Firema Adler SPA (supra), the appellantcorporation is a government owned entity with 100 wholly owned subsidiaries as a composite unit, so much so that the experience of any one of its constituent 100 wholly owned subsidiaries would be construable as its experience.	Reasoning
It was proclaimed that the petitioner (respondent no.2 therein) was a Government Company and the owner of its subsidiary companies and that the concept of government own entity could not be given a narrow construction so as to exclude its subsidiaries with their experience and that there was no necessity for the formation of a joint venture and consortium for the Government own entity to avail the benefit of the experience of its subsidiary companies.	Reasoning
That the acceptance of the petitioner (respondent no.2) therein in the context of the work awarded to it was in accord with public interest, having regard to the overall commercial concept and the demand of expertise, was underlined as well.	Reasoning
Noticeably, the process of merger of M s. CNR Corporation and M s. CSR Corporation and the integration thereof along with their subsidiaries to metamorphosise into the appellantcorporation is borne out by the coeval records.37.	Reasoning
In that view of the matter, the status and the entitlements of the appellantcorporation, as already adjudicated in Consortium of Titagarh Firema Adler SPA (supra), as a single entity bidder in the present tender process would also by the yardstick of simple logic and analogy be available to it.	Reasoning
Absence of the words government owned entity in clause 4.1, presently under consideration, is of no consequence.	Reasoning
The plea of the respondent that the tender conditions involved demand a different perspective in the overall conceptual framework thereof, lacks persuasion.	Reasoning
Significantly, in clause 4.1 involved in Consortium of Titagarh Firema Adler SPA (supra), government owned entity had been contemplated as one of the bidders in contradistinction to private entity and any combination of such entities in the form of a joint venture (J.V)	Reasoning
The expression used in the present clause being single entity, understandably, it is inclusive of a private as well as a government owned entity.	Reasoning
The unit envisaged as a single entity is thus independent of any combination or formation in the form of a J.V. or a Consortium and thus is visualised to be one integral and composite whole.	Reasoning
In such a logical premise, a government owned company with its 100 wholly owned subsidiaries has to be comprehended as a single entity, eligible to bid in terms of clause 4.1 of the tender conditions and is to be regarded as single, coherent and homogeneous existence and not a disjointed formation.38.	Reasoning
The queries and the clarifications, relatable to the discord, as presented, also in our discernment, do not substantiate the plea of MEGA in any manner whatsoever.	Reasoning
The foundation of its rejection of the appellants bid is the clarification to the query mainly at serial No. 50.	Reasoning
It is patent therefrom that it was in response to a query made by a subsidiary company to allow for its benefit, the experience of the parent company group companies to meet the qualification requirement with regard thereto.	Reasoning
It was in that context that the clarification furnished was that the subsidiary company group companies may bid together with the parent company as J.V. Consortium member, for parent group companys experience to be taken into account.	Reasoning
This clarification was extended and applied visavis the appellant qua clauses Nos. 2.4.1, 2.4.2(a), 2.4.2(b) and 2.4.2.(c) to disqualify it on the ground that on stand alone basis, it was deficient in the experience prescribed and that it could not have availed of the experience of its subsidiaries companies.	Reasoning
As rightly contended on behalf of the appellant, we are of the view that this clarification has no application to its case and, therefore, the decision to disqualify it on this ground is apparently arbitrary, discriminatory, unreasonable, illogical and nontransparent, thus rendering the same irreversibly illegal, unjust and unfair.	Reasoning
The improvement endeavoured by the respondent in its reply affidavit is belied by the records and is unacceptable.	Reasoning
No other view or elucidation of the relevant clauses of the tender conditions is at all possible.	Reasoning
The interpretation offered by the respondent and endorsed by the High Court in the contextual framework is thus patently impermissible and absurd.39.	Reasoning
Not only the appellant as the record testifies had offered its responses to the clarifications sought for, its status as a government owned corporation, by no means, has been disputed by MEGA.	Reasoning
Further, in the face of its demonstrated structural integrity and functional unity qua its subsidiaries with all consequential legal implications, the apprehension of MEGA that the subsidiary companies of the appellant, if necessity so arises, would not be available for the execution of the project, not being a party to the contract, to say the least, is speculative, unfounded, farfetched and wanting in reason and rationale.	Reasoning
Whether the subsidiary companies of the appellant would be responsible for the execution of the work is evinced by the formational specifics and functional dynamics of the appellant and its wholly owned subsidiary companies, as noticed in Consortium of Titagarh Firema Adler SPA (supra) in the affirmative and does not call for further dilation.	Reasoning
In the face of a forensic analysis of the decisions cited at the Bar in the above adjudication, it is inessential as well to retraverse the same.40.	Reasoning
In the wake up of above determination, the impugned disqualification of the appellant on the ground of deficiency, in experience in terms of clause 2.4, is unsustainable in law and on facts being grossly illegal, arbitrary and perverse.	Reasoning
As a corollary, the judgment and order of the High Court in challenge is also setaside.	None
The tender process in view of the above conclusion, would be furthered hereinafter as per the terms and conditions thereof and in accordance with law and taken to its logical end as expeditiously as possible.	None
We make it clear that the present adjudication is confined only to the issue of disqualification of the appellant on the ground of experience on the touchstone of clause 2.4 of the Eligibility and Qualification Criteria of Tender Document and no other aspect.	Reasoning
The appeal is allowed.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
