 B. Sinha, J. Introduction Leave granted in all the special leave petitions.	None
The validity and or legality of a scheme framed by the Coal India Limited for sale of coal by Electronic Auction (EAuction) is in question in these appeals and transferred applications.	Issue
Coal indisputably plays an important role in the development of economy of the country.	Facts
It had been the subjectmatter of regulatory measures even under the Defence of India Rules.	Facts
Production, distribution, supply and price of coal were controlled and regulated under the Colliery Control Order, 1945 (1945 Order) framed under the said Rules.	Facts
The said Order was continued under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955.	Facts
Under the Colliery Control Order, the Coal Controller was even authorised to allot quotas of coal to the Central Government as well as the State Governments although the said procedure is now not in vogue in view of decontrolling notifications issued thereunder by the Central Government from time to time.	Facts
The quality as well as quantity of coal required by all consumers used to be regulated by the Coal Controller.	Facts
Coal was the only mineral which was subjected to nationalisation, in terms of the Coking Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1972 and the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1973.	Facts
Even coalmining leases granted to the lessees stood terminated by reason of Section 4A of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957 in the year 1976.	Facts
Coal is used as a primary raw material in many core sectors which are vital for the economy of the country e.g. power, steel, oil etc.	Facts
Fixation of price of coal by the Central Government, regarding the quality thereof, had all along been subjected to statutory orders.	Facts
The gradation of coal dependent upon the quality thereof was to be determined by the Coal Board constituted under the Coal Mines (Conservation and Development) Act.	Facts
Quality of coal may depend not only on the location of the coal mines but also on the particular seams wherefrom it is extracted.	Facts
Requirement of maintenance of fixed price of coal on an allIndia basis, as far as practicable had all along been considered to be imperative in the economic and industrial development of the country.	Facts
Control over coal Coal indisputably is an essential commodity.	Facts
Its importance is widely accepted.	Facts
The Essential Commodities Act, 1955 was enacted inter alia for securing equitable distribution and availability of essential commodities at fair price.	Facts
Coal despite partial deregulation having regard to Colliery Control Order, 2000 (2000 Order) is still a regulated commodity.	Facts
1945 Order made provisions for regulating production, supply and distribution of coal.	Facts
It dealt with class of coal, grade of coal, size of coal and price of coal.	Facts
Clause (3) empowered the Central Government to prescribe classes, sizes, grades, etc. into which coal may be categorized as also the specifications thereof on the said basis.	Facts
Whereas coking coal having inherent property of swelling on heating is essentially used for metallurgical purposes in the steel plant for production of steel all other categories of coal are noncoking coals.	Facts
Noncoking coal is used as a raw material in manufacturing processes such as cement, graphite, soft coke, domestic fuel and for production of various products such as glass, food processing, ceramics, chemicals, rerolling mills, salt glazed stoneware pipes, refractory used for steel making etc.	Facts
The different sizes of the coal are inter alia known as Run of the Mine, Steam and Slack.	Facts
The price of coal depends not only with reference to the grade but size as also the seams situated in the coking coal mines or coal mines, as the case may be.	Facts
Clauses 12B and 12E of the 1945 Order were, however, invoked by the Central Government from time to time by issuing notifications as a result whereof controls over price and distribution of coal were withdrawn.	Facts
However, complete regulation over coking coal used for metallurgical industries was retained.	Facts
Several notifications leading to deregulation as regard price and distribution of coal had been issued from time to time.	Facts
Distribution and pricing of coal came to be controlled in a phased manner.	Facts
A circular was issued on 5.1.1991 that Coal India could issue coal clearance linkages upto 5,000 metric ton per month.	Facts
By a notification dated 23.2.1996, price, distribution of some grades of coal were deregulated whereas the same was extended to certain other grades of coal on 12.3.1997.	Facts
A clarification was issued that the coal companies can determine the price to be charged for the coal produced from time to time.	Facts
On and from 1.1.2000, the 1945 Order was repealed and replaced by the Colliery Control Order, 2000 (2000 Order) in terms whereof control and regulation over coal, as was prevailing under the 1945 Order, was done away with.	Facts
In terms of the said order, the functions as regards categorization of coal, disposal of coal, stock vested in the Central Government, whereas the Coal Controller was conferred with the power of surveillance over quality.	Facts
By reason of the said Order, the Central Government, however, apart from certain other statutory functions to be performed by coal controller retained the power to issue directions for regulating disposal of stocks of coal.	Facts
Nationalisation of coal Both coking coal mines and coal mines were subjected to nationalization in terms of Coking Coal Mines (Nationalization) Act, 1972 (for short, the 1972 Act) and the Coal Mines (Nationalization) Act, 1973 (for short, the 1973 Act).	Facts
The said Acts, as would appear from Section 2 thereof, were enacted with a view to give effect to the provisions of Article 39(b) of the Constitution of India.	Facts
Under the said Acts, both Coking Coal Mines and Coal Mines vested in the Central Government under the said Acts.	Facts
The preamble of both the Nationalisation Acts are in the same vein.	Facts
The Preamble of the 1973 Act states that control of such resources are vested in the State and thereby so distributed as best to subserve the common good.	Facts
By reason of the said statutes, the coal companies had not only acquired coking coal mines and coal mines but also have been carrying on business in coal.	Facts
Indisputably, they enjoy a monopoly character.	Facts
It is also not in dispute that there had been huge demand of coal both from the core sector as also noncore sector consumers.	Facts
The Central Government, however, issued appropriate notifications whereby and whereunder the said coal mines both in terms of the 1972 Act as also the 1973 Act instead of continuing to vest in the Central Government vested in the Government companies specified therein who are parties herein.	None
Linkage After the nationalization of coal, consumers were categorized in two main sectors, namely, core sector and noncore sector.	Facts
Linkage system admittedly at the first stage had been evolved for core sector.	Facts
In the year 1993, a Standing Linkage Committee was set up for supply of coal to thermal power stations.	Facts
Linkage was extended also to cement in the said year in terms of Resolution No.CI21(20/73 dated 19.11.1973.	Facts
The scheme for linkage of coal started in the year 1973 in terms of the resolution dated 6.1.1973, whereby, inter alia, a Standing Linkage Committee consisting of the members specified therein, was set up, the relevant provision whereof reads as under No.CI21(2)/72  	Facts
The Government of India have been considering for some time past the question of constituting a Standing Linkage Committee for the planning of coal supplies to thermal power stations in view of the need to supply fuel of appropriate quantity to the various power stations and at the same time to make the most economic use of the available capacity for the production and transport of coal The terms of reference of the Committee were as under To review from time to time the coal requirements of the existing thermal power stations and for establishing rational linkages with collieries for raw coal supplies and with washeries for the supply of middlings having regard to (a) the capacity of coal production, available as well as planned from the nearest source which would avoid or minimize the rail transport.	Facts
(b) the quality of coal required by the power stations.	None
(c) the availability of rail and other means of transport and (d) the pattern of consumption of coal To plan supplies of coal for thermal power stations already under construction and to link them with sources of coal supply To advise from time to time regarding the planning and development of the additional capacity for coal production which should be developed in each coalfield having regard to the future thermal power development programmes in the various regions To examine from time to time the extent to which the linkages already established between the power stations and the sources of coal supply are being observed and to suggest steps necessary for ensuring their proper observance To advise the Government on the feasibility of locating new thermal power plants having regard to the possibility of economic supply of coal and To examine all matters that may be referred to the Committee by the Department of Mines, Ministry of Irrigation and Power, Ministry of Railways or the Planning Commission regarding the changes in the linkages of power stations with coalfields and to advise the Government suitably in such matters.	Facts
The Committee should normally meet once in three months.	Facts
The Department of Mines will provide the required Secretarial assistance to the committee.	None
The coal companies state That after the nationalization, coal consumers were categorized into two main sectors, namely, core sector and noncore sector.	Facts
The core sector consumers include the vital sectors of national economy related to infrastructural development as for example, power, steel, cement, defence, fertilizer, railways, paper, aluminium, export, central public sector undertaking etc.	Facts
All other remaining industries consumers constituted noncore sector.	Facts
A table showing comparison in growth in production and dispatches to different industrial sectors which shows a phenomenal growth in production of coal and also commensurate growth in coal dispatch particularly in the power sector is as under COMPARATIVE COAL DISPATCHES FROM COAL MINES AUTHORITY LTD.	Facts
IN 197475 AND COAL INDIA LTD.	None
IN 200405 PRODUCTION (Figs.	None
in Million tones)	None
Item From CMAL in 197475 From CIL in 200405 Coal Production 78.99 323.88 Coal Dispatch 72.83 319.12 SECTORWISE BREAKUP OF COAL DISPATCH Item Quantity age Quantity age Power 20.16 27.66 249.26 78.11 Steel CPP 1.22 1.67 6.427 2.01 Steel plants 8.71 11.95 5.654 1.77 Loco 12.82 17.59 0.00 0.00 Cement (including Cement CPP) 3.48 4.77 10.043 3.15 Fertilizer 0.95 1.30 2.150 0.67 Export 0.528 0.72 0.021 0.01 Paper 1.297 1.78 2.016 0.63 Others 23.67 32.55 43.55 13.65 Total 72.83 100.00 319.12 100.00 Excluding Captive Power Plants (CPPs)	None
The linkage scheme applied both to core and noncore sector.	Facts
Consumption of coal by the core sector comprises of about 94.61 where as noncore sector consumes about 5.4 of total production of coal.	Facts
Linkage of noncore sector In the noncore sector, the purchasers can be divided in three categories, namely, those who manufacture smokeless fuel or briquette, those who manufacture commodities like glass etc. to which reference has been made heretobefore, and those who manufacture hard coke.	Facts
Before us, some of the appellants are also traders.	Facts
Having regard to the huge demand of coal by noncore sector, linkage system was introduced for noncore sector consumers also.	Facts
Coal India Limited evolved such a system in November 1978 keeping in view several factors including logistics of coal movement as also the quality of coal required by the concerned industries.	Facts
The said linkage of coal was to be determined on the basis of (i) availability of coal (ii) requirements thereof in respect of each industry as certified by the State and (iii) the capacity of the railways to transport coal.	Facts
Whenever an allotment was made, the quantity and quality of coal as also the collieries from which the same could be lifted used to be mentioned in the Linkage Advice Letter, a sample copy whereof is as under COAL INDIA LIMITED MARKETING DIVISION 15, PARK STREET, CALCUTTA700 016	Facts
Ref No.CIL C4A/48912/	None
Dated To M s (Supply of coal coke shall be Regulated as per extant guideline MOC CIL)	None
LOCATION DESTINATION	None
Dear Sir(s), Sub Linkage Advice Letter Ref.	None
Your application in the DataSheet for Coal Coke Linkage.	None
Please refer to your application in DataSheet for grant of linkage of coal coke.	None
Your application for issue of Final Linkage Advice Letter has been received in CIL.	None
The details of your installed unit indicating the nos., dimensions, specifications, capacity etc., of the burning equipment oven plan and machinery have been received.	None
On the basis of relevant information, the maximum permissible quantity (MPQ) of coal which can be consumed by your unit plant has been worked out and it has been decided to fix up final linkage for your unit as per the following GRADE SIZE MODE OF TRANSPORT COAL COMPANY FIELD CONTACT OFFICE MAXIMUM PRERMISSIBLE QUANTITY (MPQ)	None
MONTH However, coal will be supplied by the Linked Coal Company on the basis of annual sponsorship recommendation from the concerned sponsoring authority.	None
The linkage of coal will be subject to the conditions as mentioned below overleaf.	None
Yours faithfully, Dy. Chief Sales Manager (Linkage), Coal India Ltd. (HQ) Some of the conditions of such linkage which are relevant for our purpose are as under Linkage is a clearance to the linked coal company for supplying coal to the unit, subject to availability and in accordance with the directives, if any from time to time, of the appropriate competent authority regulating disposal of stock of coal.	Facts
Linkage does not establish any right for the linked unit to claim coal from any particular coal company coalfield source grade etc.	Facts
Coal allotted against the linkage is for actual consumption in the linked unit and cannot be delivered or sold to others except with prior written consent of Government of India Coal India Limited.	Facts
Linkage is subject to cancellation in case of  Any violation of the terms and conditions contained herein.	None
Data furnished in the Data Sheet are found to be incorrect suppressed.	None
(c) any discrepancy between coal lifted, coal consumed and stock of coal is detected.	None
The conditions of Linkage may undergo change(s) as may be decided by the Competent Authority from time to time.	None
The consumers drawing coal prior to introduction of noncore sector linkages from Coal India Ltd. were categorized as traditionally linked consumers and were allowed to draw coal from subsidiary companies thereof based on the past trend and treated at par with newly linked consumers in post 1978 period.	Facts
However, conditions of linkages were made equally applicable to them.	Facts
In 1982, noncore Linkage Committee was constituted by Coal India Ltd. as a part of the process of simplification of procedures for distribution of coal.	Facts
The quantity of supply of coal initially used to be dependent on the sponsorship by the sponsoring authorities.	Facts
Sponsorship was mandatory for the movement of coal by rail.	Facts
Preferential Traffic Schedule provided the list of the authorities agencies who were authorized to sponsor.	Facts
Sponsoring agencies used to recommend the quantity of coal depending upon the requirements of the consumer as also the size thereof and mode of supply.	Facts
Based on such sponsorship and considering other factors including the availability of coal, the quantity of coal required to be supplied to a particular noncore sector consumer used to be determined.	Facts
Even after the sponsorship, and link capacity of the consumer, railway had its own ceiling limits which were made with a view to provide sufficient checks and balances in the determination of the quantity of coal supply.	Facts
The same system of sponsorship was adopted for determination of quantity of coal supply through road and other modes.	Facts
It is, however, not in dispute that the price of coat to be paid had never been part of the linkage arrangement.	Facts
Till 1998 State authorities were asked by Coal India Ltd. to assess the quantity of coal required by individual units whose case used to be sponsored by them.	Facts
But it appeared that there were cases where such assessments were not made or even if, they were made, the same was done perfunctorily.	Facts
As a result, Coal India Ltd. started quantitative assessment through its Technical Committees and started mentioning the quantity of coal requirement for the industry in its linkage advice letter.	Facts
Thereafter, in absence of any ceiling limit imposed by the railways for movement, a tendency was noticed on the part of the State sponsoring authorities to issue sponsorship indiscriminately without due regard to availability of coal, transport capacity and actual consumption.	Facts
In view thereof as also due to insufficient attention to details, linkages used to be granted indiscriminately with total linked quantity being several times higher than the actual availability.	Facts
In order to minimize the mismatch between the linked demand and availability of coal, steps were taken in terms of the Linkage Conditions and the linked quantity was reduced in respect of the linked noncore sector consumers who were not drawing full linked quantity of coal.	Facts
Since quantity commitments were subject to availability of the total quantity for which linkages got granted, it exceeded the availability manifold.	Facts
For example, during the year 2000, total sponsorship received for industries alone worked out to be about 6000 wagons per day of which the share of UP alone was about 5300 wagons per day.	Facts
On the other hand, the total wagon loading for non core sector by Coal India Ltd. was for about 1300 wagons per day.	Facts
To balance such unrealistic grant of linkage the concept of MPQ (Maximum Permissible Quantity), which is defined as maximum valid order booking by a linked consumer in any of the three preceding calendar year was introduced.	Facts
Besides, there were other conditions under which the linkages could get lapsed or snapped, being dependent upon the period of nondrawal or diversion misuse of coal.	Facts
That despite healthy growth rate of coal, demand for core sector, particularly power sector grew at a stupendous rate.	Facts
At the other end, the total quantity for which linkages were granted had far exceeded the availability.	Facts
The system of linkage in its present form led to a situation where quantitative demand in respect of noncore sector linkage consumers exceeded the coal availability in the subsidiary companies.	Facts
Allegedly, owing to this mismatch in respect of demand and availability of coal, Coal India discontinued grant of fresh linkages to noncore sector consumers.	Facts
Similarly, revival of snapped lapsed linkages were also discontinued in the light of the abovementioned facts and circumstances.	Facts
Thus, since no new linkage could be granted after 2001 for noncore sector consumers, the consumers having no linkage were constrained to purchase coal from black market at a higher price.	Facts
Even consumers having linkage had to depend on secondary market if they wanted enhancement in supply of quantity of coal.	Facts
The existence of high premium price in secondary market tempted the linked noncore sector consumers to unauthorized diversion sell in the open market after purchasing it at notified price from nationalized coal companies.	Facts
On 6th June, 2001, Coal India Ltd. in the meeting of the Board of Directors effected decentralization and authorized each subsidiary companies to decide their own policies for sale of coal to noncore sector, including the price to be charged.	Facts
It may be noted that on 1.1.2000, coal became a deregulated commodity, i.e., its price could not be controlled by the Central Government and thenceforth, it was Coal India Ltd. which became entitled to determine its price.	Facts
It was further decided that no fresh linkages would be issued.	Facts
The system of sponsorship was also discontinued.	Facts
It is not in dispute that the linked consumers might not get the entire amount of coal which was required by them.	Facts
After the introduction of MPQ system, the total quantity of coal offered to noncore sector remained variable and supply of coal was within the range of 45 to 75 of the demand made by the concerned industries.	Facts
Such allotment of coal used to be monthwise.	Facts
However, the said linkage system was necessarily dependent upon the sponsorship by the sponsoring authorities.	Facts
In para 27 of its counter affidavit the Union of India states That the quantity of coal supply was, initially, determined based on the sponsorship by the sponsoring authorities.	Facts
Sponsorship was mandatory for the movement of coal by Rail.	Facts
The Preferential Traffic Schedule provided the list of the authorities agencies who were authorized to sponsor.	Facts
The said sponsoring agency would recommend the quantity requirement of the consumer and also the size of coal and mode of supply.	Facts
Based on such sponsorship and considering other factors including the availability of coal, the quantity of coal to be supplied to a particular noncore sector consumer was determined.	Facts
Even after the sponsorship, and link capacity of the consumer, railway had its own ceiling limits which were with a view to provide sufficient checks and balances in the determination of the quantity of coal supply.	Facts
The same system of sponsorship was adopted for determination of quantity of coal supply through road and other modes.	Facts
Alleged Misuse of Linkaged sponsorship and New Sales Policy Linkage and sponsorship although had come into being, a notification was issued by the Central Government on 25.6.1992 under the Colliery Control Order purported to be keeping in view the misuse of the said system of linkage.	Facts
However, linkage system continued so far as the industries who had been granted the said benefit are concerned.	Facts
Need, however, was again felt for genuineness or otherwise of the existing linked consumers wherefor a verification process was started.	Facts
It is not in dispute that a decision was taken on 13.10.2001 by the coal industries themselves that the price increase in the noncore sector may not be carried out more than once in a period of one year.	Facts
A new sales policy for noncore sector was introduced in terms whereof it was noted that long term commitment by way of fresh linkages may not be advisable.	Facts
In principle, a decision was taken that existing linkages would not be snapped.	Facts
However, a verification was to be carried out for the purpose of finding out genuine consumers restricting only to the level of MPQ as it then stood.	Facts
However, on 28.01.2003, a decision had also been taken that Open Sales Scheme would not affect the supply to core sector as also linked sponsored consumers.	Facts
However, an exception was made in respect of the Central Government Agencies and the State Government Agencies pursuant whereto or in furtherance whereof apart from NCCF, State Government and Central Government like BISCOMAUN and Jharkhand State Mineral Development Corporation were directed to be entitled to supply coal at 20 above the notified price.	Facts
On or about 23.08.2001, a resolution was passed, inter alia, for removing the difference between OSS price and the price of the linked consumers.	Facts
It was recommended that the coal companies should expand trends channel network scheme so as to achieve the twin objective of market friendly and at the same time ensure their best fiscal interest.	Facts
To prevent misuse of linkage, verification of the units of the linked consumers was undertaken.	Facts
As a result of such verification it was allegedly found as would appear from the following statement made in the counter affidavit That a copy of the minutes of the meeting taken by the Minister for Coal and Mines on 21.3.2002 regarding new coal sale policy of Coal India Ltd. was forwarded, amongst others, to the ChairmancumManaging Director of the subsidiary companies of Coal India Ltd. along with the Director (Marketing),	Facts
Coal India Ltd.	Facts
It was noted in the minutes that the total number of linked units were 7015 out of which linkage of 2217 had been snapped.	Facts
That the total number of units having valid linkage as on date was 4798 out of which 3317 units had been verified either by State Government sponsoring agencies or by internal vigilance units of coal companies.	Facts
While 3064 were reported to be existing, 253 units were found to be either nonexisting or nonoperating.	Facts
It was further noticed that during coal company wise review, it was noted that in cases where vigilance departments of coal companies had verified the units, about 4050 of the units were found to be either nonexisting or nonoperational.	Facts
On the other hand, the State Government sponsoring agencies had reported more than 90 of the verified units to be in existence.	Facts
The coal companies were advised to get the verification done through vigilance.	None
With a view to consider the matter afresh, a meeting of the Standing Committee on Coal and Steel (20042005) took place wherein it was resolved 6.5 The Committee also note that as admitted by Secretary, Department of Coal, there are 4000 odd industries in the business out of which there might be some bogus companies not using coal and black marketing it.	Facts
The Committee feel that thee is a wide spread apprehension that bogus companies are operating in the transportation and black marketing of coal thereby causing immense loss to the coal sector ultimately affecting the economy of the country.	Facts
The Committee further note that quality of coal is closely linked to effective materialization of linkage.	Facts
The Committee are dismayed to note that out of 8,000 odd industries getting coal quota, 4,000 such industries, who were reported to be bogus, had been eliminated after inspection carried out by the Department of Coal.	Facts
The Committee, therefore, strongly recommend that the Department of Coal should take a proactive and corrective decision in the award of coal transportation contract.	Facts
The Department should also undertake an exercise to identify and weed out the bogus companies which are in the business of black marketing of coal.	Facts
The Committee further recommend that the Department of Coal should give a fresh look at the whole gamut of coal linkage and come out with a clear cut policy.	Facts
The Committee would like to be apprised of the action in this regard.	None
According to the coal companies, however despite such stringent steps taken as regard the maladies of demand of coal by the nonexisting units and or demand of coal in excess of the requirement of the linked units and concentration of purchase of coal at the hands of a few traders did not work to their full satisfaction.	None
Open Sales Schemes (OSS) On or about 03.11.1998 Open Sales Schemes (OSS Scheme) was introduced as a result whereof some amount of coal was to be supplied to the traders directly wherewith the linkage system has nothing to do.	Facts
It was clarified that the OSS in no way affect despatches to linked sponsored consumers.	Facts
In terms of 1945 Order, however, the Government of India used to fix and notify prices of various grades of coal on the basis whereof the Coal India Ltd. and its subsidiaries used to sell coal to all classes of consumers.	Facts
The said scheme was also subjected to certain restrictions, in terms whereof, it was impermissible for one purchaser to purchase coal for more than 33 from each colliery.	Facts
The linked consumers or the sponsored consumers, were not entitled to take part in such open sales schemes.	Facts
The coal companies contend that the schemes of linkage, sponsorship or OSS were part of the policy decisions which were taken by them from time to time with a view to meet the exigencies of the situation which were prevailing then.	None
Keeping in view, however, the fact that the supply could not meet the demand which to a great extent was artificial and manmade, a new policy decision was required to be evolved so as to meet the new situation particularly when measures taken to prevent black marketing of coal by procuring coal in excess of their requirements and or the units being nonexistent as also by the traders, did not fructify.	None
EAuction A new scheme known as EAuction was made purportedly to meet the liberalization policy of the Central Government in regard to import of coal and opening of private coal mines and to provide pragmatic and transparent system of distribution of coal.	Facts
4.8 million tones of coal were offered to the noncore sector in 200304.	Facts
The quantity earmarked for noncore sector was restricted to 933 validly linked consumers.	Facts
The objectives of the said scheme are stated to be as under OBJECTIVES The present system of sale of coal to noncore sector consumers needs to be made more pragmatic and transparent by accommodating the following changes A consumer having requirement of specified quality of coal from a particular colliery source and siding pilot should have an access to buy coal by paying the marketdetermined price for the same.	Facts
This approach would enable the noncore sector consumers to receive coal of their choice, on payment of market price, determined through Auction confined to noncore sector consumers.	Facts
Clause 3 thereof provides for methodology of offer and sell of coal under EAuction, in the following terms On prorata basis the availability of coal is roughly 45 of the entitled quantity of the linked noncore consumers of coal and that is also subject to availability.	Facts
The quantity so arrived at will be called allocable quantity (AQ) and shall be worked out for each noncoresector consumers annually (for the sake of proper distribution, this will be every month and bidding will be restricted to such prorated quantity every month).	Facts
With increased availability of coal for noncore sector, the AQ(MPQ of individual) X total coal availability for a particular month divided by total monthly MPQ.	Facts
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx 3.3 Whilst in the case of existing consumers entitlement would be governed by the MPQ (Maximum Permissible Quantity) of the last 7 years, supplies against the requirement of new consumers will depend on the satisfaction of the coal company and availability of coal.	Facts
3.4 Around 20 of the total noncoresector coal available would be made available to official agencies nominated by State Central Govts.	None
For distribution to the small and tiny consumers.	Facts
Coal to the State Govts.	Facts
May be priced at the average cost arrived at the Eauction for that particular grade of coal during that month.	None
Clause 4 provides for EAuction process whereas clause 5 provides for terms of payment.	None
The concept of EAuction is stated to be as under In order to bring about some transparency in marketing of coal by the Noncore Sector consumers.	Facts
An initiative was taken recently by Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. (BCCL), a SUBSIDIARY OF Coal India Limited (CIL) for sale of coal A c	Facts
Noncore Sector Consumers through Eauction on trial basis going by succeeds of this trial.	Facts
It is being considered to extend this scheme in other coal companies of CIL also.	Facts
In a phased manner, to cover all the consumers of noncore Sector, including nonconsumers traders.	None
The broad benefits and modalities for subsequent trial run for sale of coal though Eauction are as under Benefits Elimination of differences between linked and nonlinked consumers as directed by Calcutta High Court.	None
Xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
The concept of sale of coal through EAuction was introduced on trial basis by BCCL in October 2004.	Facts
EAuction was also introduced by North Eastern Coal Limited.	Facts
As an interim measure, a decision was taken to sell about ten millions tones of coal through EAuction in 200506, in various subsidiaries of Coal India Limited.	Facts
The quantity which was to be put on EAuction and the price thereof was to be in the following order a) 10 million tones only released through eauction About 12 million tones released to linked consumers of noncore sector through MPQ concept at eauction price c) 2 million tones to NCCF, 0.5 million tones to Govt.	Facts
of UP both at average eauction price.	Facts
According to the coal companies approximately 26.5 million tonnes of coal were to be sold at EAuction price as a result whereof the share of noncore sector in dispatches would be enhanced roughly to the extent of 8 against the present share of about 5.4.	Facts
No details in respect thereof, however, have been furnished.	Facts
In one of the notices issued on 21.10.2004 for sale of coal to noncore sector through EAuction, it has, inter alia, been stated BCCL is in the process of reformulating its sale and distribution policy with a view to enable genuine and bona fide noncore consumers to purchase coal of their choice subject to availability at fair market price in a transparent manner.	Facts
In order to accord uniform opportunity to all such consumers, it has been decided to sell 1.6 lakhs tones of coal through eauction in November, 2004, to be conducted by MSTC Ltd., a Govt.	None
of India enterprise, purely on a trial basis.	Facts
Sale of coal to such noncore sector will be made only through eauction to be held on 17.11.04, 22.11.04, 25.11.04 and 29.11.04 respectively.	Facts
In the month of December, 2004, coal sold only through eauction will be delivered.	None
For online registration, genuine consumers of BCCL who are already linked as well as new consumers may apply to BCCL in the prescribed form which is available form the website of MSTC Ltd. at http www.mstcindia.com under the heading BCCL Coal Auction or form the website of BCCL at http bccl.cmpdi.co.in from where it can be down load.	Facts
Such application forms may also be obtained from the Office of BCCL Dhanbad, BCCL, Kolkata, MSTC, Kolkata or MSTC, Delhi.	Facts
Applications forms completed in all respects should reach to Shri S. Mallick, Sales Manager (Road Salews Section), Sales Marketing Divn., BCCL, Koyla Bhawan, P.O. Koyla Nagar, Dhanbad  826 005 or Shri K.K. Mazumdar, Sales Manager, BCCL 6 Lyons Range (5th Floor), Kolkata 700 001 in duplicate latest by 4th November, 2004.	Facts
After due verification, BCCL will forward this application to MSTC Ltd for registration.	None
On being intimated by MSTC, consumers should pay one time registration fee of Rs.10,000/ by way of DD PO favouring MSTC Ltd., Kolkata and register themselves online at http www.mstcauction.com.	None
The procedure to be followed for EAuction, is stated to be in the following terms Metal Scrap Trading Corporation, hereinafter referred to as MSTC (a Government of India Undertaking) and M s Metal Junction Services (a joint venture of Steel Authority of India Ltd. and Tata Iron Steel Co. Ltd.), specialized in conducting electronic auction have been engaged to conduct sale of coal through eauction by the subsidiary producing companies of Coal India Ltd.	None
Under the scheme, the interested buyers are required to initially register themselves with the above said auctioneering agencies and are also published for information to all concerned, well in advance.	None
The information displayed in advance about an auction includes details of the source, quantity, grade, size, mode of transport as well as the floor price.	None
Eauctions are conducted for each of the Subsidiary Companies separately under the scheme.	None
Each subsidiary company conducts on an average four auctions every month except NCL which conducts at least two auctions in a month.	None
A chart setting out details of eauction conducted in the month of January, 2006 would show that till 19th of January, 2006, 26 auctions have already been conducted.	None
The buyers are required to deposit requisite Earnest Money Deposit (hereinafter referred to as EMD) for coal they desire to bid with the auctioneering agencies.	None
At present, the participants are required to deposit an EMD of Rs.100/ against their per tonne requirement.	None
The bidding is conducted by the auctioneering agency for specified period which is extended subject to the status of the bidding.	None
On conclusion of the electronic bidding, the agencies forward a list of successful bidders along with EMD, the allotted quantity, bid price, etc. to the subsidiary company for taking further action for release of coal.	None
Simultaneously, the successful bidders are also informed by the agencies through electronic mail.	None
The successful bidders are required to deposit full value of coal within eight working days from the date of completion the bidding at the headquarter sales department of the concerned subsidiary company of Coal India Ltd. along with relevant documents for obtaining the release order and subsequently are required to arrange for movement of coal from the respective projects mines of the concerned subsidiary company within a validity period of 45 days.	None
The Central Government, however, by a letter dated 08.04.2005 addressed to the Coal India Limited, kept the linkage system alive despite introduction of EAuction.	None
Exceptions to EAuction On 20.07.2005, the Ministry of Coal by a circular letter stated The total quantity earmarked for State Government agencies may be increased by one million ton so as to reserve a total quantity of 3 million tones of coal for the year 20056.	None
The State Government agencies who are distributing coal to SSI and tiny units are to be supplied coal by the subsidiary companies of CIL at the floor price (i.e. 20 above the notified price of a price of a particular grade) instead of the weighted average eauction price in view of the reported high eauction price.	None
The Central Government, thus, directed the coal companies to supply coal to NCCF and other agencies at 20 above of the notified price instead of weighted average EAuction price thereby taking them out of the purview of EAuction.	None
Similar benefit was extended to the agencies of the Central Government and the State Governments.	None
By a letter dated 08.04.2005, the Ministry of Coal allocated supply of coal of 2 MT each to be supplied to NCCF and the State Governments nominated agencies for the financial year 200506.	None
Yet again on 20.07.2005 the Ministry of Coal directed that the price to be charged for supply of coal to NCCF and the State Government nominated agencies to be at a floor price i.e. 20 above the fixed notified price of a particular grade instead of weighted average EAuction price.	None
The quantity of supply of coal to the State Government nominated agencies was further increased by one MT for 200506.	None
This Courts attention has, however, been drawn to various cash memos.	None
Issued by the NCCF, from a perusal whereof it would appear that the NCCF instead of supplying coal only to a crosssection of tiny and small consumers e.g. potters, blacksmith, tea stall vendors, who require a very small quantity of coal for running their business, had been selling coal even to linked consumers.	None
The Chairman of Coal India Ltd., however, vide letter dated 30.09.2005 addressed to the Chief Secretaries of various State Governments sought to define the tiny and small consumers stating that those whose consumption was less than 500 tonnes per year would come within the purview thereof.	None
Admittedly, small consumers were to be charged not exceeding 105 of the base price at which coal had been received from Coal India Ltd and its subsidiaries.	None
By the said letter, it was directed that the coal bill to the tiny small consumers shall separately include base price and other charges like transportation, royalty, taxes, etc.	None
Representations to set up smokeless fuel units The coal companies themselves used to produce soft coke and other derivatives of coal for use as alternate fuel for domestic consumption.	None
The Government of India, Ministry of Coal, by way of a letter dated 27.03.1997, addressed to the Chairman, Coal India Ltd., Calcutta, asked him to take urgent necessary actions to popularize the technology given by CFRI by giving more linkages to the intending entrepreneurs and also encourage stepping up of production of, SSR and Briquettes in order to ensure availability of alternate fuel for domestic consumption.	None
On or about 07.05.1989, advertisements had been published in many leading newspapers including The Statesman, wherein it was stated Special smokeless fuel is a popular product suitable for cooking by millions of houses, canteen kitchens, hostels bit and small etc. in part of States of Northern, Western, Eastern, Central and South India.	None
So long the new technology was reserved for Coal Producing Companies due to a restriction on coal linkage.	None
Now you can also make it.	None
Coal India assures to provide both coal and the manufacturing technology if it is not available with enthusiastic entrepreneurs etc.	None
It can be manufactured by State Undertaking Corporations, Joint Sector Enterprise and also by Private Entrepreneurs etc.	None
The entrepreneurs some of whom are Appellants before us are small scale industries.	None
They are registered with the Directorate of Industries of the respective States.	None
They are also linked industries for the purpose of obtaining supply of coal from the coal companies herein.	None
The entrepreneurs some of whom are Appellants before us having been so invited, pursuant to or in furtherance of the promises made by them allegedly set up plants for manufacturing smokeless coal.	None
Proceedings before different High Courts Some traders filed a writ petition before the Gauhati High Court.	None
By a judgment and order dated 08.04.2005 the Gauhati High Court set aside the EAuction scheme, inter alia, holding the method adopted for the said purpose to be arbitrary in nature.	None
In any event, it was held that the Chairman of Coal India Limited had no authority to issue such direction or to frame such a scheme.	None
For the purpose of working out the feasibility of sale of coal at EAuction, a committee was directed to be constituted.	None
Civil Appeal Nos.2972 to 2974 of 2005 have been filed by Coal India Limited against the said judgment.	None
When the scheme of EAuction was introduced in Western Coal Field Limited, its authority was questioned before the Madhya Pradesh High Court by way of a writ petition.	None
By a judgment and order dated 29.09.2005 the said High Court, however, held the said scheme to be legal and valid.	None
Special Leave Petition (Civil) No.24034 of 2005 has been filed there against.	None
Before the Calcutta High Court, one Bijoy Kumar Poddar filed a writ petition questioning the validity of the sponsorship scheme.	None
The said writ petition has been allowed.	None
Findings of the Gauhati High Court Before the Gauhati High Court, as noticed hereinbefore, the traders filed a writ petition.	None
Five writ petitions were filed by traders and SSI owners, inter alia, questioning a notice of EAuction which was for sale of coal loaded in rakes.	None
One rake consists of 41 wagons having about 60 MT of coal in each wagon.	None
By reason of the said notice, it was directed that if the bid was for one rake only, floor price thereof would be about Rs.49 lacs.	None
The High Court held that the petitioner therein had the locus standi to challenge the impugned notices and the Chairman, Coal India Ltd. was not competent to take any policy decision as regard sale of coal by EAuction.	None
It was observed that by reason of the said policy decision all other modes of sale of coal having been superseded, the same was not valid.	None
Having regard to the state of affairs prevailing in the North Eastern States, the process of tender was held to be not safe as inter alia it was noticed that noone from Arunachal Pradesh had registered for purchase of coal through EAuction.	None
It was further held that the criteria laid down therein did not take into account the situation prevailing in the North Eastern States and, thus, violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	None
It was found that as in the North Eastern Region, there was shortage of electricity, the traders and linked consumers would find it difficult to bid through EAuction.	None
The learned judges directed constitution of a committee comprising of the representatives from the Ministry of Information and Technology, Ministry of Power, BSNL and CIL, which was to be chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of Coal, so as to enable it to take a decision as to how best the said policy decision can be implemented.	None
Findings of the Madhya Pradesh High Court Linkage is not a matter of right and dependent upon certain conditions precedent.	None
In view of the decision in Pallavi Refractories Ors.v.	None
SCCL Ors.	None
(2005) 2 SCC 227 , the dual pricing policy adopted could not be found fault with.	None
Even the commercial principles laid down therein pointed out that EAuction is valid in law.	None
Price fixation by EAuction is not arbitrary.	None
Change of price by reason of EAuction being a normal facet in commercial transaction is not bad in law.	None
Findings of the Calcutta High Court	None
The question as to whether a direction can be issued upon the Coal India Ltd. to supply coal by road movement and without sponsorship in the wake of coal being controlled came up for consideration before the Calcutta High Court.	None
The stand of the coal companies therein was that the consumers of both core and noncore sectors were entitled to equitable distribution of coal.	None
The Calcutta High Court observed that mini classification on the basis of sponsorship system is ultra vires the Constitution of India.	None
Coal India Limited filed a SLP before this Court on 30th July, 2004 (Civil Appeal No.5547 of 2004) inter alia taking a categorical stand before this Court that the linked consumers form a separate class.	None
On the said averments, it obtained an order of stay of the operation of the judgment of the Calcutta High Court on 8.10.2004.	None
However, despite the same, they implemented the judgment of the Calcutta High Court by taking a conscious decision in that behalf within a short span of time.	None
Coal India Limited and other coal companies have filed several transfer applications which having been allowed, the writ petitions have been transferred to this Court.	None
Proceedings before this Court Civil Appeal Nos.2972 and 2975 of 2005 arises out of a judgment of the Gauhati High Court dated 08.04.2005.	None
Questioning the judgment and order of the Madhya Pradesh High Court dated 29.09.2005, S.L.P. (Civil) No.24134 of 2005 has been filed.	None
Coal India Ltd. has filed Civil Appeal No.5547 of 2004 which arises out of the judgment of the Calcutta High Court in Bijoy Kumar Poddars case.	None
In the meantime, writ petitions were filed in several High Court including Calcutta High Court, Jharkhand High Court, Allahabad High Court and Madhya Pradesh High Court, questioning the validity of EAuction.	None
Different interim orders were passed by the said High Courts.	None
Several special leave petitions were filed thereagainst by the parties.	None
Coal India Limited filed a large number of transfer applications which were allowed.	None
All the transfer applications and the appeals against the judgments of the Gauhati High Court, Madhya Pradesh High Court and the Calcutta High Court and other High Courts were taken up for hearing together.	None
Categories of the matters before us There are four categories of consumers who are aggrieved by introduction of the scheme of EAuction (i) noncore linked consumers who are manufacturers of smokeless coal (ii) noncore sector consumers who are manufacturers of various products wherein coal is raw material (iii) hard coke owners although a noncore linked category but had been recommended for being included in core category and (iv) traders.	Issue
Submissions We would, for better appreciation of the contentions raised on behalf of different categories of the consumers of coal, notice the submissions of the learned counsel appearing for the parties in the following seriatim General Manufacturers of smokeless coal Manufacturers of Hard coke Traders Union of India and Coal India	None
Limited MSTC General	None
The contentions of the writ petitioners before the different High Courts, who are before us, are (i) Nationalization Acts having been enacted for giving effect to the constitutional goal enshrined under Article 39(b) of the Constitution, the coal companies are bound to implement the same and in that view of the matter they cannot fix arbitrary price of coal which is a national resource (ii) Coal is not only an essential commodity but also being raw material used by a large number of manufacturing industries is required to be distributed at a fair and reasonable price particularly in view of the fact that the coal companies have been exercising monopoly power thereover.	Arguments of Petitioner
(iii) As NCCF is supplied coal without taking recourse to the EAuction scheme, there is no reason why noncore sector linked industries shall not be treated alike NCCF having been belonging to the category of trader as that of the writ petitioners, they could not have been discriminated against in egard to fixation of price of coal as a result whereof the small scale industries may either purchase coal through EAuction or purchase coal from NCCF, which would give rise to dual pricing and, thus, the same is unreasonable (iv) The State agencies like BISCAUMAN and Jharkhand State Mineral Development Corporation also having been brought at par with the linked consumers could not have been given priority for the purpose of trading in coal (v)	Arguments of Petitioner
The power to fix prices for the essential commodities must maintain an inbuilt character having regard to the fact that the coal companies have been given the monopoly status in terms of clause 6 of Article 19 of the Constitution of India (vi) The price through EAuction being artificially inflated one, the same has caused uncertainty as a result whereof the manufacturers cannot fix price for their products (vii) The Central Government and or coal companies having themselves made a policy decision that the price of coal should not be varied at least for one year, the scheme of EAuction being inconsistent therewith, must be held to be unreasonable (vii) Fixation of arbitrary price of coal which being a scare commodity would give rise to unhealthy competition amongst various manufacturers, which would not only be contrary to the object and spirit of Article 39(b) of the Constitution but also thereby millions of people who use it as a fuel would be highly prejudiced (viii) The coal companies being State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India cannot resort to be high profiteering at the cost of common men.	Arguments of Petitioner
(ix) The Government companies cannot be permitted to forsake its public duty, its dealings with the consumers must be fair and nondiscriminatory.	Arguments of Petitioner
Manufacturers of Smokeless Fuel and Briquettes 64.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that having regard to the fact that several small scale industries were established, (which were manufacturing smokeless coal and briquette) pursuant to or in furtherance of the promises made by the coal companies in their advertisements, its product being meant for consumption of rural people etc. and also being an environmental friendly fuel, the scheme must be held to be opposed to the doctrine of promissory estoppel.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Smokeless Coal meets the need of the rural people also and in that view of the matter the Central Government having taken upon itself control of coal, which is an essential commodity in terms of the 2000 Order could not have permitted resort to EAuction as by reason thereof prices have been shot up creating uncertainties besides hardship.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that in view of Section 2(ii), Section 3(1) and 3(2)(c) of the Essential Commodities Act, it was incumbent upon the Central Government to fulfill the object thereof, namely, making a scarce commodity available to the people at an affordable price.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. V.A. Bobde, the learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the sixteen petitioners who have set up their industries in the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra which is industrial backward region, submitted that they had also been assured supply of coal for meeting the demand of the rural people and in that view of the matter by reason of taking recourse to EAuction, unreasonable burden had been put on them, which must be held to be bad in law.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mini classification in the noncore sector into tiny and small units and SSI Units and the dual pricing policy within the noncore sector itself, so far as the same relates to small and genuine coal units, is plainly arbitrary, unfair and inequitable and only because some units are not genuine consumers, the same would not mean that all the consumers would be deprived of a valuable national assets.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hard Coke Some of the appellants before us are manufacturers of hard coke.	Reasoning
It is not in dispute that hard coke although does not come within the purview of core sector, for the purpose of distribution of coal, recommendations have been made by the Ministry of Steel that it should be included in the said category.	Reasoning
The said move, however, has been opposed by the Ministry of Coal and Energy.	Reasoning
We would, therefore, proceed on the basis that hard coke comes within the purview of noncore sector.	Reasoning
Mr. Dipankar Gupta, the learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Hard Coke Oven Plants, submitted (i) that as the hard coke manufactured by the hard coke owners having been recommended to be brought within the purview of core sector by the Ministry of Steel, certain attributes to their being belonging to a special category within the noncore sector must be held to have been made out and, thus, all the 106 hard coke ovens manufacturing hard coke form a special class and in that view of the matter their right to obtain coal of a particular grade cannot be denied as linkage system continues to be operative despite the introduction of the scheme of EAuction (ii) hard coke manufacturing units could not, thus, have been clubbed together with the traders as a result whereof unequals are being treated on equal footing, which is ultra vires Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
67.	Arguments of Petitioner
Drawing our attention to a chart showing supply of coal to the hard coke manufacturers before and after introduction of the scheme for EAuction, it was contended that for a few months in a year, there had been no supply of coal at all.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that coal of choice is not a concern of hard coke owners although they may be relevant for traders as linkage still continues, in view of the letter dated 19.05.2005.	Arguments of Petitioner
Traders 68.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Altaf Ahmad, the learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the traders, drew our attention to various clauses of the EAuction scheme and submitted that whereas under the Open Sales Scheme (OSS) rights of the traders were safeguarded and in particular having regard to the fact that from each colliery not more 33 per cent could be purchased by one trader, now all lots having been made open to all consumers irrespective of the fact as to whether they belong to the linked core sector or linked noncore sector or others have been allowed to bid in EAuction along with traders, as a result whereof traders are put to a great disadvantage.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this behalf our attention has been drawn to the fact that both manufacturers of core sector and noncore sectors have been offering their bid in the auctions which is against the concept of fair distribution of an essential commodity.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel participation of all categories of consumers would be unlawful, being contrary to the professed policy of the coal companies in view of the OSS Scheme.	Arguments of Petitioner
Submissions on behalf of Union of India Mr. Gopal Subramanyam, the learned Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the Union of India, would raise the following contentions Keeping in view the fact situation that it was found that there had been gross abuse of the process both in respect of the linkage scheme as also open sales scheme, the coal companies had to resort to EAuction which satisfies the test of public interest Materials have been brought on records to show justification of EAuction the same is sustain able in law Taking recourse to EAuction by way of an experiment was made to overcome a difficult situation As there had been no complaint about functioning of the said scheme in view of the fact that 12000 out 16000 nonconsumers are satisfied therewith no grievance can be raised that by reason thereof the coal companies had taken recourse to any arbitrary measure EAuction had to be introduced in view of the fact that linkage and sponsorship as also open sales schemes were found to be defective and furthermore in view of the fact that both linkage and sponsorship schemes had come to an end The Central Government took recourse to the deregulation of coal as it was found that by taking recourse to the linkage, obstructions have been created to free and fair distribution of coal as also the movement thereof.	Arguments of Respondent
Moreover each consumer must be given equal access thereto Only because the linked consumers would have to pay a higher price, the same by itself cannot be said to be unfair and unreasonable in view of the fact that even in terms of the linked scheme the price of coal was not fixed nor any representation had been made as regards obligations on the part of Coal India Ltd. to supply coal of a specified quantity at a specified price.	None
Linkage system came into being merely out of a practice and by reason thereof the linked consumers have not derived any vested right either in law or under contract The concept of EAuction was visualized by the coal companies who were even otherwise free to take such a decision and it received the imprimatur of the Central Government which would be deemed to be a direction in terms of clause 6 of the Colliery Control Order Classification between core and noncore sector being valid, dual pricing is permissible in law Although the coal companies are monopolies, the demand and supply situation as also the market forces should be given a free play, which, thus, would not come within the purview of clause 6 of Article 19 of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Respondent
Submissions on behalf MSTC	None
Mr. T.R. Adhiyarjuna, the learned Senior counsel would submit that the Gauhati High Court has committed a manifest error in holding that EAuction is not possible in North Eastern Region in India.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel submitted that the procedure which is adopted for conducting EAuction is absolutely transparent and fair.	Arguments of Respondent
Policy Decision as regards Pricing Reasonableness of dual pricing Price fixation has a direct relationship with the fiscal health of the country.	None
Finance is one of the most important catalysts.	None
The modality of price fixation will depend upon the nature of the commodity, the provisions of the concerned statute governing the same and other relevant factors.	None
When price is fixed in terms of the provisions of the Essential Commodities Act, the State would be governed by the doctrine of public necessity.	None
It may in terms of its statutory power and having regard to the penal provisions engrafted therein compel a manufacturer or a dealer of an essential commodity to sell it to the public at a reasonable price or at no profit.	None
Price fixation by the State for its own benefit, however, have an element of profit.	None
Whenever a dual price is resorted to, the same must be rational.	None
The formula for fixing the dual price may be reasonable only under certain circumstances.	None
See Union of India and Others etc.	None
v. Hindustan Development Corpn.	None
and Others (1993) 1 SCC 467 .	None
In Gujarat Ambuja Cement Ltd. and Another v. Union of India and Others (1998) 8 SCC 208 , this Court had the occasion to consider the matter relating to fixation of price of coal wherein in terms of the Colliery Control Order, 1945, the quotas thereof were allotted by the Central Government to the consumers.	None
A Government company having regard to the constitutional scheme, therefore, cannot forsake its public duty	None
See Hindustan Zinc Ltd. etc. v. Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board and Others (1991) 3 SCC 299 .	None
It can neither have a private thrust nor aggrandizement of the wealth at the cost of the common man.	None
In Kerala State Electricity Board v. M s. S.N. Govinda Prabhu Bros. and Others etc., (1986) 4 SCC 198 , the law was laid down in the following terms It is a public utility monopoly undertaking which may not be driven by pure profit motive  not that profit is to be shunned but that service and not profit should inform its actions.	None
It is not the function of the Board to so manage its affairs as to earn the maximum profit even as a private corporate body may be inspired to earn huge profits with a view to paying large dividends to its shareholders.	None
But it does not follow that the Board may not and need not earn profits for the purpose of performing its duties and discharging its obligations under the statute.	None
It stands to common sense that the Board must manage its affairs on sound economic principles.	None
Having ventured into the field of commerce, no public service under taking can afford to say it will ignore business principles which are as essential to public service undertakings as to commercial ventures It was, however, observed The Board is not expected to run on a bare yeartoyear survival basis.	None
It must have its feet firmly planted on the earth.	None
It must be able to pay the interest on the loans taken by it it must be able to discharge its debts it must be able to give efficient and economic service it must be able to continue the due performance of its services by providing for depreciation etc.	None
it must provide for the expansion of its services, for no one can pretend the country is already well supplied with electricity.	None
Sufficient surplus has to be generated for this purpose.	None
That we take it is what the Board would necessarily do if it was an ordinary commercial undertaking properly and prudently managed on sound commercial lines.	None
Is the position any different because the Board is a public utility undertaking or because of the provisions of the Electricity Supply Act?	None
See Oil and Natural Gas Commission and Anr.	None
v. Association of Natural Gas Consuming Industries of Gujarat and Ors.	None
(1990)	None
Supp.	None
SCC 397.	None
In Gujarat Ambuja Cement (supra) the question arose as to whether charging of 10 premium over the price given in Table II of the Notification which was issued under the Colliery Control Order was so unreasonable and arbitrary so as to attract Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	None
In that case, the parties adduced evidences, but the High Court did not consider the same in the perspective thereof, and on that premise the matter had been remitted to the High Court for consideration of the grievances of the petitioner therein having regard to the materials brought on record.	None
See also Dr. P. Nalla Thamphy Thera v. Union of India and Others (1983) 4 SCC 598 While fixing the price of an essential commodity like coal, the capacity to bid of small manufacturers may also be taken into account.	None
The court exercising a power of judicial review in a given situation may determine the question on the basis of the material brought on records.	None
See Gujarat Ambuja Cement Ltd. (supra) However, dual pricing having regard to a distinct classification between a core sector and noncore sector is permissible.	None
See Pallavi Refractories (supra)	None
The State, however, while distributing its largess at a price, if involved in distribution of a commodity, which would attract the provision of Article 39(b) of the Constitution of India, would stand on a different footing.	None
Business is a word of wide import.	None
It, in the context of application of a statute governing a monopoly concern and also with an essential commodity, would indisputably stand on a different footing from the business concern or a private person.	None
The Central Government as also the coal companies having regard to the provisions of the Nationalisation Acts must be visualized not as profit earning concerns but as an extended arm of a welfare State.	None
They are expected to harmonize the business potential of a country to benefit the common man.	None
The power of the Central Government to carry on trade on business activities emanates from the constitutional provisions contained in Article 298 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
The coal companies, therefore, were under a constitutional obligation to fix a reasonable price.	Reasoning
They must differentiate themselves from the private sectors which thrive only on a profit motive.	Reasoning
As public sector undertakings, the coal companies, thus, would have a duty to fix the price of an essential commodity in such a manner so as to sub serve the common good.	Reasoning
Although the provisions of Section 3(2)(c) of the Essential Commodities Act are not attracted in relation to coal in view of the deregulation of price by the Central Government under the 2000 Order, the reasonable attributes for the purpose of fixing the price of coal should be borne in mind.	Reasoning
While fixing such price, ordinarily the State act in the same manner that a public utility would conduct itself in this regard.	None
This Court in Oil and Natural Gas Commission and Anr.	None
v. Association of Natural Gas Consuming Industries of Gujarat and Ors.	None
Supra, opined that the price fixed should be the minimum possible as the customer or consumer must have the commodity for his survival and cannot afford more than the minimum.	None
Therein this Court further noticed In another article on The Public Sector in India, quoted in Issues in Public Enterprise by Sri K.R. Gupta, Dr Rao is quoted as saying (at p. 84)	None
the pricing policy should be such as to promote the growth of national income and the rate of this growth public enterprises must make profits and the larger the share of public enterprises in all enterprises, the greater is their need for making profits.	None
Profits constitute the surplus available for savings and investment on the one hand and contribution to national social welfare programme on the other and if public enterprises do not make profits the national surplus available for stepping up the rate of investment and the increase of social welfare will suffer a corresponding reduction	None
Hence the need for giving up the irrational belief that public enterprise should, by definition, be run on a noprofit basis.	None
In dealing with the fixation of tariff under the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, this Court in Hindustan Zinc Ltd. (supra), opined that the tariff cannot be fixed in such a manner by the Board while acting as a private trader and shedding its public utility character.	None
It was observed In other words, if the profit is made not merely for the sake of profit, but for the purpose of better discharge of its obligations by the Board, it cannot be said that the public enterprise has acted beyond its authority In Dr. P. Nalla Thampy Thera v. Union of India (1983) 4 SCC 598 , this Court observed We have said earlier that the Railways are a public utility service run on monopoly basis.	None
Since it is a public utility, there is no justification to run it merely as a commercial venture with a view to making profits.	None
We do not know at any rate it does not fall for consideration here if a monopoly based public utility should ever be a commercial venture geared to support the general revenue of the State but there is not an iota of hesitation in us to say that the common mans mode of transport closely connected with the free play of his fundamental right should not be.	None
In.	None
M s	None
S.N. Govinda Prabhu and Bros (supra), this Court observed that profit is not to be shunned but that service and not profit should inform actions of a Board.	None
It was further observed We do not think that either the character of Electricity Board as a Public Utility Undertaking or the provisions of the Electricity Supply Act preclude the Board from managing its affairs on sound commercial lines though not with a profitthirst.	None
As regard limitation of judicial review of price fixation after referring to the decision of the Constitution Bench of this Court in Shri Sitaram Sugar Company Ltd. v. Union of India (1990) 3 SCC 223 , this Court in Oil and Natural Gas Commission and Another v. Association of Natural Gas Consuming Industries of Gujarat and Others 1990 Supp SCC 397 observed It is, however, not necessary here to enter into a discussion of this and the earlier cases because those cases were primarily concerned with the question whether the price fixation had been made in consonance with the requirements of the relevant legislation fixing prices of essential commodities in the interests of the general public and also because ONGC does not deny that, as a State instrumentality, its price fixation should be based on relevant material and should be fair and reasonable.	None
None of these decisions hold that the cost plus method is the only relevant method for fixation of prices.	None
On the contrary, there are indications in some judgments to indicate that not a minimum but a reasonable profit margin is permissible.	None
Even in relation to a public utility undertaking like the State Electricity Boards where the duty not to make undue profits by abusing its monopoly position is clear The action on the part of the State even in the matter of fixation of price of an essential commodity, thus, must be viewed from different angles, some of which we shall advert to hereinafter.	None
Article 39(b)	None
Concept Article 39(b) was incorporated in the Constitution to indicate the necessity for ensuring equitable distribution of resources.	None
In State of Karnataka and Anr.	None
v. Shri Ranganatha Reddy and Anr.	None
(1977) 4 SCC 471 , this Court analyzed the constitutional provisions contained in Article 39(b) of the Constitution, stating The key word is distribute and the genius of the Article, if we may say so, cannot but be given full play as it fulfils the basic purpose of restructuring the economic order.	None
Each word in the article has a strategic role and the whole article a social mission.	None
It embraces the entire material resources of the community.	None
Its task is to distribute such resources.	None
Its goal is so to undertake distribution as best to subserve the common good.	None
It reorganizes by such distribution the ownership and control.	None
Resources is a sweeping expression and covers not only cash resources but even ability to borrow (credit resources).	None
Its meaning given in Blacks Legal Dictionary is Money or any property that can be converted into supplies means of raising money or supplies capabilities of raising wealth or to supply necessary wants available means or capability of any kind.	None
And material resources of the community in the context of reordering the national economy embraces all the national wealth, not merely natural resources, all the private and public sources of meeting material needs, not merely public possessions.	None
Every thing of value or use in the material world is material resource and the individual being a member of the community his resources are part of those of the community Also see Samatha v. State of A. P., (1997) 8 SCC 191 Coal, being such a vital product to the Indian industries and the common man, nationalization of coal was necessary for realization of the ideals contained in Article 39(b) of the Constitution.	None
In Sanjeev Coke Manufacturing Company etc. v. M s Bharat Coking Coal Limited and Anr. etc. (1983) 1 SCC 147 , this Court observed Coal is, of course, one of the most important known sources of energy, and, therefore, a vital national resource.	None
While coal is necessary as a source of energy for very many industries, coking coal is indispensable for the countrys crucial iron and steel industry.	None
So, Parliament gave the first priority to coking coal.	None
First there was legislation in regard to the coking coal mines and then there was legislation in regard to all coal mines, coking as well as noncoking.	None
By the Coking Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act all coking coal mines known to exist in the country were nationalised.	Facts
Coke oven plants which were part of the coking coal mines so nationalised being in or belonging to the owners of the mines also stood automatically nationalised.	None
Other coke oven plants which did not belong to the owners of the mines but which were located near about the nationalised coking coal mines were also identified and nationalised by express provision to that effect.	None
At that stage of the rationalisation and nationalisation of the coal mining industry, it was apparently thought necessary and sufficient to nationalise such coke oven plants as were in or belonged to the nationalised coking coal mines or as were identified as located near the nationalised coking coal mines, leaving out all other coke oven plants.	None
The nationalisation of the coking coal mines and the coke oven plants was with a view to reorganising and reconstructing such mines and plants for the purpose of protecting, conserving and promoting scientific development of the resources of coking coal needed to meet the growing requirements of the iron and steel industry and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.	None
We do not entertain the slightest doubt that the nationalisation of the coking coal mines and the specified coke oven plants for the above purpose was towards securing that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good.	None
Also see L. Abu Kavur Bai  State of T. N., (1984) 1 SCC 515 Article 37 of the Constitution of India provides that the provisions contained in Part IV of the Constitution of India shall not be enforceable by any court and it enjoins upon the State to apply the provisions of this Part in making laws.	None
It is of some interest to note that whenever an action is taken by a State in consonance with the provisions laid down in the Directive Principles of State Policy as envisaged under Part IV of the Constitution of India, the same is considered to be a reasonable action.	None
In M.R.F. Ltd. v. Inspector Kerala Govt.	None
and Others (1998) 8 SCC 227 , a question arose as to whether the rights of industrial concerns under Article 19(1)(g) are said to be affected having regard to the provisions of the Kerala Industrial Establishments (National and Festival Holidays) (Amendment) Act, 1990 whereby the number of national holidays were increased.	None
In view of Article 43 of the Constitution of India, the restriction imposed were held to be reasonable restrictions stating The plea under Article 14 also cannot be entertained.	None
The decision by legislative amendment to raise the national and festival holidays is based upon relevant material considered by the Government, including the fact that the holidays allowed by the Central Government and other public sector undertakings were far greater in number than those prescribed under the Act.	None
As pointed out earlier, the Act is a social legislation to give effect to the Directive Principles of State Policy contained in Article 43 of the Constitution.	None
The law so made cannot be said to be arbitrary nor can it be struck down for being violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.	None
Therein it was also observed In examining the reasonableness of a statutory provision, whether it is violative of the Fundamental Right guaranteed under Article 19, one cannot lose sight of the Directive Principles of State Policy contained in Chapter IV of the Constitution as was laid down by this Court in Saghir Ahmad v. State of U.P. as also in Mohd.	None
Hanif Quareshi v. State of Bihar.	None
This principle was also followed in Laxmi Khandsari case in which the reasonableness of restrictions imposed upon the Fundamental Rights available under Article 19 was examined on the grounds, amongst others, that they were not violative of the Directive Principles of State Policy.	None
Also see B. P. Sharma v. Union of India, (2003) 7 SCC 309 AIR 2003 SC 3863 State of Punjab v. Devans Modern Breweries Ltd., (2004) 11 SCC 26 State of Gujarat v. Mirzapur Moti Kureshi Kassab Jamat, (2005) 8 SCC 534 It may not be correct to say that any action which is not in consonance with the provisions of Part IV of the Constitution would be ultra vires but there cannot be any doubt whatsoever that the principles contained therein would form a relevant consideration for determining a question in regard to price fixation of an essential commodity.	None
Directive Principles of State Policy provides for a guidance to interpretation of Fundamental Rights of a citizen as also the statutory rights.	Reasoning
We have noticed hereinbefore that coal was nationalized under Coking Coal Mines (Nationalization) Act, 1972 and Coal Mines (Nationalization) Act, 1973.	Reasoning
We have also noticed that the said Acts were enacted so as to fulfill the constitutional object contained in Article 39(b) of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
In terms of the Nationalization Acts indisputably the coal companies as also the Union of India were bound to take action in furtherance of the task of achieving the purport and object for which the coking coal mines and the coal mines were nationalized.	None
The Parliament also enacted Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Amendment Act, 1976 .	None
In the year 1976, even mining lease of all the coal mines were rescinded.	None
The constitutionality of the 1976 Amendment Act was upheld by this Court in Tara Prasad Singh and Others v. Union of India and Others (1980) 4 SCC 179 stating that the Nationalization Act was enacted in furtherance of Article 39(b) in the following terms The Nationalisation Amendment Act needs no preamble, especially when it is backed up by a Statement of Objects and Reasons.	None
Generally, an Amendment Act is passed in order to advance the purpose of the parent Act as reflected in the preamble to that Act.	None
Acquisition of coal mines, be it remembered, is not an end in itself but is only a means to an end.	None
The fundamental object of the Nationalisation Act as also of the Nationalisation Amendment Act is to bring into existence a state of affairs which will be congenial for regulating mines and for mineral development.	None
It may be true that prices are required to be fixed having regard to the market forces.	Reasoning
Demand and supply is a relevant factor as regards fixation of the price.	Reasoning
In a market governed by free economy where competition is the buzzword, producers may fix their own price.	Reasoning
It is, however, difficult to give effect to the constitutional obligations of a State and the principles leading to a free economy at the same time.	Reasoning
A level playing field is the key factor for invoking the new economy.	Reasoning
Such a level playing field can be achieved when there are a number of suppliers and when there are competitors in the market enabling the consumer to exercise choices for the purpose of procurement of goods.	Reasoning
If the policy of the open market is to be achieved the benefit of the consumer must be kept uppermost in mind by the State.	Reasoning
Can the consumer be expected to derive any such benefit from a monopoly concern?	Issue
Would a situation of this nature lead to a hybrid situation where a coal company is allowed to fix its own price which may not be a fair price?	Issue
These are some of the questions which were required to be kept in mind by the coal companies before formulating a policy of fixing price of an essential commodity.	Issue
The State when exercises its power of price fixation in relation to an essential commodity, has a different role to play.	Reasoning
Object of such price fixation is to see that the ultimate consumers obtain the essential commodity at a fair price and for achieving the said purpose the profit margin of the manufacturer producer may be kept at a bare minimum.	Reasoning
The question as to how such fair price is to be determined stricto sensu does not arise in this case, as would appear from the discussions made hereinafter, as here the Central Government has not fixed any price.	Reasoning
It left the matter to the coal companies.	Reasoning
The coal companies in taking recourse to EAuction also did not fix a price.	Reasoning
They only took recourse to a methodology by which the price of coal became variable.	Reasoning
Its only object was to see that maximum possible price of coal is obtained.	Reasoning
The Appellants do not question the right of the coal companies to fix the price of coal.	Reasoning
Such prices had been fixed on earlier occasions also wherefor legally or otherwise the Central Government used to give its nod of approval.	Reasoning
The process of price fixation by the Central Government in exercise of its powers under the 1945 Order continued from 1996 to 2004.	None
Does EAuction ultimately lead to fixation of a price ?	Issue
The answer to the said question must be rendered is a big emphatic No, as by reason thereof even the coal companies would not know what would be the price of different varieties of coal.	None
The issue must be determined from the perspective as to whether the coal companies can be allowed to say that despite their monopolistic character and they being a State can fix a price which would otherwise be unfair or unreasonable.	Issue
The State or a public sector undertaking plays an important role in the society.	None
It is expected of them that they would act fairly and reasonably in all fields even as a landlord of a tenanted premises or in any other capacity.	None
See Baburao Shantaram More v. The Bombay Housing Board and Another , 1954	None
SCR 572 at 577, Dwarkadas Marfatia Sons v. Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay, (1989) 2	None
SCR 751 at 760, 762 and Pathumma and Others v. State of Kerala and Others (1978) 2	None
SCR 537 at 545 EAuction is not a mode to fix price.	None
It is only a mode to obtain maximum price.	Reasoning
In other words, deriving the optimum benefit by sale of coal is the goal.	Reasoning
While doing so State does not have to follow the principles of fixation of price.	Reasoning
It is not required to apply its mind as to its effect.	Reasoning
It treats coal like any other commodity.	Reasoning
It treats itself like a private trader.	Reasoning
A distinction must be borne in mind when a State intends to part with a privilege or a largess as a competitor in the market and when it is expected to fulfill its constitutional goal enshrined under Article 39(b) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Monopoly Coal companies are monopolies within the meaning of the provisions of the Nationalization Act.	None
They would be deemed to be monopolies within the provisions of clause (6) of Article 19 of the Constitution of India.	None
Our attention has been drawn to two decisions of this Court in Akadasi Pradhan v. State of Orissa 1963 (Supp) 2	None
SCR 691 at 715, and State of Rajasthan v. Mohan Lal Vyas (1971) 3 SCC 705 .	None
In Akadsi Pradhan (supra), it has been held that when a monopoly is created in terms of subclause (6) of Article 19, no agency can be appointed who would not answer the description of principal and agent.	None
An agent of a monopoly organization, it was held, cannot be appointed or act on its own.	None
In Mohan Lal Vyas (supra), it was held that there cannot be any law in violation of the Constitution of India and no monopoly right can be conferred on a citizen under the Constitution, nor can it be justified thereunder.	None
Constitutionality of EAuction Coal is an essential commodity.	None
Coal India Limited and its subsidiary companies enjoyed the monopoly of production, distribution and sale thereof.	None
The question which arises for consideration is whether in the aforementioned situation a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India can be permitted to take recourse to EAuction which is not commensurate with the constitutional scheme of this country.	Issue
Some of the coal companies admittedly were reeling under financial problems.	Reasoning
Three of them became sick industrial undertakings and a reference was made to BIFR.	Reasoning
The Union of India in its counteraffidavit states that a decision was taken to take recourse to EAuction such that sick coal companies could turn around.	Reasoning
Union of India and the coal companies do not deny that they have a monopoly.	Reasoning
They do not deny or dispute that they are State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
They have also not raised any contention that the constitutional obligations in terms of Article 39(b) are not required to be complied with.	Reasoning
It is not in dispute that approximately 94 to 95 of the coal is made available to the core sector at a notified price.	Reasoning
We have also noticed that NCCF as also various Central Government and State Government agencies were to get coal at the base price 25 thereof.	Reasoning
It is of some significance to note by way of an example that whereas the core sector gets coal at a price of Rs.1155/ per metric tonne, NCCF, BCCL and Jharkhand State Minerals Development Corporation would get the same at a price of Rs.1386/ per metric tonne, but the price payable by other noncore linked consumers and traders having regard to the flexibility of the price in EAuction, would be a sum of Rs.1660/ to Rs.1900/ per metric tonne.	Reasoning
The linked consumers constitute about 1 of the total production.	Reasoning
The linkage system so far as noncore sector consumers are concerned, has been prevailing since 1973.	Reasoning
The beneficiaries of the system primarily are manufacturers of hard coke, smokeless fuel and other products for which the coal is essential raw material.	Reasoning
The Open Sales Scheme which was meant for traders, in view of the original policy decision of the coal companies, EAuction was to be applied to the traders for whom the Open Sales Scheme was applicable.	Reasoning
It is, however, not in dispute that having regard to the directions issued by the Central Government to the coal companies, all consumers irrespective of the fact that whether they are linked consumers of core sector or noncore sector, were entitled to take part in EAuction.	Reasoning
Ordinarily traders who are outside the scheme of linkage are entitled to take part in EAuction.	Reasoning
EAuction was resorted to allegedly on the ground that various method tried by the coal companies including the Open Sales Schemes and MPQ failed for one reason or the other.	Reasoning
The Central Vigilance Commission also recommended, having regard to the irregularities committed in the matter of sale of coal through OSS, that publicity of tender should be done through website, in terms of the letter dated 18.12.2003 with a view to bring about greater transparency and to curb malpractice.	Reasoning
The coal companies state that such a direction was made in terms of Section 8(1)(h) of the CVC Act, 2003.	Reasoning
It was recommended that wherever it is feasible and practical the organization should eventually switch over to the process of eprocurement esale.	Reasoning
It is, however, found that the directions are general in nature and no particular direction was issued to the coal companies in terms of Section 8(1)(h) of the CVC 2003 Act which is otherwise permissible in law.	Reasoning
It may be that the practice of EMarketing and or EAdvertisement and or EContract is prevailing in various parts of the world but EAuction, which has a different concept, cannot be equated therewith.	Reasoning
Coal is an essential commodity in terms of Section 3(1) of the Essential Commodities Act.	Reasoning
Colliery Control Order was made, inter alia, for securing equitable distribution and availability of higher price of essential commodity.	Reasoning
The coal companies as also the Central Government, therefore, have a constitutional and statutory obligation to fulfill.	Reasoning
Coal companies exercising monopolistic power, thus, were required to distribute coal equitably and at a fair price.	Reasoning
In Tara Prasad Singh (supra), this Court has categorically considered as to why the Parliament thought it fit to enact the Nationalisation Act i.e. to distribute the resources vested in the State to subserve the common good.	Reasoning
The State, it is trite, while fixing the price for the purpose of equitable distribution or otherwise cannot be actuated purely by a profit motive.	Reasoning
It should not discharge its functions in such a way as to aspire to earn huge profit specially at the cost of those who are fully dependent upon them for supply of a monopoly item like coal.	Reasoning
It cannot be the law that the public sector undertakings while selling essential commodities must suffer loss.	Reasoning
It is also not the law that public sector undertakings must distribute subsidy, but what is required in terms of the constitutional scheme adumbrated under Article 39(b) and Article 14 of the Constitution of India is to make the said essential commodity available at a fair price.	Reasoning
However, for the purpose of this case, it may not be necessary for us to dilate on the principle of fixation of price, of coal as an essential commodity or otherwise.	Reasoning
Before us the learned counsel for the parties relied upon various decisions of this Court as regard the mode and manner in which deliberations were made on fixation of price of essential commodities over which the monopoly right is exercised.	Reasoning
We have also been taken through a recent decision of this Court in Pallavi Refractories (supra).	Reasoning
By reason of EAuction no price is fixed as it would vary from bids to bids.	Reasoning
The coal is sold through EAuction at least twice a month.	Reasoning
There will be various places where EAuction would be conducted simultaneously.	Reasoning
In EAuction, the quantity and quality of coal depending upon its grade, size, colliery from which the same has been extracted, are specified.	Reasoning
In such a situation invariably the price for same quality of coal would greatly vary as the bidders would bid having regard to their own requirement.	Reasoning
By allowing repeated bids, a person who may be requiring the essential commodity would not be able to prove the same and its nonavailability may result in stoppage of production which would lead to various complications.	Reasoning
He would, therefore, be driven to a desperate situation.	Reasoning
The only price which is fixed for EAuction is the reserved price which is 25 above the notified price.	Reasoning
While fixing a fair and reasonable price in terms of the provisions of the Essential Commodities Act (although the price is not dual), it is essential that price is actually fixed.	None
Such price fixation is necessary in view of the fact that coal is an essential commodity.	None
It is, therefore, vital that price is actually fixed and not kept variable.	None
Fixation of price of coal is of utmost necessity as it is a mineral of grave national importance.	None
Nonavailability of coal and consequently the other products may lead to hardship to a section of citizens.	None
It may entail closure of factories and other industries which in turn would lead to loss to State exchequer as they would be deprived of its taxes.	None
It will lead to loss of employment of a large number of employees and would be detrimental to the avowed object of the Central Government to encourage small scale industries.	None
Coal itself is considered to be a core sector.	None
In terms of the provisions of the Industrial (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951, the Parliament requires the Central Government to take such steps which would enable the SSI units to maintain their viability and strength so as to be effective in (i) promoting in a harmonious manner the industrial economy of the country and easing the problem of employment (ii) securing the ownership and control of the material resources of the community such that the same are distributed to sub serve the common good.	None
EAuction has effect both on price of coal as also the availability thereof to the noncore sector consumers.	Reasoning
Their availability would depend upon successful bids of the consumers.	Reasoning
It was introduced for a definite purpose viz.	Reasoning
to confine the same to the noncore sector and traders.	Reasoning
A deviation to a great extent has been made there from.	Reasoning
Even now the core sectors are taking part in EAuction, but no step has been taken in this behalf.	Reasoning
The Central Government, however, recently ensured availability of coal to the linked consumers but they have to pay average weighted price.	None
By its letter dated 08.04.2005, the Central Government informed the Chairman, Coal India Ltd., that supply of coal to noncore sector linked consumers would continue on the basis of MPQ.	None
However, the price for such supplies is to be computed on the basis of average EAuction, stating The coal supplied to noncore linked consumer on the basis of MPQ would continue.	None
However, the price for such supplies would be computed on the basis of average eauction rate during the month.	None
Sale of two million tones of coal to small consumers through NCCP would also continue.	None
However, the price for coal supplies to NCCP would also be governed on the basis of eauction prices, as mentioned above.	None
Advantages or Disadvantages of EAuction We may at this juncture notice the purported advantages of EAuction as submitted on behalf of the Union of India.	Arguments of Respondent
The system of EAuction is simple, easily accessible, transparent also offers equal opportunity to all coal customers intending buyers.	None
ii) Any citizen of India can participate and purchase coal through EAuction by sitting in his home office from any part of the country.	None
iii)	None
A bidder need not require to meet any formalities such as obtaining licence quota sponsorship linkage etc. and is not required to meet any such formalities.	None
iv) Even a buyer located in the remote part of India without electricity computer is free to reach the nearest village town with a cyber cafi and can participate in the EAuction without requiring to come to the coal company coalfield as earlier under OSS A bidder is free to choose the source quality quantity and purchase coal at a price determined by him on the basis of demand and supply.	None
vi) To purchase coal the buyer need not depend on intermediaries middlemen and can directly purchase through EAuction.	None
This will reduce the chances of black marketing, if not totally eliminate it.	Arguments of Respondent
vii)	None
The buyer saves on middlemans commissions and other incidental charges.	Arguments of Respondent
viii)	None
The incidental benefit is also shared by coal company in the form of improved returns i.e. by diverting intermediarys share to coal companies.	Arguments of Respondent
ix)	None
There are a large number of outlets for small consumers which enable them to draw their coal supplies from any of the companies sources instead of limited outlets coal companies as was the case in earlier schemes.	Arguments of Respondent
The sale on the auction is held even in remote areas therefore is not subject to any manipulation influence of antisocial elements.	Arguments of Respondent
xi)	None
The system provides for official channel of supplies to all categories of buyers without classification who were otherwise dependent on secondary market (black market)	Arguments of Respondent
xii)	None
The premium under the old system being appropriated by unscrupulous elements got checked restricted.	None
xiii)	None
Any buyer of coal under non coresector including SSI units is able to avail of this opportunity by payment of a little more than the notified price.	None
The system of EAuction is not aimed at obtaining higher price but endeavours to create an equal opportunity amongst the buyers of non core sector.	Arguments of Respondent
121.	None
However, we may notice that the said claim of the Union of India or the coal companies is not justified.	Reasoning
The aforementioned claim of the Central Government is refuted by the consumers stating that the figures given by the Union of India are misleading.	Reasoning
Price range of all the subsidiaries have been taken cumulatively instead of taking subsidiarywise figures.	Reasoning
The consumers belonging to core sectors, like power, steel, iron and chemical etc. are big companies like Grasim, Hindalco, Jindal and Haldia Steel who are taking part in the EAuction as a result whereof the price of coal has shot at the cost of SSI units.	Reasoning
Thus, even the linked consumers of core and noncore sectors have been participating therein.	Reasoning
Participation of core sector in EAuction is destructive of its own policy as would appear from the letter of the Ministry of Coal dated 08.04.2005 and, thus, it cannot be justified on the ground of profiteering wherewith the survival of SSI units is involved.	Reasoning
Although claim has been made by the companies that more and more persons are taking part therein, it is difficult for us to accept that out of 16000 consumers 12000 have taken part as EAuctions are more frequently done, the possibility of the same persons taking part again and again cannot be ruled out.	Reasoning
It is difficult to comprehend the stand of the Union of India that EAuction is being taken recourse to by more and more persons and, if that be so, there was no reason as to why the price of coal by EAuction has declined.	Reasoning
Before us a chart has been filed with a view of show that after introduction of the scheme of EAuction, supply of coal to many of the coke ovens has decreased affecting their ultimate production.	Reasoning
Apprehensions have been raised that ultimately many of the units may have to be closed.	Reasoning
We think that the coal companies should see to it that such a situation is avoided.	Reasoning
However, it is not in dispute that auction price being online, no other bidder is aware of the contents of the bid submitted by the bidder.	Reasoning
No bidder will have access to the records pertaining to EAuction so as to ascertain who is the highest bidder or what is the highest bid price or no bidder would have knowledge or access to the various bids submitted by the bidders against the particular grade of coal so as to arrive at an average EAuction price of particular grade of coal.	Reasoning
Only MSTC and MJCPL and the companies who are conducting the EAuction, would have access to the details of the bids submitted by the bidders.	Reasoning
No eligibility criteria having been fixed, any person including traders can participate and bid in the EAuction.	Reasoning
Highest price and highest quantity are the only factors for sale allocation of coal to a bidder in terms of the said scheme as EAuction results in traders buying large quantities of coal.	Reasoning
Consequently, the manufacturers of hard coke and smokeless coal as also other small units have to buy coal at prohibitive rates from traders .	Reasoning
The methodology for allocation of coal to a bidder of EAuction is, thus, inequitable, irrational and fortuitous.	Reasoning
The methodology for allocation of coal at this juncture also may be noticed by us Allocation is carried out by Esale software on the following basis First preference is given to highest bid price.	None
If two or more parties bid the same price, then preference for allocation is given to party that placed the bid for higher quantity.	None
In case two or more parties bid the same price and quantity, then preference is given to the party that placed the bid earlier.	None
Since a particular grade is allocated sold at different prices to different bidders, EAuction ultimately leads to sale of a particular grade of coal at variable prices in the market.	Reasoning
In spite of Government of Indias office memorandum promising sale of coal to the linked consumers at average EAuction rate, sale to linked consumers is being made at the highest bid price and not at the average bid price.	Reasoning
It is accepted that coal is a scarce commodity and the Government companies are not in a position to supply coal as per demand of the same, which may be enormous, despite the fact that a certain level of import of coal is also permitted.	Reasoning
However, the advantages of EAuction per se or disadvantages thereof may not be decisive as this Court is concerned with the constitutionality thereof.	Reasoning
It has not been denied or disputed that by reason of EAuction price of coal is not fixed.	Reasoning
The concept of price fixation is that all persons who are in requirement of the commodity should know the basis or criteria thereof.	Reasoning
If a price is fixed, they would be able to lay down their own business policy in such a manner so that they can have a level playing field in the market of competition and such competition is not only between the persons whose endproject is similar or otherwise based on coal but who produce other products not based completely on coal.	Reasoning
Variability in the price of coal would affect all who have to depend on coal e.g. we may notice that hard coke is considered to be vital in the manufacturing process of steel.	Reasoning
If the price of coal is not fixed, the price of hard coke cannot be fixed, which may give rise to uncertainty in the price of steel or smokeless coal which caters to the needs of the small consumers both for domestic use also for use in the small hotels and or use in rural areas.	Reasoning
It was, therefore, necessary that the price of coal be made known.	Reasoning
The contention of the coal companies is that having regard to the availability of LPG, smokeless coal is no longer in use.	Reasoning
Ex facie, the said plea is unacceptable.	Reasoning
Moreover, even fixation of price of LPG in turn would depend upon the fixation of oil products in other countries.	Reasoning
The Central Government, it is well known, having regard to the effect that may be caused to the people in general, takes all precautions before fixing the price thereof.	Reasoning
The Central Government has never increased the LPG price exorbitantly.	Reasoning
While adopting a policy decision as regards the mode of determining the price of coal either fixed or variable, the coal companies were bound to keep in mind social and economic aspect of the matter.	Reasoning
They could not take any step which would defeat the constitutional goal See Mahabir Auto Stores and Others v. Indian Oil Corporation and Others.	Reasoning
(1990) 3 SCC 752 Even while fixation of tariff for the supply of electric energy in terms of the provisions of Section 49 of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, only a reasonable profit is contemplated and not profiteering See S.N. Govinda Prabhu (supra) and ONGC (supra).	Reasoning
It may be true as has been held in the aforementioned cases that cost alone did not determine the prices and the same has to be determined upon taking into consideration many complex factors but no decision of this Court says that any arbitrary fixation of price and arbitrary mode of fixation would satisfy the test of reasonableness as contained in Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
133.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Additional Solicitor General placed strong reliance on a decision of this Court in State of Orissa and Others v. Hari Narain Jaiswal Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
(1972) 2 SCC 36 , wherein this Court held Even apart from the power conferred on the Government under Sections 22 and 29, we fail to see how the power retained by the Government under clause (6) of its order, dated January 6, 1971, can be considered as unconstitutional.	Arguments of Respondent
As held by this Court in Cooverjee B. Bharucha case, one of the important purpose of selling the exclusive right to sell liquor in wholesale or retail is to raise revenue.	Arguments of Respondent
Excise revenue forms an important part of every States revenue.	Arguments of Respondent
The Government is the guardian of the finances of the State.	Arguments of Respondent
It is expected to protect the financial interest of the State.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence quite naturally, the Legislature has empowered the Government to see that there is no leakage in its revenue.	Arguments of Respondent
It is for the Government to decide whether the price offered in an auction sale is adequate.	Arguments of Respondent
While accepting or rejecting a bid, it is merely performing an executive function.	Arguments of Respondent
The correctness of its conclusion is not open to judicial review.	Arguments of Respondent
We fail to see how the plea of contravention of Article 19(1)(g) or Article 14 can arise in these cases.	Arguments of Respondent
The Governments power to sell the exclusive privileges set out in Section 22 was not denied.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also not disputed that those privileges could be sold by public auction.	Arguments of Respondent
Public auctions are held to get the best possible price.	Arguments of Respondent
Once these aspects are recognised, there appears to be no basis for contending that the owner of the privileges in question who had offered to sell them cannot decline to accept the highest bid if he thinks that the price offered is inadequate.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no concluded contract till the bid is accepted.	Arguments of Respondent
Before there was a concluded contract, it was open to the bidders to withdraw their bids see Union of India v. Bhimsen Walaiti Ram.	Arguments of Respondent
By merely giving bids, the bidders had not acquired any vested rights.	Arguments of Respondent
The fact that the Government was the seller does not change the legal position once its exclusive right to deal with those privileges is conceded.	Arguments of Respondent
If the Government is the exclusive owner of those privileges, reliance on Article 19(1)(g) or Article 14 becomes irrelevant.	Arguments of Respondent
Citizens cannot have any fundamental right to trade or carry on business in the properties or rights belonging to the Government nor can there be any infringement of Article 14, if the Government tries to get the best available price for its valuable rights.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court was wholly wrong in thinking that purpose of Sections 22 and 29 of the Act was not to raise revenue.	Arguments of Respondent
Raising revenue as held by this Court in Cooverjee B. Bharucha case was one of the important purposes of such provisions.	Arguments of Respondent
The fact that the price fetched by the sale of country liquor is an excise revenue does not change the nature of the right.	Arguments of Respondent
The sale in question is but a mode of raising revenue.	Arguments of Respondent
Assuming that the question of arbitrary or unguided power can arise in a case of this nature, it should not be forgotten that the power to accept or reject the highest bid is given to the highest authority in the State i.e. the Government which is expected to safeguard the finances of the State.	Arguments of Respondent
Such a power cannot be considered as an arbitrary power.	Arguments of Respondent
If that power is exercised for any collateral purposes, the exercise of the power will be struck down.	Arguments of Respondent
It may also be remembered that herein we are not dealing with a delegated power but with a power conferred by the Legislature.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court erroneously thought that the Government was bound to satisfy the Court that there was collusion between the bidders.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court was not sitting on appeal against the order made by the Government.	Arguments of Respondent
The inference of the Government that there was a collusion among the bidders may be right or wrong.	Arguments of Respondent
But that was not open to judicial review so long as it is not proved that it was a makebelieve one.	Arguments of Respondent
The real opinion formed by the Government was that the price fetched was not adequate.	Arguments of Respondent
That conclusion is taken on the basis of Government expectations.	Arguments of Respondent
The conclusion reached by the Government does not affect any ones rights.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, in our opinion, the High Court misapplied the ratio of the decision of this Court in Barium Chemicals Ltd. v. Company Law Board and Rohtas Industries Ltd. v. S.T. Agarwal.	Arguments of Respondent
Citizens may not have any fundamental right to carry on trade or business in a commodity belonging to the Government.	None
But therein, the court was concerned with liquor which was considered to be res extra commercium.	None
We may, however, notice that this Court in State of Madhya Pradesh v. Nandlal Jaiswal (1986) 4 SCC 566 as also Khoday Distilleries Ltd. and Others v. State of Karnataka and Others (1995) 1 SCC 574 has clearly held that even in respect of trade of liquor, Article 14 would be applicable.	None
In Ramana Dayaram Shetty v. International Airport of India and Others (1979) 3 SCC 489 AIR 1979 SC 1628 , this Court held the democratic form of Government demands equality and absence of arbitrariness and discrimination in such transactions. . .	Reasoning
The activities of the Government have a public element and, therefore, there should be fairness and equality.	Reasoning
The State need not enter into any contract with anyone, but if it does so, it must do so fairly without discrimination and without unfair procedure.	None
This proposition would hold good in all cases of dealing by the Government with the public, where the interest sought to be protected is a privilege.	None
It must, therefore, be taken to be the law that where the Government is dealing with the public, whether by way of giving jobs or entering into contracts or issuing quotas or licences or granting other forms of largesse, the Government cannot act arbitrarily at its sweet will and, like a private individual, deal with any person it pleases, but its action must be in conformity with standard or norms which is not arbitrary, irrational or irrelevant It is furthermore not a case like Kasturi Lal Lakshmi Reddy, represented by its Partner Shri Kasturi Lal, Ward No. 4, Palace Bar, Poonch, Jammu and Others v. State of Jammu Kashmir and Others (1980) 4 SCC 1 , whereupon again the learned Additional Solicitor General relied that the Government cannot act in a manner which would benefit a party	None
but then the said decision would not apply when the State as a monopoly is dealing with an essential commodity.	None
A monopoly concern is meant to cater to the need of all sections of the people.	None
Whereas the demand of the core sector must be given priority, the Central Government as also the Coal Controller in terms of 1945 Order thought of giving some preference to those industries which produce smokeless coal as well.	None
Smokeless coal producers started manufacture the same on the basis of invention of new technology invented by the Central Fuel Research Institute, an unit of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research Institute as also the Coal Mining and Planning Development of India, which is a subsidiary of	None
Coal India Ltd.	Facts
We have noticed hereinbefore that when the coal companies themselves manufactured coke for domestic consumers, the same used to cause health hazards.	Reasoning
They intended to outsource production of manufacturing soft coke wherefor they had asked the Governments of Bihar and West Bengal to encourage setting up of smokeless coal units assuring supply of coal.	Reasoning
Such linkage system has, therefore, been developed under which the consumers are linked to specify mines from which they received specified quantities and specified grades of coal on a monthly basis.	Reasoning
Coke oven units, in particular, are linked in the WII, WIII WIV of the noncore sector.	Reasoning
The importance of the linkage system despite resort to EAuction has since been recognized by the Government of India, as would appear from its letter dated 19.04.2005.	Reasoning
Whereas manufacturers of hard coke would require coking coal, others would require only noncoking coal.	Reasoning
The necessity of having a fixed price of coal is supported by subsection (3) of Section 9 of the MMRD Act, 1957 wherein it was provided that the rate of royalty shall not be revised within three years.	None
See AIR 1996 SC 2560 .	None
The period of three years has since been altered to a period of four years.	None
Prior thereto a period of five years was fixed therefor.	None
Even the Central Government emphasized the requirement of having a fixed price of coal in a meeting held on 13.10.2001 and took note of the fact that the price increase would cause undue hardship which might be suffered by the small scale industries and which might concern their growth and in that view of the matter, it was decided that the price increase for the noncore sector should not be done more than once in a period of one year.	None
The court while considering such a question cannot also lose sight of the fact that apart from the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, the entire control and regulation of coal has been taken over by the Central Government in terms of Entry 54 of List I as also Entry 52 of List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India.	None
In exercise of such power, the Parliament enacted the Industrial (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 and Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957.	None
A constantly variable price per se, therefore, appears to be unreasonable and unfair being opposed to the professed policies under the said Act.	None
We are not suggesting that the linkage system can never be brought to an end but it may not be appreciated as to how while maintaining the linkage system, they can be deprived indirectly of the benefit therefrom	Reasoning
and how they should be treated equally with other traders.	Reasoning
Traders indisputably would require coal but not for their own consumption.	Reasoning
If they purchase coal at any price, they would sell the same at a higher price.	Reasoning
They would certainly mind variability in the price of coal as the price of their end products would have nexus therewith.	Reasoning
Moreover, if the traders would pay higher price for procuring coal, the general consumers would have to pay more.	Reasoning
Those who are linked consumers or who are small traders, thus, stand on a different footing.	Reasoning
Merely to sell it as a profit to the traders who do not possess the purchasing capacity is not limited or controlled by the market conditions, whereas it is so for the linked noncore sector.	Reasoning
The traders themselves create and control the market conditions.	Reasoning
In Mohd.	None
Usman v. State of Andhra Pradesh AIR 1971 SC 1801 , this Court held The proposition of law that the doctrine of equality is attracted not only when equals are treated as unequals but also when unequals are treated as equals and that Article 14 is offended both by finding difference when there is none and by making no difference when there is one is unexceptional.	None
But the rule of equality is intended to advance justice by avoiding discrimination.	None
See also Motor General Traders v. State of Andhra Pradesh 1984 (1) SCC 222	None
Para 10 Indra SawhneyII v. Union of India (2000) 1 SCC 168 , para 27 State of U.P. v. Johri Mal  2004 (4) SCC 714 para 41 and E.V Chinnaiah etc. v. State of A.P. and Others etc.	None
(2005) 1 SCC 394 paras 66 to 69.	None
The coal companies themselves highlighted this distinction in Civil Appeal No. 5547 of 2004 in Bijoy Kumar Poddars case.	Reasoning
We need not, however, deal with the said matter separately as the questions raised are interconnected with the other matters.	Reasoning
We may notice at once that the necessity to maintain supply of coal to the linked sector was highlighted by the coal companies themselves in their special leave petitions filed before this Court.	Reasoning
It may be true that the linked consumers get two opportunities to procure coal once by way of EAuction and again by way of paying the average weighted price but availability of coal itself is not certain having regard to the fact that admittedly keeping in view the concept of MPQ, they would not get the full supply for their demand.	Reasoning
Even otherwise, a distinction should be made between consumers and traders and thus arises the necessity of different price regimes for the consumers as a class as against traders as a different class.	Reasoning
The original scheme of EAuction was meant to be applied only to the linked noncore sector consumers and traders.	Reasoning
Thus, thereby the policy that the linked consumers should form a class by themselves was sought to be given a gobye.	Reasoning
We have, however, noticed hereinbefore that having regard to the intervention of the Central Government, the coal companies deviated from the said scheme and considered even the noncore sector consumers to be a separate class as they not only became entitled to take part in the EAuction along with traders but also were sought to be assured of supply of coal having regard to their own requirements as regard both quality and quantity subject, of course, to their paying the price at the average weighted price.	Reasoning
The stand taken by the coal companies before the Calcutta High Court as also before this Court assumes significance only in that context.	Reasoning
However, now it appears that the coal companies have given a complete gobye to the original scheme of EAuction inasmuch as not only the traders or the noncore sector consumers but also core sector consumers had also been allowed to participate therein.	Reasoning
A consumer of coal falling in any category as also a person who intends to purchase coal for his personal use would, therefore, be entitled to take part in EAuction.	Reasoning
Whereas the consumers in the core sector would not only be entitled to allotment of coal at a price fixed by the coal companies but also would be entitled to take part in Eauction.	Reasoning
The noncore sector consumers although as linked consumers form a separate and distinct class visvis the traders, they would not be entitled to the benefit of obtaining coal at a fixed price.	Reasoning
The question as regards the discrimination between two categories of consumer assumes some importance.	Reasoning
The effect is that today, while the core sector (92) on its own and noncore nonlinked SSI Tiny units (through the NCCF other agencies)	Reasoning
(1) are being supplied coal at a fixed price, on the other hand, the noncore linked SSI Tiny units (4) are being subjected to differential treatment without any rational classification by supplying the coal to the latter on the price to be ascertained by the tradercontrolled process of EAuction and thereby putting the petitionerunits at par with the trader.	Reasoning
The scheme of EAuction is, therefore, ultra vires Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
Judicial Review	None
The submission of the learned Additional Solicitor General to the effect that the policy decision of a State cannot be the subject matter of judicial review is stated to be rejected.	Reasoning
EAuction is not a policy decision of the Central Government.	Reasoning
Such a policy decision on the part of the executive of the Central Government must be strictly construed in terms of Article 77 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
Its exercise of such powers has nothing to do with the price fixation by a policy.	Reasoning
The State while exercising its power under the Essential Commodities Act, fixes the price keeping in mind several factors, in particular the larger interest of the people.	Reasoning
Price fixation of an essential commodity, therefore, is determined on the touchstone of public interest.	Reasoning
While doing so the State is expected to follow a rational and fair procedure and for the said purpose may collect data, obtain public opinion, and may appoint an expert committee.	Reasoning
In the facts and circumstances of the case, however, the approach of the coal companies, who according to the Union of India had been given a free hand to determine its price for coal, is only earning profit.	Reasoning
It has been accepted that three subsidiary companies and Coal India Ltd. who were sick companies, like Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. (BCCL), have started EAuction.	Reasoning
It has succeeded in its attempt to a great extent as the said coal companies are no longer sick companies.	Reasoning
They have proceeded only to safeguard their own interests, as dealer and not as a State.	Reasoning
Recourse to EAuction had been taken primarily by way of a profit motive.	Reasoning
No public opinion was sought for and no expert committee was appointed.	Reasoning
The statutory and constitutional duties had not been kept in view.	Reasoning
Conveniently, while making the said policy decision, the coal companies did not remind themselves that as they are instrumentalities of the State, they are bound to adhere to the Directive Principles of the State and the prime object for which the Nationalization Acts were enacted.	Reasoning
Good governance and good corporate governance are distinct and separate.	Reasoning
Whereas good governance would mean protection of the weaker sections of the people so far as good corporate governance is concerned, the same may not be of much relevance.	Reasoning
Even the coal companies in taking recourse to EAuction did not give effect to the concept of corporate social responsibility.	Reasoning
What would be profiteering has been noticed in T.M.A. Pai Foundation v State of Karnataka (2002) 8 SCC 481 Islamic Academy of Education v. State of Karnataka (2003) 6 SCC 697 and P.A. Inamdar v. State of Maharashtra (2005) 6 SCC 537 .	Reasoning
In these decisions, it has been held that although education is an industry, and those who impart education do so as a part of their fundamental right in terms of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India, profiteering should not be taken recourse to.	Reasoning
In fact the decisions of this Court on price fixation also point out that although a reasonable profit may be permissible, profiteering would not be.	Reasoning
The coal companies evolve price fixation but admittedly they have been doing so at the instance of the Central Government.	Reasoning
The Central Government seeks to exercise its statutory power.	Reasoning
Such a power, however, is confined to fourcorners of the 2000 Order.	Reasoning
When there is no control over price, the Central Government is forbidden to issue any direction which will have an impact thereover.	Reasoning
The coal companies which are, therefore, public authorities when seeking to give effect to the constitutional scheme as contained in the preamble of the Nationalization Acts of 1972 and 1973 were acting at the behest of the Central Government and not entirely on their own.	None
In Hindustan Petroleum Corpn.	None
Ltd. v. Darius Shapur Chenai and Others (2005) 7 SCC 627 , this Court noticed with approval the decisions in Commr. of Police v. Gordhandas Bhanji 1952 SCR 135 AIR 1952 SC 16 and Mohinder Singh Gill v. Chief Election Commnr.	None
(1978) 1 SCC 405 in the following terms In Commr. of Police v. Gordhandas Bhanji it is stated We are clear that public orders, publicly made in exercise of a statutory authority cannot be construed in the light of explanations subsequently given by the officer making the order of what he meant, or of what was in his mind, or what he intended to do.	None
Public orders made by public authorities are meant to have public effect and are intended to affect the actings and conduct of those to whom they are addressed and must be construed objectively with reference to the language used in the order itself.	None
Yet again in Mohinder Singh Gill this Court observed The second equally relevant matter is that when a statutory functionary makes an order based on certain grounds, its validity must be judged by the reasons so mentioned and cannot be supplemented by fresh reasons in the shape of affidavit or otherwise.	None
Otherwise, an order bad in the beginning may, by the time it comes to Court on account of a challenge, get validated by additional grounds later brought out.	None
We may here draw attention to the observations of Bose, J. in Gordhandas Bhanji Referring to Gordhandas Bhanji it was further observed Orders are not like old wine becoming better as they grow older.	None
In relation to fixation of price or other related matters, the Central Government, therefore, had no say.	None
Under the Colliery Control Order 2000, the power of the Central Government is merely to regulate supply and not to regulate price, the price of coal, it will bear to state, having been deregulated.	None
Supply and or disposal of coal which would come within the purview of Colliery Control Order, 2000, would, thus, take within its sweep only to whom the supply would be made, what would be the quantity, the mode, period or the source of supply.	Reasoning
Such a power to issue directions would not include fixation of price.	Reasoning
EAuction is not related to policy for supply of coal.	Reasoning
It is essentially the price therefor.	Reasoning
The Central Government in that view of the matter either directly or indirectly while purportedly exercising its power under clause 6 read with clause 9 of the Colliery Control Order could not have issued any direction in the garb of disposal of coal by way of EAuction.	Reasoning
The Central Government itself says that it allowed the coal companies to fix their own price if that be so in terms of the statute it could not issue any direction which would have direct or indirect impact on price of coal.	Reasoning
It, as indicated hereinbefore, directed that 10 lacs MT coal be sold through EAuction but while doing so stricto sensu, its power and control to regulate supply of coal could not be exercised in that sense.	Reasoning
Apart from the fact that it also does not satisfy the attributes of supply, as noticed hereinbefore, the supply of coal itself has not been brought within the purview thereof.	Reasoning
Furthermore no notification has been issued by the Central Government regulating supply of coal.	Reasoning
By allowing EAuction in respect of 10 lacs MT of coal, it merely quantified the amount of coal which was required to be sold.	Reasoning
It did not bring within its sweep taking recourse to the mode of EAuction so as to enable the companies to obtain a valuable price.	Reasoning
Clause 6 of the Colliery Control Order does not envisage the same.	Reasoning
Promissory Estoppel	None
We have noticed hereinbefore that smokeless coal operators had set up their units at the behest of the coal companies.	Reasoning
Those who had set up their units in the erstwhile State of Bihar and West Bengal evidently did so at the behest of the companies having been encouraged therefor.	Reasoning
It was done to share the burden of coal companies to supply soft coke to the small consumers.	Reasoning
Doctrine of promissory estoppel would, therefore, be applicable.	Reasoning
The concerned States also intended to grant incentives to such industrial units by way of waiver and or deferment of payment of sales tax wherefor Rule 28A in the Sales Tax Rules was introduced.	Reasoning
Sales Tax laws enacted by the States contain a provision empowering the State to grant such exemption.	Reasoning
The relevant provisions of the Act and the Rules framed thereunder indisputably were made keeping in view the industrial policy of the State.	Reasoning
Such industrial policies by way of legislation or otherwise, subject of course to the provisions of the statute have been framed by several other States.	Reasoning
In M s. Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills Co. Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Others (1979)	None
2 SCC 409 this Court rejected the plea of the State to the effect that in the absence of any notification issued under Section 4A of the U.P. Sales Tax Act, the State was entitled to enforce the liability to sales tax imposed on the petitioners thereof under the provisions of the Sales Tax Act and there could be no promissory estoppel against the State so as to inhibit it from formulating and implementing its policy in public interest.	None
The question came up for consideration before this Court in Pournami Oil Mills and Others v. State of Kerala and Another 1986 (Supp) SCC 728 wherein it was held Under the order dated April 11, 1979, new small scale units were invited to set up their industries in the State of Kerala and with a view to boosting of industrialisation, exemption from sales tax and purchase tax for a period of five years was extended as a concession and the fiveyear period was to run from the date of commencement of production.	None
If in response to such an order and in consideration of the concession made available, promoters of any small scale concern have set up their industries within the State of Kerala, they would certainly be entitled to plead the rule of estoppel in their favour when the State of Kerala purports to act differently.	None
Several decisions of this Court were cited in support of the stand of the appellants that in similar circumstances the plea of estoppel can be and has been applied and the leading authority on this point is the case of M.P. Sugar Mills.	None
On the other hand, reliance has been placed on behalf of the State on a judgment of this Court in Bakul Cashew Co. v. STO.	None
In Bakul Cashew Co. case this Court found that there was no clear material to show any definite or certain promise had been made by the Minister to the concerned persons and there was no clear material also in support of the stand that the parties had altered their position by acting upon the representations and suffered any prejudice.	None
On facts, therefore, no case for raising the plea of estoppel was held to have been made out.	None
This Court proceeded on the footing that the notification granting exemption retrospectively was not in accordance with Section 10 of the State Sales Tax Act as it then stood, as there was no power to grant exemption retrospectively.	None
By an amendment that power has been subsequently conferred.	None
In these appeals there is no question of retrospective exemption.	None
We also find that no reference was made by the High Court to the decision in M.P. Sugar Mills case.	None
In our view, to the facts of the present case, the ratio of M.P. Sugar Mills case directly applies and the plea of estoppel is unanswerable.	None
Yet again in Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes (Asst.)	None
Dharwar and Others v. Dharmendra Trading Company and Others (1988)	None
3 SCC 570 , this Court, on the factual situation obtaining therein, rejected the contention of the State that any misuse of the concessions granted was committed by the respondent therein and thus the State cannot go back on its promise.	None
It was further observed The next submission of learned counsel for the appellants was that the concessions granted by the said order dated 3061969 were of no legal effect as there is no statutory provision under which such concessions could be granted and the order of 3061969 was ultra vires and bad in law.	None
We totally fail to see how an Assistant Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax who are functionaries of a State can say that a concession granted by the State itself was beyond the powers of the State or how the State can say so either.	None
Moreover, if the said argument of learned counsel is correct, the result would be that even the second order of 1211977 would be equally invalid as it also grants concessions by way of refunds, although in a more limited manner and that is not even the case of the appellants.	None
Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilisers Limited v. Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes and Others 1992 Supp (1) SCC 21 is a case where this Court had the occasion to consider as to whether subsequent change in the eligibility criteria can undo the eligibility for the condition stipulated in the earlier notification and answered the same in the negative.	None
This Court reaffirmed the legal position in Pawan Alloys Casting Pvt. Ltd., Meerut v. U.P. State Electricity Board and Others (1997) 7 SCC 251 holding As a result of the aforesaid discussion on these points the conclusion becomes inevitable that the appellants are entitled to succeed.	None
It must be held that the impugned notification of 3171986 will have no adverse effect on the right of the appellantnew industries to get the development rebate of 10 for the unexpired period of three years from the respective dates of commencement of electricity supply at their units from the Board with effect from 181986 onwards till the entire three years period for each of them got exhausted.	None
This result logically follows for the appellants who have admittedly entered into supply agreements with the Board as new industries prior to 181986.	None
The question came up for consideration before this Court recently in State of Punjab v. Nestle India Ltd. and Another (2004) 6 SCC 465 wherein this Court surveyed the growth of the said doctrine and held the doctrine to be applicable to legislative action also.	None
Legitimate Expectation Principle of natural justice will apply in cases where there is some right which is likely to be affected by an act of administration.	None
Good administration, however, demands observance of doctrine of reasonableness in other situations also where the citizens may legitimately expect to be treated fairly.	None
Doctrine of legitimate expectation has been developed in the context of principles of natural justice.	None
Issue arises whether recourse to legitimate expectations can be taken when the expectation is based on unlawful representation (i.e., most often something that is ultravires the power of local authority).	Issue
In Stretch v. U. K. (2004) 38 EHRR 12 applicant was granted a lease for 22 yrs.	None
by an authority that did not have the power to do so.	None
It was only made known to the applicant at the time of renewal of the lease, when negotiations had already reached an advanced stage.	None
While the court of appeal accepted the argument that the option to renew the lease could not be exercised (as beyond the local authoritys power), it noticed that it was unjust that such authorities could take advantage of their own wrong.	None
The European Court of Human Rights however did not accept this argument and awarded damages as it found on facts that this action did not in any way go against public interest, nor did it prejudice the statutory duties of the authority.	None
We may, however, notice a recent trend where doctrine of balancing has been advocated.	None
Rowland v. Environmental Agency (2003) EWCA Civ. 1885 involved a part of the Thames river, known as Hedsor Water, which the relevant authorities declared open for exercise of public navigation rights.	None
Initially however, the authorities by regular and consistent practice had accepted that such rights did not exist.	None
The Court of Appeal said that although the expectations were legitimate, the action must fail.	None
According to Peter Gibson L.J., the action failed as legitimate expectations could only be granted against lawful claims.	None
Although May L.J., (like Menace L.J.) came to the same conclusion, they refused to accept legal incapacity as an automatic answer against legitimate expectation (amounting to convention right).	None
They sought a kind of a balance where while allowing the Hedsor water to be open to rights of navigation, such use would not be actively encouraged by the authority.	None
It was held that, however, there was no need to restrict such balancing to cases where the right was one protected under the convention.	None
It could be extended to all cases where the unlawful action was not adverse to public interest.	None
Conclusion Coal being a scarce commodity, its utility for the purpose for which it is needed is essential.	Reasoning
Although, technically, in view of the fact that no price is fixed for coal, there may not be any black marketing in the technical sense of the terms but this Court cannot also encourage black marketing in general sense.	Reasoning
Nobody should be allowed to take undue advantage while dealing with a scarce commodity.	Reasoning
The very fact that despite best efforts of the Central Government, the coal companies failed to curb the menace of a section of people and to deal in coal excluding other general people therefrom or the linked consumers misusing their position of obtaining allotment of coal either wholly or in part, it is absolutely necessary that some mechanism should be found out for plugging the loopholes.	Reasoning
The Union of India or the coal companies appear to have lost confidence in the State Governments.	Reasoning
They had carried out joint inspection and in that process they must have arrived at a satisfaction about the genuineness of the claims of industrial units for which the linkage system was meant for.	Reasoning
Before us most of the consumers, with a view to obtain supply of coal had filed documents to prove their genuineness.	Reasoning
The said documents must be scrutinized by the authorities of the coal companies.	Reasoning
In the event, they have any suspicion, inspection should be carried out by officers appointed by the ChairmancumManaging Director of the concerned company within whose jurisdiction the unit is situated.	Reasoning
With a view to evolve a viable policy, a committee should be constituted by the Union of India with the Secretary of Coal being the Chairman.	Reasoning
In such a committee, a technical expert in coal should also be associated as most of the projects involve consumers of coal, particularly manufacturers of hard coke and smokeless fuel.	Reasoning
In our opinion, it may not be difficult to find out, having regard to the technologies used therein as regards the ratio of the input visvis the output, with a balance and 10 margin.	Reasoning
On the basis of such finding alone, apart from the requirements of five years, supply should form the basis of MPQ.	Reasoning
We may, however, hasten to add that the Central Government in collaboration with the coal companies would be at liberty to evolve a policy which would meet the requirements of public interest visvis the interest of consumers of coal.	Reasoning
They would be entitled to lay down such norms as may be found fit and proper.	Reasoning
They would be entitled to fix appropriate norms therefor.	Reasoning
In the event, any industrial unit is found to violate the norms, it should be stringently dealt with.	Reasoning
Hard coke plants are also coal mines within the meaning of Colliery Control Order, 2000.	Reasoning
Hard coke is coal within the meaning of the provisions thereof.	Reasoning
The Central Government, therefore, may think it fit to widen the definition of coal so as to include the smokeless coal in exercise of its power under the Essential Commodities Act.	Reasoning
We may notice in ONGC (supra), this Court has held that slurries are a part of coal and is governed by the provisions of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act.	Reasoning
Such being the wider definition of coal, we fail to see any reason as to why proper measure cannot be taken by the Union of India to have a complete control thereover.	Reasoning
Any strict mechanism to find out the genuine consumers would go a long way in taking preventive measures and dealing with coal by unscrupulous persons for unauthorized purposes.	Reasoning
Those who do so, should be dealt with stringently but the same would not mean that the genuine consumers should suffer for want of coal.	Reasoning
We, in the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case, are of the opinion that it may not be difficult to find out as to who the genuine consumers are.	Reasoning
So far as owners of the hard coke ovens are concerned, they are members of the association and their identity can easily be verified.	Reasoning
However, discussions made hereinbefore should not be taken to lay down a law that the Central Government and for that matter the coal companies cannot change their policy decision.	Reasoning
They evidently can but therefor there should be a public interest as contra distinguished from a mere profit motive.	Reasoning
Any change in the policy decision for cogent and valid reasons is acceptable in law but such a change must take place only when it is necessary, and upon undertaking of an exercise of separating the genuine consumers of coal from the rest.	Reasoning
If the coal companies intend to take any measure they may be free to do so.	Reasoning
But the same must satisfy the requirements of constitutional as also the statutory schemes even in relation to an existing scheme e.g. Open Sales Schemes, indisputably the coal companies would be at liberty to formulate the new policy which would meet the changed situation.	Reasoning
Eadvertisement or Etender would be welcome but then therefor a greater transparency should be maintained.	Reasoning
For the reasons aforementioned, Civil Appeal Nos. 2972 and 2975 of 2005 being devoid of any merits are dismissed.	Decision
Civil Appeal arising out of S.L.P. (Civil) No. 24034 of 2005 is allowed and the impugned judgment of the Madhya Pradesh High Court is set aside.	Decision
No separate order is required to be passed on Civil Appeal No.5547 of 2004 arising out of the judgment and order of the Calcutta High Court as the said case would also be governed by this judgment.	Decision
All other appeals and transferred cases are disposed of with the aforementioned observations and directions.	Decision
