 K. Mathur, J. This appeal is directed against the order passed by the Division Bench of Madhya Pradesh High Court at Jabalpur in Writ Petition No. 1415 of 1997 by the order dated 11.3.2003 whereby the Division Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court has set aside the order passed by the Registrar of Cooperative Societies in exercise of power under Section 55(1) of the Madhya Pradesh Cooperative Societies Act, 1960 (hereinafter referred to as the Act of 1960) dated 6.3.1997 as ultra vires and allowed the writ petition.	Facts
Aggrieved by that the present appeal was filed by the Madhya Pradesh Rajya Sahakari Bank Maryadit (hereinafter to be referred to as the appellant).	Facts
We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the records.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant has submitted that the Registrar of Cooperative Societies under Section 55 of the Act of 1960 has full power to frame rules relating to service conditions for the Cooperative Societies.	None
Therefore, in exercise of the aforesaid power, the Registrar of Cooperative Societies has issued order dated 6.3.1997 whereby under Chapter 4 Conditions of Recruitment, Rule 5 of the Madhya Pradesh Rajya Sahakari Bank Employees (Terms of Employment and working conditions) Rules, 1976 (hereinafter to be referred to as the Rules of 1976) was amended and the following amendment was added The Managing Committee of the Bank shall decide the percentage of employees to be necessarily recruited from Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes, Backward Classes and handicapped persons provided that a minimum percentage of the posts, as may be advised by the State Government from time to time, shall be reserved for the candidates of Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes, Backward Classes and handicapped persons.	Arguments of Petitioner
Relaxation in the conditions of recruitment as per instruction issued by Registrar.	Arguments of Petitioner
Cooperative Societies, Madhya Pradesh, Bhopal from time to time may be granted to the Exserviceman and Scheduled Castes Scheduled Tribes, Backward Classes and physically handicapped persons.	Arguments of Petitioner
The order dated 6.3.1997 passed by the Registrar of Cooperative Societies is also reproduced as under OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER, COOPERATION REGISTRAR, COOPERATIVE SOCIETIES, MADHYA PRADESHNo.	None
CR AP1/30/2Bhopal, Dated 6.3.1997.ORDERIn exercise of the powers of the Registrar, Cooperative Societies, Madhya Pradesh under subsection (1) of Section 55 of the Madhya Pradesh Cooperative Societies Act, 1960 (No. 17 of 1961) conferred upon no.	None
Vide Government of Madhya Pradesh, Cooperation Department order No.2419/7060/XV/62 dated 16.6.1962, I U.P.Gupta, Joint Registrar, Cooperative Societies, M.P. hereby amend in Chapter 4 condition of Recruitment Rule No.5 and Chapter3 File No.15 (b)2 of the M.P.Rajya Sahakari Bank Maryadit Employees Service Rules, 1976 as per enclosed herewith.	None
The above amendment shall come into force from the date of issue of the order.(J.P.GUPTA)JOINT REGISTRARCOOPERATIVE SOCIETIES, M.P.No.	None
CR AP1/30/2/774Copy forwarded to 1.	None
The Managing Director, P.Rajya Sahakari Bank Maryadit, Bhopal for information and necessary action.2.	None
Deputy Registrar, I C Audit, M.P.Rajya Sahakari Bank Maryadit, Bhopal for information.	None
JOINT REGISTRARCOOPERATIVE SOCIETIES, M.P. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that this power of the Registrar under Section 55 of the Act of 1960 is not regulated by the Madhya Pradesh Lok Seva (Anusuchit Jatiyon, Anusuchit Jan Jatiyon Aur Anya Pichhade Vargon Ke Liye Arakshan) Adhiniyam, 1994 (No.21 of 1994 (hereinafter to be referred to as the Act of 1994).	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, it was contended that the Registrar of the Cooperative Societies under Section 55 (1) of the Act of 1960 has full power to give direction for reservation under the Act in order to implement the Constitutional provision under Article 16(4)((a) of the Constitution of India.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also contended that writ is not maintainable because Cooperative Society is not a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution.	None
As against this, it was contended that the Act of 1994 clearly lays down that reservation will only be applicable in the establishment where the State Government has more than 51 per cent shareholding.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, Act of 1994 which regulates the reservation of vacancies of ST SC in State stipulates that reservation shall be made in establishment wherein holding of the State Government is more than 51 per cent and not in other establishments.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have considered the rival submissions of learned counsel for the parties.	None
Article 16 of the Constitution of India was amended and Clause (4A) was subsequently added in view of the decision rendered by this Court in Indra Sawhney Ors.	None
v. Union of India Ors.	None
1992 Supp.	None
(3) SCC 217	None
and in order to obviate the law laid down by this Court whereby reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes was also made permissible in the matter of promotion.	None
The validity of Article 16(4A) was again challenged before this Court and the matter was referred to the Constitution Bench.	None
The Constitution Bench in its decision in M. Nagaraj Ors. v. Union of India Ors.	None
(2006) 8 SCC 212 upheld the validity of Article 16(4A) of the Constitution of India but with certain conditions that it is left open to the State to identify and collect quantifiable data showing backwardness of the class and inadequacy of representation of that class in public employment, keeping in mind maintenance of efficiency in administration and such reservation is subject to the judicial review.	None
Their Lordships further laid down the ceiling of limit of maximum of 50 per cent.	None
Their Lordships warned that in case the parameters laid down in M.Nagaraja (supra) are not fulfilled, then such matter will be subject to the judicial review by the Court.	None
In the light of the recent decision of the Constitution Bench in M.Nagaraja (supra) one thing is clear that reservation can be made in promotion by the Government subject to the limits laid down by this Court in the aforesaid case.	None
Now, the question before us in the present case is whether the power exercised by the Registrar of Cooperative Societies under Section 55 of the Act of 1960 can be sustained or not in the light of Act of 1994.	Issue
Act of 1994 was promulgated by the State Government for the benefit of providing reservation in the vacancies in public services and posts in favour of persons belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other Backward Classes.	Issue
Therefore, this Act only contemplates reservation in public services.	None
In order to claim reservation in public offices, the definition of establishment as mentioned in Section 2(b) of the Act of 1994 will have to fulfilled.	None
Section 2(b) of the Act of 1994 reads as under Establishment means any office of the State Government or of a local authority or statutory authority constituted under any Act of the State for the time being in force, or a University or a Company, Corporation or a Cooperative Society in which not less than fifty one percent of the paid up share capital is held by the State Government and includes a work charge or contingency paid establishments.	None
Therefore, Section 2(b) clearly says that the establishment would include any office of the State Government or local authority or statutory authority constituted under the Act of the State or a University, or a company, Corporation or a Cooperative Society in which not less than 51 percent paid up share capital is held by the State Government and including work charge and contingency paid establishments shall be establishment and in that case reservation can be made for the members of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other Backward classes.	Reasoning
The very object of the Act is to provide reservation in public service and posts.	Reasoning
Therefore, it confined only for reservation in public services and not any other private institutions.	Reasoning
For the purpose of public service, an establishment should answer the requirement as given in Section 2(b) of the Act of 1994.	Reasoning
Therefore, reading the object and reason along with the definition of establishment it clearly transpires in the context of the Cooperative Society in which the State Government has paid up share capital of 51 percent or more, then the reservation can be made in such Cooperative Society.	Reasoning
The object reason of the Act reads as under An Act to provide for the reservation of vacancies in public services and posts in favour of the persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other Backward Classes of citizens and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.	None
Therefore, reading of objective of the Act of 1994 along with the definition of establishment it transpires that the Registrar under Section 55 of the Act of 1960 can lay down service condition for Cooperative Society in which the State has 51 percent of share capital.	Reasoning
In case any Cooperative Society in which the State does not have 51 percent of share capital, then that Cooperative Society will not come within the definition of establishment under Section 2(b) of the Act of 1994 and the Registrar of Cooperative Societies shall have no power to frame rule for reservation.	Reasoning
It is true that under Section 55 of the Act of 1960 the Registrar can give direction for reservation for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and other Backward classes while exercising the mandate under Article 16(4A) of the Constitution but at the same time he cannot ignore the State legislation i.e. the Act of 1994.	Reasoning
In fact, the Act of 1994 was also promulgated for achieving the object under Article 16(4A) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Once the State Legislature has framed an Act which is subsequent legislation in point of time i.e. the Madhya Pradesh Cooperative Societies Act, 1960 (Act 17 of 1961) came in 1960 whereas the present Act has come in 1994.	Reasoning
It is presumed that Legislature was aware of the power of the Registrar of the Cooperative Societies under Section 55 of the Act of 1960 to frame condition of service of employees of Cooperative Societies despite that the Legislature has promulgated the Act of 1994 and laid down ceiling that the reservation in favour of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other Backward classes should be made in the establishment where Government has more than 51 share holding.	Reasoning
Thus, on reading of both these two enactments it is more than clear that the Registrar of Cooperative Societies under Section 55 of the Act of 1960 has power to frame rules but at the same time he cannot ignore the impact of the Act of 1994.	Reasoning
The Registrar of Cooperative Societies can lay down the reservation in favour of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other Backward classes as general condition of service only in Cooperative societies in which the State has more than 51 percent paid up share capital and not for any other cooperative societies.	Reasoning
But the notification dated 6.3.1997 is of general in nature and does not make any distinction with Cooperative societies which do not have 51 per cent paid up share capital of State.	Reasoning
Therefore, to this extent the rule framed by the Registrar of Cooperative Societies, Madhya Pradesh by notification dated 6.3.1997 cannot be upheld and the same is struck down.	Reasoning
But by this it does not mean that the Registrar of Cooperative Societies, Madhya Pradesh is not denuded of his power to frame rules but he will have to keep in view the impact of the Act of 1994.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the respondents has also submitted that the Cooperative society is not a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution, therefore, the writ petition is not maintainable.	None
We need not go into this aspect as in view of the recent decision of this Act in Supriyo Basu Ors.	None
v. W.B.Housing Board Ors.	Reasoning
(2005) 6 SCC 289 their Lordships have laid down what are the parameters for challenging the orders passed by the Cooperative Societies.	Reasoning
It has been held that writ would be maintainable against a Cooperative society if it is established that a mandatory statutory provision of a statute has been violated.	None
Therefore, nothing turns on this aspect of the matter.	Reasoning
As a result of our above discussion, we do not find any merit in this appeal and the same is dismissed with no order as to costs.	Decision
