 Sarkar, J. 1.	None
These two appeals have been heard together.	Facts
The appellants in each case are the State of Uttar Pradesh, for short called U. P., and some of its Officers and the respondents in one appeal are Lakshmi Ice Factory and certain of its workers and in the other the Prakash Ice Factory and certain of its workers.	Facts
These appeals involve a question of construction of certain provisions of the U. P. Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, hereafter referred to as the Act.	Facts
2.	None
By a Notification issued on February 10, 1956, the Government of U. P. referred certain disputes which had cropped up between each of the Ice Factories and its respective workmen, to an Industrial Tribunal for adjudication.	Facts
The details of these disputes are not material for these appeals.	Facts
The Tribunal heard the matters but failed to pronounce its award in open court.	Facts
Instead, on November 8,1956, the Registrar of the Tribunal informed the Ice Factories that the award of the Tribunal had been submitted to the Government.	Facts
On December 15, 1956, the award was published in the U.P. Gazette an it appeared from this publication that the award was dated November, 8, 1956.	Facts
On December 26, 1956, the Regional Conciliation Officer appointed under the Act called upon the Ice factories to implement the award immediately.	Facts
Thereupon, the Ice factories moved the High Court at Allahabad on January 3., 1957, under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution for writs quashing the award and prohibiting the Government and the workmen from taking steps to implement it.	Facts
The contended that the award sought to be enforced was a nullity as it had not been pronounced in open court as required by certain rules to which reference will presently be made.	Facts
By a judgment passed on September 23, 1939, the High Court allowed the petitions of the Ice Factories and issued writs quashing the Notification publishing the award.	Facts
The appeals are against this judgement of the High Court.	Facts
3. Section 3 of the Act gives the Government power in certain circumstances to make provisions by general or special order (1)for appointing Industrial Courts, (2) for referring any industrial dispute for adjudication in the manner provided in the order and (3) for matters incidental or supplementary to the other provisions of the order.	Reasoning
Under this power the Government had issued an Order dated July 14, 1954 and this Order is here after called the Statutory Order.	None
It was under powers conferred by the Act read with the Statutory Order that the Government had issued the Notification of February 10, 1956.	None
4.	None
In exercise of powers conferred by Cl. 8 of the Statutory Order the Government had set up the Tribunal.	None
Clause 9 of the Statutory Order provides for the procedure, to be followed by the Tribunal.	None
Subclause (7 )of this clause is in these terms The decision of the Tribunal shall be in writing and shall be pronounced in open court and dated and signed by the member or members of the Tribunal, as the case may be, at the time of pronouncing it.	None
Clause 11 of the Statutory Order gives power to the Government to refer any industrial dispute to the Tribunal 5.	None
Subclause (S.) of C. 9 of the Statutory Order gives power to the Tribunal to make Standing Orders relating to its practice and procedure.	None
Under this subclause the Tribunal framed certain Standing Orders Standing Order No. 36 provided, Judgment shall be pronounced in open court either immediately after the close of the arguments or on a subsequent date of which previous notice shall be given to the parties.	None
It shall then be signed and dated by the Tribunal.	None
6.	None
Acting presumably under Standing Order No. 36, the Tribunal in the present case had fixed a date on which it would pronounce its judgment in open court.	None
This date does not appear on the record but on September 25, 1956, the Tribunal informed the parties that the date for pronouncing the award had been changed to October 9,1956.	None
On that date however, the award was not pronounced in open court, nor was any intimation of any other date for its pronouncement given to the parties.	None
The Ice Factories first came to know of the making of the award from the letter of the Registrar of the Tribunal dated November 8, l956 earlier referred to.	None
The award had in fact never been pronounced in open court.	None
7.	None
The first question is whether the provisions in subcl.	Issue
(7) of Cl.9 are imperative.	Issue
The High Court held that they were and thereupon quashed the Notification publishing the award.	None
The appellants contend that the High Court was in error and that the provisions are only directory and that the failure of Tribunal to pronounce the award in open court did not result in the award becoming void.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Ice Factories contend for the contrary view.	Arguments of Respondent
8.	None
Mr. Aggarwala for the appellants referred us to the rule of construction stated in Maxwell on Interpretation of Statutes, 10th ed.	Arguments of Petitioner
at p. 381, which is as follows Where the prescriptions of a statute relate to the performance of a public duty and where the invalidation of acts done in neglect of them would work serious general inconvenience or justice to persons who have no control over those entrusted with the duty without promoting the essential aims of the Legislature, such prescriptions seem to be generally understood as mere instructions for the guidance and government of those on whom the duty is imposed, or in other words, as directory only.	Arguments of Petitioner
He said that subcl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(7) of Cl. 9 of the Statutory Order imposed a public duty on the Tribunal and as none of the contesting parties to the proceedings before the Tribunal had any control over it, the provision in the Statutory Order as to how the Tribunal is to discharge its duty must be regarded as merely directory and therefore a disregard of that provision by the Tribunal would not render the thing done by it, a nullity.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
It seems to us that the rule read from Maxwell is not applicable to this case.	Reasoning
It applies only when to hold the prescriptions in a statute as to the performance of a public duty to be imperative would work injustice and hardship without serving the object of the statute.	Reasoning
None of these conditions are present in the statute now before us.	Reasoning
The rule may be illustrated by reference to the case of Montreal Street Railway Co. v. Nor mandin, 1917 AC 170 (AIR 1917 PC 142) which is cited in Maxwells book.	None
That was a case in which certain statutory provisions as to how the jury list was to be revised had not been followed and the question arose whether the verdict of a jury empanelled out of a list revised in disregard of the provisions was a nullity.	None
It was held that the verdict was not a nullity as the provision regarding the revision of the jury list was merely directory.	None
It was further held that the object of the provision was to distribute the burden of jury equally between all liable to it, to secure effective jurors likely to attend and lastly to prevent packing of the jury.	None
It was said that It does far less harm to allow cases tried by a jury formed as this one was, with the opportunities there would be to object to any unqualified man called into the box, to stand good, than to hold the proceedings null and void.	None
So to hold would not, of course, prevent the Courts granting new trials in cases where there was reason to think that a fair trial had not been had (p. 176 (of AC) (p. 144 of AIR).	None
10.	None
The case in band is wholly different.	Reasoning
The proceedings that were had before the Tribunal would not become null and void if we hold cl.	Reasoning
9 (7) of the Statutory Order to be imperative.	Reasoning
A view that the provision was imperative would cause no serious hardship to anyone.	Reasoning
The Government can always require the Tribunal to pronounce its decision in open court extending, if necessary for the purpose, the time fixed for giving its decision.	Reasoning
Either party to the proceeding can also ask the Government to call upon the Tribunal to pronounce its award in open court.	Reasoning
There is no doubt that the Government will so call upon the Tribunal when the defect is brought to its notice for the Government itself referred the matter to the Tribunal for its decision.	Reasoning
As soon as the Tribunal pronounces its award in open court, the proceedings will become fully effective.	Reasoning
11.	None
It is also an accepted rule of Construction that enactments regulating the procedure in courts are usually imperative Maxwell on Interpretation of Statutes, 10th ed.	Reasoning
p. 379.	Reasoning
It further appears to us that the object.	Reasoning
of the Legislature would be defeated by reading Cl.	Reasoning
9(7) of the Statutory Order as containing a provision which is merely directory.	Reasoning
We now proceed to ascertain that object from the other provisions in the Statutory Order, the Act and connected legislation.	Reasoning
12.	None
Section 6 of the U. P. Act provides as follows  (1) When an authority to which an industrial dispute has been referred for adjudication has completed its enquiry, it shall within such time as may be specified, submit its award to the State Government.	None
(2) The State Government mayenforce for such period as it may specify any of the decisions in the award.	None
It was under this section that the Tribunal submitted its award to the Government and the Government issued the Notification in the Gazette dated December 15, 1956, earlier mentioned and directed that the award be enforced for a period of one year from the date of the publication.	None
13.	None
Since the award has to be submitted to the Government by the Tribunal under S. 6 of the Act, the award has to be in writing for a verbal award cannot obviously be submitted to the Government.	Reasoning
It would therefore appear that the provision in sub cl.	Reasoning
(7) of Cl. 9 of the Statutory Order that the decision of the Tribunal shall be in writing is imperative.	Reasoning
This would be an indication that the other provisions in the same subclause connected with it were intended to be equally imperative.	Reasoning
14.	None
Then we find that Cl. 18 of the Statutory Order is in these terms The Tribunal or the adjudicator shall bear the dispute and give its or his decision within 180 days (excluding holidays but not annual vacations observed by courts subordinate to the High Court) from the date of reference made to it or him by the State Government and shall thereafter as soon as possible, supply a copy of the same to the parties to the disputeProvided that the State Government may extend the said period from time to time.	Reasoning
It seems to us that the provision in this clause is clearly mandatory.	Reasoning
The Tribunal has no power to make an award after the time mentioned in it if it had, the proviso to C. 18 would be wholly unnecessary.	Reasoning
The result therefore is that it is obligatory on the Tribunal to give its decision within 180 days from the date of the reference.	Reasoning
A decision given, that is, an award made, beyond this period would be nullity.	Reasoning
Now when Cl. 18 talks of giving a decision, it can only mean giving it in the manner indicated in sub cl.	Reasoning
(7) of Cl. 9 of the Statutory Order, that is, by pronouncing it in open Court, for that is the only manner of giving a decision which that Order contemplates.	Reasoning
It would follow that the terms of Cl.	Reasoning
9(7) were imperative, for otherwise no one would know whether the terms of Cl. 18 of the Statutory Order had been complied with, that is to say no one would know whether the award was void or not.	Reasoning
The provisions of Cl. 18 may thus be rendered nugatory by holding Cl.	Reasoning
9(7) to be only directory.	Reasoning
It would follow that unless the provision as to the pronouncement of the award in open court was mandatory, the intention of the framers of the Statutory Order would be defeated.	Reasoning
15.	None
Subclause (2) of C1.	Reasoning
24 of the Statutory Order also leads to the same conclusion.	Reasoning
That subclause is in these terms Clerical or arithmetical mistakes in decisions or awards, or errors arising therein from any accidental slip or omission may, within one month of giving the decision or award be corrected by the Tribunal or the adjudicator, either of its or his own motion or on the application of any of the parties.	Reasoning
Under this rule therefore clerical or arithmetical errors or slips may be corrected within one month of the giving of the decision and the parties have the right to apply for such corrections within that time.	Reasoning
The Tribunal has no right to correct an error beyond that time.	Reasoning
Nor has a party a right to move the Tribunal for making any such corrections after the time has expired In order that the intention of Cl. 24(2) may be given effect to, it is necessary that the date of the giving of the decision should be known.	Reasoning
It cannot promptly be known to the parties unless the award is pronounced in open court.	Reasoning
If any other manner of the giving of the decision was permissible as wound be the result if it was not obligatory to pronounce the decision in open court, then a party may be deprived of its right under Cl. 24 to move the Tribunal for correction of errors.	Reasoning
It is for this reason that Cl. 9(7) provides that the decision shall be dated and signed at the time of pronouncing it in open court.	Reasoning
This Signing and dating of the award after its pronouncement in open court makes it possible to see whether the terms of Cls. 18 and 24(2) have been complied with in any case.	Reasoning
16.	None
The third thing which to our mind indicates that pronouncement in open court is essential is Cl. 31 of the Statutory Order.	Reasoning
That clause is in these terms Except as provided in this Order and in the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950, every order made or direction issued under the provisions of this Order shall be final and conclusive and shall not be questioned by any party thereto in any proceedings.	Reasoning
The Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950 provides for appeals from decisions of certain Industrial Tribunals to the Appellate Tribunal established under it.	Reasoning
Clause 31 therefore makes a decision of the Tribunal on a reference to it final subject to an appeal if any allowed under the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950.	Reasoning
Under S. 7 of the Act of 1950, an appeal shall lie to the Appellate Tribunal from any award or decision of an Industrial Tribunal concerning certain specified matters.	Reasoning
Now an Industrial Tribunal mentioned in S. 7 includes a Tribunal set up under a State law which law does not provide for an appeal see S. 2(c)(iii) of the Act of 1950.	Reasoning
The U. P. Act does not provide for any appeal expressly but Cl. 31 of the Statutory Order makes a decision of the Tribunal final subject to the provisions of the Act of 1950.	Reasoning
It would therefore appear that an appeal would lie under the Act of 1950 to tie Appellate Tribunal constituted under it from a decision of a Tribunal set up under the Statutory Order.	Reasoning
Now under S. 10 of the Act of 1950, an appeal is competent if preferred within thirty days from the date of the publication of the award where such publication is provided for by the law under which the award is made, or from the date of the making of the award where there is no provision for such publication.	Reasoning
Now the U.P. Act or the Statutory Order does not provide for any publication of an award.	Reasoning
Therefore an appeal from the Tribunal set up under the Statutory Order has to be filed within thirty days from the making of the award.	Reasoning
Hence again it is essential that the date of the making of the award shall be known to the parties to enable them to avail themselves of the right of appeal.	Reasoning
This cannot be known unless the judgment is pronounced in open court for the date of award is the date of its pronouncement.	Reasoning
Hence again pronouncement of the judgment in open court is essential.	Reasoning
If it were not so, the provisions for appeal might be rendered ineffective.	Reasoning
17.	None
For all these reasons it seems to us that the clear intention of the legislature is to make it imperative that judgments should be pronounced in open court by the Tribunal and judgments not so pronounced would therefore be nullity.	Reasoning
18.	None
In the view that we have taken it is unnecessary to deal separately with Standing Order No. 36.	Reasoning
The provisions of that Standing Order and Cl. 9(7) of the Statutory Order are substantially the same.	Reasoning
They should therefore be interpreted in the same way.	Reasoning
In any case since we have held Cl. 9(7) of the Statutory Order to be imperative it would not matter whatever view is taken of the Standing Order of the latter cannot affect the former.	Reasoning
19.	None
Mr. Aggarwala then argued that Cl.	None
9(7) of the Statutory Order and Standing Order No. 36 were ultra vires as being in conflict with the Act under which they had been framed.	Arguments of Petitioner
His contention was this Under S. 6 of the Act all that the Tribunal has to do is to submit its award to the Government after the conclusion of the enquiry before it.	Arguments of Petitioner
The section does not require tie Tribunal to pronounce its decision in open court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The provisions in the Statutory Order and the Standing Order both of which were made under powers contained in the Act, were therefore in conflict with S.6 and of no effect.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence be contended that the question whether the provisions of Cl. 9(7) of the Statutory Order or of Standing Order No. 36 were imperative did not really arise.	Arguments of Petitioner
20.	None
It seems to us that this contention of Mr. Aggarwala is without any foundation.	Reasoning
Section 6 when it requires that the Tribunal shall submit its award to the Government necessarily contemplates the making of the award.	Reasoning
Neither S. 6 nor any other provision in the Act provides how the award is to be made.	Reasoning
Under S. 3(g) however the Government has power by general or special order to provide for incidental or supplementary matters necessary for the decision of an industrial dispute referred for adjudication under any order made under S. 3.The provision as to the pronouncement of the decision in open court in Cl.	Reasoning
9(7) of the Statutory Order clearly is within the powers contemplated in S,3(g).	Reasoning
Section 6 does not prohibit the making of such a provision.	Reasoning
Its main purpose is to direct that the Tribunal shall submit award to the Government so that it may be enforced.	Reasoning
It has nothing to do with the manner in which the Tribunal is to make its award A rule duly framed under the Act requiring the Tribunal to pronounce its decision in open court is therefore not in conflict with.	Reasoning
S. 6 21.	None
The result is that these appeals fail and are dismissed with costs.	Decision
22.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
