 P. JEEVAN REDDY, J. A common question arises in the appeal and the special leave petitions.	None
Leave granted in the special leave petitions The assessee is common in all the appeals.	None
For the sake of convenience we shall refer to the facts in the Civil Appeal No. 4734 of 1984 which pertains to the assessment year 197668 (141967 to 3131968).	Issue
The matter arises under the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1959 The assessee is a manufacturer of biscuits.	None
It is a registered dealer both under the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1959 and the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956.	Facts
The biscuits manufactured by the respondent are sold in tins.	Facts
In respect of the biscuits sold outside the city of Bombay and its suburbs, the price charged by the respondent includes the cost of tins in which the biscuits are sold but insofar as the city of Bombay and its suburbs are concerned  with which sales alone we are concerned herein  the respondent followed a different practice.	Facts
While selling the biscuits in tins, it collected the price of biscuits alone and so far as the tins in which biscuits were sold, it took a refundable deposit with the stipulation that if the tin is returned within three months in good condition, the deposit shall be returned.	Facts
These deposits were credited to Deposit account returnable tins.	Facts
The tins so supplied to purchasers were shown as the stock of the respondentassessee in its account books, but debited in the customers account.	Facts
When the tins were returned, a reversal entry was made in both the account.	Facts
Sales tax was charged only on the sale price of the biscuits but not on the deposit received in respect of the tins.	Facts
Indeed in respect of the city of Bombay and its suburbs, a separate price list was issued by the respondent.	Facts
The price list carried an endorsement (A) Deposit of Rs. 5.50 for LB tins and Rs. 3.50 for LS tins will be charged at the time of supply, which will be refunded on return of tins in good condition within 3 months from date of supply.	Facts
In the invoices issued by the respondent, there was a separate column showing the number of tins supplied to the purchaser and the amount of deposit received from him in that behalf.	Facts
At the top of the invoice the following endorsement occurred Dealers are informed that the Companys liability to refund the value of returnable tins extends only up to three months from the date of the invoice.	Facts
It has however been found by the High Court that notwithstanding the endorsement on the price list as well as on the invoice, the respondent was in fact receiving the tins returned even after the expiry of three months and refunding the deposit amount For the assessment year 197668, the respondent received a total deposit amount of Rs. 12, 97, 229.05 paise.	Facts
Out of the said amount, Rs. 11, 29, 202.00 was refunded to the customers on receiving back the tins.	Facts
At the end of the accounting year, a balance of Rs. 1, 68, 027.05 paise was left outstanding.	Facts
As per the accounting practice followed by the respondent in this behalf, the assessee wrote off 50 per cent of this amount, viz., Rs. 84, 013 reducing the corresponding tinstock account to that extent.	Facts
The said amount was treated as a trading receipt and was transferred to P L account.	Facts
This amount represented the value of the tins which the respondent thought were not likely to be returned.	Facts
The balance amount of Rs. 84, 013 was shown as the value of the closing stock of tins (and was shown as the opening balance in the next years account)	Facts
In the assessment proceedings relating to the said assessment year, the Assessing Authority included the sum of Rs. 84, 013 (the amount written off by the respondent in the tinstock account and transferred to its P L account) in its taxable turnover.	Facts
He treated the said amount as the sale price of tins not returned.	Facts
The said inclusion was questioned by the respondent in appeal before the Assistant Commissioner of Sales Tax.	Facts
The appeal was dismissed.	Facts
The respondent carried the matter in second appeal to the Tribunal.	Facts
The Bench which initially heard the appeal referred the following question to a larger Bench Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the amount of Rs. 84, 013 represents the sale price of tins supplied by the appellantassessees and not returned by the customers during the period of assessment in question.	Facts
The Special Bench of the Tribunal answered the question in favour of the Revenue and against the respondent following which the respondents appeal was dismissed.	Facts
At the instance of the respondent, the Tribunal referred the following question for the opinion of the High Court Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in law in holding that the book entry of Rs. 84, 013 representing 50 per cent of the closing balance of the tin deposits left on 3131968 written off from the account stock of tins on the probable nonreturn of the tins by customers constitutes sale price ?	Facts
The High Court was of the opinion hat the arrangement between the respondent and the purchasers (from the city of Bombay and its suburbs) was one of bailment insofar as tins were concerned and not a transaction of sale.	Facts
It held that according to the said arrangement there is an obligation on the assessee (respondent) to accept the tins returned and a corresponding obligation on the customer to return the tins.	Facts
Accordingly it held that the amount of deposit in the hands of the assesseeCompany at the end of the assessment year which is written off by the assessees on a notional basis cannot be treated as price of tins sold and is not exigible to sales tax.	Facts
The High Court did observe that the manner in which accounts are maintained by assessee or entries are made in their account book is not conclusive of the matter and that the true nature of the transaction has to be determined on the basis of the precise arrangement between the parties.	Facts
It referred to various decisions of the High Courts cited by both the sides and distinguished them holding that the decision in each of those cases turned upon the precise terms of arrangement agreement between the parties.	Facts
In particular it distinguished the decision of that very Court (Goa Bench) in Arlem Breweries Ltd. v. Asstt.	Facts
CST ( 1983 (53) ITR 172 (Bom)) on the ground that in that case the terms of the sale did not contain any obligation on the purchaser to return bottles nor was there any time prescribed for such return.	Facts
The payment of deposit for bottle in advance was a term of the sale.	Facts
The petitioners had also no control over the return of the bottles which would be sold by the wholesalers to retailers and by the retailers to consumers.	Facts
Inasmuch as the Bench found in the present case that the purchaser was under an obligation to return the tins within three months, it held the situation was different from the one considered in Arlem Breweries ( 1983 (53) ITR 172 (Bom) Mr. K. Madhava Reddy, learned counsel for the appellantState submitted that the High Court was not right in holding that in this case, there was an obligation upon the purchaser to return the tins within three months.	Arguments of Respondent
From the endorsements on the price list and invoice, no such obligation can be inferred.	Arguments of Respondent
The return of the tins lay within the discretion and pleasure of the purchaser.	Arguments of Respondent
Even the timelimit of three months was not observed in practice, inasmuch as the tins returned even after the expiry of three months were taken back deposit amount refunded.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel submitted that in fact there was a sale of the tins along with the biscuits ad when the tins were returned and the deposit amount refunded by the respondent it was a case of a purchase of tins by the respondent.	Arguments of Respondent
In short, the learned counsel commended the approach and reasoning of the Tribunal for our acceptance.	Arguments of Respondent
On the other hand Shri Joseph Vellapally, learned counsel for the respondentassessee submitted that the transaction between the appellant and the purchaser was one of bailment and not of sale.	None
There was no sale of tins.	None
The tins supplied to the purchasers continued to be the property of the assessee and they were shown as the stock of the assessee in their account books.	None
At the end of the accounting year, half the amount of deposit representing the unreturned tins was written off and transferred to P L account.	None
The amount written off did not represent the sale price of tins inasmuch as there was no sale of tins.	None
At the most it can be treated as a compensation or damages for breach of the obligation lying on the purchaser to return the tins.	None
Whatever may be the nature of the said amount appropriated, it certainly was not the sale price of tins.	None
If so, no sales tax can be levied upon the said amount.	None
Learned counsel also pointed out that the approach and reasoning adopted by the Assessing Authority and the First Appellate Authority is different former the approach and reasoning adopted by the Tribunal.	None
According to the former the sale of tins took place when the assessee made the entries at the end of the accounting year debiting the sum of Rs. 84, 013 from Deposit account returnable tins.	None
According to the said authorities the said writing off and transferring of the said amount to the P L account as a trading receipt constituted the sale of tins, which the assessee concluded would not be returned.	None
They did not proceed on the basis that there was a sale of tins in the first instance followed by a buyback of the same by the respondent when the tins were returned.	None
However, when the matter reached the Tribunal, is adopted a different approach.	None
According to the Tribunal it was a case of sale of tins in the first instance and when the tins were returned by the purchaser it was a case of purchase of tins by the respondent.	None
The difference between the two figures, to the extent written off by the appellant, was treated as a trading receipt and as part of the respondents turnover of sales The true nature of the transaction has to be decided in this case on the following material  the endorsements on the price lists as well as the invoices issued by the respondent the fact that in respect of sales to dealers in the city of Bombay and its suburbs invoices showed sale of biscuits only and not of tins that sale tax was charged only on the sale price of biscuits and and that refundable deposit was collected for tins supplied.	Reasoning
The manner in which entries were made by the respondent in its account books including the tinstock deposit account are also said to be relevant facts there is also the finding that the appellant used to refund the deposit even in cases where the tins were returned after the expiry of three months.	Reasoning
Yet another relevant fact is that in respect of bulk of sales, tins were also sold along with the biscuits and that only in case of sales in Bombay and its suburbs that this different practice was being followed.	Reasoning
It is on the above material that we have to determine the question at issue.	Reasoning
But before we do that, it would be appropriate to refer to a few relevant provisions in the Bombay Sales Tax Act.	Reasoning
The expression sale is defined in clause (28) of Section 2 in the following words (28) sale means a sale of goods made within the State for cash or deferred payment or other valuable consideration, and includes any supply by a society or club or an association to its members on payment of a price of fees or subscription, but does not include a mortgage, hypothecation, charge or pledge and words sell, buy and purchase with all their grammatical variations, and cognate expressions, shall be construed accordingly (The remaining portion of the definition is omitted as unnecessary.)	None
The expression sale price is defined in clause (29) in the following words (29) sale price means the amount of valuable consideration paid or payable to a dealer for any sale made including any sum charged for anything done by the dealer in respect of goods at the time of or before delivery thereof, other than (the cost of insurance for transit or of installation.)	None
When such cost is separately charged Explanation.  	None
For the purposes of this clause, the amount of duties levied or leviable on goods under the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 or the Customs Act, 1962 or the Bombay Prohibition Act, 1949 shall be deemed to be part of the sale price of such goods, whether such duties are paid or payable or on behalf of the seller or the purchaser or any other person.	None
The expression turnover of sales is defined in clause (36) which runs thus Turnover of sales means the aggregate of the amounts of sale price received and receivable by a dealer in respect of any sale of goods made during a given period after deducting the amount of sale price, if any, refunded by the dealer to a purchaser, in respect of any goods purchased and returned by the purchaser within the prescribed period and includes,  the amounts received or receivable during the given period, in respect of goods delivered on or after the commencement of the Bombay Sales Tax(Amendment and Validating Provisions) Act, 1985 on hirepurchase or any system of payment by instalments and Where the registration certificate is cancelled, the amounts, in respect of sales made before the date on which the cancellation becomes effective, received or receivable after such date and Section 3 is the main charging section.	None
According to subsection (1) thereof, the liability to pay tax under the Act is on the turnover of sales and turnover of purchases of a dealer We agree with Mr. Vellapally, learned counsel for the respondent that there is a difference in the approach adopted by the Assessing and the First Appellate Authorities and the approach adopted by the Tribunal.	None
While the former held that the sale of tins took place when the respondent made the entries in its account books at the end of the accounting year writing off half the balance amount outstanding in the tinstock account, the Tribunal has understood the transaction between the parties as involving a sale of tins along with the biscuits and held that when the tins were returned and the deposit refunded by the respondent, it was a case of purchase of tins by the respondent.	Reasoning
But what is of interest to note is that the question which was referred by the Tribunal for the opinion of the High Court seems to reflect the approach adopted by the Assessing and the First Appellate Authorities rather than the approach adopted by the Tribunal.	Reasoning
In fact, if the approach and reasoning of the Tribunal is accepted, the question referred by the Tribunal for the opinion of the High Court cannot be said to arise from the order of the Tribunal within the meaning of Section 61 of the Bombay Act and need not be answered.	Reasoning
The proper course  which is indeed the course adopted by the High Court  is to take the question as stated and to answer it, keeping aside the interpretation placed by the Tribunal upon the transaction.	Reasoning
In other words, we have to and we do proceed to answer the question accepting the approach and reasoning adopted by the Assessing Authority and the First Appellate Authority.	Reasoning
A reading of the judgment of the High Court establishes beyond doubt that it has proceeded on this basis alone.	Reasoning
Indeed, it may not have been open to the Tribunal to make out a new case not put forward either by the assessee or by the Assessing Authorities.	Reasoning
We shall, therefore, take the basis adopted by the Assessing and the First Appellate Authorities for determining the question that has arisen herein We also agree with the High Court that the question whether there has been a sale of tins at the end of the accounting year  or along with the biscuits themselves  has to be determined on the precise terms of the transaction between the respondent and its customers and that n this aspect the manner in which the respondent maintained its accounts or made entries therein is not very much relevant	Reasoning
The first question to be answered in this case is whether there was an obligation upon the purchaser to return the tins or was it a case where the return or nonreturn of the tins lay within the discretion and pleasure of the purchaser customer.	Issue
In our opinion, neither the endorsement on the price list not the endorsement on the invoice can be said to create an obligation to return.	Reasoning
All that the endorsement on the price list says is that the deposit will be refunded on the return of the tins in good condition within three months.	Reasoning
Similarly the endorsement on the invoice stated that the Companys liability to return the value (note the word value) of returnable tins extends only up to three months.	Reasoning
Of course a finding has been recorded that in practice the respondent was not adhering to the said time  limit.	Reasoning
But it cannot be said that either the aforesaid endorsements or said practice the respondent created an obligation upon the customer to return the tins.	Reasoning
It was left to his choice.	Reasoning
If he thought it would be more advantageous to him to return the tins and get back the deposit amount, he could do so.	Reasoning
On the other hand, if he found it more advantageous to retain the tins and forgo the deposit, it was equally open to him not to return the tins.	Reasoning
(It is probably in view of this situation that the Tribunal understood and interpreted the transaction as involving a sale of tins along with the biscuits themselves, and a case of purchase of tins by the respondent when it received back the tins and refunded the deposit.)	Reasoning
It must be remembered that sales of the respondent were spread all over the country and the normal practice was to sell the tin along with the biscuits contained therein and that it was also the most convenient and cheap method of selling the biscuits by the respondent.	Reasoning
The sales within the city of Bombay and its suburbs represented only a small portion of its total volume of sales.	Reasoning
It is only in the case of this small portion of its sales that the respondent followed a different practice aforesaid.	Reasoning
Another circumstance to be kept in mind in this behalf is that the deposit amount stipulated, received and kept by the respondent was always a little higher (by 20 per cent as we shall indicate later) than the value of the tin.	Reasoning
May be, this was done to induce the customer to return the tin, or may be the respondent was careful enough to provide for the consequences of nonreturn, including the possibility of the transaction being treated as a sale and taxed as such.	Reasoning
The fact remains that when the tin was not returned the said deposit was treated as a trading receipt (by making necessary entries in its books) treating 20 per cent of the deposit amount as profit.	Reasoning
In all these circumstances, we are unable to agree with the High Court that the transaction arrangement understanding between the parties created an obligation upon the purchaser customer to return the tins.	Reasoning
Mr. Joseph Vellapally submitted that inasmuch as all the tins supplied to the purchasers were treated as the stock of the respondent in its account books, it must be presumed that the purchasers were in custody of the respondents property which they were obliged in law to return.	Reasoning
Acceptance of this contention, in our opinion, amounts to attaching undue importance to the entries in the account books of the respondent and to ignoring the true nature of the transaction It may also be noticed that the theory of ailment put forward by the respondent is in our opinion, not very accurate.	None
Once it is held that there was no obligation to return the tins, the theory of bailment falls to the ground.	None
It would then not be a case where some property of the respondent was entrusted to the purchasers customers with stipulation that they should be returned or otherwise disposed of according to the directions of the respondents, within the meaning of Section 148 of the Contract Act, which defines the expression bailment.	None
The definition reads A bailment is the delivery of goods by one person to another for some purpose upon a contract that they shall, when the purpose is accomplished, be returned or otherwise disposed of according to the directions of the person delivering them.	None
The person delivering the goods is called the bailor.	None
The person to whom they are delivered is called the bailee In our opinion, the transaction in question is neither a bailment nor a pledge.	None
It was a composite transaction.	Reasoning
It was to start with an entrustment which could result in a sale of tins in case of nonreturn of the tins.	Reasoning
While entrusting the tins, the respondent took care to stipulate and receive the value of the tins and a little more  to be precise 20 per cent.	Reasoning
If the tin was returned, well and good  the transaction remained one of entrustment.	Reasoning
But if not returned within 3 months, it became a sale as per the terms of the transaction.	Reasoning
The fact that the respondent was receiving back the tins even after the expiry of three months and returning the deposits was more by way of graceprobably a business decision  rather than a matter of right or an obligation We must at this stage refer to Section 24 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930.	Reasoning
It reads Goods sent on approval or on sale or return.  	None
When goods are delivered to the buyer on approval or on sale or return or other similar terms, the property therein passes to the buyer  When the signifies his approval or acceptance to the seller or does any other act adopting the transaction If he does not signify his approval or acceptance to the seller but retains the goods without giving notice of rejection, then, if a time has been fixed for the return of the goods on the expiration of such time, and, if no time has been fixed, on the expiration of a reasonable time.	None
Section 24 has to be read along with subsection (3) of Section 19 which says that unless a different intention appears, the rules contained in Sections 20 to 24 are rules for ascertaining the intention of the parties as to the time at which the property in the goods is to pass to the buyer.	None
Section 24 appears to be practically in the same terms as Section 18 of the English Sale of Goods Act, 1979 which itself is but a repetition of the common law rule to that effect.	None
The law in this behalf is stated in Halsburys Laws of England, IVth Edn.	None
Vol. 41, para 727 in the following words When property passes.  	None
Unless a different intention appears, when goods are delivered to the buyer on approval, or on sale or return, or other similar terms, the property in the goods passes to the buyer when the signifies his approval or acceptance to the seller or does any other act adopting the transaction and if he does not signify his approval or acceptance to the seller but retains the goods without giving notice of rejection, then, if a time has been fixed for the return of the goods, on the expiration of reasonable time.	None
What is a reasonable time is a question of fact.	None
In para 728, it is stated Similar terms.  	None
A delivery of goods is not made on terms similar to a delivery on approval or on sale or return unless the effect of the transaction is that the bailee has the option of becoming the owner of the goods and on terms substantially the same as those already mentioned.	None
The principle of Section 24 inter alia is that where the goods are delivered to the buyer on terms similar to the delivery of goods on approval or on sale or return, the property in the goods therein passes to the buyer, if he does not signify his approval or acceptance and also does not return the goods within the time prescribed therefor.	Reasoning
According to the said principle, the position of the purchaser, until he returns the goods within the prescribed period, is that of a bailee and on the expiry of the said period, he becomes a purchaser.	Reasoning
Where however, the person to whom the goods ar delivered is under an obligation to return the goods, there is no question of sale ever coming into being and the person to whom the goods are delivered remains a bailee.	Reasoning
The transaction herein is in its nature nearer to the situation contemplated by and to the principle of Section 24  inasmuch as the tins were delivered to the buyer with the stipulation that if he returns the tins in which the biscuits were sold in good condition within three months, he will get back the deposit kept by him in that behalf.	Reasoning
It meant that after the expiry of the said period, he had no right to claim the refund on return of goods.	Reasoning
The transaction then became a sale.	Reasoning
As stated above, the customer was under no obligation to return, as explained hereinbefore he had a right to return the tins in good condition within three months.	Reasoning
Correspondingly, the respondentassessee was under an obligation to refund the deposit amount if the tins were returned within three months in good condition after the expiry of three months, the respondent was under no such obligation though it may be that for his own business or other reasons, he may yet accept the return of the tins and refund the deposit Mr. Vellapally, learned counsel for the respondent submitted that for constituting the sale price as defined by the Act, there must be a specific sale of goods to a specific buyer and that on the approach adopted by the Assessing authority and the First Appellate Authority (whereunder sale of tins is held to have taken place at the end of the accounting year when the respondent made the entries in his books)	Arguments of Respondent
no such specificity is identifiable.	Arguments of Respondent
In the absence of such identification of the sale and the purchaser, the learned counsel submitted, the sale price cannot be ascertained.	Arguments of Respondent
The said contention is unacceptable in the facts of this case.	None
From the facts set out in the judgment of the High Court, it appears that each customer purchaser (evidently all of them were wholesalers) had an account with the respondent and when a particular number of tins were supplied to a customer, an entry was made to that effect in that customers account in the account books of the respondent besides making an entry in the other relevant account books of the respondent.	Reasoning
It is further recorded in the judgment that when the customer returned the tins, a reverse entry was made in the customers account as well as in the relevant account books of the assessee.	Reasoning
If so there could be no difficulty in identifying the customer who failed to return the tins.	Reasoning
The submission of Mr. Vellapally is thus without a factual foundation To test the validity of the contention urged by Mr. Vellapally, we put to him a straight question, viz.	None
, if the deposit amount appropriated by the respondent to its P L account, treating it as a trading receipt, is not a sale price, then what is its nature ?	Issue
The answer of the learned counsel was that it is compensation or damages for breach of obligation to return the tins by the purchaser customer.	None
But once we hold that thee was no such obligation, then the said trading receipt cannot be anything but sale price.	None
No other label could be suggested for it Mr. Vellapally relied upon the decision of this Court in Raj Steel v., State of A. P. in support of his propositions.	None
The said decision lays down, following the earlier decision of this Court in Hyderabad Deccan Cigarette Factory v. State of A. P. that the question whether there was a sale of container along with the contents is not a question of law but one of fact and that the said question has to be decided in each case having regard to the facts of that particular case.	None
But while determining this question the Court should not be led away by the manner in which the assessee has made entries in its own account books but must look to the substance of the transaction and decide what in truth and in reality it amounts to.	None
This is approach and opinion both of the High Court as well as the Special Bench of the Tribunal.	None
As held by us hereinbefore, this was a composite transaction in case of nonreturn of the tins within three months it became a sale of the unreturned tins We may mention in this connection that the decision of the Bombay High Court (Goa Bench) in Arlem Breweries ( 1983 (53) ITR 172 (Bom)) referred to and distinguished in the judgment under appeal has been noticed by this Court in Raj Steel In our opinion, just as in Arlem Breweries ( 1983 (53) ITR 172 (Bom)), in this case too, payment of an amount for the bottles in advance (called deposit) was a terms of the sale We do not think it necessary to refer to various decision of the High Courts referred to in the judgment under appeal or to other decisions brought to our notice for the reason that each of those cases turned upon the terms and the language of the arrangement transaction between the parties.	None
We reiterate that the question arising herein is not a pure question of law it is a mixed question of law and fact For the above reasons the appeals are allowed and the judgment of the High Court is set aside.	None
The question referred to the High Court is answered in the affirmative, i.e., in favour of the Revenue and against the assessee.	Decision
There shall be no orders as to costs.	Decision
