 R. Krishna lyer, J. 1.	None
The appellant Capt. Virendra Kumar appea?red in person and argued his case with refreshing clarity and merciful brevity.	None
The judgment of the High Court, which went against him, sets out the facts in detail and so we do not have to go over the grounds again except to highlight the decisive facts and the relevant law.	Issue
The appellant?s writ petition before the High Court was dismissed and he has secured special leave for this appeal.	Facts
2. Captain Virendra Kumar was an emergency Commissioned Officer who joined the army way back in 1964.	Facts
Apparently, he was fighting in the frontline and sustained a spinal injury while in action.	Facts
From the materials on record, we notice that he had been a brilliant and courageours officer, but bullets do not discriminate between the brave and the mussclaninous, between the splendid and the stupid.	Facts
Anyway, the appellant?s continuance after having sustained the injury became an issue for the Army authorities to decide, and he was released by the Chief with the offer of a pension of a pittance.	Facts
It was represented to us that Rs. 51.50 per month was the amount of pension preferred.	Facts
What a magnificant sum for one who had fought on the warfront and exposed his life to extinguishment so that the security of the nation might be defended.	Facts
Indeed, if such be the parsimeny with which the Army prices patriotism, the morals of the defence service may be adver?sely affected.	Facts
We are disturbed by this unimaginative attitude which may have long range impact on or jawans who deserve special solicitude having regard to the supreme sacrifice they are sometimes called upon to make.	Facts
3. Going to back to the facts, constitutive of the grievance of the appel?lant, we may state that the Army Act and the rules and regulations and ins?tructions thereunder govern the fate of commissioned officers including those on emergency commissions like the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
When in emergency commis?sioned officer has to be released on grounds which are provided for Army Instruction 9/S/62 dated November 24, 1962 applies.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Instruction, according to the appellant, does not have statutory status and, therefore, does not bind him.	Arguments of Petitioner
We do not agree.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand the technical gloss put by the appellant legalistic and does not appeal to us and we concur with the High Court in the view taken that the said instruction governs Emergency Commissioned Officers.	Arguments of Respondent
Sections 21,23,27 and 191 to 193 together with the residuary executive power cannot be done by technical trunextion of the sense and sweep of the rules.	Arguments of Respondent
That, indeed, is the submission made by Shri Francis, appearing for the Union of India and we accept it.	Arguments of Respondent
On that footing, paragraph 15 of the said Instructions is attracted.	Arguments of Respondent
4.	None
It is common ground that the appellant was released and discharged on account of physical disability.	None
This is also vouched for by the communica?tion from the President?s Secretariat to the appellant dated 13/23 April, 1971 extracted in the paper book.	None
Once we assume that the termination of the emergency commission of the appellant was on the basis of medical unfitness or physical disability, the procedure to be followed in releasing the officer becomes important.	None
In Service Jurisprudence, procedural safeguards are of prime significance.	None
Paragraph 17 of the Army Instruction aforesaid runs thus ?	None
17.	None
GENERAL All other terms and conditions of service, where of not at variance with the above provisions, will be the same as for regular officers.?	None
So much so, for emergency commissions the conditions of service of regular commission will apply except where it is separately provided.	None
On February 14, 1965 the appellant was granted Emergency Commis?sion into the Regular Army under A I. 9/S/62.	None
5.	None
In accordance with the intention expressed in para 15(c) of the A.I. 9/S/62 that an officer granted emergency commission if eligible and suitable in all respects may be considered at the appropriate time for perma?nent regular commission in the Regular Army, Army Instruction 13/S/65 was issued.	None
The relevant paras are reproduced below ?	None
1.	None
Service Emergency Commissioned Officers granted Commission under A.I. 9/S/62 will be eligible for the grant of Permanent Commissions under the terms and conditions of service as given in the succeeding paragraphs.	None
2. ELIGIBILITY (a) x x x x (b) x x x x (a) Must be in medical Category A.V.E. one (Al).	None
Those who have been placed in Medical Category ?A2? ?	None
Bl? and ?B2?	None
as a result of enemy action may also be considered on merits of each individual case?.	None
6.	None
In accordance with the Army Instruction 13/S/65, the screening of the Emergency Commissioned Officers for grant of permanent commission commenced.	Reasoning
The Emergency Commissioned Officers, where not found fit for the grant of permanent commission were to be released in accordance with the phased programme issued by the Army Headquarters in Memoran?dum No. A/11579/II Org.	Reasoning
2 (M.P.) (a) Copy of the memorandum admitted to be correct is reproduced as in records of the case, only extracts have been given.	Reasoning
7. It necessarily follows that the conditions of service including termi?nation of service which govern Emergency Commissioned Officers must largely be equated with those that relate to Regular Commissioned Officers.	None
This conclusion, implicit in paragraph 17 quoted above, takes us to the next step of the conditions of service visavis release of regular Commissioned Officers.	None
They are set out in Rules 15 and 15A of the Army Rules, 1964.	None
At this stage, we may reproduce those two rules to the extent relevant ?15.	None
Termination of Service by the Central Government on grounds other than misconduct?(1) When the Chief of the Army Staff is satisfied that an officer is unfit to be retained in the service due to inefficiency or physical disability, the officer (a) shall be so informed (b) shall be furnished with the particulars of all matters adverse to him and (c) shall be called upon to urge any reasons he may wish to put forward in favour of his retention in the service Provided that Clauses (a), (b) and (c), shall not apply if the Central Govern?ment is satisfied that for reasons to be recorded by it in writing, it is not expedient or reasonably practicable to comply with the provisions thereof Provided further that the Chief of the Army Staff may not furnish to the officer any matters adverse to him, if in his opinion, it is not in the interest of the security of the State to do so.	None
(2) In the event of the explanation being considered by the Chief of the Army Staff unsatisfactory, the matter shall be submitted to the Central Govt.	None
for orders, together with the officer?s explanation and the recommen?dation of the Chief of the Army Staff as to whether the officer should be (a) called upon to retire or (b) called upon to resign.	None
(3) The Central Government after considering the reports the expla?nations, if any, of the officer and the recommendation of the Chief of the Army Staff, may call upon the officer to retire or resign, and on his refusing to do so, the officer may be compulsorily retired or removed from the service on pension or gratuity, if any, admissible to him.	None
15A. Release on medical grounds (1) An Officer who is found by a Medical Board to be permanently unfit for any form or military service may be released from the service in accordance with the procedure laid down in this rule.	None
(2) The President of the Medical Board shall, immediately after the Medical Board has come to the conclusion that the officer is permanently unfit for any form of military service, issue a notice specifying the nature of the disease or disability he is suffering from and the finding of the Medical Board and also intimating him that in view of the finding he may be released from the service every such notice shall also specify that the officer may, within fifteen days of the date of receipt of the notice, prefer a petition against the finding of the Medical Board of the Chief of the Army Staff through the President of the Medical Boards Provided that where in the opinion of the Medical Board the officer is suffering from a mental disease and it is either unsafe to communicate the nature of the disease or disability to the officer or the officer is unfit to look after his interests, the nature of the disease or disability shall be communicated to the officer?s next of him who shall have the like right to petition.	None
(3) If no petition is preferred within the time specified in Subrule (2), the officer may be released from the service by an order to that effect by the Chief of the Army Staff.	None
(4) If a petition is referred within the time specified in Subrule (2), it shall be forwarded to the Central Govt.	None
together with the records thereof and the recommendation of the Chief of the Army Staff?The Central Govt.	None
may, after considering the petition and the recommendation of the Chief of the Army Staff, pass such order as it deems fit.?	None
8.	None
These two rules, so far as we are able to see, lay down the procedural basis for termination of services of Regular Commissioned Officers on account of physical disability or medical unfitness.	Reasoning
If Rule 15 applies toEmergency Commissioned Officers, as it does, prescribes a certain procedure which must be followed.	Reasoning
The Chief of the Army Staff must be.	Reasoning
It satisfied that the officer is unfit to be retained in the service due to physical disability.	Reasoning
By the way there are sedentary posts in the Army.	Reasoning
This satisfaction is not purely subjective and only on its formation the Chief of the Army Staff shall proceed further.	Reasoning
He may, thereafter, inform the officer concerned about the ground for release from service.	Reasoning
Natural justice comes in at this stage.	Reasoning
Once the Chief of the Army Staff holds that the officer?s physical disability justifies termination of service, there is another opportunity given by the Rule (Rule 15(2)) for the affected officer to make an explanatory representation to the Central Government.	Reasoning
The orders of the Central Government, after considering the reports and the explanations, and the recommendation of the Chief of the Army Staff, will be made under Rule 15(3).	Reasoning
This finished the exercise under Rule 15.	Reasoning
If Rule 15Ais to be invoked in the case of the commissioned officer, the Army Chief has to make up his mind the procedure, to be followed is set out therein.	Reasoning
A Medical Board has to examine the officer.	Reasoning
Other procedures in keeping with natural justice are also set out.	Reasoning
But nothing has been brought to our notice indicating that the fair procedure under Rule 15 or 15A has been farely or at all followed.	Reasoning
Mere injury in action does not automatically end the officer?s service.	Reasoning
The consequence is that the order of termination of service is invalid for failure to adhere to basic procedure.	Reasoning
Even the top boss must act according to law as lawlessness in the Defence Force is a grave risk, fourstar general or foot infantory Jawan.	Reasoning
9.	None
The inevitable result of the invalidation of the termination of service is that the officer comes back into service and, therefore, the salary due to him from the time of his formal release or termination down to date will have to be paid.	Reasoning
We direct that this be done within three months from today.	Reasoning
10.	None
The fact that the order of release or termination is invalid for noncompliance with the procedural requirements does not make the officer a Permanent or Regular Commissioned Officer.	Reasoning
His services are still liable to be terminated, but the correct procedure has to be followed.	Reasoning
It looks as if the appellant has suffered a physical disability in action and the Chief of the Army has full power to act and may either resort to Rule 15 or 15Aand deal with him on that footing.	Reasoning
Or may allot to him some sedentary position consistent with his physical condition and his otherwise proven talent.	Reasoning
11.	None
We are sure that the defence personnel are dear to the country and to the Defence Department and so a considerate disposition will be brought to bear on the dealing with the appellant Virsndra Kumar.	Reasoning
Human resources are the real wealth of a nation.	Reasoning
12.	None
Subject to the above directions, we allow the appeal, hopeful that a just adjustment of the human situation in which the appellant finds himself will be made by the union of India.	Decision
In the circumstances of the case, we direct that the appellant be paid costs quantified at Rs. 5,000.	Decision
