 UNTWALIA, J. 1.	None
This is an appeal by an assessee on grant of a certificate of fitness by the Bombay High Court under section 66A (2) of the Incometax Act, 1922hereinafter referred to as the 1922 Act.	Facts
The assessee is an individual.	Facts
We are concerned in this case with his assessment for the assessment year 195859corresponding accounting year being 1st April, 1957 to 31st March, 1958.	Facts
The Income tax Tribunal made a composite order disposing of the assessees appeals in respect of two assessment years i.e. 195859 and 195960.	Facts
The decision of the Tribunal was partly in favour of the assessee and partly in favour of the Revenue.	Facts
In respect of the assessment year 195859, a reference under section 66(1) of the 1922 Act was made by the Tribunal to the High Court.	Facts
Four questions were referredone at the instance of the Commissioner of Incometax and three at the instance of the assessee.	Facts
The High Court by its judgment under appeal which is reported in Commissioner of Incometax (Central), Bombay v. P.K. Badiani (76 I.T.R. 369.) has answered almost all the questions.	Facts
against the assessee.	Facts
Hence this appeal.	Facts
2. Mr. V. Rajgopal who had argued the case of the assessee before the High Court appeared before us in support of the appeal also.	Arguments of Petitioner
He could not and did not attack the decision of the High Court as respects questions 2, 3 and 4.	Arguments of Petitioner
But he strenuously urged before us for reversal of the High Court judgment in regard to question No. 1 which was referred at the instance of the Commissioner.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the assessee could succeed before u s in getting an answer in his favour to the said question, then, substantially he would have succeeded in getting the whole of the relief.	Arguments of Petitioner
3. The first and the only question which falls for our examination in t his appeal was referred by the Tribunal to the High Court in the following terms(1)	None
Whether the development rebate reserve created by the company by duly charging the amount to the pro fit and loss account and being allowable under the Act constituted accumulated profits of the company within the meaning of section 2(6A)(e) of the Act?	Decision
4.	None
We proceed to state the necessary facts for determination of the above question only.	None
5.	None
The assessee was a major shareholder (although at the relevant time being a major or minor shareholder did not make any difference in law) in the Sadhana Textile Mills Pvt. Ltd. which was indisputably a Company in which the public were not substantially interested within the meaning of Section 23A of the 1922Act.	None
The assessee was also the Managing Director of the said Private Limited Company.	None
He had a mutual open and current account in the books of the Companythe accounting year of which was the calendar year i.e. commencing from January and ending in December.	None
The assessee in his accounting year 195758 had withdrawn considerable amounts of money from the Companys account.	None
The Incometax Officer treated the withdrawals made by the assessee as advances or loans given by the Company to him and taxed the amount as dividend under section 2(6A)(e) of the 1922 Act.	None
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner modified the figure of the deemed dividend calculated by the Incometax Officer and took the highest amount of advance made to the assessee by the Company at a particular point of time in the year in question as the amount of dividend taxable in the hands of the assessee.	None
The said amount was within the total figure of accumulated profits in the hands of the Company at the relevant time, i.e. 31st December, 1956.	None
It may just be stated here that according to the 1922 Act only the accumulated profits possessed by the company at the.	None
end of the corresponding previous year had to be taken into account unlike the corresponding provision engrafted in section 2(22) of the Incometax Act, 1961hereinafter referred to as the 1961 Act, read with Explanation II thereto.	None
It was found that the aggregate amount of development rebate allowed to the Company under section 10(2)(vib) was Rs. 2, 36, 470/.	None
The said amount had been debited in the profit and loss account of the Company for the accounting year 1966 leaving a balance of Rs. 6, 641/ only in the profit and loss account.	None
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner of Incomet ax treated the entire sum of Rs. 2, 43, 111/ as the amount of accumulated profits possessed by the Company.	None
Finding the highest amount of advance to the assessee.	None
at a particular point of time to be aggregating t	None
o	None
Rs. 1, 83, 493.70 he directed the addition of the said amount in the assessees income under section 2(6A)(e) of the 1922Act.	None
The High Court has directed some modification in the calculation of the said amount while answering the other questions referred to it at the instance of the assessee and we need not go into their details.	None
The main question for our determination in this appeal is whether the aggregate of the development rebates allowed to the Company under section 10(2)(vib) of the 1922Act could be treated as accumulated profits in the hands of the Company under section 2(6A)(e).	Issue
6.	None
The Incometax Acts have undergone numerous changes from time to time and various amendments have been made both in the 1922Act as also in the 1961Act.	None
We shall do well to quote all the sub clauses (a) to (e) of section 2(6A) of the 1922Act.	None
They read as follows2(6A) dividend includes (a) any distribution by a company of accumulated profits whether capitalised or not, if such distribution entails the release by the company to its shareholders of all or any part of the assets of the company (b) any distribution by a company of debentures, debenturestock or deposit certificates in any form, whether with or without interest, to the extent to, which the company possesses accumulated profits, whether capitalised or not (c) any distribution made to the shareholders of a company on its liquidation, to the extent to which the distribution is attributable to the accumulated profits of the company immediately before its liquidation, whether capitalised or not (d) any distribution by a company on the reduction of its capital to the extent to which the company possesses accumulated profits which arose after the end of the previous year ending next before the 1st day of April, 1933, whether such accumulated profits have been capitalised or not (e) any payment by a company, not being a company in which the public are substantially interested within the meaning of section 23A, of any sum (whether as representing a part of the assets of the comp any or otherwise) by way of advance or loan to a shareholder or any payment by any such company On behalf or for the individual benefit of a shareholder, to the extent to which t he company in either case possesses accumulated profitsExplanationThe expression accumulated profits, wherever it occurs in this clause, shall not include capital gains arising before the 1st day of April, 1946, or after the 31st day of March, 1948 and before the 1st day of April, 1956.	None
7.	None
The expression accumulated profits occurring in clause (e) of section 6 A, or as a matter of that in any of the other clauses, undoubtedly means profits in the commercial sense and not assessable or taxable profits liable to tax as income under the.1922 Act.	None
It is a well known concept of the taxation law that the term profits in the various sections of the Incometax Acts have not got the same meaning.	None
In the context sometimes it means the assessable profits and sometimes it means the commercial profits.	None
In Palmers Company Law, Twenty First Edition at page 662 the distinction between profits, divisible profits and profits available for dividend has been pointed out.	None
At the said page occurs an oft quoted classical passage from the judgment of Fletcher Moulton, L.J., in Re Spanish Prospecting Co. Ltd. (1911 1 Ch. 92, 98) which runs thusProfits implies a comparison between the state of a business at two specific dates usually separated by an interval of a year.	None
The fundamental meaning is the amount of gain made by the business during the year.	None
This can only be ascertained by a comparison of the assets of the business at the two dates If the total assets of the business at the two dates be compared, the increase which they show at the later date as compared with the earlier date (due allowance of course being made for any capital introduced into or taken out of the business in the meanwhile) represents in strictness the profits of t he business during the period in question.	None
Bhagwati, J. has quoted the above passage with approval in the case of E.D. Sassoon Company Ltd. and others v. Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay City.(26 I.T.R. 27 at page 46.)	None
Almost to the same effect , was the view expressed by Mahajan, J. as he then was, in the case of Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay v. Ahmedbhai Umarbhai Co., Bombay(18 I.T.R. 472 at 502.)	None
In Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay City v. Bipinchandra Maganlal Co.	None
Ltd.(41 I.T.R. 290.)	None
Shah, J., as he then was, delivering the judgment on behalf of the Court while interpreting the expression smallness of profits occurring in section 23A of the 1922 Act said at page 296A company normally distributes dividends out of its business profits and not out of its assessable income.	None
There is no definable relation between the assessable income and the profits of a business concerned in a commercial sense.	None
Computation of income for purposes of assessment of incometax is based on a variety of artificial rules and takes into account several fictional receipts, deductions and allowances Smallness of the profit in section 23A has to be adjudged in the light of commercial principles and not in the light of total receipts, actual or fictional.	None
8.	None
The same view has been expressed by this Court in Gobald Motor Service (P) Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax, Madras(60 I.T.R. 417.).	None
We think that the term profits occurring in section 2(6A)(e) of the 1922 Act means profits in the commercial sensethat is to say the profits made by the Company in the real and true sense of the term.	None
, We may just give one example.	None
Suppose the assessable profit of a company is Rs. 1, 00, 000/ out of which the Company had to pay a tax under the Incometax Actsay to the extent o f Rs. 30, 000/. .Although payment of tax is not a sum deductible from the assessable profits of the Company, in the commercial sense the Company would be left with a sum of Rs. 70, 000/ only as profits.	None
We m ay add that Mr. Rajgopal could not and did not seriously dispute this proposition of law.	None
9.	None
The gravamen of the argument of the assessee has been that development rebate deductible from the assessable profits of the Company is also.	None
a type of outgoing expenditure or outofpocket cost which is deductible while ascertaining the profits of the Company in the commercial sense.	None
Counsel submitted that it is in the nature of a depreciation allowance and is identical with initial depreciation it should, therefore, be deducted from the commercial profits of the Company as held by the Gujarat High Court in the case of Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay North v. Viramgam Mills Co. Ltd.	None
(43 I.T.R. 270.).	None
This argument found favour with the Tribunal but was repelled by the High Court.	None
The point is res integra and we have to examine the correctness of the view expressed by the High Court.	None
Depreciation allowance has been allowed to be deducted from the assessable .profits of an assessee under section 10(2) (vi) of the 1922 Act corresponding to section 32 of the 1961 Act.	None
It would appear from the report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission 195354 Vol. II as to what is the nature of the depreciation allowance vide Chapter V, page 74.	None
The normal depreciation provided in clause (vi) and the additional depreciation mentioned in clause (via) of section 10(2) of the 1922 Act is permitted to be deducted from the written down value.	None
By and large, the cost of replacements is allowed as deductions in lieu of depreciation in respect of certain assets.	None
By the amendments made by the Incometax Amendment Act, 1946., the Finance Act, 1955 and the Finance Act, 1956 certain initial depreciation was allowed in respect of buildings newly erected or the machinery and plant newly installed.	None
Obviously, it was by way of an incentive for the new structures or the new installations.	None
The amount of initial depreciation was not deductible in determining the written down value although under proviso (c) it was to be taken into account in the aggregate of all allowances so as not to permit them to exceed the maximum limit provided therein.	None
Development rebate was provided in clause (vib) with effect from 1st April, 1955 by the Finance Act of 1955.	None
There was an overlapping period of about two years in relation to the allowance of initial depreciation or the development rebate.	None
But as provided for in cl ause (vi) an assessee could not have had both even in regard to that period.	None
Although initial depreciation and development rebate were not identical as they differed in some material particulars, they were similar in nature as both were by way of incentive for installation of new machinery or plant.	None
The initial depreciation or the development rebate was to be allowed, as the case may be at a certain percentage of the actual cost of the machinery or the plant for the year of installation only.	None
It was not a recurring allowance for the subsequent years like the allowance of the normal depreciation or the additional depreciation.	None
The Taxation Enquiry Commission in its report aforesaid had recommended in Chapter VII, page 98 of Vol. II for assisting the expansion and development ofproductive enterprise by allowing them a proportion of new investment in fixed assets to be charged to current costs of production thereby permitting the taxable profits to be brought down to that extent.	None
In the Finance Act of 1955 a provision was made to allow a development rebate of 25 o f the cost of all new plant and machinery installed for business purposes instead of the then existing initial depreciation allowance of 20.	None
It would thus be seen that by way of an incentive for installation of new machinery and plants initial depreciation allowance of 20 was replaced by a development rebate of 25.	None
But it was, like grant of export rebate by way of incentive to make more exports, in the nature of an incentive for setting up new machineries and plants.	None
We do not find any warrant for accepting the contention of Mr. Rajgopal that the initial depreciation or the development rebate was allowed as an extra deductible allowance of business expenses in the year of installation of new machinery for meeting the ever increasing costs of its replacement in future years.	Reasoning
In our opinion it was meant merely to reduce the tax liability of the assessee in order to give him an incentive to instal new machineries or plants.	Reasoning
The Gujarat High Court in the case of Viramgam Mills Co. Ltd. (supra) was concerned with the question as to whether the normal depreciation reserve of .the Company could be taken to be the accumulations of past profits within the meaning of the proviso to section 23A of the 1922 Act as it stood at the relevant time.	Reasoning
It held that it could not form part of the accumulated past profits as in the words of Wixon (vide Wixons Accounts Hand Book) it was the estimated expiration of asset value or as observed by Paton in his Accountants Hand Book, Third edition it is an outofpocket cost as any other cost.	Reasoning
Says the learned author in the above book at p. 746 thusThere is still widespread misapprehension as to the precise significance of the depreciation charge.	None
It is often deemed a more or less imaginary and hypotheticalelement, and is sharply contrasted with the regular outofpocket operating cost s.	None
As a matter of fact there is nothing at all imaginary about depreciation as a cost of business operation and at bottom it is just as much an outofpocket cost as any other.	None
The depreciation charge is merely the periodic operating aspect of fixedasset costs, and there is no doubt as to the reality of such costs.	None
Far from being a nonoutof pocket charge depreciation represents the extreme example of prepayment.	None
10.	None
Mr. S.T. Desai, learned counsel for the Revenue drew our attention to the decision of the Calcutta High Court in Commissioner of Income tax.	Arguments of Respondent
Calcutta v. Sri Bibhuti Bhusan Dutt(48 I.T.R. 233.)	Arguments of Respondent
and submitted that it has taken a view different from the one taken by the Gujarat High Court even in regard to the nature of normal depreciation allowance.	Arguments of Respondent
The Calcutta case seems to be one of a propertyholding company, the profits of which were assessable under section 9 wherein the question of depreciation was not relevant.	None
It is not necessary for us to examine in this case the exact nature of the norm al depreciation allowance and whether it is deductible from the profits of a person while determining his commercial profits.	None
The view expressed by the Gujarat High Court seems to be reasonably plausible and correct and for the purposes of this case we shall assume it to be so.	None
Yet, we do not feel persuaded to accept the argument of the assessee and equate the initial depreciation or the development rebate with the normal depreciation.	None
In our opinion such an allowance is in no sense a deductible item of cost or expenditure in the process of settlement of the commercial profits.	None
Although it does not form part of the assessable profits, undoubtedly it does form part of the commercial profits.	None
Tea Estate India Pvt. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax, West Bengal 11 (and vice versa)(103 I.T.R. 785.)	None
one of us (Khanna, J.) delivering the judgment on behalf of the Court has interpreted the, expression accumulated profits occurring in clause (c) of section 2(6A) of the 1922 Act to include the amount of development rebate in the commercial sense.	None
It has been stated at page 794The acceptance of the contention would necessarily postulate reading in section 2(6A)(c)	None
the words accumulated profits as are liable to be taxed under the Act.	None
The words as are liable to be taxed under the Act are not there in the definition and it would not, in our opinion, be permissible to so construe the clause as if those words were a part of that clause.	None
There is also nothing in the language Or Context o f that clause as would warrant such a construction.	None
Accumulated profits would retain their character as such even though a part of them were not taxed as profits under the Act.	None
11.	None
The purpose of section 2 (6A) of the 1922 Act corresponding to section 2(22) of the 1961 Act is to include within the term dividend for the purpose of taxation certain distributions or payments of certain items of money or the like as deemed dividend for the purpose of taxation.	None
Under clause (e) an advance or loan or money to a shareholder by a private Company has been directed to be treated as dividend to the extent to which the Company possessed accumulated profits.	None
The advance or the loan, by a legal fiction, is to resemble the actual dividend.	None
For the purpose of distribution of the dividend the amount of development rebate could form part of the profits of the Company a fortiori, it would be so far the purposes of clause (e) also.	None
12.	None
During the course of the arguments of this appeal, our attention was directed to a new facet of the question under consideration and that is this.	None
In clauses (a) to (d) of section 2(6A) of the 1922Act so also in the corresponding clauses of section 2(22) of the 1961Act the expression accumulated profits is qualified by the expression whether capitalised or not.	Reasoning
But the latter phrase is conspicuously absent in clause (e).	Reasoning
What is the purpose of this difference in the phraseology of the various clauses of subsection (6A) ?	Reasoning
The reason is not far to seek and yet not helpful to the assessee in this case.	Reasoning
The profits of a Company can be capitalised in accordance with the Articles of Association and the law.	Reasoning
On the capitalisation of the profits they cease to be profits in the hands of the Company.	Reasoning
The nature of the asset is changed although it does not make any difference in the total assets of the Company.	Reasoning
But profits stand transmuted and transformed into capital.	Reasoning
The most common example of capitalisation of profits is by issuance of bonus shares to the shareholders.	Reasoning
Clause (a) to (d) were intended by the Legislature to cover the cases of accumulated profits even though they may be capitalised.	Reasoning
But the Legislature did not intend to rope in the capitalised profits in clause (e).	Reasoning
We may add that though under clause (b) distribution by a Company of debentures, debenture stock or deposit certificates in any form in lieu of capitalised profits is to be deemed dividend within the meaning of subsection (6A), mere distribution of bonus shares after capitalising the accumulated profits, unless the distribution entails the release by the Company to its shareholders of any part of the assets of the Company is not to be a deemed dividend.	Reasoning
Even under the 1961 Act distribution of bonus shares to the equity shareholders after capitalising the profits in accordance with law is not to be a deemed dividend although distribution of such shares to preference shareholders is.	Reasoning
It is thus clear that if money is paid to a shareholder of a private company by way of advance or loan after the accumulated profits have been capitalised in accordance with the law and the Articles of Association then such payment, although it may represent a part of the assets of the Company or otherwise, cannot be corelated to the capitalised profits of the Company.	Reasoning
To the extent the profits have been capitalised the Company cannot be said to possess any accumulated profits.	Reasoning
But the Obvious difficulty in the way of the appellant is that the accumulated profits of the Company in the year in question were never capitalised.	Reasoning
Mere transferring the sum of Rs. 2, 36, 470/ by debiting it to the profit and loss account to the development reserve account did not amount to the capitalisation of profits.	Reasoning
The nature of the assets in the hands of the Company did not change.	Reasoning
It remained profits in the hands of the Company.	None
13.	None
According to the Dictionary of English Law by Earl Jowitt, Vol. 1 capitalisation means the conversion of profits or income into.	None
capital, e.g., by resolution of a company.	None
Bu ckley on the Companies Acts, thirteenth edi tion, has pointed out at page 907 Profits carried to re serve do not cease to be profits unless and until they are effectually capitalised.	None
Says the learned author at page 912 after referring to Article 128 corresponding to Regula tion 96 of Table A of the Indian Companies ActA company may, if its constitution so al lows, capitalize profits, instead of dividing them, by applying them in paying up unissued shares, or debentures or other securities, and issuing such shares or securities as fully paid to its members, thereby transferring th e sum capitalized from profit and loss or reserve account to share or loan capital account.	None
14.	None
To the same effect is the statement of the law to be found in Palmers Company Law, twentyfirst edition pa ge 673.	None
The capitalisation of profits.	None
says the learned author, means that profits which otherwise are available for distribution among the shareholders are not divided among them in cash, but that the shareholders ar e allotted further sharesor debentureswhich are paid up wholly or in part out of those profits.	None
The amount paid by the company out of its divisible profits on account of these newly issued shares is known as the bonus, and the shares are referred to as bonus shares.	None
Lord Herscheil in the case of Ann Bouch and William Bouch v. William Bouch Sprou(12 Appeal Cases, 385. ) was considering as to what was the nature and substance of the transaction in question in that case.	None
The learned and the noble Lord said at page 398 I think we must look both at the substance and form of the transaction	None
And it was obviously contemplated, and was, I think, certain that no money would, in fact, pass from the company to the shareholders, but that the entire sum would remain in their hands as paidup capital.	None
And finally it was said at page 399 I cannot, therefore, avoid the conclusion that the substance of the whole transaction was, and was intended to be, to convert the undivided profits into paidup capital upon newlycreated shares.	None
The Madras High Court has pointed out in Commissioner Incometax, Madras v. K. Srinivasan and others(50 I.T.R. 788.), to quote the placitum onlyFor the purposes of section 2(6A)(e) of the Income tax Act, 1922, accumulated profits include general reserves.	None
Unless the profit is capitalised in some form or other mere transfer of the profits to any reserve account will not take away from profits the character of accumulated profits.	None
In Sheth Haridas Achratlal v. Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay North, Kutch and Saurashtra, Baroda(27 I.T.R. 684.)Chief Justice Chagla delivering the judgment on behalf of the Bench of the Bombay High Court said at page 690But when we compare the language used by the Legislature in subclauses (a), (b) and (d) and when we note the omission of the qualifying words in subclause (c) then it is clear that the Legislature advisedly did not intend to subject to tax those accumulated profits which had been capitalised.	Reasoning
It appears that the expression capitalised or not was added in clause (c) after this decision.	Reasoning
15.	None
For the reasons stated above, we hold that the development rebate reserve created by the Company by duly charging the amount of profit and loss account although liable as a deduction under the 1922 Act, constituted accumulated profits of the Company Within the meaning of section 2(6A)(e).	Decision
We accordingly affirm the decision of the High Court and dismiss this appeal but in the circumstances make no orders as to costs.	Decision
16.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
