 K. Thakker, J. Leave granted.	None
The present appeal arises out of the judgment and order dated February 16, 2005 in Miscellaneous Case Nos. 9 and 10 of 2005 and Miscellaneous Case No. 57 of 2004 in Review Petition No. 4 of 2002 passed by the High Court of Orissa.	None
Shortly stated the facts of the case are that respondent No. 1, Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL for short) issued tenders for raising, transporting and loading of iron ore lump and fines into railway wagons at Kalta Iron Mine.	Facts
The tender was required to be submitted in two parts (i) TechnoCommercial Parameters (PartI) and (ii) Price Bid (PartII).	Facts
Price bid of the tender was to be opened only after opening of the TechnoCommercial Parameters and if the bidder was found qualified.	Facts
In response to the first notice dated June 5, 2000, 19 tender papers were sold.	Facts
The authorities, however, received response only from 10 persons.	Facts
TechnoCommercial Parameters (PartI) was opened and it was found that	Facts
only one bidder, namely, M s Ores India Pvt. Ltd.	Facts
(respondent NO. 2 herein) was qualified.	Facts
The process, therefore, had to be cancelled because for opening of Price Bid (PartII), minimum three TechnoCommercially qualified offers ought to have been there as per Clause 7.7 of Purchase Contract Procedure, 2000.	Facts
Retender was, therefore, issued on September 8, 2000, but it was also required to be cancelled owing to no perceptible improvement in the situation.	Facts
The tender was floated for the third time, which was unsuccessful.	Facts
The fourth notice inviting tenders was issued on January 22, 2001.	Facts
It met with the same fate.	Facts
Then fifth time, tenders were invited on May 7, 2001 wherein the appellant was found eligible and qualified.	Facts
His bid was the lowest.	Facts
The said bid was accepted and the work was entrusted to him.	Facts
The decision taken by the first respondent (SAIL) came to be challenged by respondent No. 2 in the High Court of Orissa by filing a Writ Petition being OJC No. 3508 of 2002.	Facts
The main allegation of the petitioner before the High Court (respondent No. 2 herein) was that first respondent (SAIL) cancelled previous four notices inviting tenders only with a view to oblige the appellant and to entrust work to him who could not qualify himself earlier for want of requisite eligible criteria in tender process.	Facts
Ultimately, the standard as prescribed earlier was relaxed and lowered down in the 5th tender notice.	Facts
When the present appellant became eligible and qualified, the tenders were opened and his bid was illegally accepted by SAIL.	Facts
The petition was heard on merits and the High Court vide its judgment and order dated May 30, 2002 dismissed the petition.	Facts
Respondent No. 2, however, came to know that he was eligible and yet his case was not considered.	Facts
He, therefore, filed a review in the High Court which was registered as Review Petition No. 4 of 2002.	Facts
By a judgment and order dated February 3, 2003, the Division Bench allowed the Review Petition and directed the authorities (SAIL) to open fourth tender and consider the case of the petitioner (respondent No. 2) and respondent No. 3 (appellant) afresh in accordance with law within a period of one month from the receipt of the writ.	Facts
The above order was challenged by the appellant by filing Special Leave Petition in this Court.	Facts
Special Leave Petition was also filed by SAIL.	Facts
Both the Special Leave Petitions, however, were dismissed by this Court on November 28, 2003.	Facts
It is alleged by the appellant that after dismissal of Special Leave Petitions by this Court, SAIL opened tender in presence of the second respondent only without intimating the appellant and in his absence.	Facts
SAIL also negotiated the rates with the second respondent and decided to entrust the work to him.	Facts
Meanwhile, several applications were filed before the High Court for clarification and or modification alteration of the order passed in Review Petition.	Facts
Miscellaneous Case	Facts
No. 46 of 2004 was filed by respondent No. 2 seeking implementation of the order of the High Court dated February 3, 2003.	Facts
Miscellaneous Case No. 48 of 2004 was filed by SAIL for clarification while Miscellaneous Case No. 57 of 2004 was filed by the appellant to decide disqualification of respondent No. 2.	Facts
Miscellaneous Cases 9 and 10 of 2005 were also said to have been filed requesting the High Court to dispose of matters in view of compromise and settlement arrived at between the parties.	Facts
The High Court by the impugned order dated February 16, 2005, disposed of all the applications on the basis of the settlement said to have been arrived at between the parties which was duly recorded in the order wherein the present appellant was also a partyrespondent.	Facts
The appellant came to know that fraud had been committed by the respondents upon him as well as upon the Court.	Facts
He, therefore, filed Miscellaneous Case No. 63 of 2005 on June 28, 2005 to recall the order dated February 16, 2005 alleging inter alia that fraud has been perpetrated by the opposite party on him as well as on the Honble Court.	Facts
A prayer was also made to investigate the matter by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or Vigilance Authorities.	Facts
Since nothing was done by the High Court, he again approached this Court by filing Special Leave Petition which was registered as Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. of 2006 (CC 2486 of 2006).	Facts
The said petition came up for hearing before this Court and was dismissed on May 12, 2006 as not pressed at this stage.	Facts
It was observed that if the petitioner would make a prayer before the High Court for expeditious disposal of the application to recall the order, the said prayer would be considered appropriately and application would be disposed of accordingly.	Facts
It is the case of the applicant that even thereafter the recall application had not been placed before the Court and was not decided as directed by this Court.	Facts
In the circumstances, the appellant approached this Court by filing a Special Leave Petition on September 6, 2006.	Facts
On October 9, 2006, the matter was placed before this Court for admission hearing.	Facts
Notice was issued to the respondents.	Facts
When the matter was placed for further hearing on March 8, 2007, the following order was passed Service is complete.	None
Though served, nobody appears on behalf of respondent No. 2 (original petitioner).	None
With a view to give one more opportunity, list the matter after two weeks.	Facts
According to the appellant, it is only after the above order that the wheels moved very fast.	Facts
The respondents made all attempts to get the matter on Board before the High Court.	Facts
The Court finally rejected the prayer of the appellant for recalling of the order and dismissed the application.	Facts
According to the appellant, all those actions were illegal, contrary to law and deserve interference by this Court.	Facts
We have heard the learned counsel for the parties.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant contended that fraud has been played upon the Court as well as upon the appellant and all orders passed by the High Court deserve to be quashed and set aside only on that ground.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the appellant, when Miscellaneous Petitions were placed before the High Court, the Court was bound to decide them in accordance with law after hearing the parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
Instead, the High Court disposed of all the petitions on the basis of socalled settlement said to have been arrived at between the parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
So far as appellant is concerned, he had never entered into any settlement or compromise.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. C.M. Ramesh, Chairman and Managing Director of Rithwik Projects who was earlier representative of the appellant and in whose favour the appellant had issued Power of Attorney had joined hands with respondent No. 2 and was virtually won over by him.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant had also revoked and withdrawn Power of Attorney issued in favour of Ramesh and, obviously therefore, he had no authority to represent the appellant and could not have appeared either before SAIL for negotiations for him or entered into any compromise or settlement on behalf of the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also contended that though for a substantial long period, application for recalling of order instituted by the appellant had not come on Board and he had to approach this Court making grievance about nonhearing of the matter, there was no progress whatsoever.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was only after the order passed by this Court and affording an opportunity to the respondent stating that if he would not appear, an appropriate order would be passed that respondent No. 2 got the matter hurriedly disposed of in the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also the allegation of the appellant that at the time of hearing of Miscellaneous Cases, a new advocate appeared on his behalf who was not engaged by the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Some blank papers on which the appellant might have singed earlier came to be utilized for the purpose of making applications for settlement showing that the appellant was agreeable to such settlement the settlement was produced before the Court and on that basis, the matter were finally disposed of on the assumption that all the parties had compromised and amicably settled the matter and nothing was required to be done.	Arguments of Petitioner
Accordingly all the three Miscellaneous Petitions Nos. 46, 48 and 57 of 2004 were disposed of.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that in these circumstances, the order passed by the High Court deserves to be quashed and set aside by remitting the matter to the High Court so that the recallapplication filed by the appellant be decided afresh after hearing the parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel for Respondent No.	Arguments of Respondent
1SAIL strongly refuted the allegations levelled by the appellant.	Arguments of Respondent
An affidavitin reply is filed denying all the averments and allegations against SAIL.	Arguments of Respondent
It was stated that the order passed by the High Court in Review Petition was challenged by SAIL, but Special Leave Petition was dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
Thereafter obviously, SAIL was required to act in accordance with the order passed by the High Court in the Review Petition and confirmed by this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also submitted by learned counsel for SAIL that bald allegations have been levelled against SAIL by the appellant without there being any material whatsoever in support of such allegations.	Arguments of Respondent
On the contrary, all throughout SAIL has acted strictly in consonance with law.	Arguments of Respondent
The Counsel stated that in accordance with the order passed by the High Court in Review Petition, 4th Tender was considered, notices were issued to respondent No. 2 as also to the appellant herein.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellant received the notice.	Arguments of Respondent
He addressed a letter to SAIL stating therein that he would remain present in pursuance of the notice issued by SAIL through his Power of Attorney and representative Ramesh of Rithwik Projects.	Arguments of Respondent
Accordingly, Rithwik Projects through its Chairman and Managing Director Ramesh appeared and a decision was taken to entrust contract to respondent No. 2.	Arguments of Respondent
In the circumstances, it cannot be said that any fraud has been committed by SAIL either on the appellant or on the Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel for SAIL further stated that the appellant has not been affected at all.	Arguments of Respondent
It was stated that work entrusted to the appellant was under tender notice 5 and not under tender notice 4.	Arguments of Respondent
Period of tender notice 5 was for three years.	Arguments of Respondent
The said period of three years was over and the appellant had completed the said work.	Arguments of Respondent
Thereafter there was no right in favour of the appellant nor he could insist continuance of the contract.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel, therefore, submitted that the appeal should be dismissed by this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Even otherwise, according to the counsel, no communication was sent at any point of time by the appellant to SAIL that though earlier he had issued Power of Attorney in favour of Ramesh of Rithwik Projects, it was subsequently withdrawn or revoked and that he would not represent the appellant in future before SAIL.	Arguments of Respondent
On the contrary, though notice was issued by SAIL and received by the appellant, he did not remain present and sent a communication to SAIL that Ramesh of Rithwik Projects would represent him.	Arguments of Respondent
It was, therefore, not open to the appellant thereafter to turn round and make wild allegations against SAIL nor is he entitled to any relief.	Arguments of Respondent
On behalf of respondent No. 2  M s Ores India Pvt. Ltd., the counsel contended that no case whatsoever has been made out by the appellant so as to interfere with the order passed by the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the counsel, in fact SAIL had obliged appellant which was clear from the facts and proved from the decision in the Review Petition by the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
When 4th tender notice was cancelled, respondent No. 2 instituted a writ petition challenging the said action of SAIL.	Arguments of Respondent
Meanwhile, 5th tender notice was issued and the bid of the present appellant was accepted by SAIL.	Arguments of Respondent
The petition filed by respondent No. 2 in relation to 4th tender notice came to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
Subsequently, however, respondent No. 2 came to know that though respondent No. 2 was eligible and qualified, SAIL had obliged the present appellant by canceling the process of 4th tender notice considering other bidders ineligible and unqualified.	Arguments of Respondent
He, hence, filed Review Petition.	Arguments of Respondent
In Review Petition, the Court was convinced that the grievance voiced by respondent No. 2 was correct and the action of SAIL was wholly illegal and improper.	Arguments of Respondent
Review Petition was, therefore, allowed and SAIL was directed to reconsider the Tender Notice by treating the respondent No. 2 as eligible and qualified.	Arguments of Respondent
Even observations were made by the High Court against the conduct of officers of SAIL.	Arguments of Respondent
The said order was challenged by SAIL as also by the appellant but this Court did not interfere.	Arguments of Respondent
4th Tender was thereafter considered.	Arguments of Respondent
Notices were given to all bidders including the appellant.	Arguments of Respondent
The bid of respondent No. 2 was accepted and the work was entrusted to him.	Arguments of Respondent
It is, therefore, submitted that the appellant has no reason or ground to make grievance against that action and the appeal filed by him is liable to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered rival contentions of the parties.	None
14.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel for the appellant alleged that fraud had been committed by the respondents on the appellant as well as on the Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Only on that ground, the impugned action of SAIL granting contract in favour of respondent No.2 deserves to be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the counsel, Ramesh, Chairman and Managing Director of Rithwik Projects, in whose favour the appellant had issued Power of Attorney, had taken side of respondent No.2.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Power of Attorney was, therefore, later on withdrawn by the appellant and yet he was allowed to be represented for the appellant before SAIL as also before the High Court and so called compromise and settlement was arrived at.	Arguments of Petitioner
He was not authorized to do so against the interest of the appellant and on his representation, the High Court could not have disposed of Miscellaneous Cases.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is well settled that fraud avoids all judicial acts, ecclesiastical or temporal proclaimed Chief Justice Edward Coke of England before about three centuries.	None
Reference was made by the counsel to a leading decision of this Court in S.P. Chengalvaraya Naidu (Dead) by Lrs.	None
V. Jagannath (Dead) by Lrs.	None
Ors., (1994) 1 SCC 1 wherein quoting the above observations, this Court held that a judgment decree obtained by fraud has to be treated as a nullity by every Court.	None
Reference was also made to a recent decision of this Court in A.V. Papayya Sastry Ors.	None
V. Govt. of A.P. Ors., (2007) 4 SCC 221.	None
Considering English and Indian cases, one of us (C.K. Thakker, J.) stated It is thus settled proposition of law that a judgment, decree or order obtained by playing fraud on the Court, Tribunal or Authority is a nullity and non est in the eye of law.	None
Such a judgment, decree or order by the first Court or by the final Court has to be treated as nullity by every Court, superior or inferior.	None
It can be challenged in any Court, at any time, in appeal, revision, writ or even in collateral proceedings.	None
The Court defined fraud as an act of deliberate deception with the design of securing something by taking unfair advantage of another.	None
In fraud one gains at the loss and cost of another.	None
Even the most solemn proceedings stand vitiated if they are actuated by fraud.	None
Fraud is thus an extrinsic collateral act which vitiates all judicial acts, whether n rem or in personam.	None
So far as the proposition of law is concerned, there can be no two opinions.	None
The learned counsel for the respondents also did not dispute the principles laid down in the above decisions as also in several other judgments.	None
They, however, stated that on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the ratio laid down in the above cases has no application.	None
As already adverted to earlier, according to SAIL, pursuant to the order passed by the High Court in Review and after dismissal of Special Leave Petitions by this Court, it issued notices to the parties including the present appellant.	None
Respondent No.2 remained present for negotiation.	None
The appellant received the notice but intimated SAIL that Ramesh of Rithwik Projects would remain present on his behalf.	None
At no point of time, the appellant had made any grievance against Ramesh nor he had informed SAIL that he had withdrawn Power of Attorney issued earlier in favour of Ramesh.	None
It, therefore, cannot be said that the appellant was deceived or cheated, either by SAIL or by anyone else.	None
The argument of the learned counsel for the appellant of violation of principles of natural justice and fair play also has no force.	None
When notice was issued by SAIL to the appellant and he had informed SAIL by a written communication that Ramesh would remain present as his representative, it does not lie in the mouth of the appellant that SAIL had acted in breach of natural justice.	None
SAIL in its written submissions contended that the appeal filed by the appellant is liable to be dismissed on account of suppression of material facts and deliberate misrepresentation by him.	Arguments of Petitioner
An impression was sought to be created by the appellant, submitted the counsel, that the appellant could not complete the work given to him and was assigned to respondent No.2.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is clear that after tender notice No. 4 was cancelled, albeit illegally as held by the High Court and by this Court, tender notice No. 5 was issued.	Arguments of Petitioner
The bid of the appellant was accepted and contract was given to him.	None
It was for 200205 i.e. for three years.	None
The appellant was allowed to complete the said period and the contract had not been terminated or abruptly discontinued during the said period.	None
It was over in 2005 by efflux of time.	None
What was done by SAIL was to implement the order of High Court in connection with tender notice No. 4 which was not acted upon.	None
In that process, parties were called for negotiations, offer of respondent No.2 was accepted and work was given to him.	None
It is, therefore, not correct to say that the appellant had suffered.	None
The appellant wanted to continue the work even though the period of tender notice No. 5 was over and he had taken the benefit thereunder.	None
The appellant had no right or reason to make grievance so far as tender notice No. 4 was concerned.	None
Hence, the appellant is not entitled to any relief.	None
We find considerable force in the argument of the learned counsel.	None
From the record, it is clear that tender notice No.4 was wrongly ignored and no process thereunder was undertaken by SAIL.	None
What was granted to the appellant was a contract under tender notice No.5.	None
The appellant was working under tender notice No.5.	None
Meanwhile, the review of respondent No.2 against tender notice No.4 was allowed and after the order passed by this Court dismissing Special Leave Petitions, SAIL implemented the said order, bid of respondent No.2 was accepted and contract was given to him.	None
To us, SAIL is right in urging that the appellant cannot insist that even under the contract under tender notice No.5, he should be allowed to continue the work.	None
We, therefore, see no substance in the argument of the learned counsel for the appellant and the contention is rejected.	None
The learned counsel for SAIL is also right in urging that the appellant has not approached the Court with clean hands by disclosing all facts.	None
An impression is sought to be created as if no notice was ever given to him nor he was informed about the consideration of cases of eligible and qualified bidders in pursuance of the order passed by the High Court in Review and confirmed by this Court.	None
The true facts, however, were just contrary to what was sought to be placed before the Court.	None
A notice was issued by SAIL to the appellant, he received the notice, intimated in writing to SAIL that he had authorized Ramesh of Rithwick Projects to appear on his behalf.	None
Ramesh duly appeared at the time of consideration of bids, bid of respondent No.2 was found to be lowest and was accepted and contract was given to him (under tender notice No.4).	None
The said contract had nothing to do with tender notice No.5 and contract thereunder which had been given to the appellant herein and he had completed the work.	None
Thus, it is clear that the appellant had not placed all the facts before the Court clearly, candidly and frankly.	None
The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court under Article 32 and of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution is extraordinary, equitable and discretionary.	None
Prerogative writs mentioned therein are issued for doing substantial justice.	None
It is, therefore, of utmost necessity that the petitioner approaching the Writ Court must come with clean hands, put forward all the facts before the Court without concealing or suppressing anything and seek an appropriate relief.	None
If there is no candid disclosure of relevant and material facts or the petitioner is guilty of misleading the Court, his petition may be dismissed at the threshold without considering the merits of the claim.	None
The underlying object has been succinctly stated by Scrutton, L.J., in the leading case of R. v. Kensington Income Tax Commissioners, (1917) 1 KB 486 86 LJ KB 257 116 LT 136 in the following words It has been for many years the rule of the Court, and one which it is of the greatest importance to maintain, that when an applicant comes to the Court to obtain relief on an ex parte statement he should make a full and fair disclosure of all the material facts it says facts, not law.	None
He must not misstate the law if he can help it the Court is supposed to know the law.	None
But it knows nothing about the facts, and the applicant must state fully and fairly the facts and the penalty by which the Court enforces that obligation is that if it finds out that the facts have not been fully and fairly stated to it the Court will set aside any action which it has taken on the faith of the imperfect statement.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
A prerogative remedy is not a matter of course.	None
While exercising extraordinary power a Writ Court would certainly bear in mind the conduct of the party who invokes the jurisdiction of the Court.	None
If the applicant makes a false statement or suppresses material fact or attempts to mislead the Court, the Court may dismiss the action on that ground alone and may refuse to enter into the merits of the case by stating We will not listen to your application because of what you have done.	None
The rule has been evolved in larger public interest to deter unscrupulous litigants from abusing the process of Court by deceiving it.	None
In Kensington Income Tax Commissioner, Viscount Reading, C.J. observed Where an ex parte application has been made to this Court for a rule nisi or other process, if the Court comes to the conclusion that the affidavit in support of the applicant was not candid and did not fairly state the facts, the Court ought, for its own protection and to prevent an abuse of its process, to refuse to proceed any further with the examination of the merits.	None
This is a power inherent in the Court, but one which should only be used in cases which bring conviction to the mind of the Court that it has been deceived.	None
Before coming to this conclusion a careful examination will be made of the facts as they are and as they have been stated in the applicants affidavit, and everything will be heard that can be urged to influence the view of the Court when it reads the affidavit and knows the true facts.	None
But if the result of this examination and hearing is to leave no doubt that this Court has been deceived, then it will refuse to hear anything further from the applicant in a proceeding which has only been set in motion by means of a misleading affidavit.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The above principles have been accepted in our legal system also.	None
As per settled law, the party who invokes the extraordinary jurisdiction of this Court under Article 32 or of a High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution is supposed to be truthful, frank and open.	None
He must disclose all material facts without any reservation even if they are against him.	None
He cannot be allowed to play hide and seek or to pick and choose the facts he likes to disclose and to suppress (keep back) or not to disclose (conceal) other facts.	None
The very basis of the writ jurisdiction rests in disclosure of true and complete (correct) facts.	None
If material facts are suppressed or distorted, the very functioning of Writ Courts and exercise would become impossible.	None
The petitioner must disclose all the facts having a bearing on the relief sought without any qualification.	None
This is because, the Court knows law but not facts.	None
If the primary object as highlighted in Kensington Income Tax Commissioners is kept in mind, an applicant who does not come with candid facts and clean breast cannot hold a writ of the Court with soiled hands.	None
Suppression or concealment of material facts is not an advocacy.	None
It is a jugglery, manipulation, maneuvering or misrepresentation, which has no place in equitable and prerogative jurisdiction.	None
If the applicant does not disclose all the material facts fairly and truly but states them in a distorted manner and misleads the Court, the Court has inherent power in order to protect itself and to prevent an abuse of its process to discharge the rule nisi and refuse to proceed further with the examination of the case on merits.	None
If the Court does not reject the petition on that ground, the Court would be failing in its duty.	None
In fact, such an applicant requires to be dealt with for contempt of Court for abusing the process of the Court.	None
Let us consider some important decisions on the point In State of Haryana v. Karnal Distillery, (1977) 2 SCC 431 , almost an agreed order was passed by the Court that on expiry of the licence for manufacturing of liquor on September 6, 1976, the distillery would cease to manufacture liquor under the licence issued in its favour.	None
Then, the Company filed a petition in the High Court for renewal of licence for manufacture of liquor for 197677, and the Court granted stay of dispossession.	None
In appeal, the Supreme Court set aside the order granting stay of dispossession on the ground that the petitionerCompany in filing the petition in the High Court had misled it and started the proceedings for oblique and ulterior motive.	None
In Vijay Kumar v. State of Haryana, (1983) 3 SCC 333 , it was the case of the petitioners that the provisional admissions granted to them were not cancelled and they were continuing their studies as postgraduate students in Medical College on the relevant date.	None
On the basis of that statement, they obtained an order of status quo.	None
The Supreme Court ordered inquiry and the District Judge was asked to submit his report whether the provisional admissions granted to the petitioners were continued till October 1, 1982 or were cancelled.	None
The report revealed that to the knowledge of the petitioners their provisional admissions were cancelled long before October 1, 1982 and thus, the petitioners had made false representation to the Court and obtained a favourable order.	None
Dismissing the petition, this Court observed But for the misrepresentation this Court would never have passed the said order.	None
By reason of such conduct they have disentitled themselves from getting any relief or assistance from this Court and the Special Leave Petitions are liable to be dismissed.	None
Deprecating the reprehensible conduct of the petitioners as well as of their counsel, the Court stated Before parting with the case, however, we cannot help observing that the conduct or behaviour of the two petitioners as well as their counsel (Dr. A.K. Kapoor who happens to be a medicolegal consultant practising in Courts) is most reprehensible and deserves to be deprecated.	None
The District Judges report in that behalf is eloquent and most revealing as it points out how the two petitioners and their counsel, (who also gave evidence in support of the petitioners case before the District Judge) have indulged in telling lies and making reckless allegation of fabrication and manipulation of records against the College Authorities and how in fact the boot is on their leg.	None
It is a sad commentary on the scruples of these three young gentlemen who are on the threshold of their carriers.	None
In fact, at one stage we were inclined to refer the District Judges report both to the Medical Council as well as the Bar Council for appropriate action but we refrained from doing so as the petitioners counsel both on behalf of his clients as well as on his own behalf tendered unqualified apology and sought mercy from the Court.	None
We, however, part with the case with a heavy heart expressing our strong disapproval of their conduct and behaviour (emphasis supplied) In Welcom Hotel v. State of A.P., (1983) 4 SCC 575 , certain hoteliers filed a petition in this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution challenging the maximum price of foodstuffs fixed by the Government contending that it was uneconomical and obtained ex parte stay order.	None
The price, however, was fixed as per the agreement between the petitioners and the Government but the said fact was suppressed.	None
Describing the fact as material, the Court said Petitioners who have behaved in this manner are not entitled to any consideration at the hands of the Court.	None
In Agricultural Process Food Products v. Oswal Agro Furnae, (1996) 4 SCC 297 , the petitioner filed a petition in the High Court of Punjab and Haryana which was pending.	None
Suppressing that fact, it filed another petition in the High Court of Delhi and obtained an order in its favour.	None
Observing that the petitioner was guilty of suppression of very important fact, this Court set aside the order of the High Court.	None
In State of Punjab v. Sarav Preet, (2002) 9 SCC 601 , A obtained relief from the High Court on her assertion that a test in a particular subject was not conducted by the State.	None
In an appeal by the State, it was stated that not only the requisite test was conducted but the petitioner appeared in the said test and failed.	None
Observing that the petitioner was under an obligation to disclose the said fact before the High Court, this Court dismissed the petition.	None
In Union of India v. Muneesh Suneja, (2001) 3 SCC 92 , the detenu challenged an order of detention under the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act, 1973 (COFEPOSA) by filing a petition in the High Court of Delhi which was withdrawn.	None
Then he filed a similar petition in the High Court of Punjab Haryana wherein he did not disclose the fact as to filing of the earlier petition and withdrawal thereof and obtained relief.	None
In an appeal by the Union of India against the order of the High Court, this Court observed that nondisclosure of the fact of filing a similar petition and withdrawal thereof was indeed fatal to the subsequent petition.	None
A special reference may be made to a decision of this Court in All India Sate Bank Officers Federation v. Union of India, 1990 Supp SCC 336.	None
In that case, promotion policy of the Bank was challenged by the Federation by filing a petition in this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution.	None
It was supported by an affidavit and the contents were affirmed by the President of the Federation to be true to his personal knowledge.	None
It was stated The petitioners have not filed any other similar writ petition in this Honourable Court or any other High Court.	None
In the counteraffidavit filed on behalf of the Bank, however, it was asserted that the statement was false.	None
The Federation had filed a writ petition in the High Court of Andhra Pradesh which was admitted but interim stay was refused.	None
Another petition was also filed in the High Court of Karnataka.	None
It was further pointed out that Promotion Policy was implemented and 58 officers were promoted who were not made parties to the petition.	None
In affidavitinrejoinder, once again, the stand taken by the petitioner was sought to be justified.	None
It was stated The deponent had no knowledge of the writ petition filed before the High Court of Andhra Pradesh, hence as soon as it came to his knowledge the same has been withdrawn.	None
Secondly, the petitioners even today do not know the names of all such 58 candidates who have been promoted favoured.	None
It was contended on behalf of the Bank that even that statement was false.	None
Not only the petitionerFederation was aware of the names of all the 58 officers who had been promoted to the higher post, but they had been joined as party respondents in the writ petition filed in the Karnataka High Court, seeking stay of promotion of those respondents.	None
It was, therefore, submitted that the petitioner had not come with clean hands and the petition should be dismissed on that ground alone.	None
Strongly disapproving the explanation put forth by the petitioner and describing the tactics adopted by the Federation as abuse of process of court, this Court observed There is no doubt left in our minds that the petitioner has not only suppressed material facts in the petition but has also tried to abuse judicial process.	None
Apart from misstatements in the affidavits filed before this Court, the petitioner Federation has clearly resorted to tactics which can only be described as abuse of the process of court.	None
The simultaneous filing of writ petitions in various High Courts on the same issue though purportedly on behalf of different associations of the Officers of the Bank, is a practice which has to be discouraged.	None
Sri Sachhar and Sri Ramamurthy wished to pinpoint the necessity and importance of petitions being filed by different associations in order to discharge satisfactorily their responsibilities towards their respective members.	None
We are not quite able to appreciate such necessity where there is no diversity but only a commonness of interest.	None
All that they had to do was to join forces and demonstrate their unity by filing a petition in a Single Court.	None
It seems the object here in filing different petitions in different Courts was a totally different and not very laudable one.	None
(emphasis supplied) Deeply grieved by the situation and adversely commenting on the conduct and behaviour of the responsible officers of a Premier Bank of the country, the Court observed We have set out the facts in this case at some length and passed a detailed order because we are deeply grieved to come across such conduct on the part of an association, which claims to represent high placed officers of a premier bank of this country.	None
One expects such officers to fight their battles fairly and squarely and not to stoop low to gain, what can only be, temporary victories by keeping away material facts from the court.	None
It is common knowledge that, of late, statements are being made in petitions and affidavits recklessly and without proper verification not to speak of dishonest and deliberate misstatements.	None
We, therefore, take this opportunity to record our strong and emphatic disapproval of the conduct of the petitioners in this ease and hope that this will be a lesson to the present petitioner as well as to other litigants and that at least in future people will act more truthfully and with a greater sense of responsibility.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
Yet in another case in Vijay Syal Anr.	None
v. State of Punjab Ors., (2003) 9 SCC 401 this Court stated In order to sustain and maintain sanctity and solemnity of the proceedings in law courts it is necessary that parties should not make false or knowingly, inaccurate statements or misrepresentation and or should not conceal material facts with a design to gain some advantage or benefit at the hands of the court, when a court is considered as a place where truth and justice are the solemn pursuits.	None
If any party attempts to pollute such a place by adopting recourse to make misrepresentation and is concealing material facts it does so at its risk and cost.	None
Such party must be ready to take consequences that follow on account of its own making.	None
At times lenient or liberal or generous treatment by courts in dealing with such matters are either mistaken or lightly taken instead of learning proper lesson.	None
Hence there is a compelling need to take serious view in such matters to ensure expected purity and grace in the administration of justice.	None
In the case on hand, the appellant has not come forward with all the facts.	Reasoning
He has chosen to state facts in the manner suited to him by giving an impression to the Writ Court that an instrumentality of State (SAIL) has not followed doctrine of natural justice and fundamental principles of fair procedure.	Reasoning
This is not proper.	Reasoning
Hence, on that ground alone, the appellant cannot claim equitable relief.	Reasoning
But we have also considered the merits of the case and even on merits, we are convinced that no case has been made out by him to interfere with the action of SAIL, or the order passed by the High Court.	Reasoning
For the foregoing reasons, the appeal deserves to be dismissed and is accordingly dismissed with costs.	Decision
