 B. Sinha.	None
J. BACKGROUND FACTS Andhra Bank (Respondent No.3) is a nationalized bank.	Facts
Andhra Bank Financial Services Limited (Respondent No.4) is a company wholly owned by Andhra Bank.	Facts
Canbank Mutual Fund (CBMF) is a subsidiary company of Canara Bank, another nationalized bank.	Facts
The Appellant herein is also a subsidiary of Canara bank.	Facts
In or about 1989, Canbank Mutual Fund floated an open ended investment scheme known as CANCIGO on an assured return of 12.5 p.a. payable half yearly the lock in period wherefor was one year.	Facts
A stipulation was also made to the effect that transfers are not permitted.	Facts
Hiten P. Dalal (Respondent No.2) was a registered stock broker.	Facts
Respondent No.3 at his request applied for CANCIGO units of face value of Rs.11 crores.	Facts
Similarly, Respondent No.4 also at the request of Respondent No.2 applied for CANCIGO units of face value of Rs. 22 crores.	Facts
Indisputably, the payment of application money for purchase of said CANCIGO units was to be made, out of the monies lying in the bank account of Respondent No.2.	Facts
The Respondent Nos.3 and 4 complied with said request of Respondent No.2.	Facts
The CANCIGO certificates received by the Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 were handed over to the Respondent No.2.	Facts
The interest accruing from the CANCIGO received by the Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 was also credited to the account of Respondent No.2.	Facts
The said Respondents did not claim any right, title or interest therein.	Facts
There had been diverse dealings by and between the Appellant herein and the said Respondent No.2 in respect of the purchase and sale of shares and securities of various companies.	Facts
A sum of Rs.25,01,67,129/ was due and payable by the Respondent No.2 to the Appellant herein in respect of the said transactions as on 6th February, 1992.	Facts
Respondent No.2 offered the aforementioned CANCIGOs to the Appellant herein as a beneficiary thereof.	Facts
The said, offer of the Respondent No.2 was accepted in discharge of his aforementioned liabilities to the Appellant.	Facts
The Appellant on 6th February, 1992 paid the balance amount of consideration of the said CANCIGOs, viz., a sum of Rs.7,98,32,871/ by a cheque dated 11th February, 1992 drawn in favour of the Respondent no.3 but the same was to be credited in the account of Respondent No.2.2.	Facts
In or about May, 1992 serious irregularities in security transactions were discovered whereupon the Reserve Bank of India constituted a Committee known as ankiraman Committee to look into the real nature of the transactions and to ascertain the true facts.	Facts
Investment in CANCIGO by Respondent No.3 found place in the report of the said Committee wherein it was contended that it had made an application dated 28th August, 1991 for investment in CANCIGOs on behalf of Respondent No.2 for 11 crores.	Facts
Pending investigation, the Appellant was advised not to part with the two sets of CANCIGO certificates without the consent of the Reserve Bank of India.3.	Facts
The President of India promulgated an ordinance known as The Special Courts (Trial of Offences Relating to Transactions in Securities) Ordinance, 1992.	Facts
It was repealed by The Special Courts (Trial of Offences Relating to Transactions in Securities) Act, 1992 (the Act), the Statement of Objects and Reasons where for are as under In the course of the investigations by the Reserve Bank of India, large scale irregularities and malpractices were noticed in transactions in both the Government and other securities, indulged in by some brokers in collusion with the employees of various banks and financial institutions.	Facts
The said irregularities and malpractices led to the diversion of funds from banks and financial institutions to the individual accounts of certain brokers.(2) To deal with the situation and in particular to ensure speedy recovery of the huge amount involved, to punish the guilty and restore confidence in and maintain the basic integrity and credibility of the banks and financial institutions the Special Court (Trial of Offences Relating to Transactions in Securities) Ordinance, 1992, was promulgated on the 6th June, 1992.	Facts
The Ordinance provides for the establishment of a Special Court with a sitting Judge of a High Court for speedy trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and disposal of properties attached.	Facts
It also provides for appointment of one or more custodians for attaching the property of the offenders with a view to prevent diversion of such properties by the offenders.	Facts
On or about 6th June, 1992 the Respondent No. 2 was declared to be a notified person under the Act.5.	Facts
In terms of the provisions of the Act, a Special Court was established.	Facts
The Special Court was conferred with exclusive jurisdiction in relation to the matters specified therein as also trial of offences arising thereunder.	None
CLAIM OF THE PARTIES BEFORE THE SPECIAL COURT Both the Custodian and the Appellant filed application before the Special Court which were registered as Mis.	None
Application Nos.13 of 1993 and 55 of 1993 respectively.	None
In its application, the Appellant prayed for the following reliefs (a) that it be declared by this Honble Court that(i) that the property debt in the CANCIGO covered under the two certificates issued by Canbank Mutual Fund are the property of the petitioners(ii) that the CANCIGOs covered under the said two certificates are not within the purview of the Notification dated 6th June 1992 notifying Respondent No.2 issued by Respondent No.1 under subsection (2) of Section 3 of the said Act.(iii)	Arguments of Petitioner
In the alternative to prayer (ii) above, the Respondent No.1 subject to the directions of this Honble Court is entitled to deal with, dispose of and encash the CANCIGOs under the said two Certificates, pay the same to the Petitioners and permit the Petitioners to appropriate and or adjust the net realization thereof in or towards the satisfaction of Petitioners dues from the Respondent No.1(b) Without prejudice to prayer (a) above and in the alternative, in the event of this Honble Court coming to the conclusion that CANCIGOs under the said two certificates are not the property of the Petitioners and or the Petitioners are not entitled to encash them, the Respondent No.1 and or Respondent No.2 be ordered and directed to pay to the Petitioners a sum of Rs.40,83,32,054/ as per particulars more particularly described in Exhibit F hereto with further interest at the rate of 24 per annum on the principal amount of Rs.33 crores from the date hereof till payment and or realization(c) that pending the hearing and final disposal of the petition, the Respondent be directed not to deal with, dispose of and or encash the CANCIGOs covered under the said two Certificates.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, the Custodian, in its application, prayed for the following reliefs (a) that Canfina or any other Respondent who may be in possession of the said CANCIGOS worth Rs.33 crores be ordered and directed by this Honble Court to handover to the Applicant the said CANCIGOS together with any accrued interest thereon.(b) that the CMF be ordered and directed by this Honble Court to handover to the Applicant the accrued interest of Rs.2,06,43,836/ and all future sums of interest that may accrue on the said CANCIGOS worth Rs.33 crores.(c) that pending the hearing and final disposal of his application CMF be ordered and directed by this Honble Court to handover to the Applicant the said accrued interest of Rs.	Arguments of Respondent
2,06,43,836/ and all further sums of interest that may accrue on the said CANCIGOS worth Rs.33 crores.(d) that pending the hearing and final disposal of this application the Respondents be directed to file an affidavit showing how the transactions relating to the said CANCIGOS are reflected in their respective books accounts.	Arguments of Respondent
The Respondent Nos. 2, 3 and 4 did not claim any interest in the said CANCIGOS before the Special Court.10.	Arguments of Respondent
By reason of the impugned judgment, the Special Court allowed the application filed by the Custodian and rejected that of the Appellant herein.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence these appeals.	Arguments of Respondent
JUDGMENT Before the learned Special Judge a contention was raised by the Respondent No.1 to the effect that as the CANCIGOS were allotted in the names of the Respondent Nos.3 and 4, Respondent No.2 did not have any interest therein.	Facts
a further contention was, however raised that as the Respondent No.2 was the real owner thereof, he in view of the said restriction on transfer could not have transferred any interest whatsoever (whether limited or absolute) in favour of the Appellant.12.	Facts
The learned Special Judge noticed that although in its application the Appellant had made out a case to the effect that the CANCIGOs worth 33 crores were held by them by way of security but a different stand was taken before it that they are the absolute owners thereof.	Facts
It was held that the Appellant having claimed that possession of CANCIGOs were delivered by the Respondent No.2 as security, they were not and could not have become owners thereof as the Respondent No.2 had no beneficial interest therein, having regard to the fact that such interest was not admitted by the Custodian and in that view of the matter the question of passing any right, title or interest, legal or beneficial, in the CANCIGOS in favour of the Appellant by the said Respondent would not arise.	Facts
Relying on a decision of this Court in V.B. Rangaraj vs. V.B. Gopalakrishnan Others.	Facts
AIR 1992 SC 453 (1992) 1 SCC 160 , the learned Judge opined that the said decision is an authority for the proposition that any transfer contrary to the Articles of Association or terms of issue would not be valid.	Facts
The learned Judge held that having regard to the fact that the transaction was illegal, the right, title and interest of CANCIGOs remained with Respondent No.2 and thus stood attached in terms of Section 3 of the Act, observing Under Section 3 of the Special Act, any property, movable or immovable, or both, belonging to any person notified stands attached.	Facts
Therefore there is a statutory attachment of any property belonging to the person notified.	Facts
The definition any property belonging to the person notified must necessarily include property in which a person notified has a beneficial interest.	Facts
By virtue of Section 13 of the Special Courts Act, the provisions of the Special Courts Act prevail notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law or contract.	Facts
Therefore, the Custodian is making a claim under a statutory provision which allows him to do so.	Facts
That statutory provision creates no right in favour of third parties, including the 5th Respondent.	Facts
Therefore, merely because the Custodian claims on the footing of the 1st Respondent is the beneficial owner does not ipso facto give a right to the 5th Respondent to claim that the beneficial interest in these CANCIGOS is transferable.	Facts
Analysing the provisions of Section 4(2) of the Benami Transactions Act and Section 13 of the Act, the learned Judge opined Therefore, so far as the Custodian is concerned, he can make a claim to any property even though the same is held benami in some other person.	Facts
The same cant be done by the 5th Respondent.	Facts
The provisions of the Benami Transactions Act would squarely apply to the 5th Respondent.	Facts
It is the 5th Respondent who cant make a claim or bring an action to enforce any right in respect of the CANCIGOs either against 1st or 2nd or 3rd Respondent or the Custodian.	Facts
Also, by virtue of Section 4(2) of the Benami Transactions Act the 5th Respondent cant be allowed to raise a defence in respect of the CANCIGOs even to the extent of claiming a beneficial interest.	Facts
Repelling the contentions of the Appellant as regard applicability of Section 58 of the Trusts Act, it was held that the expressions any interest are of very wide amplitude and would, thus, include a beneficial interest.15.	Facts
It was further held It is thus clear that Respondent No.5 could not have purchased the CANCIGOs nor could the beneficial interest in the CANCIGOs be transferred to them.	Facts
Respondent No.5 have got thus no right, title or interest in the CANCIGOs and cannot be allowed to hold on to them.	Facts
This is particularly so as they have now given up their claim that these were deposited with them, as and by way of security.	Facts
The claim, if any, of Respondent No.5, against the 1st Respondent, is a mere money claim.	Facts
The CANCIGOs remain the property of Respondent No.1 and stand attached.	Facts
They must be handed over by Respondent No.5 to the Custodian.	Facts
It must be mentioned that, even if the 5th Respondent had claimed that the CANCIGOs were deposited with them as security for repayment of debts due by the 1st Respondent, the terms of issue would still have prevented any interest being created in their favour.	None
It was directed Under these circumstances, Application No.55 of 1993 is made absolute in terms of prayers (a).	None
Clarified that it is the 5th Respondent who must hand over the concerned CANCIGOS to the Custodian.	Facts
Application No.55 of 1933 is also made absolute in terms of prayer (b).	Facts
Prayer (a) of Application No.13 of 1993 stands rejected.	Facts
So far as prayer (b) of Application No.13 of 1993 is concerned, the claim of 5th Respondent being a money claim, the same will have to be taken up at time of distribution of assets.	Facts
As set out in Judgment dated 22nd July, 1993 in Misc.	Facts
Application No.96 of 1993, the distribution would have to be in the manner laid down under Section 11 of the Special Courts Act.	Facts
Therefore so far as prayer (b) is concerned, this Petition is adjourned sine die.	Facts
Office is directed to put this Petition on board when the Court is considering distribution of assets of Respondent No.1.	Facts
SUBMISSIONS Mr. Rohit Kapadia, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellant would submit that in the facts and circumstances of this case.	Arguments of Petitioner
Respondent No.2 having transferred the CANCIGO units in favour of the Appellant, he had no interest therein warranting attachment under the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that the rights of the Custodian are the same as that of the notified person.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel would contend that as Respondent Nos.3 and 4 claimed no right, title or interest of any nature whatsoever in the CANCIGOs despite the fact that they were registered in their names, the Respondent No.2 must be held to have an interest therein by reason of his having made payment therefor and obtained possession thereof.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was pointed out that even the custodian contended before the Special Court that the Respondent No.2 had a beneficial interest and in that view of the matter the question of the Custodians application seeking to enforce attachment was not maintainable.18.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that having regard to the provisions contained in Section 58 of the Indian Trusts Act the beneficial interest of Respondent No.2 was transferable.	Arguments of Petitioner
The purported bar to the effect that a CANCIGO holder cannot create any interest therein or transfer them to a third person would not apply to transfer of a beneficial interest keeping in view the fact that restriction on transfer was on the Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 and not on the beneficial owner.	Arguments of Petitioner
No interest having been created in the Respondent No.2 by any act or deed of Respondent Nos. 3 and 4, the beneficial interest accrued in him by way of operation of law was transferable.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that in the event it be held that the Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 could not validly transfer any interest in favour of the Respondent No.2, the question of enforcing attachment would not arise as the legal title thereof would remain vested in the Respondent Nos. 3 and 4.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any event such an absolute restriction on transfer is void under Section 10 of the Transfer of Property Act and, thus, cannot be acted upon.19.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel would contend that findings of the Special Court to the effect that Respondent No.2 had an interest therein which could not have been transferred in terms of Section 6(d) of the Transfer of Property Act is not correct.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that the question of repeal of Section 82 of the Indian Trust Act by reason of The Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (for short The Benami Transactions Act) would be of no consequence as the provisions of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 are not exhaustive.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that Section 82 embodied a principle of equity underlying creation of a Resulting Trust which was held to be applicable even prior to enactment of the Indian Trusts Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance in this connection has been placed on Mussumat Ameeronnissa Khanum and Mussumat Parbutty vs. Mussumat Ashrufoonnisa (1871) 14 MoolndApp 433.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Subramonium Prasad, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Respondent No.1, on the other hand, would submit that no implied trust was created by and between Respondent No.2, on the one hand, and Respondent Nos.3 and 4 on the other, and in that view of the matter, no beneficial interest could be created in favour of the Respondent No.2.21.	Arguments of Respondent
In absence of any trust, Mr. Prasad would argue, Section 58 of the Indian Trusts Act would not apply particularly having regard to the provisions contained in Section 7 of the Benami Transactions Act whereby and whereunder Section 82 of the Trusts Act has been repealed and, thus, the question of there being an implied trust between Respondent No.2, on the one hand, and Respondent Nos.3 and 4 on the other, would not arise.22.	Arguments of Respondent
Having regard to the objects and reasons of the Benami Transactions Act, Mr. Prasad would submit, the right, title and interest in the CANCIGO remained in the Respondent Nos.3 and 4 and furthermore having regard to the term of issue CANCIGOs s being nontransferable, no title passed on to the Appellant herein in relation thereto.	Arguments of Respondent
Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 it was contended, were bound by the conditions restricting transfer and in that view of the matter the purported transfer in favour of the Appellant was void.23.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 4 of the Benami Transactions Act prohibits an action by the beneficiary for recovery of the property and in that view of the matter, the Appellant herein could not have filed an application for the Custodian claiming an interest therein.	Arguments of Respondent
But the said provision would not apply in the case of the Custodian having regard to the fact that he had a duty to the property belonging in a notified person and further in view of the fact that in terms of Section 13 of the said Act, the provisions thereof had an overriding effect over any other law for the time being in force as a result whereof the provisions of the Act would prevail over the Benami Transactions Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance in support of the said contention has been placed on Solidaire India Ltd. vs. Fairgrowth Financial Services Ltd.	Arguments of Respondent
Ors. 2001 (2) SCALE 1 .	Arguments of Respondent
ISSUE The primal issue which arises for consideration is as to whether the Respondent No.2 had any transferable interest in respect of the securities in question.	Issue
RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER The relevant provisions of the CANCIGO Scheme are as under 12(a) Only the holder or any person specifically authorized in this behalf by him and recognized as such by the Trustee, shall be entitled to deal with the Cancigos held by the holder thereof.12(b) 12(c)	None
A Cancigoholder may dispose of or encash Cancigos only by means of encashment slips in the form prescribed by the Trustee.12(d) A Cancigo holder desirous of encashing ten or more Cancigos held by him shall apply to the Authorised Office for the purpose in the prescribed form.	None
Upon such a request being found in order, the number of Cancigos desired to be encashed shall be paid to the holder thereof on signing a duly stamped receipt for the amount.13.	None
The contract for allotment of Cancigo with an Applicant by the Trustees shall be deemed to have been concluded on the Acceptance Date.	None
On such conclusion of the contract for allotment, the Trustees may deliver or send to the Applicant an acknowledgement therefor.	None
The Trustees shall thereafter issue to the Applicant one Cancigo credit sheet representing the Cancigo allotted to the Appellant, or, if the Applicant so desires and the Trustees agree, such number of certificates in such denominations as the Applicant may specify.	None
Provided that in that event the Trustees may charge such fee for issuing more than one certificate as the Trustees may consider appropriate.19.	None
Except in the cases hereafter mentioned, no Cancigo shall be transferable, nor shall any holder thereof be entitled to create any interest therein, whether by way of charge or otherwise, or assign or transfer any part thereof, and the Trustee shall not be bound to take any notice of any purported transfer, assignment, charge, encumbrance, trust, or any other interest sought to be created by the holder.	None
Accordingly the Trustee shall recognize only the holder thereof as having any right title or interest in the Cancigo held by such holder.22.	None
The Trustee shall not be required to maintain any register of Cancigo holders.25.	None
The Trustee shall not be bound by any notice or take notice of execution of any trust in respect of any Cancigos and they shall recognize only the Cancigo holders in whose name the same shall have been entered as the holder or holders of the Cancigos.	None
In the Brochure for offer of CANCIGOS, the restriction on transfer of CANCIGOS was stated in the following terms Transfer of CANCIGO Transfer of CANCIGO holding from one person to another person is not permitted.	None
However, in deserving cases Trustees may permit addition of name s to the existing CANCIGO holding after duly considering the same.	None
However, deletion of name of a CANCIGO holder is permitted, generally, in the event of his death and not otherwise.	None
It is not in dispute that the CANCIGOS stood in the names of Respondent No.3 and Respondent No.4.	None
Note 4 appended to CANCIGO Credit sheet states Cancigo holders cannot create any interest in Cancigos or transfer them to a third person.	None
PROVISIONS OF THE RELEVANT STATUTES Indian Trusts Act Sections 58, 82 (as it then stood), and 88 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 read as under Right to transfer beneficial interest.	None
The beneficiary, if competent to contract, may transfer his interest, but subject to the law for the time being in force as to the circumstances and extent in and to which he may dispose of such interest82.	None
Transfer to one for consideration paid by another.  	None
Where property is transferred to one person for a consideration paid or provided by another person, and it appears that such other person did not intend to pay or provide such consideration for the benefit of the transferee, the transferee must hold the property for the benefit of the person paying or providing the consideration.	None
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect the Code of Civil Procedure, section 317, or Act NO.XI of 1859 (to improve the law relating to sales of land for arrears of revenue in the Lower Provinces under the Bengal Presidency), section 36.88.	None
Advantage gained by fiduciary  Where a trustee, executor, partner, agent, director of a company, legal advisor, or other person bound in a fiduciary character to protect the interests of another person, by availing himself of his character, gains for himself any pecuniary advantage, or where any person so bound enters into any dealings under circumstances in which his own interests are, or may, be adverse to those of such other person and thereby gains for himself a pecuniary advantage, he must hold for the benefit of such other person the advantage so gained.	None
Transfer of Property Act Sections 6(d) and 10 of Transfer of Property Act read as under What may be transferred.	None
Property of any kind may be transferred, except as otherwise provided by this Act or by any other law for the time being in force,(a) (b) (c) (d) An interest in property restricted in its enjoyment to the owner personally cannot be transferred by him.10.	None
Condition restraining alienation.	None
Where property is transferred subject to a condition or limitation absolutely restraining the transferee or any person claiming under him from parting with or disposing of his interest in the property the condition or limitation is void, except in the case of a lease where the condition is for the benefit of the lessor or those claiming under him provided that property may be transferred to or for the benefit of a women (not being a Hindu, Muhammadan or Buddhist), so that she shall not have power during her marriage to transfer or charge the same or her beneficial interest therein.	None
Sale of Goods Act Sections 4, 19 and 20 of Sale of Goods Act read as under Sale and agreement to sell(1)	None
A contract of sale of goods is a contract whereby the seller transfers or agrees to transfer the property in goods to the buyer for a price.	None
There may be a contract of sale between one partowner and another.(2) A contract of sale may be absolute or conditional.(3) Where under a contract of sale the property in the goods is transferred from the seller to the buyer, the contract is called a sale, but where the transfer of the property in the goods is to take place at a future time or subject to some condition thereafter to be fulfilled, the contract is called an agreement to sell.19.	None
Property passes when intended to pass  (1) Where there is a contract for the sale of specific or ascertained goods the property in them is transferred to the buyer at such time as the parties to the contract intend it to be transferred.(2)	None
For the purpose of ascertaining the intention of the parties regard shall be had to the terms of the contract, the conduct of the parties and the circumstances of the case.(3) Unless a different intention appears, the rules contained in Sections 20 to 24 are rules for ascertaining the intention of the parties as to the time a which the property in the goods is to pass to the buyer.20.	None
Specific goods in a deliverable state.	None
Where there is an unconditional contract for the sale of specific goods in a deliverable state, the property in the goods passes to the buyer when the contract is made, and it is immaterial whether the time of payment of the price or the time of deliver of the foods, or both, is postponed.	None
BENAMI TRANSACTIONS ACT SubSection (1) of Section 3 of the Benami Act provides that no person shall enter into any benami transaction.	None
SubSection (3) of Section 3 thereof provides that whoever enters into any benami transaction shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years or with fine of with both.	None
Section 4 provides for a prohibition to the right to recover property held benami either by way of claim or by way of defence.	None
Section 5 provides that all properties held benami shall be subject to acquisition by such authority, in such manner and after following such procedure, as may be prescribed.	None
In terms of Section 7 inter alia Section 82 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 stood repealed.	None
THE ACT Sections 2(c), 3, and 4 of Special Courts Act read as under 2(c) securities includes(i) shares, scrips, stocks, bonds, debentures, debenture stock, units of the Unit Trust of India or any other mutual fund or other marketable securities of a like nature in or of any incorporated company or other body corporate(ii) Government securities and(iii) rights or interests in securities3.	None
Appointment and functions of Custodian.(1)	None
The Central Government may appoint one or more Custodians as it may deem fit for the purposes of this Act.(2)	None
The Custodian may, on being satisfied on information received that any person has been involved in any offence relating to transactions in securities after the 1st day of April, 1991 and on and before 6th June, 1992 notify the name of such person in the Official Gazette.(3)	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code and any other law for the time being in force, on and from the date of notification under subsection (2), any property, movable or immovable, or both, belonging to any person notified under that subsection shall stand attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification.(4)	None
The property attached under subsection (3) shall be dealt with by the Custodian in such manner as the Special Court may direct.4. Contract entered into fraudulently may be cancelled.(1) If the Custodian is satisfied, after such inquiry as he may think fit, that any contract or agreement entered into at any time after the 1st day of April, 1991 and on and before the 6th June, 1992 in relation to any property of the person notified under subsection (2) of section 3 has been entered into fraudulently or to defeat the provisions of this Act, he may cancel such contract or agreement and on such cancellation such property shall stand attached under this ActProvided that no contract or agreement shall be cancelled except after giving to the parties to the contract or agreement a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(2) Any person aggrieved by a notification issued under subsection (2) of section 3 or any cancellation made under subsection (1) of section 4 or any other order made by the Custodian in exercise of the powers conferred on him under section 3 of section 4 may file a petition objecting to the same within thirty days of the assent to the Special Court (Trial of Offences Relating to Transactions in Securities0 Bill, 1992 by the President before the Special Court where such notification, cancellation or order has been issued before the date of assent to Special Court (Trial of offences Relating to Transactions in Securities) Bill, 1992 by the President and where such notification, cancellation or order has been issued on or after that day, within thirty days of the issuance of such notification, cancellation or order, as the case may be and the Special Court after hearing the parties, may make such order as it deems fit.	None
The Special Court exercises all jurisdiction, powers and authority as were exercisable, immediately before such commencement by any Civil Court in relation to a matter or claim specified therein.	None
CANBANK MUTUAL FUND (CANCIGO) SCHEME, 1988 Canbank Mutual Fund framed a scheme known as CANCIGO Scheme.	Facts
The said Scheme came into force on 22nd April, 1988.	None
The provisions of the CANCIGO Scheme are applicable to the issue of units called CANCIGOS by Canara Bank acting in its capacity as Trustee of the Canbank Mutual Fund.	None
36.	None
condition 2(k) defines Cancigo Scheme to mean the Cancigo Mutual Fund (Cancigo) Scheme, 1988 under which Cancigos are issued by the Trustee.	None
Holder in terms of Condition 2(r) to mean a person who has made an application to the Trustee and to whom not less than five Cancigos have been issued or any person or persons nominated by the Trustee in this behalf for the purpose of participating in the Cancigo Scheme.	None
Condition No. 5 provides as to the person eligible to apply for the issue of Cancigos.	None
Condition No.10 provides that all allotments should be at the discretion of the Trustee.	None
Is the clog on Transfer Absolute?	None
The Rules and Regulations framed by the Canbank Mutual Fund in relation to the issuance of CANCIGO certificates do not have any statutory backing.	None
The CANCIGOs had a lock in period of one year, which means that the holder thereof must not encash the securities within the aforementioned period.	None
The question as regard the nontransferability of the units will have to be construed upon reading the scheme in its entirety and in particular the Condition No. 22	None
thereof, in terms whereof the Trustees were not required to maintain any register of CANCIGO holders.	None
In terms of Condition No. 24, the person whose name is shown in a CANCIGO Certificate would be the only person to be recognized by the Trustees as the holder of such Cancigo and as having any right, title or interest in or to such securities.	None
No Trust created was also to be recognized.	None
Condition No. 19 creating a bar on transfer has to be construed in the aforementioned context.	None
The bar on transfer created was to have the effect that the same would not be binding on Canbank Mutual Fund as it was not bound to take any notice thereof and only the holder shall be recognised as having the right, title or interest on the CANCIGO.	None
The expressions contained in Condition No. 19 of CANCIGO Scheme differ in material particulars from the expressions used in the Brochure in terms whereof transfer of CANCIGO from one person to another person is not permitted.	None
Permission is not a legal restriction.	None
However, in deserving cases Trustees may permit addition of names to the existing CANCIGO holding after duly considering the same.	None
Permission Approval subsequently granted would validate the grant.	None
(See Graphite India Ltd and another vs. Durgapur Projects Ltd. and others (1999) 7 SCC 645 ).	None
CANCIGOs indisputably are valuable securities.	None
They are otherwise capable of being transferred in terms of the established business practice, the Sale of Goods Act or Transfer of Property Act.	None
No legal bar has been created in transfer of the said securities.	None
The scheme, thus, does not and could not have created an absolute legal bar on transfer of the CANCIGOs so as to invalidate the same.	None
Effect of the Bar The Rules and Regulations framed by Canbank Mutual Fund and the notes appended to the CANCIGO Credit Sheet differ in material particulars.	None
Rules and Regulations explain as to why an embargo in transfer has been placed, i.e. not to recognize the Respondent No.3 for the dividends or for other liabilities arising out of transfer.	None
A transfer violating the rules and regulations would only have the effect of the same being not binding the Canbank Mutual Fund.	None
No other legal consequence flows therefrom.	None
We have noticed that the Brochure merely states that the transfer is not permitted but provisions exist for grant of such permission.	None
The Appellant Bank as well as Canbank Mutual Fund are the subsidiaries of the Canara Bank.	None
The Appellant cannot be estopped from raising either a limited or absolute title in them keeping in view of the fact that they had paid a sum of 33 crores of rupees by way of consideration for transfer of interest of the Respondent No.2 herein in the said CANCIGOS.	None
Effect of section 10 of Transfer of Property Act As would appear from the discussions made hereinafter that by reason of the legal consequences of the relationship of the banker and the customer, visavis the transaction in question, a beneficial trust has been created.	None
The same would thus, be transferable as otherwise it would be hit by Section 10 of the Transfer of Property Act.	None
When there exists such a condition in terms of Section 10, an absolute restrain is void whereas partial restraint is not.	None
Section 10 would not be attracted only when the restriction as to alienation is only partial.	None
(See Mohammad Raza and others vs. Mt. Abbas Bandi Bibi, AIR 1932 PC 158 ).	None
A stipulation taking away the whole power of alienation substantially is a question of substance and not of form.	None
Section 10 limits the application of such stipulation.	None
Trust Whether Created.	None
Chapter IX of the Indian Trusts Act provides for certain obligations in the nature of trusts.	None
A Trust is an obligation annexed to the ownership of property, and arising out of a confidence reposed in and accepted by the owner or declared and accepted by him, for the benefit of another, or of another and the owner.	None
A trust in terms of Section 4 of the Trust Act may be created for any lawful purpose.	None
When a real or personal property is purchased in the name of another, a presumption of resulting trust arises in favour of the person who is proved to have paid the purchase money as a result whereof a beneficial interest in the property results to the true purchaser.	None
Law relating to trust has not recognized only a resulting trust but other kinds of trust as well.	None
When an express trust is created by reason of an agreement between the parties and one of them being a beneficiary thereof, the same would be transferable.	None
A beneficial interest in the trust is created in different situations.	None
(See for example, Barclays Bank vs. Quistclose Investments (1970) AC 567).	None
In Barclays Bank (supra) a company which was substantially indebted to the bank needed funds in order to pay a dividend on its shares.	None
Quistclose Investments advanced the necessary funds on the basis that they were only to be used for this purpose and they were paid into a separate account at the bank, which was made aware of the arrangement.	None
The company went into liquidation before the dividend had been paid.	None
If Quistclose Investments were no more than a creditor of the company then the funds in the bank would belong to the company and the bank would be entitled to set off the credit balance of the account against the substantially greater indebtedness of the company.	None
If, on the other hand, the funds were held on trust for Quistclose Investments, its proprietary interest therein would enjoy priority over the rights of the bank.	None
The House of Lords held that arrangements for the payment of a persons creditors by a third person give rise to a relationship of a fiduciary character or trust, in favour as a primary trust, of the creditors and secondarily, if the primary trust fails, of the third person.	None
Once the primary purpose was fulfilled, the third person would be no more than an unsecured creditor.	None
However, there was no difficulty in recognizing the coexistence in one transaction of legal and equitable rights and remedies.	None
Since the purpose for which the funds had been advanced had failed, the funds, were still held on trust for Quistclose Investments, whose beneficial interest was binding on the bank because it had been aware of the basis on which the funds had been transferred.	None
(See Equity Trusts, 2nd Edition by Alastair Hudson, page 307).	None
In that case, the common intention of both the parties was that the fund in question should be held on trust.	None
The principle in Barclays Bank (supra) has been applied both where part of the funds advanced had indeed been used for the specific purpose in question, holding that the creditor was entitled to recover whatever was left (See Re EVTR (1987) B.C.L.C. 647) as also where the funds, although advanced for a specific purpose, were paid not by way of loan but rather in satisfaction of a contractual debt.	None
(See Carreras Rothmans Ltd. vs. Freeman Mathews Treasure Ltd. (1985) Ch. 207).	None
In this case, the Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 acted in consonance of the confidence reposed upon them.	None
Had Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 not disclosed that the applications for allotment of CANCIGOs were for the benefit of the 2nd Respondent herein, Section 88 of the Indian Trusts Act would have been attracted.	None
A transaction which falls within the purview of Section 88 of the Indian Trusts Act does not fall within the category of benami transaction in terms of the provisions of the Benami Transactions Act.	None
(See P.V. Sankara Kurup vs. Leelavathy Nambiar, AIR 1994 SC 2694 ).	None
The list of persons specified in Section 88 of the Indian Trusts Act is not exhaustive.	None
The expression other person bound in fiduciary character to protect the interests of other persons includes a large variety of relationship.	None
The heart and soul of the matter is that wherever as between two persons one is bound to protect the interests of the other and the former availing of that relationship makes a pecuniary gain for himself the provisions of Section 88 would be attracted, irrespective of any designation which is immaterial.	None
The said principle would also apply for a banker holding the customers money.	None
A fiduciary would not be liable for any action if there is no concealment by him or no advantage taken by him.	None
A civilized society furthermore always provides for remedies for cases of what was been called unjust enrichment or unjust benefit derived from another which it is against conscience that he should keep.	None
(See Fibrosa Spolka vs. Akcyjna vs. Fairbairn Lawson Combe Barbour, Ltd. (1942) 2 All ER 122).	None
In Carreras Rothmans Ltd. vs. Freeman Mathews Treasure Ltd. (1985) Ch. 207 at page 222), it is stated equity fastens on the conscience of the person who receives from another property transferred for a specific purpose only and not therefore for the recipients own purposes, so that such person will not be permitted to treat the property as his own or to use it for other than the stated purpose.	None
The parties to the transactions cannot enter into any benami transaction so as to get any property transferred in their names for consideration, i.e. paid by a third party.	None
A presumption, thus, arises that the parties never intended that the transaction would be a benami one.	None
By reason of the said transaction, a cestui qui trust was created, inasmuch as the Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 applied for allotment of CANCIGOs on behalf of the Respondent No.2 and not on their own behalf own behalf.	None
The trust was created for a purpose, namely, the benefit arising therefrom would be appropriated by the Respondent No.2.	None
The principle of cestui qui trust is a synonym of a beneficiary.	None
The said principle is not confined to the ingredients of Sections 82 of the Indian Trusts Act.	None
It also covers cases falling under Section 88 thereof.	None
Thus if it be held that the properties were acquired by the Respondents Nos. 3 and 4 in their own names in breach of their obligations while acting as an agent of the Respondent No.2 the case would be covered under Section 88 of the Indian Trusts Act.	None
Section 88 of the Trusts Act has not been repealed by Section 7 of the Benami Transaction Act.	None
In such a case the Benami Transactions Act would not operate.	None
A beneficial interest indisputably can be transferred.	None
For the said purpose, the only legal requirement will be essence of a trust.	None
The right of a beneficiary to transfer his interest being absolute, the transferee derived rights, title and interest therein.	None
Furthermore, the legal effect of a document cannot be taken away even if the property is chosen to conceal by a device the legal relation.	None
(See Commissioner of Income Tax, Hyderabad vs. Nawab Mir Barkat Ali Khan Bahadur (AIR 1975 SC 838 at 845).	None
In Hem Chandra Roy Chaudhury vs. Suradhani Debya Chaudhurani and others (AIR 1940 PC 134) it is held No doctrine of the law of India has been indicated to their Lordships which prevents a beneficiary under a trust from dealing with his interest by way of mortgage, though it is true enough that in India such an interest is not technically regarded as an equitable estate.	None
Furthermore, the doctrine of resulting trust was applicable in India even before the Indian Trusts Act came into force.	Reasoning
(See Mussumat Ameeronnissa Khanum and Mussumat Parbutty (supra).	Reasoning
We, therefore, are of the opinion that the Respondent No.2 had a transferable interest in the CANCIGOs.	Reasoning
Allotment of CANCIGO  Is it a Transfer?	None
The allotment of CANCIGOs is not a transfer as thereby Canbank Mutual Fund had allowed the shares not as owner thereof.	None
The Benami Transactions Act applies when there is a transaction in which the property is transferred.	None
If allotment of CANCIGOs is not a transfer of property, the Act would not apply.	None
(See Sri Raj Sachdeva vs. Board of Revenue (AIR 1959 All 595 ) and the Swadeshi Cotton Mills, Co. Ltd. In re. (1932) Comp.	None
Cas 411).	None
In Madura Mills Co. Ltd., In re. (1937) Comp.	None
Cas 71), Varadachariar, J. stated the law thus As we have already observed, it is not doubt true that in the hands of a shareholder, a share is property and when a shareholder exchanges his shares with another it may be possible to regard the transaction as amounting to a transfer whether by way of exchange or conveyance Cf.	None
Coats vs. Inland Revenue Commissioners (1897) 2 Q.B. 423.	None
But when the company is for the first time issuing shares, it seems to us that there is no question of property already possessed by the company being thereby transferred to the allottee.	None
Even assuming that the Benami Transactions Act as also the bar on transfer imposed by Canbank Mutual Fund (CBMF) would apply, the properties would remain vested in Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 and Respondent No.2 would have no interest therein which would attract the provisions of Subsection (3) of Section 3 of the Act.	None
Benami Transactions Act  Applicability Benami transactions in India were generally recognized by the Courts.	None
But the same had not been given effect to when the transaction.	None
(a) violates the provisions of any law or(b) defeats the rights of innocent transferees for value from the benamidar without notice or when(c) the object of the benami transaction was to defraud the creditors of the real owner and that object has been accomplished or when(d) it is against public policy.	None
Benami Transactions, however, used to be effected for various purposes to avoid taxes, to avoid ceiling laws etc.	None
Blank transfers of shares had also posed serious problems as dividends are paid to the registered shareholders and not to be the real shareholders as in the case of benami holdings of shares, but despite the same the transactions have not been declared to be invalid in law by any statute including the Benami Transactions Act.	None
Benami Transaction has been defined in Section 2(a) of the Benami Transactions Act to mean any transaction in which property is transferred to one person for a consideration paid or provided by another person.	None
Transfer of property, therefore, is sine qua non for attracting the said definition.	None
In a transfer involving benami transaction, three parties are involved.	None
The benamidar may be a party therein.	None
In this case, the parties to the transactions are public sector undertakings being scheduled banks and their subsidiaries.	None
A presumption would, thus, arise that they would not encourage any benami transaction nor would involve themselves therein.	None
In a situation of this nature and, in particular, having regard to the fact that a disclosure was made by the Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 in their applications for allotment of CANCIGO that the same were filed on behalf of the Respondent No.2 herein, the intention of the parties was not to enter into a benami transaction.	None
The Benami Transaction Act is not a piece of declaratory or curative legislation.	None
It creates substantive rights in favour of benamidars and destroys substantive rights of real owners who are parties to such transactions and for whom new liabilities are created by the Act.	None
A statute which takes away the rights of a party must be strictly construed.	None
(See R. Rajagopal Reddy (dead) by LRs.	None
and others vs. Padmini Chandrasekharan (dead) by LRs.	None
AIR 1996 SC 238 ).	None
The evil of benami transaction was sought to be curbed by reason of the provisions of the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1976, the State Ceiling Laws, Income Tax, Act 1961 as amended by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1975 (See Sections 281 and 281A of the Income Tax Act), Section 5 of the Gift Tax Act, 1958, Section 34B of the Wealth Tax Act and Section 5(1) of the Estate Duty Act (since repealed).	None
It is only with that view the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 prohibiting the right to recover benami transaction was enacted.	None
Section 5(1) provided that all properties held benami shall be subject to acquisition as different from forfeiture provided for in the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act, 1976.	None
But even Section 5 had not been made workable as no rules under Section 8 of the Act for acquisition of property held benami were framed.	None
A nationalized bank cannot hold somebody elses property in its name.	None
We do not know as to under what circumstances it applied for allotment of CANCIGOs in its name on behalf of the Respondent No.2.	None
We have also not been informed at the Bar as to whether there exists such a practice or the same is otherwise permissible.	None
We in these matters, however, are not concerned with an ethical question.	None
We are also not concerned with the misconduct of any officer of the Bank, criminal or otherwise, in this behalf.	None
This Court is only concerned, with the validity of the transactions.	None
We have noticed hereinbefore that in a case of this nature a beneficial interest is created within the meaning of the provisions of Section 88 of the Indian Trusts Act in view of the fact that the Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 have applied the money of the Respondent No.2 for allotment of CANCIGO in their own names and applied for allotment of the certificates on behalf of the Respondent No.2 and not on their own behalves.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, not a case where the transaction was benami in nature.	Reasoning
It does not appear also to be a case where the parties entered into a transaction with a view to contravene any law.	Reasoning
It is also not a case where any amount belonging to a bank has been utilized by a customer.	Reasoning
The Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 have not claimed any right, title and interest in CANCIGOs.	Reasoning
In view of the aforementioned circumstances, provisions of the Benami Transactions Act would have no any application whatsoever.	None
Role of Custodian Under the Act The Custodian has three main functions to perform He has the authority to notify a person in the Official Gazette, on being satisfied on information received that he has been involved in any offence relating to transactions in securities during the period 1.4.1991 to 6.6.1992.(ii)	None
He has the authority to cancel any contract or agreement relating to the properties of the notified persons, which, in his opinion, has been entered into fraudulently or for the purpose of defeating the provisions of the Act as specified in Section 4.(iii)	None
He is required to deal with the properties in the manner as directed by the Special Court.	None
The properties of a notified person do not vest in the Custodian.	None
He is not a receiver within the meaning of the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure or an Official Receiver or an Officer Assignee under the insolvency laws.	None
He is also not an Official Liquidator under the Companies Act.	None
His right is same as that of the notified person.	None
Only when the notified person had a subsisting right in a property the same being subject to statutory attachment, the custodian can approach the special court for an appropriate direction in relation thereto.	None
In other words, the custodian is not permitted to deal with any property which did not belong to the notified person on the relevant date.	None
Are the Transactions Illegal?	None
The Canbank Mutual Fund having regard to the materials on records must be presumed to have issued the CANCIGOs in the names of the Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 with full knowledge that they would enure to the benefit of the Respondent No.2.	None
The effect of grant of CANCIGOs by the Canbank Mutual Fund despite such knowledge does not strictly fall for our consideration but the same is relevant to determine the nature of illegality of the transaction, if any.	None
It is one thing to say that they could not have done so having regard to the scheme, but it is another thing to say that the same was illegal.	None
The area of law concerning illegality and resulting trust has undergone some changes in view of a recent decision of the House of Lords in Tinsley vs. Milligan reported in 1993(3) All E.R. 65.	None
In the said case, Lord Browne Wilkinson specified the core applicable principles which are as under Property in chattels and land can pass under a contract which is illegal and therefore would have been unenforceable as a contract.2.	None
A plaintiff can at law enforce property rights so acquired provided that he does not need to reply on the illegal contract for any purpose other than providing the basis of his claim to a property right.3.	None
It is irrelevant that the illegality of the underlying agreement was either pleaded or emerged in evidence if the plaintiff has acquired legal title under the illegal contract that is enough.	None
It was held that illegality being not the source of Milligams equitable rights as her contribution to the purchase price was the source therefor.	None
In that case, Respondent did not have to rely on her own illegality because she was entitled to an equitable share in the property in any event because she had contributed to the purchase price.	None
The principles evolved in Tinsley (supra) apply to the fact of the present case.	None
The said decision was followed by this Court in B.O.I. Finance Ltd. vs. Custodian and others (1997) 10 SCC 488.	None
The Scheme suggests that Canbank Mutual Fund intended to absolve itself from such responsibilities.	None
Does by such contract the holder of a unit is debarred from transferring a valuable security?	None
The answer to that question must be rendered in the negative.	None
A transfer can be held to be invalid provided it is forbidden in law.	None
It is one thing to say that the founders of the Scheme would not recognize any transfer so as to make it liable to pay dividend to a person other than the person in whose name a unit is held but it is another thing to say that it is not legally transferable.	None
In this case, the Court is not concerned with the question whether in the facts and circumstances of this case the Appellant should have accepted the units of face value of Rs.33 crores and adjusted a sum of Rs.25,01,67,129/ followed by issuance of a cheque of Rs.7,98,32,871/, but with the question as to whether such a transaction was legally impermissible.	None
The case at hand poses a peculiar problem.	None
Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 applied for allotment of CANCIGOs in their name under the instructions of Respondent No.2.	None
Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 were not to invest their own money.	None
The consideration paid towards the allotment of the units was paid from the account of the Respondent No. 2.	None
Even the dividends paid to them at the first instance were credited in the account of the Respondent No.2.	None
Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 had never claimed any right, title or interest in the said securities.	None
Respondent No.4 in its affidavit dated 26th July, 1993 had categorically stated I say and submit that Respondents No.4 are neither necessary nor proper parties to the petition inasmuch as Respondents No. 4 have no claim whatsoever in the subject securities.	None
A similar statement had been made by Respondent No.3 Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 did not claim any right title or interest as evidently the possession of CANCIGOs were delivered in favour of the Respondent No. 2.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even the Benami Transactions Act while prohibiting benami transactions does not provide that by reason of such a transaction no title whatsoever would pass or the property would vest in the State as for acquisition of benami property recourse to Section 5 of the Act has to be resorted to.	None
In absence of any proceedings taken and a binding order passed in terms of Section 5 of the Benami Transactions Act, only Section 4 of the Act would apply.	None
Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 by reason of the said transaction held themselves to be the trustees of Respondent No.2 in relation to the securities in question.	None
They applied for allotment for the benefit of Respondent No.2.	Reasoning
They never enforced any claim in relation to the said securities in a court of law and, in fact, disclaimed any right, title or interest therein.	Reasoning
Possession of the securities which are movable properties has been handed over to them.	Reasoning
No statutory provision has been brought to our notice forbidding such transfer.	Reasoning
The Respondent Nos. 3 and 4, therefore, were not statutorily prevented from entering into such a transaction.78.	Reasoning
In other words, the concerned, parties, namely, Canbank Mutual Fund, the Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 as well as the Respondent No.2 became a party to an arrangement which may be unethical but not illegal.	None
A contract may be unlawful or partly lawful or partly unlawful.	None
If it is lawful, it will be given effect to whereas in case it is wholly unlawful being opposed to the public policy, it would not be.	None
In case a transaction is partly lawful and partly unlawful, if they are severable, the lawful part shall be given effect to.	None
(See B.O.I. Finance Ltd. (supra).	None
The said decision is also an authority for the proposition that the position of the custodian is same as that of the notified person himself.	None
If by any law the Respondent No.2 was not precluded from transferring the shares held by him, the transfer thereof in favour of the Appellants was legal.	None
The transaction took place on 6.2.1992, i.e. much prior to 6.6.1992 when the Respondent No.2 became a notified person.	None
If on or after 6.2.1992, Respondent No.2 had no interest in the CANCIGOs, the same could not have been the subject matter of attachment of the custody.	None
The custodian could attach the property only when the right, title and interest thereto remain on the Respondent No.2 and not otherwise.	None
In B.O.I. Finance Ltd. (supra) the question which fell for consideration of this Court was as to whether readyforward or buyback transactions are valid.	None
In that case the nature of transaction was not in dispute.	None
The transaction consisted of two interconnected legs, namely, the first or the ready leg, consisting of purchase or sale of certain securities at a specified price and the second or forward leg, consisting of the sale or purchase of the same or similar securities at a later date at a price determined on the first date.	None
It was held that the first leg of the transaction was not illegal whereas the second leg of the transaction was contrary to the provisions of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956.	None
In the said decision, noncompliance of the direction issued by the Reserve Bank also came up for consideration and this Court in no uncertain terms held that whereas noncompliance thereof may result in prosecution but would not result in invalidation of any contract entered into by the bank with a third party.	None
It was opined In the present case the appellants are basing their claim by relying not on the terms of the readyforward contract, but on the payment of market price against delivery of the securities.	None
The claim to title is independent of the readyforward agreement.61.	None
There can be little doubt that the appellants, when they paid the market price and took delivery of the securities had become owners of the same.	None
According to Section 5 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, transfer of property inter alia means an act by which a person conveys property to another person.	None
Section 6 of this Act deals with what property may be transferred.	None
What is relevant in Section 6(h) according to which no transfer can be made (1) insofar as it is opposed to the nature of the interest affected thereby, or (2) for an unlawful object, or consideration within the meaning of Section 23 of the Indian Contract Act, or (3) to a person legally disqualified to be transferee.	None
According to Section 23 of the Contract Act the consideration or object of an agreement will be unlawful if it is forbidden by law, or is of such a nature that if permitted it would defeat the provisions of any law or is fraudulent, or involves or implies injury to the person or property of another, or the court regards it as immoral or opposed to public policy.	None
In the instant case the object of the contracts entered into between the banks and the notified parties was for the transfer and, subsequently, retransfer of the securities.	None
The transfer took place on delivery of securities on payment of market price as consideration.	None
The consideration for the transfer of the securities, in the ready leg, was the payment of market price.62.	None
The validity of the transfer of the securities has to depend on the provisions of the Transfer of Property Act and the Sale of Goods Act relating to transfer and not to the validity of the agreement preceding the transfer.	None
Like any other movable goods the securities could validity by purchased on delivery against payment of price as per Sections 4, 19 and 20 of the Sale of Goods Act.	None
The price paid, while taking delivery, was the consideration for the transfer of the securities.	None
When the transfer of title has taken place the agreement between the parties preceding this cannot invalidate the transfer This decision applies in all fours to the fact of the present case.	None
Right, title and interest in a movable property can pass by delivery of possession and upon paying of the considerations in view of the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act.	None
Passing up of a title in favour of the transferee would not be illegal, unless it is forbidden by law.	None
For the said purpose, the transaction must attract the wrath of Section 23 of the Indian Contract Act and not otherwise.	None
Section 3 of the Act does not contemplate extinction of right of a third party.	None
For getting the transaction invalidated in law, only Section 4 of the Act can be taken recourse to.	None
The constitutional validity of the Act came up for consideration before this Court in Harshad Shantilal Mehta vs. Custodian and others (1998(5) SCC 1).	None
The vires of the said statute was upheld, inter alia, on the ground that by reason thereof the right, title and interest in a property belonging to Respondent No.3 is not affected.	None
The interest of the Appellant, thus, was not affected by the said Act or by the Benami Transactions Act.	None
Extinction in right, title and interest in a property must be caused as a result of operation of law and not otherwise.	None
Creation of title by an act of parties is subject to law.	None
Once a title vests in a person he cannot be divested therefrom except by reason of or in accordance with a statute and not otherwise.	None
An admission does not create a title the logical corollary whereof would be that an admission of a party would not lead to relinquishment of his right therein, if he has otherwise acquired a title in the property.	None
Title in a property connotes a bundle of rights.	None
Subject to prohibitory or regulatory statute, such rights are capable of being transferred.	None
Apart from the provisions of Benami Transactions Act, no other provision operating in the field which would negate the claim of the Appellant was pointed out.	None
As discussed hereinbefore, the Benami Transactions Act will have no application in the instant case.	None
It is also not a case where a transfer has been made by a company beyond its articles.	None
Appellant has not acted ultra vires its articles.	None
Furthermore, it is one thing to say that a transfer is made contrary to Articles but it would not be correct to contend that the same was prohibited by terms of issue.	None
Attachment Attachment under subSection (3) of Section 3 of the Act is subject to an encumbrance, if any.	None
Even if a limited right is transferred by a notified person to a third party, the order of attachment, if any, must be subject to the said right of the third party.	None
In other words, under all circumstances, the right of a third party must be recognized.	None
It is now wellsettled, in view of the decision of this Court in C.B. Gautam vs. Union of India and others (1993) 1 SCC 78 ), that even where a statute provides for compulsory purchase, the property will not vest in the Government free from all encumbrances but would vest subject to the encumbrances.	None
In C.B. Gautam (supra), this Court held Reading down is not permissible in such a manner as would fly in the face of the express terms of the statutory provisions.	None
In view of the express provision in Section 269UE that the property purchased would vest in the Central Government free from all encumbrances (emphasis supplied) it is not possible to read down the section as submitted by learned Attorney General.	None
In the result the expression free from all encumbrances in subsection (1) of Section 269 UE is struck down and subsection (1) of Section 269UE must be read without the expression free from all encumbrances with the result the property in question would vest in the Central Government subject to such encumbrances and leasehold interests as are subsisting thereon except for such of them as are agreed to be discharged by the vendor before the sale is completed In V.B. Rangaraj (supra), whereupon reliance has been placed by the learned counsel for the Respondents, transfer was contrary to the Articles of the Company.	None
This Court therein had no occasion to consider the effect of a transaction which is contrary to the terms of issue.	None
The said Act provides for certain statutory consequences which must be kept within the four corners thereof.	None
The Learned Special Judge, therefore, erred in asking unto itself a wrong question that the statutory provisions create no right in the third party party including the Appellant herein.	None
The question which should have been posed was Had any right, title or interest of Respondent No.2 existed on the notified date in the said CANCIGOS authorizing the Custodian to act in terms of Section 3?	None
The answer to that question must be rendered in the negative.	None
It is no doubt true that Section 13 of the said Act provides for a nonobstante clause but before the said clause is resorted to, it must be shown that there exists a provision inconsistent with the provision in any other Act.	None
In any event, if Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 could transfer or relinquish its right in favour of Respondent No.2 who in turn could transfer the same to the Appellant, provisions of the said Act would not entitle the custodian to claim a property which cased to be the property of the Respondent No.2.	None
Here again, the learned Special Judge committed an error in holding that by reason of Section 4(2) of the Benami Transactions Act, the Appellant is forbidden from raising a defence in respect of the CANCIGOS although such a bar would not apply in the case of the Custodian.	None
The Appellant, in our opinion, had also the requisite locus to maintain its application before the Special Court with a view to show that it having an interest in the CANCIGOS, the same is beyond the purview of purported automatic attachment, under Section 3(3) of the Act and consequently neither the custodian derived any right to deal therewith nor the special court could issue any direction in relation thereto.	Reasoning
In any event having regard to the provision contained in Section 9A of the Act, all claims relating to the properties which are claimed to have been statutorily attached must be adjudicated by the Special Court only.	Reasoning
The claim petition of the Appellant was, thus, maintainable.	None
In V.B. Rangaraj (supra), this Court held that shares being movable property, a shareholder has a free right to transfer his shares.	None
Such right can only be taken away by Articles of Association and not otherwise.	None
The stand of the custodian, in this behalf, is inconsistent and selfcontradictory.	None
If by reason of the embargo placed on transfer of any CANCIGO, the right remains vested in the Respondent Nos. 3 and 4, the question of the same being subject to attachment would not arise.	Reasoning
However, if, according to the custodian, right, title and interest in the CANCIGOS vested in the Respondent No.2, he being a third party can transfer his interest, as he was not bound by the rules for allotment.	Reasoning
On the one hand, it is contended that the Respondent Nos. 3 and 4 were bound by the conditions imposed by Canbank Mutual Fund and on the other a contention was raised that they were benamidars.	Reasoning
Both cannot stand together.	Reasoning
Similarly, a contention has been raised that the condition contained in Note No.4 of the Credit Sheet is an absolute restraint on alienation, but at the same time it is contended that even the third party cannot transfer his interest (if he has any) in favour of another although a transfer can be given effect to after the expiry of the lockin period.94.	Reasoning
Furthermore, in a case of this nature, the Respondent No.2 did not hold any personal interest which would come within the purview of Section 6(d) of the Act.	Reasoning
In interest in the CANCIGOS was not created in the Respondent No.2 for enjoyment in his personal capacity.	Reasoning
Section 6(d) of the Transfer of Property Act would apply when a transfer is in violation of such stipulation which would defeat the object thereof.	Reasoning
The learned Special Judge, therefore, committed an error in invoking Section 6(d) of the Transfer of Property Act.	None
In Nallajerla Krishnayya vs. Vuppala Raghavulu (AIR 1958 AP 658 ), it is stated If, on a construction of the relevant terms of the instrument, the Court comes to the conclusion that rights were created against the property, the matter is taken out of the purview of Section 6(d) of the Transfer of Property Act.	None
In Harshad Shantilal Mehta (supra), this Court held The last question can be answered first.	None
As stated above, Section 3(3) clearly provides that the properties attached are properties which belong to the person notified.	None
The words belong to have a reference only to the right, title and interest of the notified person in that property.	None
If in the property belonging to a notified person, another person has a share or interest, that share or interest is not extinguished.	None
Of course, if the interest of the notified person in the property is not a severable interest, the entire property may be attached.	None
But the proceeds from which distribution will be made under Section 11(2) can only be the proceeds in relation to the right, title and interest of the notified person in that property.	None
The interest of a third party in the attached property cannot be sold or distributed to discharge the liabilities of the notified person.	None
This would also be the position when the property is already mortgaged or pledged on the date of attachment to a bank or to any third party.	None
This, however, is subject to the right of the Custodian under Section 4 to set aside the transaction of mortgage or pledge.	None
Unless the Custodian exercises his power under Section 4, the right acquired by a third party in the attached property prior to attachment does not get extinguished nor does the property vest in the Custodian whether free from encumbrances or otherwise.	None
The ownership of the property remains as it was.	None
The Appellant having paid a consideration of Rs.33 crores in relation to the CANCIGOS in question had a just right to possess the same to the exclusion of the Respondent No.2 and in that view of the matter too the Special Court could not have directed the Appellant to hand over the same to the Custodian.	Reasoning
The said direction in unsustainable in law.	None
Section 13 of the Act In Solidaire India Ltd. (supra), the Custodian initiated proceedings before the Special Court for recovery of an amount of loan of Rs.1 crore due to the Respondent No.1 from the Appellant therein.	None
The suit was decreed and only during pendency of appeal, the Appellant became sick.	None
The question which arose for consideration was a to whether in view of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985, no proceeding could have been initiated or continued under the said Act.	None
Referring to Section 13 of the Act, this Court held that the provisions of the said Act would prevail over the provisions of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985.	None
We are here not concerned with the right of a party to take recourse to a remedy but are concerned with a right of a party to possess the property over which it has a lawful title.	None
In such a situation, Benami Transactions Act will have no application in allocation of shares as the same would not come within the purview of transaction relating to a transfer of property.	Reasoning
Transfer of CANCIGO in favour of the Appellant was, thus, valid and legal as by reason of the transfer of possession of the CANCIGOS by respondent No.2.	Reasoning
in favour of the Appellant, a valid right has been created therein, the same could not have been attached in terms of Section 3(3) of the said Act.100.	Reasoning
The Custodian thought it expedient not to invoke the provisions of Subsection (2) of Section 4 of the said Act.	Reasoning
He was at liberty to do so.	Reasoning
Even now he is free to do so, if so advised.	Reasoning
Conclusion101.	Reasoning
For the reasons aforementioned, the impugned judgment cannot be sustained which is set aside accordingly.	Decision
These appeals are allowed.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of this case, however, there shall be no order as to costs.	None
