 TULZAPURKAR, J. 1.	None
These appeals by certificate of fitness granted by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay are directed against that Courts common judgment and decree dated September 9/10, 1968, passed in two cross appeals being First Appeal Nos. 245 of 1962 and 844 of 1961.	None
2.	None
A contract for the construction of an aqueduct across the Alandi River at Mile No. 2 of the Nasik Left Bank Canal of the total value of Rs. 1, 07, 000/ was granted to the appellantplaintiff (originally a partnership but later a proprietary firm of contractors) by the respondentdefendant (the State of Maharashtra) after the formers tender was accepted on June 17, 1955.	Facts
On July 2, 1955 the Executive Engineer issued the work order to the appellantplaintiff directing him to commence the work by July 5, 1955 intimating in clear terms that the stipulated date for starting the work would be reckoned from July 5, 1955.	Facts
The formal regular Contract in prescribed From B2/1 of 195556 (Ex. 34) containing the terms and conditions as well as the Schedules, specifications etc. was executed by the parties on July 12, 1955.	Facts
A security deposit of Rs. 4, 936/ was kept by the appellant plaintiff with the respondentdefendant.	Facts
The period for completion of work was fixed as 12 months from the date stipulated for commencement of the work, that is to say, it was expected to be completed on or before July 4, 1956.	Facts
It appears that on the ground that the appellant plaintiff had not completed the work as expected within the stipulated time the Executive Engineer by his letter dated August 27, 1956 (Ex. 78) rescinded the said contract with effect from August 16, 1956.	Facts
After serving a notice under s. 80 of the Civil Procedure Code the appellantplaintiff filed a suit (being Special Civil Suit No. 23 of 1959) on August 28, 1959 in the Court of the Joint Civil Judge, Senior Division, Nasik making a claim for Rs. 65, 000/ in the aggregate against the respondentdefendant alleging wrongful and illegal recision of the contract on the part of the respondentdefendant.	Facts
The appellantplaintiffs case was that the initial fixation of July 5, 1955 as the date for commencement of the work was nominal, that the area where the work was to be done had usually heavy rainfall rendering it impossible to carry out any work from July to November and that, therefore, it was the practice of the Public Works Department to deduct the period	Facts
o f monsoon in case of such type of works and that the appellantplaintiff had been orally informed that this period would be deducted or not taken into account for calculating the period of 12 months under the contract and that on this assurance he had commenced the work towards the end of December 1955.	Facts
His case further was that in any event time was not of the essence of the contract, that on account of several difficulties, such as excessive rains, lack of proper road and means of approach to the site, rejection of materials on improper grounds by Government Officers, etc., over which he had no control, the completion of the work was delayed and that the extension of the time which was permissible under the contra ct had been wrongfully refused by the officers of the respondentdefendant.	Facts
According to him none of these factors had been taken into account by the Government while refusing the extension and the contract was wrongfully rescinded and, therefore, the respondentdefendant was liable in damages.	Facts
The total claim of Rs. 65, 000/ comprised six items(1) Rs. 4, 936/ being the amount of security deposit wrongfully forfeited by the respondentdefendant, (2) Rs. 10, 254/ being the amount due to him for the actual work done by him under Bill No. 1253 dated September 20, 1956 and which had not been paid for, (3) Rs. 7, 375/ being the value of the material collected by him on the site for work but which had been rendered useless on account of wrongful recision, the 4th and 5th items sounded in damages, while the last item was interest from date of recision to the date of the suit.	Facts
The State of Maharashtra resisted the claim contending that time was of the essence of the contract, that the date fixed for commencement was real and not nominal and the 12 months period was fixed after all aspects of the matter had been taken into account, it was further contended that the appellantplaintiff knew the situation of the site and the socalled difficulties, that there was no excuse for him for not doing the work during the months of July to November, that the appellantplaintiff failed to carry out the proportionate work during the periods fixed in the contract and t hat since the appellantplaintiff had rendered himself incompetent to complete the work in proper time it had to rescind the contract and the recision was proper and for adequate reasons it was further contended that the State was entitled to forfeit the security deposit which it did on the date when the contract was rescinded.	Facts
The several items claimed by the appellant plaintiff were denied by the State.	Facts
It was denied that the material of the value of Rs. 7, 375/ remained on the site or that it was responsible for its non removal from the site.	Facts
Regarding items 4 and 5 the State denied its liability to pay the same as it was the appellantplaintiff who had committed the breach of the contract.	Facts
As regards the amount due under Bill No. 1253 dated September 20, 1956 for the actual work done, it was contended that the State had to deduct the amount of penalty leviable under the contract and for the actual cement supplied to the appellantplaintiff and after making deductions in that behalf only a sum of Rs. 700/ would be due to the appellantplaintiff.	Facts
3.	None
On a consideration of the documentary evidence including the terms and conditions of the contract (Ex. 34) and the oral evidence led by the parties, the learned trial Judge held that the date July 5, 1955 fixed as the date for commencement of the work was not nominal but that time was not of the essence of the contract between the parties, that the respondentdefendant (State Government) had wrongfully rescinded the contract, that the appellant plaintiff was entitled to damages but that he had not established the two items claimed as damages and he was entitled to a nominal sum of Rs. 120/ as damages.	Facts
He further held that since the recision of the contract was wrongful the State was not entitled to forfeit the security deposit nor levy any penalty.	Facts
He accordingly decreed the appellantplaintiffs claim in respect of refund of security deposits and as regards the amount of Bill No. 1253 dated September 20, 1956 for actual work done he held that a sum of Rs. 5, 845/ only would be due to him after giving credit for Rs. 4, 409/ due from the appellantplaintiff to the State.	Facts
He accordingly decreed the appellantplaintiffs suit to the extent of Rs. 10, 901/ with interest thereon at 6 per annum from the date of recision till date of suit and allowed proportionate costs to him.	Facts
Two appeals were preferred against the aforesaid decree of the trial court, one by the appellantplaintiff in respect of the claims that had been disallowed (First Appeal No. 245 of 1962) and the other by the State in respect of the claims allowed against it (First Appeal No. 844 of 1961).	Facts
Curiously enough the High Court did not decide the main issue that arose between the parties, namely, whether time was of the essence of the contract, as it took the view that a decision on that question was really unnecessary for disposal of the appeals.	Facts
It proceeded to decide the appeals on the assumption that time was not of the essence of the contract by considering the question whether the recision of the contract by the State could be regarded as mala fide or so unreasonable that it must in the place of the judgment of the officers concerned substitute its own judgment and hold that the recision was wrongful.	Facts
The High Court observed that even the appellantplaintiff had not alleged any mala fide on the part of any of the officers of the State but had pressed into service five or six factors the non consideration whereof by the respondentdefendant rendered the recision of the contract arbitrary, unreasonable and, therefore, unjustified.	Facts
After discussing each one of those five or six factors the High Court held that some of them had not been proved by the appellantplaintiff while others did not head to the inference that the recision of the contract was arbitrary, unreasonable or unjustified.	Facts
It found that by a bout July 21, 1956 (vide Ex.	Facts
Engineers letter Ex. 74)	Facts
the appellantplaintiff had done only 1/3rd of the contract work and that in the circumstances the appellantplaintiff could not have completed the work even within the next three months and, therefore, the respondents officers had rightly rescinded the contract and, therefore, it was the appellantplaintiff and not the respondentdefendant who had committed a breach of the contract.	Facts
However, the High Court took t he view that for such breach on the part of the appellant plaintiff, the respondentdefendant, on a reading of the cls.	Facts
2 and 3 of the Conditions of Contract, was not entitled both to levy compensation and also to forfeit the security deposit.	Facts
Accordingly, the High Court upheld the forfeiture of the security deposit made by the respondentdefendant and while modifying the trial courts decree it confirmed it only to the extent of Rs. 5, 845/, being the amount due to the appellantplaintiff for the work actually done by him under Bill No. 1253 and which had not been paid.	Facts
In the result, the appellantplaintiffs appeal was dismissed and that of the State was partly allowed with appropriate order of proportionate costs.	Facts
In support of the present appeal counsel for the appellantplaintiff raised two or three contentions.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the first place he contended that the High Court was in error in not deciding the main issue whether the time was of the essence of the contract or not ?	Arguments of Petitioner
He urged that the said issue could not be avoided in the manner done by the High Court, for, if time was not of the essence of the contract then just before the expiry of the 12 months period or immediately after its expiry it was up to the respondent defendant to grant some reasonable time to the appellant plaintiff for completing the work undertaken and make the same the essence of the contract and only if the work was not completed by the appellantplaintiff within that time the contract could have been rescinded on the ground that the appellantplaintiff had committed a breach of a contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him such course of action on the part of the respondentdefendant was obligatory, when the initial period of 12 months was not of the essence, especially when the request of the appellantplaintiff for extension of time was pending before the concerned officers of the Government since before the expiry of the initial period.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended tha t instead of adopting the aforesaid course the respondentdefendant had without making time of the essence of the contract rescinded the same with effect from August 16, 1956 by a letter dated August 27, 1956 (Ex. 78), which recision must be regarded as wrongful and illegal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Secondly counsel contended that the High Court further erred in considering the question whether the recision of the contract by the State was either mala fide or wholly unreasonable and, therefore, unjustified.	Arguments of Petitioner
He pointed out it was not the appellantplaintiffs case that the recision was mala fide and, according to him, the question was not whether the recision of the contract on the part of the respondentdefendant was unreasonable, and, therefore, unjustified but whether the respondentdefendant was entitled in law to rescind the contract in the manner done when time was not of the essence of the contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further urged that the High Court had clearly erred in assuming that the appellantplaintiff could not have completed the work even within the next three months and, therefore, the contract was rightly rescinded by the respondent defendant.	Arguments of Petitioner
He, however, fairly stated that even if this Court held in his favour that the recision was wrongful and, therefore, the respondentdefendant had committed a breach he would merely press for the restoration of the decree passed by the trial Court and not press any other item forming the subjectmatter of the original claim in the suit.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, counsel for the respondent defendant sought to support the judgment and decree of the High Court on both the grounds first that time was of the essence of the contract having regard to the express provision contained in cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) of the Conditions of Contract and, therefore, on appellantplaintiffs failure to complete the same within the stipulated time the recision of the contract was legal and justified and secondly, that even if time was not of the essence of the contract, having regard to the circumstances the High Court rightly came to the conclusion that the recision of the contract by the respondentdefendant could not be regarded as unreasonable or unjustified and t hat, therefore, the appellantplaintiff being in breach the security deposit had been rightly forfeited.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first question that arises for our consideration, therefore, is whether time was of the essence of the contract that was executed between the parties on July 12, 1955 (Ex. 34).	None
It cannot be disputed that question whether or not time was of the essence of the contract would essentially be a question of the intention of the parties to be gathered from the terms of the contract.	None
The contract in the instant case is for the construction of an aqueduct across the Alandi River at Mile No. 2 of the Nasik Left Bank Canal and unquestionably 12 months period commencing from the date of the commencement of the work had been specified within which the construction had to be completed by the appellantplaintiff.	None
Indisputably, in the work order dated July 2, 1955 the Executive Engineer had directed the appellantplaintiff to commence the work by July 5, 19 55 intimating in clear terms that the stipulated date for starting the work would be reckoned from July 5, 1955.	Facts
Both the trial court as well as the High Court have found that mentioning of July 5, 1955 as the date for starting the work was not nominal but was real date intended to be acted upon by the parties.	None
It is, therefore, clear that 12 months period mentioned for the completion of the work was to expire on July 4, 1956.	None
The question is whether this period of 12 months so specified in the contract was of the essence of the contract or not ?	Issue
On the one hand, counsel for the appellantplaintiff contended that the contract being analogous to a building contract the period of 12 months would not ordinarily be of t he essence of the contract as the subject matter there of was not such as to make completion to time essential, that an agreement to complete it within reasonable time would be implied and that reasonable time for completion would be allowed.	None
On the other hand counsel for the respondentdefendant contended that time had been expressly made of the essence of the contract and in that behalf reliance was placed upon cl.	Arguments of Respondent
(2) of the Conditions of Contract where not only time was stated to be of the essence of the contract on the part of the contractor but even for completion of proportionate works specific periods had been specified and, therefore, the appellantplaintiffs failure to complete the work within the stipulated period entitled the respondentdefendant to rescind it.	Arguments of Respondent
In the latest 4th edn. of Halsburys Laws of England in regard to building and engineering contracts the statement of law is to be found in Vol. 4, Para 1179, which runs thus117 9.	None
Where time is of the essence of the contract.	None
The expression time is of the essence means that a breach of the condition as to the time for performance will entitle the innocent party to consider the breach as a repudiation of the contract.	None
Exceptionally, the completion of the work by a specified date may be a condition precedent to the contractors right to claim payment.	None
The parties may expressly provide that time is of the essence of the contract and where there is power to determine the contract on a failure to complete by the specified date, the stipulation as to time will be fundamental.	None
Other provisions of the contract may, on the construction of the contract, exclude an inference that the completion of the works by a particular date is fundamental, time is not of the essence where a sum is payable for each week that the work remains incomplete after the date fixed, nor where the parties contemplate a postponement of completion.	None
Where time has not been made of the essence of the contract or, by reason of waiver, the time fixed has ceased to be applicable, the employer may by notice fix a reasonable time for the completion of the work and dismiss the contractor on a failure to complete by the date so fixed.	None
(Emphasis supplied) 4.	None
It will be clear from t he aforesaid statement of law that even where the parties have expressly provided that time is of the essence of the contract such a stipulation will have to be read along with other provisions of the contract and such other provisions may, on construction of the contract, exclude the inference that the completion of the work by a particular date was intended to be fundamental, for instance, if the contract were to include causes providing for extension of time in certain contingencies or for payment of fine or penalty for every day or week the work undertaken remains unfinished on the expiry of the time provided in the contract such clauses would be construed as rendering ineffective the express provision relating to the time being of the essence of contract.	Reasoning
The emphasised portion of the aforesaid statement of law is based on Lamprell v. Billericay Union, Webb v. Hughes and Charles Rickards Ltd. v. Oppenheim.	None
It is in light of the aforesaid position in law that we will have to consider the several clauses of the contract Ex. 34 in the case.	None
The material clauses in this behalf are cls.	None
2 and 6 of the Conditions of Contract which run as followsClause 2The time allowed for carrying out the work as entered in the tender shall be strictly observed by the contractor and shall be reckoned from the date on which the order to commence work is given to the contractor.	None
The work shall throughout the stipulated period of the contract be proceeded with, with all due diligence (time being deemed to be of the essence of the contract on the part of the contractor) and the contractor shall pay as compensation an amount equal to on e per cent or such smaller amount as the Superintending Engineer (whose decision in writing shall be final) may decide, of the amount of the estimated cost of the whole work as shown by the tender for every day that the work remains uncommenced, or unfinished, after the proper dates.	None
And further to ensure good progress during the execution of the work, the contractor shall be bound, in all cases in which the time allowed for any work exceeds one month, to complete.	None
1/4 of the work in 1/4 of the time 1/2 of the work in 1/2 of the time 3/4 of the work in 3/4 of the time.	None
Clause 6If the contractor shall desire an extension of the time for completion of the work on the ground of his having been unavoidably hindered in its execution or on any other ground, he shall apply in writing to the Executive Engineer before the expiry of period stipulated in the tender or before expiry of 30 days from the date on which he was hindered as aforesaid or on which the cause for asking for extension occurred, whichever is earlier and the Executive Engineer, may if in his opinion there are reasonable grounds for granting an extension, grant such extension as he thinks necessary or proper.	None
The decision of the Executive Engineer in this matter shall be final.	None
5.	None
Two aspects emerge very clearly from the aforesaid two clause.	None
In the first place under cl.	None
6 power was conferred upon the Executive Engineer to grant extension of time for completion of the work on reasonable grounds on an application being made by the contractor (appellant plaintiff) in that behalf in other words, in certain contingencies parties had contemplated that extension of time would be available to the contractor.	None
Such a provision would clearly be inconsistent with parties intending to treat the stipulated period of 12 months in cl.	None
2 as fundamental.	None
Similarly, in cl. 2 itself provision was made for levying and recovering penalty compensation from the appellantplaintiff at specified rates during the period the work shall remain unfinished after the expiry of the fixed date.	None
Such provision also excludes the inference that time (12 months period) was intended to be of the essence of the contract.	None
Further with regard to the provision that is to be found in cl.	None
2 whereunder a time schedule for proportionate work had been set out (namely, 1/4 of the work in 1/4 of the time, 1/2 of the work in 1/2 of the time and 3/4 of the work in 3/4 of the time), the evidence of the Superintending Engineer Pandit (D.W. 1) is very eloquent.	None
In para 13 of his deposition this is what he has statedIn the agreement (Ex. 3.1) the rate of work is based on the valuation 1/4th time mentioned means 1/4th in 12 months.	None
The suit contract is for Rs. 1, 07, 000/. 1/4th work means the work of about Rs. 27,	None
000/.	None
It is not possible to do the work of Rs. 27, 000/ in 1/4th time as the days were rainy.	None
This was not reasonable.	None
The witness in para 12 of his deposition has also given the following admissionIt is not specifically mentioned in the agreement (Ex. 34), that the suit work was urgent and that it was to be completed within 12 months.	None
In this agreement (Ex. 34) there are the clauses of imposing a penalty and extension of time.	None
6.	None
Having regard to the aforesaid material on record, particularly the clauses in the agreement pertaining to imposition of penalty and extension of time it seems to us clear that time (12 months period) was never intended by the parties to be of the essence of the contract.	None
Further from the correspondence on the record, particularly, the letter (Ex. 78) by which the contract was rescinded it does appear that the stipulation of 12 months period was waived, the contractor having been allowed to do some more work after the expiry of the period, albeit at his risk, by making the recision effective from August 16, 1956.	None
7.	None
Once either of the aforesaid conclusions is reached it would be difficult to accept the High Courts finding that the recision of the contract on the part of the respondent defendant was proper and justified on the basis that the same was neither shown to be mala fide nor unreasonable.	None
It must be observed that it was never the case of the appellantplaintiff that the recision of the contract on the part of the respondentdefendant was mala fide.	Reasoning
Counsel for the appellantplaintiff further pointed out and, in our view, rightly that the five or six factors, namely, (1) the contract having been given at the thresh old of monsoon, the period of monsoon (4 months) ought not to have been reckoned, (2) absence of proper road and approach to the work site during the rainy season and a couple of months thereafter, (3) unreasonable rejection by the Government Officers of material brought on the site, which material was later on allowed to be used, (4) difficulty in procuring labour due to malarious climate at the site, (5) delay in issuing quarry permit and (6) extra time taken for doing extra work that was entrusted ought to have been taken into accountwere put forward by the appellantplaintiff merely for the purpose of showing that the refusal to extend the time by the Superintending Engineer although recommended by the S.D.O. and Executive Engineer was unreasonable and not for showing that the recision of the contract was unreasonable or unjustified.	Reasoning
8.	None
In our view, the question would not be whether the recision of the contract was unreasonable and, therefore, unjustified but whether the recision of the contract in the circumstances of the case was wrongful and illegal.	Reasoning
If time was not of the essence of the contract or if the stipulation as to the time fixed for completion had, by reason of waiver, ceased to be applicable then the only course open to the respondentdefendant was to fix some time making it the essence and if within the time so fixed the appellantplaintiff had failed to complete the work the respondentdefendant could have rescinded the contract.	Reasoning
The High Court has taken the view that the contract was rightly rescinded by the respondentdefendant because by about July 21, 1956 (vide letter Ex. 74) the appellantplaintiff had done work of the value of Rs. 35, 000/ as against the tender value of Rs. 1, 07, 000/, that is to say, only 1/3rd of the total work had been completed and, therefore, even though time was not of the essence of the contract, the appellantplaintiff, in the circumstances, could not have completed the work even within the next three months.	Reasoning
In our view, this approach adopted by the respondentdefendant and upheld by the High Court is not correct.	Reasoning
Long before the expiry of the period of 12 months the appellantplaintiff had by his letter dated June 6, 1956 (Ex. 68) requested for extension of period of completion up to the end of December, 1956 this request was repeated by another letter dated June 23, 1956 (Ex. 69).	Reasoning
May be the reasons or grounds on which the request was made may not have appealed to the Superintending Engineer but some reasonable time making it the essence ought to have been granted.	Reasoning
In this behalf it may be stated that the S.D.O. by his letter (Ex. 69) had recommended extension upto December 1956 as sought while by his letter dated June 23, 1956 (Ex. 70) addressed to the Superintending Engineer, the Executive Engineer had recommended that extension of time up to October 30, 1956 may be granted to the appellantplaintiff with clear intimation that if he failed to complete the work by then, the maximum penalty allowable under cl.	Reasoning
2, namely, 10 of the cost of the work will be inflicted on him, but the recommendation did not receive approval of the Superintending Engineer.	Reasoning
It appears that the appellant plaintiff had an interview with the Superintending Engineer on August 24, 1956 when a written representation (Ex. 99) was handed over and the whole position was sought to be explained to the Superintending Engineer but within three days of the interview by the letter dated August 27, 1956 (Ex. 78) the contract was rescinded and the full security deposit was forfeited to Government.	Reasoning
It will thus appear clear that though time was not of the essence of the contract, the respondentdefendant did not fix any further period making time the essence directing the appellant plaintiff to complete the work within such period instead it rescinded the contract straightaway by letter dated August 27, 1956.	Reasoning
Such recision on the part of the respondentdefendant was clearly illegal and wrongful and thereby the respondentdefendant committed a breach of contract, with the result that there could be no forfeiture of the security deposit.	Reasoning
In our view, therefore, the trial court was right in coming to the conclusion that the appellantplaintiff was entitled to a refund of their full security deposit of Rs. 4, 936/ a s also to Rs.	Decision
5845/ being the balance of their Bill No. 1253 dated September 20, 1956 for work actually done by them and not paid for and nominal damages of Rs.	Decision
120/.	Decision
The appellant plaintiff was also entitled to interest on the aforesaid sums and costs of suit as directed by the trial court.	Decision
In the result we allow the appeal, set aside the common judgment and decree in F.A. No. 844 of 1961 passed by the High Court and restore that of the trial court.	Decision
The appellantplaintiff will get costs of this appeal as also costs of F.A. No. 844 of 1961.	Decision
The High Courts decree dismissing F.A. No. 245 of 1962 is confirmed.	Decision
9.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
