 Jagannadha Rao, J. Leave granted.	None
These two appeals have been filed by the Punjab Communications Ltd. (hereinafter called the PCL), a public sector undertaking of the State of Punjab against the judgment dated 27.2.1998 of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana in CWP No. 124 of 1988 and against the order in the review application dated 19.3.1998 in RA 138 of 1998.	Issue
The Transfer Petition (C) No. 680 of 1998 is filed by Sri D.P. Srivastava for transfer of a public interest writ petition No. 4112 M B of 1997 from the Allahabad High Court to this Court as some points are common to the appeals and the writ petition.3.	Facts
Though the main judgment in the writ petition has been rendered by the High Court on 27.2.1998, the events which have taken place during the pendency of these appeals have changed the complexion of the case and, according to the respondentUnion of India, the writ petition has practically become infructuous and no relief can be granted.	Facts
We shall narrate the facts which have given rise to the writ petition and shall also refer to the subsequent events.4.	Facts
In September 1993, the Asian Development Bank (hereinafter called the ADB) agreed to grant a soft loan of US 113 m to the Union of India (Ist respondent) for funding a project meant to provide digital wireless telecom facility to 36,000 identified villages in Eastern U.P.	Facts
The Department of Telecomunications (hereinafter called DOT) floated a tender on 9.10.1996 inviting offers open to Indian and foreign companies.	Facts
Thee were 14 officers including one from the appellant.	Facts
The Technical Evaluation Committee (hereinafter called the TEC) examined the offers and wherever there were deviations in the offers that were made, the TEC sought clarifications on 3.6.1997 from the bidders to be given by 10.6.1997.	Facts
The appellant replied and resubmitted the proneness certificates which were included in the original bid papers at pages 226 to 228.	Facts
This was a certificate dated 28.2.1997 issued by the Chinese Post and Telecommunication Department where the technology submitted by the appellant was stated to have been implements.	Facts
After scrutiny, the TEC shortlist the appellant (PCL) and BEL on 7.7.1997.	Facts
It is the appellants case that on account of some pressure brought on respondents S (Member (P) Telecom Commission) DOT and Respondent 6 (Advisor (T) Telecom Commission) DOT, the matter was referred by the 5th respondent to a High Level Committee, with a view to obtain an opinion disqualifying the appellant so that the Department could go in for an outmoded analog system (rather than the current digital system) to be provided by some multinational company which was wanting to dump its outmoded analog system in the India.	Facts
It is the appellants case that this was done with a view t enable the issue of a fresh notification calling for fresh tenders pertaining to analog system.	Facts
It appears that on 23.9.1997, the abovesaid High Level Committee submitted its report stating that there were two deviations in the tenders submitted by the appellant as noticed by the Technical evaluation Committee in respect of the required specifications.	Facts
The committee required the department to negotiate orally with the appellant.	Facts
It is the appellants contention that at an extremely short notice of 2 days, a mock negotiation was held on 29.10.1997, and some oral questions were asked.	Facts
It is said that the appellant had answered all these questions put by the respondents by means of the appellants documents already on record but these were not accepted.	Facts
According to the appellant no agreed minutes were recorded.	Facts
On 19.11.1997 a note signed by the 6th respondent, the conveyor of the High Level Committee, was prepared stating that the further Technical Evaluation of the project was likely to go beyond 27.11.1997 due to complexities of bids offered by manufacturers and also in view of the want of authentication of the proneness of the system proposed by the appellant.	Facts
It then stated that a decision had been taken not to go ahead with the ADB loan.	Facts
The note stated as follows Department should not go in for ADB loan as it would result in heavy commitment charges and Department must go ahead for implementation of rural telecom project through its own resources.	None
According to the appellant, these minutes dated 19.11.1997 were backdated inasmuch, as even as late as 20.11.1997, the Chairman TCs office diary recorded a note that the Chairman (TC) wanted para 2 to be modified to say that the Department did not have any technically responsive bid and that none of the offered system were proven and therefore department might not go ahead with the loan and the draft might be modified in consultation with ADV(T) DDA(LPT) and resubmitted.	Facts
According to the appellant, the convenor of the High Level Committee created these imaginary deficiencies in the appellants bid and prepared backdated minutes nd showed that all the High Level Committee members had singed the minutes on 17.11.1997 itself.	Facts
These backdated minutes, it is alleged, were prepared as a ground for rejection of the tender, in spite of the fact that 5 years were spent on drafting the specifications and in the evaluation of bids.	Facts
According to the appellant, the Sr.DDGTX who is said to have signed these concreted backdated minutes had, in reality, not even seen these minutes, let alone signing them.	Facts
The appellant stated that the said officer disowned signing such minutes dated 17.11.1997.	Facts
The appellant made a representation on 23.11.1997 to the 2nd respondent and on 16.12.1997, the impugned order was passed, cancelling the tenders.5.	Facts
The appellant then filed writ petition on 6.1.1998 in the High Court of Punjab and Haryana.	Facts
The High Court dismissed the writ petition on 27.2.1998.	Facts
A review application was filed but that was also dismissed on 19.3.1998.	Facts
Thereafter, the appellant moved this Court in June, 1998.	Facts
This Court issued notice on 8.6.1998 in the application for leave returnable by 22.6.1998 and stated that till then the Union of India should not return the bid papers to the appellant.	None
We should nor refer to the subsequent events that have taken place after the filing of the SLP in this Court.	None
On 2.9.1998, when the matter came before the Court, a copy of the communication of the Ministry of Finance dated 1.9.1998 received by the DOT was placed before the Court.	None
That letter showed that pursuant to a letter of the DOT dated 29.4.1998, the ADB had come to know about the inability of the DOT to avail of the ADB loan.	None
This Court requested the Additional Solicitor General of India to take appropriate instructions from the concerned department and directed that an intimation be sent to the ADB to keep the letter of cancellation of loan in abeyance, awaiting further orders from this Court.	None
On 22.9.1998, the Additional Solicitor General of India informed this Court that the Union of India had communicated to the ADB about the pendency of the case.	None
Thereafter, this Court permitted the parties to the case, if they thought it fit, to inform the ADB about the order which this Court passed on that day i.e., 22.9.1998.	None
Thereafter, several affidavits came to be filed by the Union of India as directed by the Court.	None
The affidavit dated 4.1.1999 stated that the DOT had conveyed, through the Department of Economic Affairs, to the ADB on 17.9.1998 for keeping the latter of cancellation of ADB, in its letter dated 29.10.1998, had informed the Department of Economic Affairs that it had decided that it was not practical to keep the loan offer open and that, in fact, formal steps had been taken to cancel the loanoffer on 6.11.1998.	None
The DOT also stated that the ADB had approved the withdrawal of the loan on 6.11.1998.	None
This Court was informed on 5.1.1999 that, in the meantime, the Government of India was thinking of calling for fresh tenders for installation of telephones under a new scheme for rural areas spread over different States and this Court directed a further affidavit to be filed in this behalf.	None
A fresh affidavit dated 15.1.1999 was filed on behalf of the Union of India to the effect that the ADB loan had a validity period of one year which had automatically lapsed on 27.11.1997, that there was a time constraint in regard to the ADB loan and that remainders were received from the Department of Economic Affairs to avail the loan latest by 27.11.1997, that the DOT had informed the Finance Department that it was not availing the loan and that it had decided.	None
to fund the Rural Telecom Project through its own resources.	None
It was stated that this decision was taken to avoid heavy commitment charges of ADB loan if the evaluation decision on the previous tender went beyond 27.11.1997.	None
Thereafter, the previous tenders were cancelled on 16.12.1997, stating that no bidder qualified the technical commercial evaluation It was also stated that the Department of Economic Affairs had, by their letter dated 26.11.1998, already confirmed that the ADB had approved withdrawal of the loan on 6.11.1998 as already informed to this Court.	None
In regard to the new scheme for rural telephones, it was stated in the affidavit of the respondent that under the scheme of Village Public Telephones (VPT), during 199798, 42, 855 VPTs were provided, that for 199899, the target was 45,000 VPTs and out of that 10,150 were already provided by December, 1998 through other schemes in progress.	None
It was stated that the Department had already covered 6,100 villages out of 36,000 village in Eastern Uttar Pradesh which were to be covered under the previous tender and that another 5,500 VPTs would be provided by March, 1999.	None
It was further clarified as follows All the villages in UP(E) would be provided Telecom facilities during the 9th Plan period along with the rest of the Country.	None
Presently, out of 75,000 villages of UP(E), 32,000 villages have already been provided Telecom facilities.	None
It was stated that during 199798, the Department had opened 990 new rural exchanges and had provided 7.16 lakhs new telephone connections in rural areas and had incurred an expenditure of Rs. 1060 crores for rural telephones.	None
So far as 199899 was concerned, the Department had allocated 1,485 crores for rural networks to be opened in 1,385 new rural exchanges and to provide 8.4 lakhs telephone connection.	None
The Department had already installed 295 rural exchanges and provided 2 lakhs telephones between April, 1998 and December, 1998.	None
For 19992000, it was planned to allocate Rs. 2000 crores for rural network and to provide 12.5 lakhs telephone connections.	None
It was also stated that, presently, there were 18,500 indigenously developed CDOT exchanges which were working in rural area having total capacity of 40 lakh lines, landlines, digital MARR etc.	None
So far as remote inaccessible areas were concerned, it was stated in the affidavit of the respondent that a choice of technology was made by including wireless in local loop (WLL) based on area of application as stated in the affidavit dated 5.11.1998.	Reasoning
The Department had already floated a tender for 20,000 lines for Digital Wireless local loop Systems for rural areas  for the entire country, including up.	Reasoning
A copy of the Bid document was filed.	Reasoning
It was alleged that the appellant, among other manufacturers, had also actively participated in the finalisation of the Technical Specifications of the new tenders.	Reasoning
These specifications were slightly different from the earlier ADB tender and were based on latest Generic Requirement (GR) prepared by the Telecom Engineering Centre (TEC) of the Department, after extensive consultation with the manufacturers.	Reasoning
The bid document for this tender was no sale w.e.f. 8.1.1999 and 7 companies had already purchased the same and the tenders were educated to be opened on 4.2.1999.	Reasoning
It was stated for the respondents across the Bar that the appellant had also responded to the new advertisement.	Reasoning
Again CDOT TDMA PAMP Technology, fieldtrial orders were placed on M s III for 25 systems having capacity for providing 4,000 Village Panchayat Telephones (VPTs).	Reasoning
These telephones were expected to be installed by February, 199 in 17 Telecom Circles spread throughout the Country and these systems were more costeffective that WLL system and were based on indigenous technology developed by M s CDOT.	Reasoning
Against satellite based technology, notice inviting tenders had been issued on 30.12.1998 for 1,000 terminals and the tender was scheduled to be opened on 9.4.1999.	None
Two tabular statements were filed by the Union of India during the process of hearing of the cases.	None
One showed, Districtwise, the number of villages identified for the earlier ADB tender and the villages provided with VPT out of the said villages.	None
It was shown that out of 32,350 villages in UP Telecom Circle in UP	None
Districts, 8524 villages out of the villages identified for ADB tender, (i.e. in Eastern UP) were already provided with telephones.	None
A separate tabular statement was filed showing the progress of telephone installation in the rural sector right from 1992.	None
As on 31.12.1998, the position is stated to be as follows Assam and Nagaland  72.3 AP  78.5	None
As  48.2 Bihar  24.2 Gujarat 76.8 Haryana  99.4 Himachal Pradesh 10.4T JK 41.75 Karnatka  81 Kerala  100 Madhya Pradesh  55.1 Maharashtra  69.5 NE  26.7 Orissa  41.7 Punjab  941 Rajasthan  56.3 Tamil Nadu  98.4 UP (Eastern)  43.9 UP (Western)  34.4 Delhi  100 Calcutta  90.	None
In all, 6,07,491 villages, the average is 51.8.	None
It will be noticed that the percentage of telephones in Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, JK, North East and Orissa is less than the percentage is Eastern UP.	None
These are the subsequent events that have taken place during the pendency of these matters in this Court.	None
It will be noticed that these events have substantially changed the very basis of the original writ petition filed in the High Court of Punjab and Haryana.	None
The ADB loan on which the tender was based now stands withdrawn the tenders for installing 38,000 telephones in Eastern UP stand withdrawn and invitations for new Tenders spread over several rural areas in various States have now been made.	None
In fact, the new tenders have also been submitted.	None
It is stated for the respondents that the appellant is also participating in these new tenders.	None
We have, therefore, to decide this appeal in the light of the above subsequent developments.	None
Learned Senior Counsel Sri D.D.Thakuar and Sri R.F. Nariman for the appellant and Senior Counsel Sri Rajeev Dhawan for the petitioner in the Transfer Petition have submitted that in spite of these developments, the question whether the various officers conspired and played fraud in seeing to it that the ADB loan lapsed or stood withdrawn, has still to be gone into.	Arguments of Petitioner
They contend that when the writ petition was filed on 6.1.1998, the positing was that with a view to allow multinational companies to dump outmoded analog technology into India, the officers were wanting to float fresh tenders in which such analog technology could be made the basis of the tenders, either wholly or partly, that the said attempt was successfully thwarted by the appellant filing the writ petition in the High Court of Punjab and Haryana and that with a view to spite the appellant, the officers had all conspired and played fraud in having the ADB loan withdrawn and the ADB tender cancelled.	Arguments of Petitioner
This, according to the appellant, amounted to a fraud on the appellant and also on the people of Eastern UP and has to be investigated.	Arguments of Petitioner
The excuse put forward by the officers of DOT that ADB loan would be expensive was absurd inasmuch as there was a 5 years moratorium on interest and the interest rate was something like 4 and there were other very favourable terms.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that there was no point in having such a beneficial loan withdrawn and spending funds of the Government of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Senior Counsel for appellant and for petitioner in the Transfer Petition contended that the scheme meant for a very backward area like Eastern UP could not be allowed to be frustrated in this manner.13.	Arguments of Petitioner
Alternatively, it was contended by the learned senior counsel for the appellant that the appellant had a legitimate expectation of a substantive nature, that, even if the Government wanted to put its own funds, the original tender notification would be processed for the benefit of Eastern UP.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents cannot change the policy to benefit the rural areas in the whole country and abandon the original tender notification for Eastern UP.14.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dr. Rajeev Dhawan for the petitioner in the Transfer Petition contended that fraud in privatelaw field was different from fraud in the publiclaw field.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court should, therefore, decide whether these officials got the High Level Committee appointed only with a view to harm the appellant and whether the Committee was stagemanaged by a few officers who had other motives.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel Sri Dhawan also contended that this was a case of legitimate expectation for the appellant in the civil appeal as also to the 36,000 villages in Eastern UP.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned senior counsel for the State of Punjab Sri P.C. Jain also supported the case of the appellant on the ground that the appellant was its public sector undertaking.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, it was contended vehemently for the Union of India by Sri C.S. Vaidyanathan, the learned Additional Solicitor General of India, that there was absolutely no truth in the contention of the appellant that there was a conspiracy or fraud to shelve the ADB loan, or to bring in outmoded technology into India through certain favoured multinationals.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, there were two main defeats in the tender submitted by the appellant, one was a technical one and the other was the absence of proof of proneness.	Arguments of Respondent
Even though, final opportunity was given, the appellant having agreed to produce fresh certificate from China, (apart from the certificate initially filed) to prove proveness of the system in that country  the appellant failed to do so.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Level Committees proceedings, in fact, showed that it wanted to accept the appellants tender	Arguments of Respondent
and it gave an opportunity to the appellant to make good the defects but the attitude of the appellant was not helpful and it was the inaction of the appellant that was the cause for the delay that led to a situation where the time limit set by the ADB came very close and was expiring.	Arguments of Respondent
As there was no chance of the appellant curing the defects within the few days that were left, the ADB loan had to be withdraw.	Arguments of Respondent
Photocopies of the entire departmental proceedings were placed before the Court to show that everything was done bona fide and the allegations of the appellant were wild and unsubstantiated.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued that there was no forgery or antedating of any minutes.	Arguments of Respondent
Two files in the respective departments were moving simultaneously and there was absolutely no truth in the allegations of antedating the minutes.	Arguments of Respondent
Now that the ADB loan stood withdrawn and the ADB tender had also fallen through, the writ petition had become totally infructuous.	Arguments of Respondent
The Government of India decided to go on with its own funds and now a new policy decision was taken to benefit rural areas in the whole country and not merely the 35,000 villages in Eastern UP.	Arguments of Respondent
This was because there were other rural areas in other States which were more backward then Eastern UP.	Arguments of Respondent
In those places, the percentage of telephones was far less than in Eastern UP.	Arguments of Respondent
In fact, fresh tenders have been called for it benefit the backward rural areas in the whole country and the new tenders are no longer confined exclusively to Eastern UP.	Arguments of Respondent
A Tabular statement relating to the national figures regarding telephones is placed before the Court to show that thee are even more backward rural areas in some States where the percentage of telephone was less than in Eastern UP.	Arguments of Respondent
The Government has, now plans to cover all backward rural areas in the country in he next few years and monies have also been allocated.	Arguments of Respondent
All these details have been given in the additional affidavits and statements filed in the Court.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no question of dumping outdated technology into India.	Arguments of Respondent
The new tenders and the future schemes are based or on the latest digital technology and not on the outmoded analogy technology.	Arguments of Respondent
The new government policies are wider and cannot be challenged in tis writ petition which had become infructuous.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no proof of fraud either in private law or public law established.	Arguments of Respondent
There can be no legitimate expectation in regard to the ADB loan contract and in any event the new policy is based on overriding considerations of public interest and cannot be questioned.	Arguments of Respondent
The appeals are liable to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also argued that there is no need to transfer the writ petition filed by Mr. OP Srivastava from the Allahabad High Court to this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
That has also, it is stated, become infructuous.	Arguments of Respondent
On these submissions, the following questions arise for consideration Whether, after the ABD loan for the contract for providing telephones for Eastern UP was withdrawn, it is necessary to give any finding on the question of alleged fraud or to grant any directions regarding the bids offered for the ADB contract ?	Issue
(2) Whether, if initially the Government decided to fund the proposed contract for Eastern UP from its own resources, it was permissible for the Government to change its policy into one for providing telephones for rural areas in the entire country and whether the legitimate expectation of the appellant in regard to the earlier notification required, this Court to direct that the notification for Eastern UP should be continued ?	Issue
Point 1	None
The disputes between the parties, before the ADB loan was withdrawn, were (i) whether there was a conspiracy or fraud or other manouvre on the part of the DOTofficials to shelve the ADB loan to spite the appellant and bring in outmoded analog technology through favoured multinationals and (ii) whether the appellant (a) complied with the technical specifications and (b) produced adequate proof of the proveness of the system offered by the appellant i.e as to its successful implementation in China.	None
A review of the facts and the subsequent events would show that the issues which were live when the writ petition of the appellant was pending in the High Court have ow lost all their relevance.	None
The entire tender was based on the ADB loan.	None
If the ADB loan itself has stood withdrawn, there is now no possibility of the ADB loan project for Eastern UP being started or completed.	None
It will well nigh be impossible to issue any directions to the Union of India to seek a renewal of the lapsed loan or to issue any directions to continue the project for Eastern UP on the on the basis of ADB loan.	None
Even so, learned senior counsel for the appellant and the petitioner in the Transfer petition have argued the case on merits as if the ADB loan were still above.	None
We have been taken through reveal volumes of correspondence between the various departments, and the minutes of various officers and of the High Level Committee to prove arbitrariness in the nonacceptance of the appellants bid on two counts.	Reasoning
We have heard these submissions very patiently but the point is whether this Court is to give findings on issues which have become nonissues now after the withdrawal of the ADB loan.	Reasoning
We have given our anxious consideration to the various contentions raised on behalf of the appellant and the petitioner in the Transfer Petition and we are of the view that a detailed decision on the said questions is not called for.	Reasoning
A question of fraud was also raised.	Reasoning
But once the ADB loan is withdrawn the question has also becomes a nonissue.	Reasoning
The position is that in respect of the ADB loan project, no fresh tenders based on analog system have been invited nor has any multinational company been awarded any contract based on outmoded analog system.	Reasoning
The said question of fraud is no longer relevant.	Reasoning
On all these issues we should not be understood as having expressed any opinion.	Reasoning
Further, there cannot be a cause of action on the basis of an attempt at fraud which did not materialise.	None
It is true as stated in De Smith Administrative Law (para 13.010(5th Ed.) that it is fundamental to the legitimacy of public decisionmaking that official decisions should not be infected with motives such as fraud (or dishonesty) malice or personal self interest.	None
Duty to act in good faith is inherent in the process.	None
Learned senior counsel for the petitioner in the Transfer Petition, Sri Rajeev Dhavan referred to Shrisht Dhawan v. Shaw Brothers, 1992(1) SCC 534 where the distinction between fraud in public law and private law has been adverted to.	None
But all these legal principles are not relevant if, the so called or alleged attempt at fraud did not fructify.	None
We accordingly do not think it worthwhile to go into the question of fraud either.	Decision
We may once again clarify that we should not be understood as having decided anything on the merits of these questions.	Decision
Point 1 is decided accordingly.	None
Point 2	None
It was argued that even if the ADB loan was withdrawn, when the State decided to go ahead with its own funds, it should have gone ahead with the same notification calling for tenders for Eastern UP sans ADB loan.	None
The change in the policy to benefits other backward areas in the courts was unwarranted.	Reasoning
Reliance was placed on the principles of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation.	Reasoning
It was contended that the project for Eastern UP should still go ahead and it was not open to the Union of India to deprive the appellant company of its reasonable and legitimate expectation regarding the acceptance of the bid offered for the Eastern UP project It was not open to the State to deprive the expectation of villagers in 36000 villages in Eastern UP and to change over to a new policy of providing telephones to rural areas in all the States.	Reasoning
Such is the contention of the appellant.	Reasoning
We do not propose to deal with question of promissory estoppel because the parties were still at the stage of the tenders, at the relevant time.	Reasoning
We shall, therefore, confine ourselves to the point relating to legitimate expectation of the appellant and the effect of the change of policy.	None
The principle of Legitimate expectation is still at a stage of evolution as pointed out in De Smith Administration Law (th Ed.)	None
(para 8.038).	None
The principle is at the root of the rule of law and requires regularity, predictability and certeinity in governments dealings with the public.	None
Adverting to the basis of legitimate expectation its procedural and substantive aspects, Lord Steyn in Pierspova v. Secretary of State, 1997(3) All E.R. 577 (at 606) (HL) goes back to Diceys description of the rule of law in his Introduction to the study of the law of the Constitution (10th Ed., 1959 p. 203) (See also The Rule of Law as the Rule of Reason Consent and Constitutionalism in (1999)	None
115 L.Q.R. 221 at 234 that Fairness is both procedural and substantive Due Process and Fair Procedure by D.J. Galligam (1996) and at p. 243 quoting Dicey (1959) at p. 203204) as containing principles of enduring value in the work of a great Jurist.	None
Dicey said that the constitutional rights have roots in the common law.	None
He said The rule of law, lastly, may be used as a formula for expressing the fact that with us, the law of constitution, the rules which in foreign countries naturally form part of a constitutional Code, are not the source but the consequence of the rights of individuals, as defined and enforced by the Courts that, in short, the principles of private law have with us been by the action of the Courts and Parliament so extended as to determine thee position of the Crown and its servants, thus the constitution is the result of the ordinary law of the land.	None
This, says lord Steyn, is the pivot of Diceys discussion of rights to personal freedom and to freedom of association and of public meeting and that it is clear that Dicey regards the rule of law as having both procedural and substantive effects.	None
The rule of law enforces minimum standards of fairness, both substantive and procedural.	None
On the facts in Pierson, the majority held that the Secretary of State could not have maintained a higher tariff of sentence than recommended by the judiciary when admittedly no aggravating circumstances existed.	None
The State could not also increase the tariff with retrospective effect.	None
The basic principles in this branch relating to legitimate expectation were enunciated by Lord Diplock in Council of Civil Service Unions v. Minister of the Civil Service, 1985 AC 374 (408409).	None
It was observed in that case that for a legitimate expectation to arise, the decisions of the administrative authority must affect the person by depriving him of some benefit or advantage which either (i) he had in the past been permitted by the decision maker to enjoy and which he can legitimately expect to be permitted to continue to do until there has been communicated to him some rational grounds for withdrawing it on which he has been given an opportunity to commit or (ii) he has received assurance from the decisionmaker that the will not be withdrawn without giving him first an opportunity of advancing reasons for contending that they should not be withdrawn.	None
The procedural part of its relates to a representation that a hearing or other appropriate procedure will be afforded before the decision is made.	None
The substantive part of the principle is that if a representation is made that a benefit of a substantive nature will be granted or if the person is already in receipt of the benefit that it will be continued and not be substantially varied, then the same could be enforced.	None
In the above case, Lord Fraser accepted that the civil servants had a legitimate expectation that they would be consulted before their trade union membership was withdrawn because prior consultation in the past was the standard practice whenever conditions of service were significantly altered.	None
Lord Diplock when ta little further, when he said that they had a legitimate expectation that they would continue to enjoy the benefits of the trade union membership.	None
The interest in regard to which a legitimate expectation could be had must be one which was protectable.	None
An expectation could be based on an express promise or representation or by established past action or settled conduct.	None
The representation must be clear and unambitious.	None
It could be a representation to the individual or generally to a class of persons.	None
The principle of substantive legitimate expectation, that is, expectation of a favourable decision of one kind or another, has been accepted as part of the English Law in several case.	None
(De Smith, Administrative Law, 5th Ed.)	None
(para 13.030) (See also Wade, Administrative Laws, 7th Ed.)	None
(pp. 418419).	None
According to Wade, the doctrine of substantive legitimate expectation has been rejected by the High Court of Australia in Attorney General for N.S.W. v. Quinn, 1990(93) ALR 1 (But see Teons case referred to later) and that the principle was also rejected in Canada in Reference Re Canada Assistance Plan, (1991) 83 DLR (4th) 297 1991(2)	None
SCR 525 but favoured in Ireland Cannon v. Minister for the Marine, 1991(1) I.R. 82.	None
The European Court goes further and permits the Court to apply proportionality and go into the balancing of legitimate expectation and the Public interest.	None
Even so, it has been held under English law that the decision makers freedom to change the policy in public interest, cannot be fettered by the application of the principles of substantive legitimate expectation.	None
Observations in earlier cases project a more inflexible rule than is in vogue presently.	None
In Re Findaly (1985 AC 318) the house of Lords rejected the plea that the altered policy relating to parole for certain categories of prisoners required prior consultation with the prisoner.	None
Lord Scarman observed But what was their legitimate expectation.	None
Given the substance and purpose of the legislative provisions governing parole, the most that a convicted prisoner, can legitimately expect is that his case be examined individually in the light of whatever policy the Secretary of Stat sees fit to adopt provided always that the adopted policy is a lawful exercise of the discretion conferred upon him by the statutes.	None
Any other view would entail the conclusion that the unfettered discretion conferred by statute upon the minister can in some cases be restricted so as to hamper, or even to prevent changes of policy.	None
To a like effect are the observations of Lord Diplock in Hughas v. Department of Health and Social Security, 1985 AC 778 (788) Administrative policies may change with changing circumstances, including changes in the political explexion of governments.	None
The liberty to make such changes is something that in inherent in our constitutional form of government.	None
(See in this connection Mr. Dotans article why Administrators should be bound by their policies (Vol. 17) 1997 Oxford Journal of Legal Studies, p. 23).	None
But today the rigidity of the above decisions appears to have been somewhat relaxed to the extent of application of Wednesbury rule whenever there is a change in policy and we shall be referring to these aspects presently.	None
Before we do so, we shall refer to some of the important decisions of this Court to find out the extent to which the principle of substantive legitimate expectation is accepted in our country.	None
In Coop.	None
Group Housing Society v. Union of India, 1992(4) SCC 477, the principle of procedural fairness was applied.	None
In that case the seniority as per the existing list of cooperative housing societies for allotment of land was altered by a subsequent decision.	None
The previous policy was that the seniority amongst housing societies in regard to allotment of land was to be based on the date of registration of the society with the Registrar.	None
But on 20.1.1990, the policy was changed by reckoning seniority as based upon the date of approval of the final list by the Registrar.	None
This altered the existing seniority of the societies for allotment of land.	None
This Court held that the Societies were entitled to a legitimate expectation that the past consistent practice in the matter of allotment, will be followed even if there was no right in private law for such allotment.	None
The authority was not entitled to defeat the legitimate expectation of the societies as per the previous seniority list without some overriding reasons of public policy to justify change in the criterion.	None
No such overriding public interest was shown.	None
According to the principle of legitimate expectation, if the authority proposed to defeat a persons legitimate expectation, it should afford him an opportunity to make a representations in the matter.	None
Refer was made to Halsburys Laws of England (p. 51, Vol. 1(1) (4th Ed. reissue) and to the case in Council of Civil Service Unions, 1985 AC 374, already referred to.	None
It was held that the doctrine imposed, in essence, a duty to act fairly by taking into consideration all relevant factors, relating to such legitimate expectation.	None
Within the contours of fair dealing, the reasonable opportunity to make representation against change of policy, came in.	None
The next case in which the principle of legitimate expectation was considered is the case in Food Corporation of India v. M s. Kamdhenu Cattle Feed Industries, 1993(1) SCC 71.	None
There the Food Corporation of India invited tenders for sale of stocks of damaged food grains and the respondents bid was the highest.	None
All tenders were invited for negotiation but the respondent did not raise his bid during negotiation while others did.	None
The respondent filed a writ petition claiming that it had a legitimate expectation of acceptance of its bid, which was the highest.	None
The High Court allowed the writ petition.	None
Reversing the judgment, this Court referred to Council of Civil Service Union Case, 1985 AC 374 and to Preston in re 1985 AC 835.	None
It was held that though the respondents bid was the highest, still it had no right to have it accepted.	None
No doubt, its tender could not be arbitrarily rejected but if the corporation reasonably felt that the amount offered by the respondent was inadequate as per the factors operating in the commercial filed, the nonacceptance of bid could to be faulted.	None
The procedure of negotiation itself involved the giving due weight to the legitimate expectation of the highest bidder and this was sufficient.	None
This court considered the question elaborately in Union of India v. HIndustan Development Corporation, 1993(3) SCC 499.	None
Thee tenders were called for supply of caststeel bogies to the railways.	None
The three big manufacturers quoted less than the smaller manufacturers.	None
The Railways then adopted a dual printing policy giving counter offers at a lower rate to thee bigger manufacturers who allegedly formed a cartel and a higher offer to others so as to enable a healthy competition.	None
This was challenged by the three big manufacturers complaining that they were also entitled to a higher rate and a large number of bogies.	None
This Court held that the change into a dual princing policy was not vitiated and was based on rational and reasonable grounds.	None
In that context, this Court referred to Halsburys laws of England (4th Ed.)(Vol.1(1) 151).	None
This Court referred to Sohmidt v. Secretary of State for Home Affairs, 1969(2)	None
Ch 149 which required an opportunity to be given to an alien if the leave given to hi to stay in UK was being revoked before expiry of the time and to Attorney General of Hong Kong v. Ng.	None
Yuen Shiu, 1983(2) AC 238 which required the Government of Hong Kong to honour its undertaking to treat each deportation case on its merits this Court also referred to Council of Civil Service Unions v. Minister for the Civil Service, 1985 AC 835 which related to alteration of conditions relating to membership of trade unions and the need to consult the unions in case of change of policy as was the practice in the past, and to Food Corporation of India case, 1993(1) SCC 71 and Navivoti Coop Group Housing Societys case, 1994(4) SCC 477.	None
This Court then observed that legitimate expectation was not the same thing as anticipation.	None
It was also different from a mere wish or desire or hope.	None
Nor was it a claim or demand based on a right.	None
A mere disappointment would not give rise to legal consequences.	None
This Court held(p.540) as follows The legitimacy of an expectation can be inferred only if it is founded on the sanction of law or custom or an established procedure followed in regular and natural sequence.	None
Such expectation should be justifiably legitimate and protectable.	None
After quoting Wade, Administrative Law (6th Ed.)	None
(p. 424, 522), this Court referred to the judgment of the Australian High Court in Attorney General for New South Wales v. Quin, 1990(64)	None
Aust.	None
LJR 327 in which the principle itself, according to Wade, did not find acceptance.	None
In that case a Stipendiary Magistrate incharge of a Court of Petty Sessions under the old court system was refused appointment to the system of local courts which replaced the previous system of Patty Sessions Courts.	None
In 1987 the Attorney General who was hitherto recommending former magistrates on the ground of fitness for appointment to the new local courts, deviated from that policy and decided to go by assessment of merit of the competing applicants.	None
The Court of Appeal had directed that the case of Mr. Quin must be considered separately and not in competition with other applicants, but it was reversed by the majority of the High Court of Australia (Mason, CJ, Brennan Dawson, JJ) (Deane and Toohey, JJ dissenting).	None
Mason, CJ held that the Court could not fetter the executive discretion to adopt a different policy which was better calculated to serve the administration of justice and make it more effective.	None
The grant of substantive relief in such a case would effectively prevent the executive from giving effect to the new policy which it wished to pursue in relation to the appointment of magistrates.	None
Brennan, J. observed very clearly that he notion of legitimate expectation (falling short of a legal right) was too nebulous to form a basis for invalidating the exercise of power.	None
He said that such a principle would set the courts adrift on a featureless sea of pragmatism.	None
Dawson, J. held that the contention of the respondent exceeded the bounds of procedural fairness and intruded upon the freedom of the executive.	None
In a later decision from Australic in Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs v. Ieoh, 1995(69)	None
ALJR 423 the High Court held that the U.N. Covenant on the rights of the child, which was not incorporated into Australian Law, may nevertheless give rise to a legitimate expectation that the decision maker would comply with it, atleast to the extent of giving an affected person a hearing.	None
This decision has been treated as controversial and critised (See Taggart) such an expectation did not, however, compel action consistent with the Treaty provisions.	None
McHugh, J. dissented.	None
(See Unincorporated Treaties in Australian Law (1996 PL 190 and Lord Lesters article in 1996 PL 187)	None
This Court in Hindustan Development Corporations case, 1993(3) SCC 499 then proceeded to refer to R v. Secretary of State for the Home Department ex parte Ruddock, 1987(2) All E.R. 518 and Findlay v. Secretary of State for the Home Department, 1984(3) All E.R. 801 and to Breen v. Amalgamated Engineering Union, 1971(1)	None
All F.R. 1148.	None
This Court accepted (see p. 546) that the principle of legitimate expectation gave the applicant sufficient locus standi to seek judicial review and that the doctrine was confined mostly to a right to fair hearing before a decision which resulted in negativing a promise or withdrawing an undertaking, was taken.	None
It did not involve any crystallised right.	None
The protection of such legitimate expectation did not require the fulfilment of the expectation where an overriding public interest required otherwise.	None
However, the Burden lay on the decision maker to show such an overriding public interest.	None
A case of substantive legitimate expectation would arise when a body by representation or by past practice aroused expectation which it would be within its powers to fulfil.	None
The Court could interfere only if the decision taken by the authority was arbitrary unreasonable or not taken in public interest If it is established that a legitimate expectation has been improperly denied on the application of the above principles, the question of giving opportunity can arise it failure of justice is shown.	None
The Court must follow (p. 548) an objective method by which the decision making authority is given the full range of choice which the legislature is presumed to have intended.	None
(In this connection we shall advert to a similar view of Laws, J. and also to the contrary view of Sedley, J).	None
If the decision is reached fairly and objectively, it cannot be interfered with on the ground of procedural fairness.	None
An example was given that if a renewal was given to an existing licence holder, a new applicant cannot claim an opportunity based on natural justice.	None
On facts, it was held that legitimate expectation was denied on the basis of reasonable considerations.	None
The next case in which the question was considered is Madras City Wine Merchants Association v. State of Tamil Nadu, 1994(5)	None
SCC 509.	None
In that case the rules relating to renewal of liquor licences were statutorily altered by repealing existing rules.	None
It was held that the repeal being the result of a change in the policy by legislation the principle of nonarbitrariness was not invocable.	None
In that context, this Court referred to a large number of authorities on the question.	None
This Court in M.P. Oil Eytraction v. State of M.P., 1997(7) SCC 592 considered the question again.	None
In that case, it was held that the States policy to extend renewal of an agreement to selected industries which came to be located in Madhya Pradesh on invitation of State,  as against other local industries  was not arbitrary and the said selected industries had a legitimate expectation of renewal under renewal claims which should be given effect to according to past practice unless there was any special reason not to adhere to the practice.	None
It was clearly held that the principle of substantive legitimate expectation was accepted by this Court earlier.	None
Reference was made to Food Corporations case 1993(1) SCC 71 Navjyoti Coop.	None
Group Housing Societys case 1992(4)	None
SCC 477 and to Hindustan Development Corporations case, 1993(3) SCC 499.	None
Lastly we come to the three judge judgment in National Buildings Construction Corporation v. S. Raghunathan and others, 1998(7) SCC 66.	None
This was a service matter.	None
The respondents were appointed in CPWD and they went on deputation to the NBCC in Iraq and they opted to draw, while on deputation, their grade pay in CPWD plus deputation allowance.	None
Besides that, the NNBCC granted them Foreign Allowance at 125 of the basic pay.	None
Meanwhile their Basic Pay in CPWD was revised w.e.f. 1.1.1986 on the recommendation of the 4th Pay Commission.	None
They contented that the abovesaid increase of 125 should be given by NBCC on their revised scales.	None
This was not accepted by NBCC by orders dated 15.10.1990.	None
The contention of the respondents based on legitimate expectation was rejected in view of the peculiar conditions under which NBCC was working in Iraq.	None
It was observed that the doctrine of legitimate expectation had both substantive and procedural aspects.	None
This Court laid down a clear principle that claims on legitimate expectation required reliance on representation and resultant detriment in the same way as claims based on promissory estoppel	None
This also appears to be the view of Simon Brown, LJ in a tax case in Regina v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue ex parte Unilever Plc. 1996(68) Tax Cases 205 at 231 referring to Regina v. Inland Revenue Commissioners ex parte MFK Underwriting Agents Ltd. and others, 1990(1) WLR 1545 Regina v. Jockey Club ex parte RM Racecourses Ltd., 1993(2)	None
All ER 225 and Regina v. Independent Television Commission ex parte ISW Broadcasting Ltd., 1994(2) LRC 414.	None
Wade, Administrative Law, (5th Ed.	None
P. 419) also appears to think that detrimental reliance on previous policy is necessary.	None
See, however, DeSmith (5th Ed.)	None
Administrative Law (para 8.060) where he says that in important cases, a legitimate expectation has been founded in the absence of detrimental reliance and that there are good reasons for doing so.	None
R. v. Secretary of State for Home Department exp.	None
Asif Mahmood Khan, 1984(1) WLR 1337 Attorney General of Hong Kong v. Ng Yuen Shiu, 1983(2) AC 629 R. v. Secretary of State for the Home Department ex parte Ruddock, 1987(1) WLF 1982	None
The principle was developed in the context of reasonableness and in the context of natural justice.	None
This Court referred to R. V. IRC ex parte Preston 1985 AC 835, Food Corporations case 1993(1) SCC 71, Hindustan Development Corporations case, 1993(3) SCC 499, the Australian Case in Quin 1990(64)	None
Aust.	None
LJR 327 and M.P.Oil.	None
Extractions case 1997(7)	None
SCC 392, the Council of Civil Service Unions case, 1985 AC 374 and Navjyotis case, 1992(4) SCC 477.	None
The above survey of cases shows that the doctrine of legitimate expectation in the substantive sense has been accepted as part of our law and that the decision maker can normally be compelled to give effect to his representation in regard to the expectation based on previous practice or past conduct unless some overriding public interest comes in the way.	None
The judgement in Raghunathans case requires that reliance must have been placed on the said representation and the represented must have thereby suffered detriment.	None
The more important aspect, in our opinion, is whether the decision maker can sustain the change in policy by resort to Wednesbury principles of rationality or whether the Court can go into the question whether decision maker has properly balanced the legitimate expectation as against the need for a change ?	None
In the latter case the Court would obviously be able to go into the proportionality of the change in the policy.	None
This aspect has come up for consideration recently in the English Courts.	None
The debate was stated by Laws, J. in R. v. Secretary of State for Transport ex parte Richmond upon Thames London BC, 1994(1) WLR 74 where the learned Judge laid down that the Wednesbury reasonableness test alone applied for finding out if the change from one policy to another was justified.	None
That was a case in which, in relation to airports a new system of night flying restrictions were imposed.	None
The new policy related to the fixation of the maximum number of takeoff and landing movements variable according to the type of aircraft involved and the noise the aircraft generated during the night time.	None
The Wednesbury test was held applicable.	None
Laws, J. stated The Court is not the Judge of the merits of the decision makers policy the public authority in question is the Judge of the issue whether overriding public interest justifies such a change in policy But that is no more than saying that a change in policy, like any discretionary decision in by a public authority, must not transgress Wednesbury principles.	None
But this view of Laws, J. was dissented by Sedley, J. in R. v. Ministry of Agriculture Fisheries and Food ex parte Hamble Coffshore Fisheries Ltd., 1995(2)	None
All E.R. 714.	None
The learned Judge observed that if the outcome is challenged by way of judicial review, he did not consider that the courts criterion was restricted to consider the rationality of the policy makers conclusions.	None
He held that while policy was for the policy maker alone, the fairness of his or her decision remained the courts concern.	None
He said that to say so did not amount to placing the Judge in the seat of the minister.	None
The Judgement of Sedley, J. has since been overruled in R. v. Secretary of State for the Home Department and another, ex parte Hargraves and others, 1997(1) WLR 906(A).	None
In that case, the facts were that the eligibility for home leave of prisoners was initially one third of the term of sentence as per in earlier decision of the government of 1994 (accepting Lord Woolfs Report, 1990) and Hargreaves would attain that eligibility by 12.4.1995 to put in his application.	None
But the Home Secretary felt that the scheme was being abused and therefore he modified the eligibility to one half of the period of sentence by notice dated 20.4.1995.	None
This postponed Hargreavess eligibility to 12.4.1996.	None
Though the applicant had become eligible by 20.4.1995, the Courts rejected his plea of legitimate expectation because eligibility merely enabled consideration of the application for home leave.	None
The case was similar to Findlay 1985 AC 318 which related to change in parole policy and which was held valid.	None
It was held that earlier policy.	None
In the Court of Appeal, Hirst, LJ said described the principle laid down by Sedley, J. as based on heresy and stated On matters of substance (for contrasted to procedure)	None
Wednesbury provides the correct test.	None
It follows that his (Sedley, J.s) ratio in so far s the propounds a balancing exercise to be undertaken by the Court should, in my opinion, be overruled.	None
The result is that change in policy can defeat a substantive legitimate expectation if it can be justified on Wednesbury reasonableness.	None
We have noticed that in Hindustan Development Corporation case 1994(3) SCC 449 also it was laid down that the decision maker has the choice in the balancing of the pros and cons relevant to the change in policy.	None
It is, therefore, clear that the choice is for the decision maker and not for the Court, the legitimate substantive expectation merely permits the Court to find out if the change in policy which is the cause for defeating the legitimate expectation is irrational or perverse or one which no reasonable person could have made.	None
The Court of Appeal considered the question again in a tax case in R. v. Commissioner of Inland Revenue ex parte Unilever Plc, 1990 (Vol. 68) Tax Cases 205 1996 STC 681.	None
A particular loss relief was being granted at a second stage on more than 30 occasions during 20 years though the relief was not claimed within the stipulated period of two years.	None
In respect of 1988, the relief claimed beyond time was for the first time refused.	None
It was contended that there was a substantive legitimate expectation that the revenue would continue to follow the previous practice in regard to claims for loss relief.	None
It was held that thee Court was still confined to Wednesbury principles but that on facts it a case of expectational circumstances and it would be unfairness amounting to abuse of power to refuse to follow past practice.	None
Lord Wolf MR agreed that no doubt the Revenue was the best Judge of what was fair.	None
But on facts, the learned Judge treated the case as expectional.	None
Simon Brown, LJ also agreed with this view.	None
He is addition emphasised the detrimental test as did this Court in Raghunathans case (p. 21).	None
Nothing that substantive legitimate expectation was rooted in the theory of legal certainty, he observed as follows (p. 233)	None
Of course legal certainty is a highly desirable objective in public administrations elsewhere the central Wednesbury principle is that an administrative decision is unlawful if so outrageous in its definance of logic of or accepted moral standards that no sensible person who had applied his mind to the question to be decided could have arrived at it.	None
The flexibility necessarily inherent in that guiding principle should not be sacrificed on the altar of legal certainty.	None
On facts, the case was treated as one containing expectional circumstances which, even going by the Wednesbury principles, required relief to be granted.	None
Thus both in ex p. Hargreaves (in which the challenge failed) and ex parte Unilever (in which the challenge succeeded), the protection for substantive legitimate expectation was based on Wednesbury unreasonableness.	None
In sum, this means that the judgment whether public interest overrides the substantive legitimate expectation of individuals will be for the decisionmaker who has made the change in the policy and the Courts will intervene in that decision only if they are satisfied that the decision is irrational or perverse See 1997 Public Law, 375 Wednesbury Protection of Substantive legitimate expectation by Christopher Forsyth.	None
The observations of this Court in Hindustan Development Corporations case 1993(3) SCC 499 in M.P. Oil Extractions case 1997(7) SCC 592 and in S. Raghunathans case 1998(7) SCC 66 are more or less to a similar effect, though no specific reference was made to the Wednesbury rule.	None
After Hargreaves, Wednesbury principle is now consistently followed in England.	None
We shall refer to two recent cases.	None
Lapse of time resulted in a changed policy in R. v. Cardiff Country Council, Exp.	None
Scars Groups Properties Ltd., 1998 Public Law 518.	None
The position there was that a company was granted planning permission in 1993 and the relevant highway authority had indicated that it had no objection to entering into a highway improvement agreement under Section 278 of the Highways Act, 1990.	None
The proposed highway scheme was approved in 1995.	None
But in 1996, there was a reorganisation of local Government in Wales, and the successor authority withheld its authority for the approved scheme until an updated traffic impact analysis had been submitted and was considered.	None
It was held by Carnworth, J that where a formal decision had been made in relation to a subject matter affecting private rights, that decision would be considered hiding unless and until thee had been some change which undermined the foundation of the original decision the question whether there could be such a change was for the authority, subject to Wednesbury unreasonableness test.	None
In that case, the highway authority had not rejected the agreement outright but had requested a new traffic analysis, which was prima facie reasonable because of lapse of time.	None
In yet another case in McPhee v. North Lanarkshine Council, 1998 SLT 1317 (See 1999 Public Law 152153), the petitioner was a traveler who consented to vacate a site after receiving a letter from the Director of Housing telling her that she would be offered a pitch at the site after the refurbishment work had been carried out.	None
The Council subsequently refused to grant her a pitch.	None
She sought a declarator that she was entitled to be offered accommodation by way of a petition on the site and that on the same terms and conditions as any other family seeking accommodation from the respondents.	None
It was held by Lady Congreve, J. that an authority providing an assurance as to a substantive right may depart from it but will fall to be scrutinished by reference to Wednesbury reasonableness.	None
Since it could not be said that no reasonable authority could do anything other than grant her application, the remedy of declarator was inappropriate.	None
In view of the above legal position, can it be said on the facts of this case that the substantive legitimate expectations of the appellant have been contravened ?	None
It will be noticed that at once stage where the ADB loan lapsed, the Government took a decision to go ahead with the project on its own funds.	None
But later it thought that the scheme regarding telephones in rural areas must cover not only the villages in Eastern UP	Reasoning
but also in other backward rural areas in other States.	Reasoning
The statistics given in the counteraffidavits of the Union of India to which we have already referred, show that there are other Sates in the country where the percentage of telephones is far less than what it is in eastern UP.	Reasoning
The said facts are the reasons for the change in the policy of the government and for giving up the notification calling for bids for Eastern UP.	Reasoning
Such a change in policy cannot, in our opinion, be said to be irrational or perverse according to Wednesbury principles.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, on the basis of the clear principles laid down in ex parte Hargreaves nd ex parte Unilever, the Wednesbury principle, of irrationality or perversity is not attracted and the revised policy cannot be said to be in such gross violation of any substantive legitimate expectation of the appellant which warrants interference in judicial review proceedings.	Reasoning
Point 2 is held against the appellant.	Reasoning
The appeals and Transfer Petition are dismissed but in the circumstances, without costs.	None
