 Deepak Gupta, J. The appellant New Delhi Television Limited (hereinafter referred to as the assessee) is an Indian company engaged in running television channels of various kinds.	Facts
It has various foreign subsidiaries to which we shall refer in detail later on but we are concerned mainly with the subsidiary based in the United Kingdom (UK) named NDTV Network Plc., U.K. (hereinafter referred to as NNPLC).	Facts
The assessee submitted a return for the financial year 2007 08 i.e. assessment year 200809 on 29.09.2008 declaring a loss.	Facts
This return was processed under Section 143 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Facts
The case was selected for scrutiny and notice under Section 143(2) of the Act was issued and a notice under Section 142(1) of the Act was also sent to the assessee.	Facts
Thereafter, the case of the assessee was taken up for consideration and final assessment order was passed on 03.08.2012.	Facts
We are mainly concerned with that part of the assessment order which relates to the issue of stepup coupon bonds amounting to US100 million.	Facts
These bonds were issued in July, 2007 through the Bank of New York for a period of 5 years.	Facts
The case of the assesee is that NNPLC issued stepup coupon bonds of US 100 million which were arranged by Jeffries International and the funds were received by NNPLC through Bank of New York.	Facts
The assessee had agreed to furnish corporate guarantee for this transaction.	Facts
These bonds were subscribed to by various entities to whom we shall refer to in detail at a later stage.	Facts
These bonds were to be redeemed at a premium of 7.5 after the expiry of the period of 5 years.	Facts
However, these bonds were redeemed in advance at a discounted price of US 74.2 million in November, 2009.	Facts
The assessing officer held that NNPLC had virtually no financial worth, it had no business of the name and therefore it could not be believed that it could have issued convertible bonds of US 100 million, unless the repayment along with interest was secured.	Facts
This was secured only because of the assessee agreeing to furnish guarantee in this regard.	Facts
Though the assessee had never actually issued such guarantee, the assessing officer was of the view that the subsidiary of the assessee could not have raised such a huge amount without having this assurance from the assessee.	Facts
The transaction was of such a nature that the assessee should be required to maintain an arms length from its subsidiary, meaning that it should be treated like a guarantee issued by any corporate guarantor in favour of some other corporate entity.	Facts
The assessing officer did not doubt the validity of the transaction but imposed guarantee fee rate of 4.68 by treating it as a business transaction and added Rs. 18.72 crores to the income of the assessee, vide order dated 03.08.2012.	Facts
On 31.03.2015, the revenue sent a notice to the assessee wherein it was stated that the authority has reason to believe that net income chargeable to tax for the assessment year 2008 09 had escaped assessment within the meaning of Section 148 of the Act.	Facts
This notice did not give any reasons.	Facts
The assessee then asked for reasons and thereafter on 04.08.2015 reasons were supplied.	Facts
The main reason given was that in the following assessment year i.e. assessment year 200910, the assessing officer had proposed a substantial addition of Rs.642 crores to the account of the assessee on account of monies raised by the assessee through its subsidiaries NDTV BV, The Netherlands, NDTV Networks BV, The Netherlands (NNBV), NDTV Networks International Holdings BV, The Netherlands (NNIH) and NNPLC.	Facts
The assessee had raised its objection before the Dispute Resolution Panel (DRP) which came to the conclusion that all these transactions with the subsidiary companies in Netherlands were sham and bogus transactions and that these transactions were done with a view to get the undisclosed income, for which tax had not been paid, back to India by this circuitous round tripping.	Facts
The assessing officer relies upon the order of the DRP holding that there is reason to believe that funds received by NNPLC were actually the funds of the assessee.	Facts
It was specified that NNPLC had a capital of only Rs.40 lakhs.	Facts
It did not have any business activities in the United Kingdom except a postal address.	Facts
Therefore, it appeared to the assessing officer that it was unnatural for anyone to make such a huge investment of 100 million in a virtually nonfunctioning company and thereafter get back only 72 of their original investment.	Facts
According to the assessing officer The natural inference could be that it was NDTVs own funds introduced in NNPLC in the grab of the impugned bonds.	Facts
The details of the investors are given in this communication giving reasons.	Facts
Mention has also been made of complaints received from a minority shareholder in which it is alleged that the money introduced in NNPLC was shifted to another subsidiary of the assessee in Mauritius from where it was taken to a subsidiary of the assessee in Mumbai and finally to the assessee.	Facts
NNPLC itself was placed under liquidation on 28.03.2011.	Facts
Therefore, the assessing officer was of the opinion that there were reasons to believe that the funds received by NNPLC were the funds of the assessee under a sham transaction and that the amount of Rs.405.09 crores introduced into the books of NNPLC during the financial year 200708 corresponding to the assessment year 200809 through the transaction involving the stepup coupon convertible bonds pertains to the assessee.	Facts
The last portion of the communication dt.	Facts
04.08.2015 giving reasons to the assessee reads as follows In view of the above facts and circumstances of the case and considering the findings of the DRP holding the funds received by NNPLC as the funds of the assessee New Delhi Television Limited under sham transactions, there is a reason to believe that the funds amounting to Rs.405.09 crores introduced into the books of NNPLC during the FY 200708 in the form of Step Up Coupon Bonds pertain to the assessee New Delhi Television Limited only.	Facts
I have therefore reason to believe that the income of the assessee New Delhi Television Limited for AY 200809 amounting to at least Rs.405.09 crores has escaped assessment.	Facts
It is also recorded that the escapement is due to failure on the part of the assessee to disclose fully and truly all facts material for assessment.	Facts
The assessee filed reply to the notice and reasons given, and claimed that there had been no failure on the part of the assessee to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary to make an assessment.	Facts
Assessee also claimed that the proceedings had been initiated on a mere change of opinion and there was no reason to believe.	Facts
The assessee also claimed that the transaction of stepup bonds was a legal and valid transaction.	Facts
In addition, it was claimed that the assessing officer had no valid reasons to believe that the income of the assessee had escaped assessment.	Facts
According to the assessee the assessment officer had accepted the genuineness of the transaction wherein NNPLC, the subsidiary, had issued convertible bonds which had been subscribed by many entities.	Facts
It was urged that the assessing officer had treated the transaction to be genuine by levying guarantee fees and adding it back to the income of the assessee.	Facts
In the alternative, it was submitted that the notice had been issued beyond the period of limitation of 4 years.	Facts
According to the assessee it had not withheld any material facts and, therefore, limitation of 6 years as applicable to the first proviso to Section 147 would not apply.	Facts
The assessing officer did not accept these objections.	Facts
The claim of the assessee was disposed of by the assessing officer vide order dated 23.11.2015 wherein the assessing officer held that there was nondisclosure of material facts by the assessee and the notice would be within limitation since NNPLC was a foreign entity and admittedly a subsidiary of the assessee and the income was being derived through this foreign entity.	Facts
Hence, the case of the assessee would fall within the 2 nd proviso of Section 147 of the Act and the extended period of 16 years would be applicable.	Facts
The objections were accordingly rejected.	Facts
Aggrieved, the petitioner filed a writ petition in the High Court challenging the notice.	Facts
The writ petition was dismissed on 10.08.2017.	Facts
Against this the assessee has filed the present Appeal.	Facts
We have heard Shri Arvind P. Datar, learned senior counsel for the assessee, Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General and Shri Zoheb Hossain, learned counsel appearing for the revenue.	None
In our opinion, the following issues arise for consideration in this case Whether in the facts and circumstances of the case, it can be said that the revenue had a valid reason to believe that undisclosed income had escaped assessment?	Issue
Whether the assessee did not disclose fully and truly all material facts during the course of original assessment which led to the finalisation of the assessment order and undisclosed income escaping detection?	Issue
Whether the notice dated 31.03.2015 along with reasons communicated on 04.08.2015 could be termed to be a notice invoking the provisions of the second proviso to Section 147 of the Act?	Issue
At the outset we may note that it has been strenuously urged on behalf of the assessee that its assessment was done under scrutiny procedure and a very detailed procedure was followed during the original assessment proceedings and all aspects of the case were noted by the assessing officer.	Arguments of Petitioner
That may be true, but merely the fact that the original assessment is a detailed one, cannot take away the powers of the assessing officer to issue notice under Section 147 of the Act.	Reasoning
Question No.1 We would like to make it clear that we are not going into the merits of the allegations made against the assessee.	Reasoning
At this stage we are only required to decide whether the revenue has sufficient reasons to believe that undisclosed income of the asseessee has escaped assessment and therefore there are grounds to issue notice.	Reasoning
Obviously, during the assessment proceedings the assessee will have the right to place material on record to show that the transaction in question was a genuine transaction.	Reasoning
It is trite law that an assessing officer can only reopen an assessment if he has reason to believe that undisclosed income has escaped assessment.	None
Mere change of opinion of the assessing officer is not a sufficient to meet the standard of reason to believe.	None
Relevant portion of Section 147 reads as follows Income escaping assessment.	None
If the Assessing Officer, has reason to believe that any income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for any assessment year, he may, subject to the provisions of sections 148 to 153, assess or reassess such income and also any other income chargeable to tax which has escaped assessment and which comes to his notice subsequently in the course of the proceedings under this section, or recompute the loss or the depreciation allowance or any other allowance, as the case may be, for the assessment year concerned (hereafter in this section and in sections 148 to 153 referred to as the relevant assessment year)	None
Provided that where an assessment under subsection (3) of section 143 or this section has been made for the relevant assessment year, no action shall be taken under this section after the expiry of four years from the end of the relevant assessment year, unless any income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for such assessment year by reason of the failure on the part of the assessee to make a return under section 139 or in response to a notice issued under sub section (1) of section 142 or section 148 or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that assessment year Provided further that nothing contained in the first proviso shall apply in a case where any income in relation to any asset (including financial interest in any entity) located outside India, chargeable to tax, has escaped assessment for any assessment year Provided also that the Assessing Officer may assess or reassess such income, other than the income involving matters which are the subjectmatter of any appeal, reference or revision, which is chargeable to tax and has escaped assessment.	None
Explanation 1.Production before the Assessing Officer of account books or other evidence from which material evidence could, with due diligence, have been discovered by the Assessing Officer will not necessarily amount to disclosure within the meaning of the foregoing proviso.	None
Explanation 2.For the purposes of this section, the following shall also be deemed to be cases where income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment, namely (a) where no return of income has been furnished by the assessee although his total income or the total income of any other person in respect of which he is assessable under this Act during the previous year exceeded the maximum amount which is not chargeable to incometax (b) where a return of income has been furnished by the assessee but no assessment has been made and it is noticed by the Assessing Officer that the assessee has understated the income or has claimed excessive loss, deduction, allowance or relief in the return (ba) where the assessee has failed to furnish a report in respect of any international transaction which he was so required under section 92E (c) where an assessment has been made, but income chargeable to tax has been underassessed or such income has been assessed at too low a rate or such income has been made the subject of excessive relief under this Act or excessive loss or depreciation allowance or any other allowance under this Act has been computed.	None
(ca) where a return of income has not been furnished by the assessee or a return of income has been furnished by him and on the basis of information or document received from the prescribed incometax authority, under subsection (2) of section 133C, it is noticed by the Assessing Officer that the income of the assessee exceeds the maximum amount not chargeable to tax, or as the case may be, the assessee has understated the income or has claimed excessive loss, deduction, allowance or relief in the return (d) where a person is found to have any asset (including financial interest in any entity) located outside India.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
The case of the assessee is that the transaction of stepup coupon bonds was scrutinised in great detail by the assessing officer before he passed the order of assessment dated 03.08.2012.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the assessee there is an attempt on behalf of the revenue to deliberately mixup the transactions relating to the Netherlands subsidiary with the U.K. subsidiary.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the assessee the order of the DRP for the assessment year 200910 is in two distinct compartments.	Arguments of Petitioner
While the DRP held the Netherlands transactions of Rs.642 crores to be a sham, the transaction of issuance of US 100 million convertible bonds was not questioned.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, according to the assessee there was no fresh material before the assessing officer to have reason to believe that the undisclosed income of the assessee had escaped assessment.	Arguments of Petitioner
16.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the assessee it has been urged that once the transaction of stepup coupon bonds has been accepted to be correct, then the revenue cannot reopen the same and doubt the genuiness of the transaction.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are not in agreement with the first part of the submission but we make it clear that we are not commenting on the genuineness of the transaction, which will be considered by the concerned assessing officer.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, on behalf of the revenue it is submitted that at the stage of issue of show cause notice the revenue only has to establish a tentative and prima facie view.	Arguments of Respondent
At this stage, this Court is not expected to go into the merits of the case but can only ascertain whether the revenue has prima facie ground to show that it had reasons to believe that income has escaped assessment.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted that the scope of judicial review in such matters is very limited.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also submitted that since the revenue discovered fresh tangible material subsequent to the assessment order of 03.08.2012, it cannot be said that the assessing officer did not have reasons to believe that income had escaped assessment.	Arguments of Respondent
The main issue is whether there was sufficient material before the assessing officer to take a prima facie view that income of the assessee had escaped assessment.	Issue
The original order of assessment was passed on 03.08.2012.	None
It was thereafter on 31.12.2013 that the DRP in the case of AY 200910 raised doubts with regard to the corporate structure of the assessee and its subsidiaries.	None
It was noted in the order of the DRP that certain shares of NNPLC had been acquired by Universal Studios International B.V., Netherlands, indirectly by subscribing to the shares of NNIH.	None
As already noted above it was recorded in the reasons communicated on 04.08.2015 that NNPLC was not having any business activity in London.	None
It had no fixed assets and was not even paying rent.	None
Other than the fact that NNPLC was incorporated in the U.K., it had no other commercial business there.	None
NNPLC had declared a loss of Rs.8.34 crores for the relevant year.	None
It was also noticed from the order of the assessing officer that the assessee is the parent company of NNPLC and it is the dictates of the assessee which are important for running NNPLC.	None
Pursuant to the directions of the DRP, the assessing officer passed the final assessment order for AY 200910 on 21.02.2014 which also disclosed similar facts.	None
According to the revenue Tax Evasion Petitions were filed by the minority shareholders of the assessee company on various dates, i.e., 11.03.2014, 25.07.2014, 13.10.2014 and 11.03.2015, which complaints describe in detail the communication between the assessee and the subsidiaries and also allegedly showed evidence of round tripping of the assessees undisclosed income through a layer of subsidiaries which led to the issuance of the notice in question.	None
Whether the facts which came to the knowledge of the assessment officer after the assessment proceedings for the relevant year were completed, could be taken into consideration for coming to the conclusion that there were reasons to believe that income had escaped assessment is the question that requires to be answered.	Issue
Though a number of judgments have been cited in this behalf, we shall make reference to only a few.	None
In Claggett Brachi Co. Ltd., London vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, Andhra Pradesh 1989 Supp(2) SCC 182 , this Court held as follows Two points have been urged before us by learned counsel for the assessee.	None
It is contended that the Income Tax Officer has no jurisdiction to take proceedings under Sections 147 and 148 of the Income Tax Act because the conditions prerequisite for making the reassessments were not satisfied.	None
The reassessments were made with reference to clause (b) of Section 147 of the Act, and apparently the Income Tax Officer proceeded on the basis that in consequence of information in his possession he had reason to believe that income chargeable to tax had escaped assessment for the two assessment years.	None
From the material before us it appears that the Income Tax Officer came to realise that income had escaped assessment for the two assessment years when he was in the process of making assessment for a subsequent assessment year.	None
While making that assessment he came to know from the documents pertaining to that assessment that the overhead expenses related to the entire business including the business as commission agents and were not confined to the business of purchase and sale.	None
It is true, as the High Court has observed, that this information could have been acquired by the Income Tax Officer if he had exercised due diligence at the time of the original assessment itself.	None
It does not appear, however, that the attention of the Income Tax Officer was directed by anything before him to the fact that the overhead expenses related to the entire business.	None
The information derived by the Income Tax Officer evidently came into his possession when taking assessment proceedings for the subsequent year.	None
In the circumstances, it cannot be doubted that the case falls within the terms of clause (b) of Section 147 of the Act, and that, therefore, the High Court is right in holding against the assessee.	None
In M s Phool Chand Bajrang Lal and Another vs. Income Tax Officer and Another (1993) 4 SCC 77 , this Court held as follows 19Acquiring fresh information, specific in nature and reliable in character, relating to the concluded assessment which goes to expose the falsity of the statement made by the assessee at the time of original assessment is different from drawing a fresh inference from the same facts and material which was available with the ITO at the time of original assessment proceedings.	None
The two situations are distinct and different.	None
Thus, where the transaction itself on the basis of subsequent information, is found to be a bogus transaction, the mere disclosure of that transaction at the time of original assessment proceedings, cannot be said to be disclosure of the true and full facts in the case and the ITO would have the jurisdiction to reopen the concluded assessment in such a case.	None
It is correct that the assessing authority could have deferred the completion of the original assessment proceedings for further enquiry and investigation into the genuineness to the loan transaction but in our opinion his failure to do so and complete the original assessment proceedings would not take away his jurisdiction to act under Section 147 of the Act, on receipt of the information subsequently.	None
The subsequent information on the basis of which the ITO acquired reasons to believe that income chargeable to tax had escaped assessment on account of the omission of the assessee to make a full and true disclosure of the primary facts was relevant, reliable and specific.	None
It was not at all vague or nonspecific.	None
In Ess Kay Engineering Co.(P) Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, Amritsar (2001) 10 SCC 189 , this Court held as follows This is a case of reopening.	None
We have perused the documents.	None
We find there was material on the basis of which the Income Tax Officer could proceed to reopen the case.	None
It is not a case of mere change of opinion.	None
We are not inclined to interfere with the decision of the High Court merely because the case of the assessee was accepted as correct in the original assessment for this assessment year.	None
It does not preclude the Income Tax Officer from reopening the assessment of an earlier year on the basis of his findings of fact made on the basis of fresh materials in course of assessment of the next assessment year.	None
The appeal is dismissed.	None
No order as to costs.	None
A perusal of the aforesaid judgments clearly shows that subsequent facts which come to the knowledge of the assessing officer can be taken into account to decide whether the assessment proceedings should be reopened or not.	Reasoning
Information which comes to the notice of the assessing officer during proceedings for subsequent assessment years can definitely form tangible material to invoke powers vested with the assessing officer under Section 147 of the Act.	Reasoning
The material disclosed in the assessment proceedings for the subsequent years as well as the material placed on record by the minority shareholders form the basis for taking action under Section 147 of the Act.	Reasoning
At the stage of issuance of notice, the assessing officer is to only form a prima facie view.	Reasoning
In our opinion the material disclosed in assessment proceedings for subsequent years was sufficient to form such a view.	Reasoning
We accordingly hold that there were reasons to believe that income had escaped assessment in this case.	Reasoning
Question No.1 is answered accordingly.	None
Question No.2 Coming to the second question as to whether there was failure on the part of the assessee to make a full and true disclosure of all the relevant facts.	None
The case of the assessee is that it had disclosed all facts which were required to be disclosed.	Arguments of Petitioner
The revenue has placed reliance on certain complaints made by the minority shareholders and it is alleged that those complaints reveal that the assessee was indulging in round tripping of its funds.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the revenue the material disclosed in these complaints clearly shows that the assessee is guilty of creating a network of shell companies with a view to transfer its untaxed income in India to entities abroad and then bring it back to India thereby avoiding taxation.	Arguments of Respondent
We make it clear that we are not going into this aspect of the matter because those complaints have not seen light of the day either before the High Court or this Court and, therefore, it would be unfair to the assessee if we rely upon such material which the assessee has not been confronted with.	Reasoning
Even before the assessment order was passed on 03.08.2012, the assessing officer was aware of the entities which had subscribed to the convertible bonds.	Reasoning
This is apparent from the communication dated 08.04.2011.	Reasoning
The case of the revenue is that the assessee did not disclose the amount subscribed by each of the entities and furthermore the management structure of these companies.	Reasoning
We are not in agreement with this submission of the revenue.	Reasoning
It is apparent from the records of the case that the revenue was aware of the entities which subscribed to the convertible bonds.	Reasoning
It has been urged that these are bogus companies, but we are not concerned with that at this stage.	Reasoning
The issue before us is whether the revenue can take the benefit of the extended period of limitation of 6 years for initiating proceedings under the first proviso Section 147 of the Act.	Reasoning
This can only be done if the revenue can show that the assessee had failed to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for its assessment.	Reasoning
The assessee, in our view had disclosed all the facts it was bound to disclose.	Reasoning
If the revenue wanted to investigate the matter further at that stage it could have easily directed the assessee to furnish more facts.	Reasoning
The High Court held that there was no true and fair disclosure in view of the law laid down by this Court in Phool Chands case (supra), and the judgment of the Delhi High Court in Honda Siel Power Products Limited vs. Deputy Commissioner IncomeTax and Another (2012) 340 ITR 53 (Delhi) .	Reasoning
We have already referred to the judgment in Phool Chands case (supra), wherein it was held that where the transaction of a particular assessment year is found to be a bogus transaction, the disclosures made could not be said to be all true and full.	Reasoning
Relying upon the said judgment the High Court held that merely because the transaction of convertible bonds was disclosed at the time of original assessment does not mean that there is true and full disclosure of facts.	Reasoning
We are unable to agree with this reasoning given by the High Court.	Reasoning
The assessee as mentioned above made a disclosure about having agreed to stand guarantee for the transaction by NNPLC and it had also disclosed the factum of the issuance of convertible bonds and their redemption.	Reasoning
The income, if any, arose because of the redemption at a discounted price.	Reasoning
This was an event which took place subsequent to the assessment year in question though it may be income for the assessment year.	Reasoning
As we have observed above, all relevant facts were duly within the knowledge of the assessing officer.	Reasoning
The assessing officer knew who were the entities who had subscribed to other convertible bonds and in other proceedings relating to the subsidiaries the same assessing officer had knowledge of addresses and the consideration paid by each of the bondholders as is apparent from assessment orders dated 03.08.2012 passed in the cases of M s. NDTV Labs Ltd. and M s. NDTV Lifestyle Ltd.	Reasoning
Therefore, in our opinion there was full and true disclosure of all material facts necessary for its assessment by the assessee.	Reasoning
The fact that stepup coupon bonds for US 100 million were issued by NNPLC was disclosed who were the entities which subscribed to the bonds was disclosed and the fact that the bonds were discounted at a lower rate was also disclosed before the assessment was finalised.	Reasoning
This transaction was accepted by the assessing officer and it was clearly held that the assessee was only liable to receive a guarantee fees on the same which was added to its income.	Reasoning
Without saying anything further on merits of the transaction we are of the view that it cannot be said that the assessee had withheld any material information from the revenue.	Reasoning
According to the revenue the assessee to avoid detection of the actual source of funds of its subsidiaries did not disclose the details of the subsidiaries in its final accounts, balance sheets, and profit and loss account for the relevant period as was mandatory under the provisions of the Indian Companies Act, 1956.	Arguments of Respondent
It is not disputed that the assessee had obtained an exemption from the competent authority under the Companies Act, 1956 from providing such details in its final accounts, balance sheets, etc.	Reasoning
As such it cannot be said that the assessee was bound to disclose this to the Assessing Officer.	Reasoning
The Assessing Officer before finalising the assessment of 03.08.2012 had never asked the assessee to furnish the details.	Reasoning
The revenue now has come up with the plea that certain documents were not supplied but according to us all these documents cannot be said to be documents which the assessee was bound to disclose at the time of assessment.	Reasoning
The main ground raised by the revenue is that the assessee did not disclose as to who had subscribed what amount and what was its relationship with the assessee.	Reasoning
As far as the first part is concerned it does not appear to be correct.	Reasoning
There is material on record to show that on 08.04.2011 NNPLC had sent a communication to the Deputy Director of Income Tax (Investigation), wherein it had not only disclosed the names of all the bond holders but also their addresses number of bonds along with the total consideration received.	Reasoning
This chart forms part of the assessment orders dated 03.08.2012 in the case of M s. NDTV Labs Ltd. and M s. NDTV Lifestyle Ltd.	Reasoning
The said two assessment orders were passed by the same officer who had passed the assessment order in the case of the assessee on the same date itself.	Reasoning
Therefore, the entire material was available with the revenue.	None
A number of decisions have been cited as to what is meant by true and full disclosure.	None
It is not necessary to multiply decisions, as law in this regard has been succinctly laid down by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Calcutta Discount Co. Ltd. vs. Incometax Officer, Companies District I, Calcutta and Another AIR 1961 SC 372 , wherein it was held as follows  	None
The words used are omission or failure to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year.	None
It postulates a duty on every assessee to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment.	None
What facts are material, and necessary for assessment will differ from case to case.	None
In every assessment proceeding, the assessing authority will, for the purpose of computing or determining the proper tax due from an assessee, require to know all the facts which help him in coming to the correct conclusion.	None
From the primary facts in his possession, whether on disclosure by the assessee, or discovered by him on the basis of the facts disclosed, or otherwise the assessing authority has to draw inferences as regards certain other facts and ultimately, from the primary facts and the further facts inferred from them, the authority has to draw the proper legal inferences, and ascertain on a correct interpretation of the taxing enactment, the proper tax leviable.	None
Thus, when a question arises whether certain income received by an assessee is capital receipt, or revenue receipt, the assessing authority has to find out what primary facts have been proved, what other facts can be inferred from them, and taking all these together, to decide what the legal inference should be.	None
There can be no doubt that the duty of disclosing all the primary facts relevant to the decision of the question before the assessing authority lies on the assessee.	None
To meet a possible contention that when some account books or other evidence has been produced, there is no duty on the assessee to disclose further facts, which on due diligence, the Income tax Officer might have discovered, the Legislature has put in the Explanation, which has been set out above.	None
In view of the Explanation, it will not be open to the assessee to say, for example I have produced the account books and the documents You, the assessing officer examine them, and find out the facts necessary for your purpose My duty is done with disclosing these accountbooks and the documents.	None
His omission to bring to the assessing authoritys attention these particular items in the account books, or the particular portions of the documents, which are relevant, will amount to omission to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment.	None
Nor will he be able to contend successfully that by disclosing certain evidence, he should be deemed to have disclosed other evidence, which might have been discovered by the assessing authority if he had pursued investigation on the basis of what has been disclosed.	None
The Explanation to the section, gives a quietus to all such contentions and the position remains that so far as primary facts are concerned, it is the assessees duty to disclose all of them including particular entries in account books, particular portions of documents and documents, and other evidence, which could have been discovered by the assessing authority, from the documents and other evidence disclosed.	None
Does the duty however extend beyond the full and truthful disclosure of all primary facts?	None
In our opinion, the answer to this question must be in the negative.	None
Once all the primary facts are before the assessing authority, he requires no further assistance by way of disclosure.	None
It is for him to decide what inferences of facts can be reasonably drawn and what legal inferences have ultimately to be drawn.	None
It is not for somebody else far less the assessee to tell the assessing authority what inferences whether of facts or law should be drawn.	None
Indeed, when it is remembered that people often differ as regards what inferences should be drawn from given facts, it will be meaningless to demand that the assessee must disclose what inferences whether of facts or law he would draw from the primary facts.	None
If from primary facts more inferences than one could be drawn, it would not be possible to say that the assessee should have drawn any particular inference and communicated it to the assessing authority.	None
How could an assessee be charged with failure to communicate an inference, which he might or might not have drawn?	None
A careful analysis of this judgment indicates that the Constitution Bench held that it is the duty of the assessee to disclose full and truly all material facts which it termed as primary facts.	Reasoning
Non disclosure of other facts which may be termed as secondary facts is not necessary.	Reasoning
In light of the above law, we shall deal with the facts of the present case.	Reasoning
In our view the assessee disclosed all the primary facts necessary for assessment of its case to the assessing officer.	Reasoning
What the revenue urges is that the assessee did not make a full and true disclosure of certain other facts.	Reasoning
We are of the view that the assessee had disclosed all primary facts before the assessing officer and it was not required to give any further assistance to the assessing officer by disclosure of other facts.	None
It was for the assessing officer at this stage to decide what inference should be drawn from the facts of the case.	Reasoning
In the present case the assessing officer on the basis of the facts disclosed to him did not doubt the genuiness of the transaction set up by the assessee.	Reasoning
This the assessing officer could have done even at that stage on the basis of the facts which he already knew.	Reasoning
The other facts relied upon by the revenue are the proceedings before the DRP and facts subsequent to the assessment order, and we have already dealt with the same while deciding Issue No.1.	Reasoning
However, that cannot lead to the conclusion that there is nondisclosure of true and material facts by the assessee.	Reasoning
It is interesting to note that whereas before this Court the revenue is strenuously urging that the assessee is guilty of non disclosure of material facts, before the High Court the case of the revenue was just opposite.	Reasoning
We may quote a portion of the counteraffidavit filed by the revenue in response to the writ petition filed by the assessee before the High Court which reads as follows It is evident from these facts that second proviso to Section 147 is clearly attracted in this case and first proviso to Section 147 is not applicable to facts of this case, i.e. in this case, the only requirement to reopen assessment U s 147 was that the AO has reason to believe that any income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment.	None
The second condition that the income should have escaped assessment due to failure on the part of the assessee to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for making assessment is not relevant to decide issue before the Honble Court This submission has been repeated a number of times in the counteraffidavit.	None
Therefore, in our opinion the revenue cannot now turn around and urge that the assessee is guilty of non disclosure of facts.	Reasoning
We are also of the view that the revenue could not be permitted to blow hot and cold at the same time.	Reasoning
We are clearly of the view that the revenue in view of its counteraffidavit before the High Court that it was not relying upon the nondisclosure of facts by the assessee could not have been permitted to orally urge the same.	Reasoning
Even otherwise we find that the assessee had fully and truly disclosed all material facts necessary for its assessment and, therefore, the revenue cannot take benefit of the extended period of limitation of 6 years.	Reasoning
We answer Question No.2 accordingly.	None
Question No.3 It is urged before this Court by the revenue that in terms of second proviso to Section 147 of the Act read with Section 149(1) (c) of the Act, the limitation period would be 16 years since the assessee has derived income from a foreign entity.	Arguments of Respondent
We may make specific reference to the second proviso and explanation 2(d) which reads as follows Provided further that nothing contained in the first proviso shall apply in a case where any income in relation to any asset (including financial interest in any entity) located outside India, chargeable to tax, has escaped assessment for any assessment year	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx Explanation 2.For the purposes of this section, the following shall also be deemed to be cases where income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment, namely xxx xxx xxx (d) where a person is found to have any asset (including financial interest in any entity) located outside India.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
On behalf of the assessee it has been urged that no income was derived from the foreign entity and a loan cannot be termed to be an asset or an income and it is submitted that the notice cannot be said to have been issued under the second proviso.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this regard we may make reference to the notice dated 31.03.2015.	Reasoning
The notice is conspicuously silent with regard to the second proviso.	Reasoning
It does not rely upon the second proviso and basically relies on the provision of Section 148 of the Act.	Reasoning
The reasons communicated to the assessee on 04.08.2015 mention reason to believe and nondisclosure of material facts by the assessee.	Reasoning
There is no case set up in relation to the second proviso either in the notice or even in the reasons supplied on 04.08.2015 with regard to the notice.	Reasoning
It is only while rejecting the objections of the assessee that reference has been made to the second proviso in the order of disposal of objections dated 23.11.2015.	Reasoning
The High Court relied upon the judgment in Mohinder Singh Gill Anr.	Reasoning
vs. The Chief Election Commissioner, New Delhi Ors.	Reasoning
(1978) 2	Reasoning
SCR 272 and came to the conclusion that the revenue cannot rely upon the second proviso because the notice was silent in this regard.	Reasoning
However, the High Court held that the assessee was guilty of nondisclosure of material facts.	Reasoning
We have already held that in our view the assessee was not guilty of non disclosure of material facts.	Reasoning
The revenue has not challenged the judgment of the High Court in so far as this finding against it is concerned but the revenue is entitled to defend the petition even on a ground which may have been decided against it by the High Court.	Reasoning
On behalf of the revenue it is urged that mere nonnaming of the second proviso in the notice does not help the assessee.	Arguments of Respondent
It has been urged that even if the source of power to issue notice has been wrongly mentioned, but all relevant facts were mentioned, then the notice can be said to be a notice under the provision which empowers the revenue to issue such notice.	Arguments of Respondent
There can be no quarrel with this proposition of law.	None
However, the noticee or the assesee should not be prejudiced or be taken by surprise.	Reasoning
The uncontroverted fact is that in the notice dated 31.03.2015 there is no mention of any foreign entity.	Reasoning
There is only mention of the Section 148.	Reasoning
Even after the assessee specifically asked for reasons, the revenue only relied upon facts to show that there was reason to believe that income has escaped assessment and this escapement was due to the nondisclosure of material facts.	Reasoning
There is nothing in the reasons to indicate that the revenue was intending to apply the extended period of 16 years.	Reasoning
It is only after the assessee filed its reply to the reasons given, that in the order of rejection for the first time reference was made to the second proviso by the revenue.	Reasoning
In our view this is not a fair or proper procedure.	Reasoning
If not in the first notice, at least at the time of furnishing the reasons the assessee should have been informed that the revenue relied upon the second proviso.	Reasoning
The assessee must be put to notice of all the provisions on which the revenue relies upon.	Reasoning
At the risk of repetition, we reiterate that we are not going into the merits of the case but in case the revenue had issued a notice to the assessee stating that it relies upon the second proviso, the assessee would have had a chance to show that it was not deriving any income from any foreign asset or financial interest in any foreign entity, or that the asset did not belong to it or any other ground which may be available.	Reasoning
The assessee cannot be deprived of this chance while replying to the notice.	Reasoning
Therefore, even if we do not fall back on the reason given by the High Court that the revenue cannot take a fresh ground, we are clearly of the view that the notice and reasons given thereafter do not conform to the principles of natural justice and the assessee did not get a proper and adequate opportunity to reply to the allegations which are now being relied upon by the revenue.	Reasoning
If the revenue is to rely upon the second proviso and wanted to urge that the limitation of 16 years would apply, then in our opinion in the notice or at least in the reasons in support of the notice, the assessee should have been put to notice that the revenue relies upon the second proviso.	Reasoning
The assessee could not be taken by surprise at the stage of rejection of its objections or at the stage of proceedings before the High Court that the notice is to be treated as a notice invoking provisions of the second proviso of Section 147 of the Act.	Reasoning
Accordingly, we answer the third question by holding that the notice issued to the assessee and the supporting reasons did not invoke provisions of the second proviso of Section 147 of the Act and therefore at this stage the revenue cannot be permitted to take benefit of the second proviso.	Reasoning
Conclusion We accordingly allow the appeal by holding that the notice issued to the assessee shows sufficient reasons to believe on the part of the assessing officer to reopen the assessment but since the revenue has failed to show nondisclosure of facts the notice having been issued after a period of 4 years is required to be quashed.	Decision
Having held so, we make it clear that we have not expressed any opinion on whether on facts of this case the revenue could take benefit of the second proviso or not.	Decision
Therefore, the revenue may issue fresh notice taking benefit of the second proviso if otherwise permissible under law.	Decision
We make it clear that both the parties shall be at liberty to raise all contentions with regard to the validity of such notice.	Decision
All pending application(s) shall stand(s) disposed of.	Decision
