 Mukherjea, J.1.	None
This appeal is on behalf of the pltf.	Facts
and it arises out of a suit for specific performance of a contract to sell a house in the town of Gaya, belonging to the defts.	Issue
second party who, it is alleged, agreed to sell the house to the pltf.	Issue
but subsequently resiled from the agreement and sold the same to the defts.	Facts
first party who purchased it with notice of the contract.2.	Issue
The pltfs case, in substance, is that in September 1941 the defts.	Facts
second party, who owned a house at Gaya, entered into negotiations for sale of the same, with one Jadu Ram, and the title deeds of the property were actually handed over to the latter.	Facts
These negotiations failed and the second party defts.	Facts
thereupon approached the pltf.	Facts
firm and a contract was entered into by and between them some time towards the end of October 1945, under which the former agreed to sell to the latter their house at Gaya for a consideration of Rs. 34,000.	Facts
Out of this consideration, a sum of Rs. 30,000 was paid by the pltf.	Facts
firm on behalf of the vendors to a creditor of the latter on 28101941.	None
The vendors in their turn put the pltf.	None
in possession of the house agreed to be sold in part performance of the contract and promised to execute a convenience as soon as the title deeds were returned to them by Jadu Ram and the balance of consideration money amounting to Rs. 4,000 was paid by the pltf.	Facts
The second party defts.	Facts
however, went back on their promise and did not execute the conveyance in favour of the pltf.	Facts
even after they get back their title deeds from Jadu Ram and on the other hand, they sold the house to the defts.	Facts
first party on 1381943.	None
The pltf, was thus obliged to bring this suit, claiming specific performance of the contract of sale.3.	Facts
The suit was contested by both sets of defts.	Facts
The second party defts.	Facts
Contended interalia that they never agreed to sell their house at Gaya to the pltf.	Facts
and the story of a contract of sale as set up by the pltf.	Facts
was entirely false.	Facts
They admitted that they were in need of money and hence approached the pltf.	Facts
for a loan and the pltf.	Facts
did advance to them a sum of Rs. 30,000 carrying interest at 6 per annum.	Facts
It was entirely for facilitating payment of interest due on this loan and not in part performance of the contract of sale that the pltf.	Facts
was put in possession of the same.4.	Facts
This defence was reiterated by the first party defts.	Facts
who further pleaded that they were bona fide purchasers for value having no notice of any contract of sale with the pltf.5.	Facts
The learned Subordinate Judge, who heard the suit came to the conclusion, on the evidence adduced by the parties that the story of a contract of sale, as alleged by the pltf. was not established and it was not in pursuance of any such contract that the pltf.	Facts
was put in possession of the house.	Facts
It was held that the defts story was true and that the pltf.	Facts
did advance a sum of Rs. 30,000 to the defts.	Facts
second party, but this was by way of a loan and not a part payment of the consideration money.	Facts
So far as the first party defts.	Facts
were concerned, it was held that they were bona fide purchasers for value without notice.	Facts
In view of these findings, the Subordinate Judge dismissed the pltfs claim for specific performance but as the second party defts.	Facts
admitted that they had taken an advance of Rs. 30,000 from the piff.	Facts
, a money decree was given in the pltf.	Facts
for this sum aganist these defts with interest at 6 per annum from the date of the suit till realisation.6.	Facts
Against this decision, the pltf.	Facts
took an appeal in the H. C. at Patna, and the second party defts.	Facts
also filed crossobjections challenging the propriety of the money decree that was passed against them.	Facts
The appeal was heard by a Division Bench of the Patna H. C. who, by their judgment dated 2981941 dismissed the appeal of the pltf.	Facts
and allowed the crossobjections preferred by the second part defts.	Facts
The learned Judges held, concurring with the trial Ct., that no case of concluded contract between the parties was established by the evidence adduced in the case, and the fact of the pltf.	Facts
being put in possession of the house could not be regarded as an act of part performance of any such contract.	Facts
The H. C. agreed with the trial Judge in holding that the sum of Rs. 30,000 was advanced as a loan by the pltf.	Facts
to the second party defts.	Facts
, though the evidence was not very clear regarding payment of interest upon it, and that the first party defts.	Facts
were purchasers for value without notice.	Facts
The H. C. held further that even if there was a contract, its terms were vague and indefinite, and as one of the vendors was a minor, no relief in equity by way of specific performance of the contract should be given in this case as it would substantially prejudice the interests of the minor.	Facts
In the opinion of the H. C., the money decree granted against the second party defts.	Facts
was not warranted in law as no case of a loan was made by the pltf.	Facts
in the plaint and no relief was claimed on that basis.	Facts
The result was that the suit was dismissed in its entirety and the decree for recovery of money that was made in favour of the pltf.	Facts
by the trial Ct. was set aside.	Facts
It is against this judgment that the pltf.	Facts
has come up on appeal to this Ct.7.	Facts
The learned counsel for the applt. contends before us that the findings upon which the Cts.	None
below disbelieved the story of the pltf.	Arguments of Petitioner
and dismissed the claim for specific performance are not proper findings of fact which could be legitimately inferred from the evidence adduced in this case.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the alternative it is argued that the H. C. was wrong in setting aside the decree for money which was given aganist the second party defts, by the trial Judge.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first contention put forward by the learned counsel appears to us to be plainly unsustainable.	Reasoning
When the Cls. below have given concurrent findings on pure questions of fact, this Ct. would not ordinarily interfere with these findings and review the evidence for the third time unless there are exceptional circumstances justifying departure from this normal practice.	Reasoning
The position may undoubtedly be different if the inference is one of law from facts admitted and proved or where the finding ,of fact is materially affected by violation of any rule of law or procedure.	Reasoning
The practice adopted by this Ct. is similar to what has always been acted upon by the Judicial Committee.	None
To quote the words of Lord Thankerton in Bibhabati v. Rammendra Narayan,51 C. W. N. 98 (A. I. R. (34) 1947 P. C.19) it is not by any means a cast iron practice there may occur cases of unusual nature which might constrain us in interfere with the concurrent findings of fact in avoid miscarriage of justice.	None
The case before us, however, has nothing unusual in it and involves a pure question of fact.	None
There is no document in writing in proof of the agreements upon which the pltfs case is based and the decision hinges primarily upon appreciation of the oral evidence that has been adduced by the parties.	Reasoning
The trial Judge, who had the witnesses before him, was the best person to weigh and appraise their credibility and the conclusion, which he arrived at, have been affirmed in their entirety by the H. C. on appeal.	Reasoning
In these circumstances, we see no reason whatsoever to go beyond the facts which have been found against the applt.	Reasoning
by both the Cts. below.9.	Reasoning
As regards the other point, however, we are of the opinion that the decision of the trial Ct. was right and that the H. C. took an undoubtedly rigid and technical view in reversing this part of the decree at the Subordinate Judge.	Reasoning
It is true that it was no part of the pltfs case as made in the plaint that the sum of Rs. 30,000 was advanced by way of loan to the defts.	Reasoning
second party.	Reasoning
But it was certainly open to the pltf.	Reasoning
to make an alternative case to that effect and make a prayer in the alternative for a decree for money even if the allegations of the money being paid in pursusance of a contract of sale could not be established by evidence.	Reasoning
The fact that such a prayer would have been inconsistent with the other prayer is not really material.	Reasoning
A pltf. may rely upon different rights alternatively and there is nothing in the Civil P. C. to prevent a party from making two or more inconsistent sets of allegations and claiming relief thereunder in the alternative.	Reasoning
The question, however, arises whether, in the absence of any such alternative case in the plaint it is open to the Ct. to give him relief on that basis.	Reasoning
The rule undoubtedly is that the Ct. cannot grant relief to the pltf.	Reasoning
on a case for which there was no foundation in the pleading and which the other side was not called upon or had an opportunity to meet.	Reasoning
But when the alternative case, which the pltf. could have made, was not only admitted by the deft.	Reasoning
in his written statement but was expressly put forward as an answer to the claim which the pltf.	Reasoning
made in the suit, there would be nothing improper in giving the pltf.	Reasoning
a decree upon the case which the deft.	Reasoning
himself makes.	Reasoning
A demand of the pltf.	Reasoning
based on the defts own plea cannot possibly be regarded with surprise by the latter and no question of adducing evidence on these facts would arise when they were expressly admitted by the deft.	Reasoning
in his pleadings.	Reasoning
In such circumstances when no injustice can possibly result to the deft., it may not be proper to drive the pltf, to file a separate suit.	Reasoning
As an illustration of this principle, reference may be made to the pronouncement of the Judicial Committee inMohan Manucha v. Manzoor Ahmad,70 I. A. 1 (A. I. R. (30) 1943 P. C. 29).	Reasoning
This appeal arose out of a suit commenced by the pltf applt.	Reasoning
to enforce a mtge.	Reasoning
security.	Reasoning
The plea of the deft.	Reasoning
was that the mtge.	Reasoning
was void.	Reasoning
This plea was given effect to by both the lower Ct. as well as by the P. C. But the P. C. held that it was open in such circumstances to the pltf to repudiate the transaction altogether and claim a relief outside it in the form of restitution under S. 65, Contract Art.	Reasoning
Although no such alternative claim was made in the plaint, the P. C. allowed it to be advanced and gave a decree on the ground that the resp.	Reasoning
could not be prejudiced by such a claim at all and the matter ought not to be left to a separate suit.	Reasoning
It may be noted that this relief was allowed to the applt.	Reasoning
even though the appeal was heardex partein the absence of the resp.10.	None
Mr. Harish Chandra, appearing for the second party defts., raised the question of interest in connection with the pltfs.	Arguments of Respondent
claim for a money decree.	Arguments of Respondent
His contention is that the pltf.	Arguments of Respondent
could not claim any interest so long as he was in possession of the house and he could not also claim any interest after that, as his clients made a tender of the sum of Rs. 30,000 by sending a hundi for that amount to the pltf.	Arguments of Respondent
by registered post on 1271943 which the pltf. refused to accept.	Arguments of Respondent
The first part of the contention is undoubtedly correct and is not disputed on behalf of the pltf.	Arguments of Respondent
We feel difficulty, however, in accepting the second part of the contention raised by Mr. Harish Chandra.	None
The receipt of this hundi was totally denied by the pltf.	None
both in the plaint as well as in the evidence and it is doubtful whether even if the story was true, it could constitute a valid tender in law.	Reasoning
The defts.	Reasoning
undoubtedly had the use of this money all this time and in our opinion the pltf.	Reasoning
is entitled to some interest.	Reasoning
The learned counsel appearing for both the parties, at the close of their arguments, left this question of interest to be determined by us and we think that it would be quite fair if we allow interest on the sum of Rs. 30,000 at the rate of 4 per annum from the beginning of September 1943.	None
It is admitted that the pltfs possession of the house ceased by the end of August 1943.11.	None
The result is that we allow the appeal in part the decree made by the H. C is affirmed in so far as it dismissed the claim for specific performance.	Decision
The pltf., however, will be entitled to a money decree for the sum of Rs. 30,000 against the defts.	Decision
second party with interest at 4 per annum from 1 91943 to the date of realisation.	Decision
Each party to this appeal will bear his own costs.12.	None
Appeal allowed in part.	None
