 Arijit Pasayat, J.	None
In this appeal under Section 130E of the Customs Act, 1962 (in short the Act), the only question that falls for adjudication is whether Karbate Tubes made of artificial graphite impregnated with Phenolic resin which are parts of Heat exchangers are classifiable under Tariff Item subheading 6815.10 in First Schedule of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (in short Tariff Act) as held by the Revenue, or under subheading 8419.50 as claimed by the assesseeimporter.	Issue
Factual scenario needs to be noted in brief.	None
Orders were placed by the assessee on a foreign manufacturer for supply of 14700 Karbate Tubes which were supplied during April and July, 1992.	Facts
An order was passed by the Assistant Collector of Customs (Appraising Group III) classifying the goods under Chapter heading 68.15 and subheading 6815.10, whereby the demand raised by the Appraiser was confirmed.	Facts
Appeal filed before the Collector (Appeals) did not bring any relief to the assessee.	Facts
Matter was carried in further appeal before the Customs, Excise and Gold Control Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi (in short Tribunal).	Facts
As there was difference in view between the members of Tribunal, the matter was referred to a large Bench which by the impugned order dated 24.11.1997 held that the goods were rightly classified under Chapter 68 and not Chapter 84.	Facts
The main ground which appears to have been pressed before the Tribunal by the assessee was that the Karbate Tubes which ware made of artificial graphite cannot be classified under tariff heading 68.15, as according to it, same applies only to natural graphite.	Facts
The Tribunal did not find any substance in is plea.	Facts
Reference was made to the Harmonized System Nomenclature (in short HSN) and it observed that Karbate Tubes made of artificial graphite being nonelectric articles made of graphite fall under Chapter subheading 6815.10.	Facts
It was further held that though this is a part of machinery which may otherwise attract subheading 8419.50, but the same is not applicable in view of the exclusion in Note 1(a) of Chapter 84.	Facts
In support of the appeal, learned counsel for the assesseeappellant submitted that the tubes in question are classifiable under Chapter 84 as parts of Heat exchanges, are not excluded by Note 1(a) of Chapter 84, and are to be classified under Entry 84.19.	Arguments of Petitioner
With reference to the Note 1(a) of Chapter 84, it is submitted that by application of the ejusdem generis principles, only such articles which are similar to millstones or grindstones are excluded.	None
In reply, learned Attorney General submitted that the language of the provision in question is clear, and if the interpretation sought to be put by the assessee is accepted, it would mean a complete transformation of the provision by addition deletion of certain words, which is not permissible.	Arguments of Respondent
In order to appreciate rival submissions, it would be proper to take note of the entries on which the assessee and the Revenue have placed reliance.	None
In Chapter 68 Section XIII (Articles of stone, plaster, cement, asbestos, mica, or similar materials ceramic products glass and glassware), heading No. 68.15 reads as under Heading No. 68.15  Articles of stone or of other mineral substances (including articles of peat), not elsewhere specified or included Subheading No. 6815.10  Nonelectrical articles of graphite or other carbon 65.	None
In Note 1 of Chapter 84 it is provided as follows This Chapter does not cover Millstones, grindstones or other articles of Chapter 68 Appliances or machinery (for example, pumps) or parts thereof, of ceramic material (Chapter 69)	None
Laboratory glassware (heading No. 70.17) machinery appliances or other articles for technical uses or parts thereof, of glass (heading No. 7019) or 70.20) Articles of heading No. 73.21 or 73.22 or similar articles of other base metals (Chapter 74 to 76 or 78 to 81) Electromechanical tools for working in the hand, of heading No. 85.08 or electromechanical domestic appliances of heading of 85.09 or Handoperated mechanical floor sweepers, not motorized (heading No. 86.03).	None
Chapter 84 appears in Section XVI and under the heading Nuclear reactors, boilers, machinery and mechanical appliances, parts thereof the aforesaid exclusions are provided in Notes 1(a) to (f).	None
Assessees stand was that if at all the Note 1(a) has application, that will be restricted to 68.04, which specifically refers to millstones, grindstones, grinding wheels and the like without frameworks and cannot take within its ambit all the articles which are covered by Chapter 68.	None
As noted above, it was submitted that the expression other articles of Chapter 68 has to take colour from millstones, grindstones .	None
With reference to a decision of this Court in Collector of Customs, Bombay vs. Grasim Industries Ltd. (2000 (5) SCC 117), it was submitted that the issue is settled beyond doubt.	None
Strong reliance was placed on para 12 of the judgment which reads as follows In view of the categorical finding, there can be no hesitation in holding that the goods in question fall within Heading 84.17(1) of CTA unless it is shown they being millstones, grindstones and other articles falling within Chapter 68 have to be excluded from Heading 84.17(1) of CTA in view of Note 1(a) of Chapter 84.	None
Obviously the articles in question are not millstones, grindstones or the like.	None
We have carefully gone through various subheadings of Chapter 68 of CTA and we are of the view that the contention that the goods in question fall within Chapter 68 has no substance.	None
(Underlined for emphasis)	None
The plea of the appellant is clearly untenable.	None
The issue which was under consideration in the said case was entirely different and the sentence underlined cannot be read out of context to draw an inference that Note 1(a) related to articles which are millstones, grindstones or the like.	None
It is to be noted that the only plea which was raised before the Tribunal related to artificial and natural graphite.	None
The points now canvassed were not urged before the Tribunal but since they involve question of law we have permitted the parties to address us on the various aspects related to the crore question.	None
It is significant to note that in different subheadings the words similar and other have been used.	None
It appears that wherever the expression similar was intended to be used, it has been so done.	None
Reference may be made in this context to headings and subheadings like 6802.10, 6806.10 and 68.09 where the expression used is similar articles.	None
In some other headings and subheading, the expression and the like have also been used, for example 6804.10 and 68.11.	None
It cannot be said that different expressions like similar and other or and the like have been used without any basis.	None
Even in the Note 1 itself in clauses a and d, the expressions used are other articles and similar articles respectively.	None
Such user as noted above cannot be said to be without basis or purpose.	None
No words or expressions used in any statute can be said to be redundant or superfluous.	None
In matters of interpretation one should not concentrate too much on one word and pay too little attention to other words.	None
No provision in the statute and no word in any section can be construed in isolation.	None
Every provision and every word must be looked at generally and in the context in which it is used.	None
It is said that every statute is an edict of the legislature.	None
The elementary principle of interpreting any word while considering a statute is to gather the mens or sententia legis of the legislature.	None
Where the words are clear and there is no obscurity, and there is no ambiguity and the intention of the legislature is clearly conveyed, there is no scope for the Court to take upon itself the task of amending or alternating the statutory provisions.	None
Wherever the language is clear the intention of the legislature is to be gathered from the language used.	None
While doing so what has been said in the statute as also what has not been said has to be noted.	None
The construction which requires for its support addition or substitution of words or which results in rejection of words has to be avoided.	None
As stated by the Privy Council in Crawford vs. Spooner(1846) 6 Moore PC 1) we cannot aid the Legislatures defective phrasing of an Act, we cannot add or mend and, by construction make up deficiencies which are left there.	None
In case of an ordinary word there should be no attempt to substitute or paraphrase of general application.	None
Attention should be confined to what is necessary for deciding the particular case.	None
This principle is too well settled and reference to few decisions of this Court would suffice.	None
See Gwalior Rayons Silk Mfg. (Wvg.)	None
Co. Ltd. vs. Custodian of Vested Forests, Palghat and Anr.	None
(AIR 1990 SC 1747 ), Union of India and Anr.	None
vs. Deoki Nandan Aggarwal, (AIR 1992 SC 96 ), Institute of Chartered Accountants of India vs. Price Waterhouse and Anr.	None
(1997 (6) SCC 312 ) and Harbhajan Singh vs. Press Council of India and Ors.	None
(JT 2002 (3) SC 21 )	None
It was urged by learned counsel for the assessee that the legislature could have, if it had really so intended, couched the Note 1 (a) in a different manner i.e. all article of Chapter 68 instead of the present expression used.	None
Merely because the provision could have been differently worded, does not in any way affect the meaning o the expression used as it is clear and unambiguous.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Union of India and Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
vs. Delhi High Court Bar Association and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(JT 2002 (3) 131), following observations in Navin Chandra Mafatlal vs. The Commissioner of Income Tax Bombay City (1955) 1	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 829 were noted As pointed out by	Arguments of Petitioner
Gwyer C.J.	None
The United Provinces vs. Atiqa Begum (1940) FCR 110 at page 134 none of the items in the Lists is to be read in a narrow or restricted sense and that each general word should be held to extend to all ancillary or subsidiary matters which can fairly and reasonably be said to be comprehended in it.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the background of what has been urged by the assessee it has to be further seen whether the principles of ejusdem generis have application.	Reasoning
The rule is applicable when particular words pertaining to a class, category or genus are followed by general words.	Reasoning
In such a case the general words are construed as limited to things of the same kind as those specified.	Reasoning
The rule reflects an attempt to reconcile incompatibility between the specific and general words in view of the other rules of interpretation that all words in a statute are given effect if possible, that a statute is to be construed as a whole and that no words in a statute are presumed to be superfluous.	Reasoning
The rule applies only when (1) the statute enumerates the specific words, (2) the subjects of enumeration constitute a class or category, (3) that class or category is not exhausted by the enumeration, (4) the general terms follow the enumeration and (5) there is no indication of a different legislative intent.	Reasoning
If the subjects of enumeration belong to a broad based genus, as also to a narrower genus there is no principle that the general words should be confined to the narrower genus.	Reasoning
In interpreting Section 30 of the United Towns Electrical Company Act, 1902 which reads the company shall be liable for water rates on all lands and buildings, owned by it in the aforesaid town, but otherwise shall be exempted from taxation, the Privy Council rejected the contention that the word taxation should be considered ejusdem generis with water rate.	Reasoning
It was held that there is no room for application of the principle in the absence of any mention of a genus, since the mention of a single species for example of water rates does not constitute a genus.	Reasoning
See United Towns Electric Co. Ltd. vs. A.G. for Newfoundland 1939 (1) ALL ER 423 PC	None
The rule cannot be applied unless there is genus constituted or a category disclosed.	None
If the preceding words do not constitute mere specifications of a genus but constitute description of a complete genus, the rule has no application.	Reasoning
The rule has to be applied with care and caution.	Reasoning
This is not an inviolable rule of law, but it is only permissible interference, in the absence of any indication to the contrary.	Reasoning
Where the context and the object and mischief of the enactment do not require restricted meaning to be attached to words of general import it becomes the duty of the Courts to give those words their plain and ordinary meaning.	Reasoning
Following enunciation in Craies on Statute Law (Seventh Edition) at page 181 succinctly stated the principle.	Reasoning
The modern tendency of the law, it was said, by Asquith J in Allen vs. Emmerson (1994)	Reasoning
KB 362 is to attenuate the application of the rule of ejusdem generis.	Reasoning
To invoke the application of the ejusdem generis rule there must be a distinct genus category.	Reasoning
The specific words must apply not to different objects of a widely differing character but to something which can be called a class or kind of objects.	Reasoning
Where this is lacking, the rule cannot apply, (HoodBarrs vs. IRC (1946) 2 ALL ER 768) but the mention of a single species does not constitute a genus.	None
(Per Lord Thankerton in United Towns Electric Co. Ltd. vs. Att.	None
General for Newfoundland (1939) 1	Reasoning
ALL ER 423).	Reasoning
Unless you can find a category, said Farwell L.J., (in Tillmans and Co. vs. S.S. Knutsford (1908) 2 KB 385) there is no room for the application of the ejusdem generis doctrine, and where the words are clearly wide in their meaning they ought not to be qualified on the ground of their association with other words.	Reasoning
For instance, where a local Act required that theatres and other places of public entertainment should be licensed, the question arose whether a funfair for which no fee was charged for admission was within the Act.	Reasoning
It was held to be so, and that the ejusdem generis rule did not apply to confine the words other places to places of the same kind as theatres.	Reasoning
So the insertion of such words as or things of whatever description would exclude the rule (Attorney General vs. Leicester Corporation (1910) 2	Reasoning
Ch. 359).	None
In N.A.L.G.O. vs. Bolton Corporation (1943) AC 166)	None
Lord Simon L.C. referred to a definition of workman as any person who has entered into a works under a contract with an employer whether the contract be by way of manual labour, clerical work or otherwise and said The use of the words or otherwise does not bring into play the ejusdem generis principle for manual labour and clerical work do not belong to a single limited genus and Lord Wright in the same case said The ejusde generis rule is often useful or convenient, but it is merely a rule of construction, not a rule of law.	Reasoning
In the present case it is entirely inapt.	Reasoning
In presupposes a genus but here the only genus is a contract with an employer.	Reasoning
The Note 1(a) of Chapter 84, as noted above, is clear and unambiguous.	Decision
It does not speak of a class, category or genus followed by general words.	Decision
The rule of ejusdem generis has, therefore, no application.	Decision
Above being the position this appeal has no merit and is dismissed.	Decision
