 Shah, J.1.	None
The appellant, a Hindu undivided family, carries on the business of moneylending and maintains its accounts on cash basis.	Facts
The appellant commenced an action in the Civil Court for a decree for recovery of Rs. 2,58,000 due by Nisar Ahmad Khan, Taluqdar of Mohana Estate.	Facts
The action was carried to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council and was ultimately decreed in favour of the appellant.	Facts
Nisar Ahmad Khan then obtained under the U. P. Encumbered Estates Act 25 of 1934 an order applying the provisions of the Act to him.	Facts
The special Judge, Sultanpur, passed an order for payment of Rs. 5,00,992 to the appellant.	Facts
Pursuant to the order the appellant received in 1946 Rs. 1,54,692 from the debtor and for the balance the Government of the United Provinces gave to the appellant Encumbered Estates bonds of the face value of Rs. 3,46,300.	Facts
The amount received in the year 1946 was appropriated by the appellant towards the principal due.	Facts
The appellant split up the amount of the face value of the bonds into two sums of Rupees 2,22,097/9/11 and Rs. 1,24,202/6/1, and credited the first amount in the books of account towards the balance of principal and the second amount to an account styled Interest Accrued In submitting the return of his taxable income for the assessment year 194849 the appellant did not disclose any receipt of income from interest due on the loans advanced to Nisar Ahmad Khan.	Facts
The appellant was duly assessed to tax on the income disclosed by him.	Facts
In October 1948, the appellant sold the Encumbered Estates bonds and realized a total sum of Rs. 3,21,600 and disclosed in the return for the assessment year 194950 as interest received during the year of account the difference between the amount realized by sale of the bonds and the amount due as principal.	Facts
The Incometax Officer issued a notice under Section 34 (1) (a) of the Indian Incometax Act and brought to tax the difference between the face value of the bonds and the amount due as principal as escaped income of the previous year relevant to the assessment year 194849.	Facts
The order was confirmed by the Appellate Assistant Commr.	None
and the Incometax Appellate Tribunal.	None
The Tribunal then submitted three questions to the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad of which the following were canvassed before us.	None
2.	None
Whether the receipt of Encumbered Estate Bonds during the previous year 194748 amounted to receipt of cash during that previous year and not during the previous year 194849 when the Bonds were in fact sold at less than their face value?3.	None
Whether in the circumstances of the case, the mere receipt of the Encumbered Estate Bonds was tantamount to receipt of come assessable in the year 194849?The High Court answered the questions in the affirmative.	Issue
Against the order passed by the High Court, with certificate the appellant has appealed to this Court.(2)	Issue
The scheme of the U. P. Encumbered Estates Act 25 of 1934 and the form of the bonds issued in satisfaction of the liability of the debtors may be briefly summarised.	None
Under the U. P. Act a landlord may apply to the Collector stating the amount of his debts and requesting that the provisions of the Act be applied to him.	None
The Collector entertains the petition and transfers it to the Special Judge.	None
The landlord then submits a written statement giving the list of his creditors and the list of his assets.	None
Notices are published by the Special Judge and the creditors are called upon to submit their written claims.	None
On the claims for debts secured or unsecured duly proved, simple money decrees are passed in favour of the creditors.	None
The Special Judge then determines the properties belonging to the landlord and prepares a list of the properties and a list of the debts adjudged to be due by the landlord ranking the same in order of priority and then sends the decrees to the Collector for execution.	None
If the amount due by the debtor is less than the instalment value of his proprietary rights in land, the Collector is enjoined to direct the landlord to pay with land revenue dues such amount to the Provincial Government in instalments with future interest at a rate determined by the Provincial Government.	None
If the Collector has proceeded under Section 27 he has to give to each creditor a bond or bonds bearing interest at the prescribed rate for the amount due to him payable in instalments within a period not exceeding 20 years.	None
The form of the bond is as follows The Governor of the United Provinces hereby promises to pay to or order at any Treasury in the United Provinces or at the General Treasury at Fort William or at Bombay on the day of 19 on the application of the holder or earlier at the entire option of the Government of the United Provinces, the sum ofand in the meantime to pay at the said Treasury interest on such sum at the rate of three and one quarter per cent per annum, such interest to be paid half yearly on the 20th day of February and the 20 th day of August in every year, commencing from the 20th day of 19 on which date the whole interest due from the date hereof shall be paid.	None
On February 26, 1948 the appellant received Encumbered Estates Bonds of the face value of Rs. 3,46,300.	None
The Appellant appropriated bonds of the face value of Rs. 2,22,097/9/11 towards the principal and costs due, and appropriated the remaining bonds of the value of Rs. 1,24, 202/6/1 towards interest accrued due in the debtors account.	None
The departmental authorities and the Tribunal held that the receipt by the appellant of bonds of the face value exceeding the principal amount of the debt due constituted receipts of interest.	None
The High Court agreed with that view.3.	None
Counsel for the appellant submitted that the accounts maintained by the appellants being on cash basis, until the appellant realised the value of the bonds no interest was received by the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel asserted that when a trader maintains account on cash basis receipts of money alone may be taken into account in determining the taxable income.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the alternative Counsel urged that the bond issued by the Government under the U. P. Encumbered Estates Act merely amounted to promise by an agent of the debtor to pay the amount of the bond in instalments and by receiving the bonds incorporating such a promise no money or moneys worth is received by the creditor.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under Section 4 of the Incometax Act, 1922, the total income of any previous year of a resident assessee includes all income, profits and gains from whatever sources derived which are received or are deemed to be received in the taxable territories in such year by or on behalf of such person, or accrue or arise or are deemed to accrue or arise to him in the taxable territories during such year, or accrue or arise to him without the taxable territories during such year, or having accrued or arisen to him without the taxable territories before the beginning of such year and after the 1st day of April, 1933, are brought into or received in the taxable territories by him during such year.	Reasoning
The Act does not contain much guidance as to cases in which tax is to be levied on income received, and cases in which tax is to be levied on income accrued or arisen.	Reasoning
Section 13 however requires that income, profits and gains for the purposes of Sections 10, and 12 shall be computed in accordance with the method of accounting regularly employed by the assessee.	Reasoning
If accounts are maintained according to the mercantile system, whenever the right to receive money in the course of a trading transaction accrues or arises, even though income is not realised income embedded in the receipt is deemed to arise or accrue.	Reasoning
Where the accounts are maintained on cash basis receipt of money or moneys worth and not the accrual of the right to receive is the determining factor.	Reasoning
Therefore, if commercial assets are received by a trade maintaining accounts on cash basis in satisfaction of an obligation, income which is embedded in the value of the assets is deemed to be received the receipt of income is not deferred till the asset is realised in terms of cash or money.	Reasoning
It makes no difference whether the receipt of assets is in pursuance of an agreement or that the trader is compelled by law to accept the assets from the debtor.	Reasoning
Once title of the trader to an asset received is complete, whether by a consensual arrangement or by operation of law, he receives the income embedded in the value of the asset.	Reasoning
In Californian Copper Syndicate (Limited and Reduced) v. Harris (Surveyor of Taxes), (1905) 5 Tax Cas 159 Lord Trayner in dealing with a case of assessment to income tax of a Company formed for the purpose inter alia, of acquiring and reselling mining property resold the whole of its assets to a second Company and received payment in fully paid shares of the purchasing Company observedA profit is realised when the seller gets the price he has bargained for.	Reasoning
No doubt here the price took the form of fully paid shares in another company, but, if there can be no realised profit, except when that is paid in cash, the shares were realisable and could have been turned into cash, if the Appellants had been pleased to do so.	Reasoning
I cannot think that Income Tax is due or not according to the manner in which the Parson making the profit pleases to deal with it.	Reasoning
Counsel for the appellant contended that the bonds were intended to renew the promise to pay the amount due by the debtor through his agent, and by the renewal of the promise even if the original liability was extinguished and a fresh liability was substituted no income was received by the appellant.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to agree with that contention.	Reasoning
The Government of the State undertook to pay the amount of the bonds in satisfaction of the liability of the debtor.	Reasoning
The liability of the original debtor was extinguished and a fresh obligation was undertaken by the State Government in substitution of the original liability.	Reasoning
The Government had the right to recover the amount due under the bonds from the landholder, but on that account the Government did not become the agent of the landholder for payment of his debts Even if the Government was unable to recover the money from the landholder, the liability undertaken by the Government under the bond remained unimpaired.	Reasoning
The bond was a security for payment of the debt which completely replaced the original liability of the debtor.6.	Reasoning
The decision in Cross (H. M. Inspector of Taxes) v. London and Provincial Trust Ltd., (1937) 21 Tax Cas 705 on which counsel for the appellant relied has, in our judgment, no application to this case.	Reasoning
In 1932 the Brazilian Government suspended payment of interest on Government bonds for a period of three years and issued interest bearing funding bonds in exchange for the interest coupons.	None
The London and Provincial Trust Ltd. which held among its investments Brazilian bonds received funding bonds which it sold from time to time.	None
It was held that by issuing the funding bonds the Government of Brazil did not pay interest and the assessee Bank received no interest when it received the funding bonds.	None
Sir Wilfrid Greene, M. R., observed It is not open to question that income can be in the form of moneys worth.	None
Nor is it open to question that if the holder of a security, the contractual income from which is money, receives from the person liable to pay that money something of moneys worth (e. g., goods) instead of the money, such goods are income arising from the security .On	None
the other hand where there is a mere substitution of a promise to pay at a later date for the obligation to make an interest payment presently due, the owner of security cannot be said to have received income from it.	None
In such a case, the payment has been postponed instead of being made on its due date.	None
Nor do I see how it can make any difference if upon the true reading of the transaction the original obligation is extinguished and the promise to pay at a later date is accepted in his place.7.	None
MacKinnon, J. J., observed at p. 721It is quite true that income may arise by the receipt of moneys worth as well as by the receipt of money.	None
And it is equally true that a debtor may pay his debt by giving the promise of a third party to pay But I am satisfied that there can never be payment of his debt by a debtor by giving his own promise to pay at a future date.	None
And I am equally satisfied that, though income arises to a creditor from a debtors paying his debt income does not arise by the debtors promising that he will pay his debt later on.	None
But the Encumbered Estates bonds were by operation of the statute received by the appellant in satisfaction pro tanto of the liability of the debtor.	None
They were a fresh security.	None
The liability of the original debtor was substituted by an obligation undertaken by the State the bonds were convertible in terms of money.	None
Income was therefore received by the appellant when the bonds were received.8.	None
It is necessary to state that the incometax authorities have brought to tax the difference between the face value of the bonds and the principal which remained due in the relevant previous year.	Reasoning
But what was taxable was only that income which represented the difference between the amount due as principal and the market value of the bonds (which were payable in twenty instalments) at the date of receipt.	Reasoning
It is true that before the Incometax Appellate Tribunal this question was not expressly pressed.	Reasoning
The appellant did however contend that no part of the difference between the face value of the bonds and the principal amount due was taxable and the third question referred by the Tribunal was sufficiently comprehensive to justify consideration of the plea that a part of the difference only was taxable.	Reasoning
Having regard to the argument presented before the Tribunal and the amplitude of the question referred, the High Court was in error in refusing to consider whether only a part of the difference between the face value of the bonds and the principal amount due to the appellant was taxable.	Reasoning
Counsel appearing on behalf of the Department concedes that what was taxable was only the difference between the principal amount due and the market value of the bonds when received in the year of account, and he has agreed that the necessary adjustments will be made by the Department in that behalf.	Arguments of Respondent
In that view we do not think it necessary to modify the answer recorded by the High Court on the third question.9.	None
It is also necessary to observe that in the year 194950 the appellant had submitted a return disclosing the difference between the amount received by sale of the bonds and the principal amount due as income received in the previous relevant year.	Reasoning
Whether that income was brought to tax pursuant to the return cannot be ascertained from the record.	None
Counsel for the Department has stated that it is not the object of the Department to levy tax in respect of the same income twice.	None
He has agreed that if tax has been levied in respect of the difference between the principal and the realized value of the bonds disclosed in the return for the assessment year 194950, appropriate adjustments will be made in that behalf.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of the statements made at the Bar we do not think it necessary to give any directions in that behalf also.10.	None
The appeal is dismissed.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs in his Court.11.	None
Appeal dismissed.	Decision
