 Wanchoo, J. 1.	None
These are twentyone appeals on certificates granted by the High Court of Assam and Nagaland and will be dealt with together as they raise common questions.	None
Facts necessary for present purposes may be briefly narrated.	Facts
On September 26, 1964, the Governor of Assam issued a notification under R. 126AA of the Defence of India Rules, 1962 (hereinafter referred to as the Rules).	Facts
By this notification he applied R. 126AA to a large number of employments as he was of opinion that the employments notified were essential for securing the public safety and for maintaining supplies and services necessary to the life of community.	Facts
On the same day another notification was issued under subr.	Facts
(4) of P. 126AA.	Facts
By this notification, the Governor ordered payment of ad hoc cost of living allowance of Rs. 10 per mensem to all workers drawing pay upto Rs. 400 per mensem engaged in the employments notified for purposes of subr.	Facts
(1) of R. 126AA.	Facts
Another notification was also issued on November 4, 1964 under subr.	Facts
(4) by which the Governor ordered payment of ad hoc cost of living allowance of 38.46 paisas per day to all persons engaged on daily wage basis in the employments which had been notified on September 26, 1964 for the purpose of R. 126AA (1).	Facts
2.	None
The validity of these three notifications was challenged by writ petitions before the High Court by the respondents on various grounds.	Facts
It was first urged that R. 126AA was a case of excessive delegation and was, therefore, ultra vires.	Facts
The second contention was that R. 126AA was beyond the powers conferred under S. 3 of the Defence of India Act (No. 51 of 1962), and was bad on that account.	Facts
Thirdly, it was urged that the first notification under R. 126AA (1) was bad as conditions precedent to the exercise of the power conferred by that subrule had not been fulfilled inasmuch as (a) the State Government had not formed the opinion necessary before issuing the notification and (b) no reasonable man could have formed the opinion that notification of various employments mentioned in the schedule was necessary for securing the public safety and for maintaining supplies and services necessary to the life of community.	Facts
Fourthly, it was contended that the exercise of the power under subr.	Facts
(1) was colourable inasmuch as it was not exercised for the purpose mentioned in the subrule but for extraneous purposes on the ground that the notification did not show how it was necessary to notify the employments indicated therein for the purposes mentioned therein, the more so as two purposes had been mentioned in the notification and it did not appear which purpose applied to which employment.	Facts
Lastly, it was urged that the notification under subr.	Facts
(1) was mala fide.	Facts
It was on these grounds that the notification under subr.	Facts
(1) was attacked.	Facts
3.	None
The respondents also attacked the two notifications issued under subr.	Facts
(4) on three grounds.	Facts
It was first urged that the notifications fixing ad hoc cost of living allowance were invalid as it was not stated therein that the regulation of wages proposed under the notifications had any connection with securing public safety and maintaining supplies and services necessary to the life of community.	Facts
Nor was it shown that the two objects of R. 126AA (1) mentioned in the notification could be achieved by a general notification of the type issued under subr.	Facts
(4).	Reasoning
Secondly, it was urged that wages could be regulated under the Minimum Wages Act (No. 2 of 1948), and in some cases steps had been taken to do so.	Facts
Therefore, it was not open to take recourse to R. 126AA (4) to achieve the same purpose, as the effect of the notification under subr.	Facts
(4) was to deprive the respondents of the right to place materials before the committee empowered to fix minimum wages and it was thus a colourable exercise of the power conferred by the subrule.	Facts
Thirdly, it was urged that these notifications were also mala fide.	Facts
4.	None
The High Court held that R. 126AA was not a case of excessive delegation of power.	Facts
It also held that the rule was within the power conferred under S. 3 of the Defence of India Act.	Facts
These two conclusions of the High Court are not being challenged by either party before us and need not be considered any further.	Facts
5.	None
The High Court further held that the conditions precedent to the exercise of the power conferred by R. 126AA had not been complied with and, therefore, the notification under subr.	Facts
(1) was bad.	Facts
The High Court was of the view that the Governor did not form such opinion as was necessary before the issue of the notification under subr.	Facts
(1).	Facts
Nor was it shown that the employments included in the impugned notification were essential for securing public safety and for maintaining supplies and services necessary to the life of community.	Facts
The High Court also held that the exercise of power under subr.	Facts
(1) was colourable as it was not shown that the employments mentioned in the notification under subr.	Facts
(1) were essential for securing public safety and thus one of the purposes mentioned in the notification was nonexistent.	Facts
As such it could not be predicated as to which of the two purposes mentioned in the notification led the State Government to issue the notification and in consequence the notification under subr.	Facts
(1) was invalid.	Facts
Finally, the High Court held that the notification under subr.	Facts
(1) was mala fide in law, though then was nothing to show that there were mala fides in fact in the issue of the notification presumably, the High Court came to the conclusion that the notification was mala fide in law on the basis of its view on the other points indicated above.	Facts
6.	None
As to the notifications under subrule (4) the High Court held that they were invalid as it was neither stated in the notifications nor was it shown how fixation wages in the employments included in the notification under subr.	Facts
(l) was necessary for the purposes of securing public safety and for maintaining supplies and services necessary to the life of community.	Facts
The High Court also seems to have held that these notifications were bad inasmuch as they replaced proceedings under the Minimum Wages Act which had been taken in respect of some of the employments included in the notification under subr.	Facts
(1), though the decision of the High Court on this point is not quite clear.	Facts
Finally, the High Court held that the notifications under subr.	Facts
(4) were also mala fide.	Facts
Here again there was no question of mala fide on facts.	Facts
The High Court seems to have held that the notifications were mala fide in law, presumably on the view it took on other points indicated above.	Facts
7.	None
The result of these findings of the High Court was that the High Court struck down the notification under subr.	Facts
(1) and the two notifications under subr.	Facts
(4) of R. 126AA.	Facts
The State of Assam then applied for and obtained certificates from the High Court to appeal to this Court, and that is how the matter has come up before us.	Facts
8.	None
We shall first consider the notification under subr.	Facts
(1).	Facts
However, before we do so we should like to analyze the provision of Rt. 126AA.	None
Subrule (1) thereof lays down what are essential services in the context of the emergency which is the basis of the Defence of India Act and the Rules Under subr.	None
(1) all employments under the Central Government or the State Government are essential services.	None
In addition to these employments any employment or class of employments which the Central Government or the State Government, being of opinion that such employment or class of employment is essential for securing the defence of India and Civil defence, the public safety, the maintenance of public order, or the efficient conduct of military operation or for maintaining supplies and services necessary to the life of the community, declares by notification to be essential service, becomes an employment within subr.	None
(1) above.	None
The explanation to subr.	None
(1) says that employment includes employment of any nature, and whether paid or unpaid.	None
Thus there are three classes of employments which are treated as essential services for purposes of subr.	None
(1), namely, (i) employment under the Central Government, (ii)employments under the State Government, and (iii) any employment which is declared by notification under subr.	None
(1) to be essential for the purposes mentioned therein.	None
9.	None
Then comes subr.	None
(2) which gives power to the Central Government or the state Government to direct by general or special order that any person or persons engaged in any employment to which subr.	None
(1) applies shall not depart out of such area or areas as may be specified in such order.	None
An order under this subrule has to be published in such, manner as the Government making the order considered best calculated to bring it to the notice of the persons affected by the order.	None
It will he seen that subr.	None
(2) is consequential to subr.	None
(l).	None
It does not however, apply of its own force and the Central Government or the State Government has to pass an order thereunder and the effect of the order is that any person or persons engaged in any employment to which subr.	None
(1) applies cannot leave the area or areas specified in the order.	None
The object of subr.	None
(2) c1early is that in emergency persons employed in essential services do not run away with the result that essential services are brought to a standstill with consequent danger to community.	None
10.	None
Then comes subr (3).	None
It applies to a person engaged in any employment or class of employment and to an employer of any person so engaged.	None
So far as persons engaged are concerned subr.	None
(3) lays down that if any person (a) disobeys any lawful order given to him in the course of such employment, (b) without reasonable excuse abandons any such employment or absents himself from work.	None
or (c) departs from any area specified in an order under subr.	None
(2) without the consent of the authority making that order, he shall be deemed to have contravened this rule.	None
As to the employer, subr.	None
(3) lays down that if any employer without reasonable cause(i) discontinues the employment of such person, or (ii) by closing an establishment in which such person is engaged causes the discontinuance of his employment, he shall also be deemed to have contravened this rule.	None
Except for the part which depends upon the, order under subr.	None
(2),.	None
subr.	None
(3) comes into force by its own terms and prohibits certain things in the cases both of employer and employee in the essential services mentioned in or notified under subr.	None
(l).	None
Thus subr.	None
(3) is again consequential to subr.	None
(1).	Facts
11.	None
Then we turn to subr.	None
(4) with which we are particularly concerned.	None
It is in these termsThe Central Government or the State Government may by order regulate the wages and other conditions of service of persons or of any class of persons engaged in any employment or class of employment to which this rule applies.	Reasoning
It is again consequential to subr.	None
(1) and the obvious object of.	None
subr.	None
(4) is to see that essential services are maintained during an emergency and if it is necessary to regulate wages and other conditions of service in that behalf that can be done by an order by the Central Government or the State Government.	None
It also appears that as subr.	None
(3) prohibits employers and employees from doing certain things.	None
subr.	None
(4) has been enacted to see that there is a contented labour force during an emergency so that essential services as specified in .subr.	None
(1) or declared by a notification thereunder are maintained.	None
12.	None
Then follows subr.	None
(5) which lays down punishment for contravention of any of the provisions contained in R. 126AA.	None
13.	None
This analysis of R. 126AA shows that it is a provision for maintenance of essential services during an emergency, and it is with that object that various powers are conferred on the Central Government or the State Government including the pointer of regulating wages and other conditions of service of persons engaged in essential services indicated in subr.	Reasoning
(1) or declared to be such thereunder.	Reasoning
It is with this background of emergency that we have to construe the provisions contained in subr.	Reasoning
(1) and also subr.	Reasoning
(4) with which we are particularly concerned in the present appeals.	Reasoning
14.	None
Turning first to subr.	Reasoning
(1), we have already indicated that this subrule by its own force declares all employments under the Central Government or the State Government to be essential services for its purposes.	Reasoning
Besides these two classes of employments, the Central Government or the State Government has been given the power to declare other employments also to be essentia1 for the purpose of subr.	Reasoning
(1) and to be covered thereby.	Reasoning
This the Central Government or the State Government can do by notification, if it is of opinion that such employment or class of employments is essential for securing any of the purposes mentioned in the subrule.	Reasoning
It was under this power that the Governor of Assam issued the notification dated September 26, 1964 under subr.	Reasoning
(1) The notification refers to a large number of employments and states that the Governor of Assam was of opinion that the employments specified therein were essential for securing public safety and for maintaining supplies and services necessary to the life of the community.	Reasoning
The notification has been issued under the authentication of the Joint Secretary to the Government of Assam Labour Department.	Reasoning
As it stands the notification is clearly in compliance with the provisions contained in subr.	Reasoning
(1) of R. 126A A.It is true that the notification has included a large number of employments in it	Reasoning
but we do not see why one notification may not he issued with respect to any number of employments, though there can be no objection to the Government issuing one notification with respect to one employment only.	Reasoning
The mere fact that a notification includes within it a large number of employments is no ground for holding, as the High Court seems to have held that the Governor did not apply his mind to the conditions precedent to the issue of the notification.	Reasoning
Nor do we think that the fact that the notification in question gave two purposes for its issue, namely, for securing public safety and for maintaining supplies and services necessary to the life of the community shows that the Governor did not apply his mind to the conditions precedent to the issue of the notification.	Reasoning
Further when the Governor says in the notification that the employments included therein were essential for securing the public safety and for maintaining supplies and services necessary to the life of the community, he obviously holds the opinion that these employments were essential for both purposes.	Reasoning
It was not, therefore, necessary for the Governor to specify which of the employments were essential for the purpose of maintaining supplies and services necessary to the life of the community and which were essential for the purpose of securing public safety.	Reasoning
The notification, as it reads, indicates that in the opinion of the Governor these employments were essential for both purposes.	Reasoning
We do not think, therefore, that the High Court was right in holding that as the notification does not show which employment was essential for which purpose, the Governor had not applied his mind and the notification was, therefore, colourable and mala fide in law.	None
15.	None
We may also refer to a ground which was urged in the High Court, namely, that the notification was issued for the purposes of defence also as stated in the counteraffidavit of the appellant, though the notification itself did not mention defence at all.	None
The High Court thus thought that defence had been introduced in the counteraffidavit as one of the grounds for making the declaration while there was no mention of it in the notification itself, and that also showed that there was no application of mind by the Governor to the conditions precedent to the issue of the notification under subr.	None
(1).	Facts
It appears that in some of the writ petitions defence was introduced by the petitioners as a ground for the issue of the notification of subr.	None
(1) so in the reply of the State the same ground was mechanically repeated in the counteraffidavit without carefully looking into the notification which had been issued under subr.	Reasoning
(1).It is because of this mechanical introduction of defence by the State in the counteraffidavit that the High Court has held that it showed that the authority had equated public safety with defence and that the Government misconceived its powers and had no clear conception of the scope and ambit thereof.	Reasoning
There is no doubt that the word defence came in the counteraffidavit mechanically in reply to the introduction of the word defence in many of the writ petitions.	Reasoning
What the Court has to see is whether the conditions precedent were complied with at the time of the issue of the notification.	Reasoning
It is unfortunate that in the counteraffidavit the word defence was introduced mechanically in reply to what was said in the writ petitions.	Reasoning
But that in our opinion should not have led the High Court to the conclusion at which it has arrived, namely, that the Government misconceived its powers and had no clear conception of the scope and ambit thereof.	Reasoning
In the circumstances we are inclined to attach no importance to the introduction of the word defence in the counteraffidavit filed on behalf of the State as it seems that that word came in mechanically in reply to the introduction of the word defence in some of the writ petitions.	Reasoning
16.	None
It is clear that a notification under subr.	Reasoning
(1) is conditioned on the subjective satisfaction of the Central Government or the State Government as to the various purposes mentioned in subr.	Reasoning
(1).	Facts
The High Court was also conscious of the fact that this subjective opinion was generally speaking not justiciable	None
and it was not open to a Court to see if the opinion of the authority was justified by objective tests.	None
The High Court was also conscious of the fact that it was not open to the Court to examine the adequacy of the material on which the opinion rested.	None
Further the High Court also held that the reasonableness of the opinion could not be examined by the Court.	None
This statement of the law by the High Court is well settled and was accepted by the High Court.	None
The High Court further held that the validity of an order might be challenged on the ground of mala fides and this again is well settled.	None
The High Court further stated that a Court could examine whether the opinion was formed at all before the issue of the notification.	None
To this again, there can be no exception.	None
Finally, the High Court held that it was open to the Court to see whether the opinion was relevant and germane to the circumstances which fell to be considered under the rule and whether they were such as could possibly and rationally support the conclusion drawn by the authority.	None
17.	None
Having thus stated the law correctly, the High Court considered whether it could be said in this case that the conditions precedent had been satisfied before the issue of the notification under subr.	None
(1) and came to the conclusion that they were not satisfied, mainly because two purposes were mentioned as the basis of the notification and a large member of employments were included in one notification, as already pointed out by us above.	None
We are of opinion that both these grounds for holding that the conditions precedent to the issue of the notification under subr.	Reasoning
(1) have not been fulfilled cannot be sustained.	Reasoning
As the notification reads, it shows that the employments mentioned therein were essential for both purposes and this must be held to be the opinion of the Governor.	Reasoning
That opinion cannot in our view be challenged in Court unless it is shown to be mala fide or it is shows that no reasonable man can come to that conclusion in the context of the employments specified in the notification.	Reasoning
We cannot agree with the High Court that simply because a large number of employments were mentioned in one notification that can by itself show that the Governor had not applied his mind.	Reasoning
Nor can we agree with the High Court that because two purposes were mentioned as the basis of the notification and as there was nothing to show which employment referred to which purpose, there is no formation of opinion.	Reasoning
As we read the notification it must be held that the Governors opinion was formed with respect to the employments specified in he notification on the basis of both the purposes mentioned in the notification.	Reasoning
The only thing that the High Court could see was whether considering the nature of the employments it was impossible for any reasonable man to come to the opinion that those employments were essential for securing public safety and for maintaining supplies and services necessary to the life of the community, and this has to be judged in the context of an emergency.	Reasoning
It seems to us that where certain employments are essential for the maintenance of supplies and services necessary to the life of the community the Governor may very well come to the conclusion that those employments are also necessary for securing public safety, for if supplies and services necessary to the life of community are not maintained, there may be danger to public safety.	Reasoning
In these circumstances we cannot agree with tire High Court that the two purposes mentioned in the notification have no nexus with the employments specified therein, except in one case.	Reasoning
We cannot also agree with the High Court that no reasonable man could come to the conclusion that the employments mentioned in the notification were essential for the two purposes which were the basis of the notification except again in the case of one employment.	Reasoning
We have looked through all the employments which are included in the notification and it is enough to say that except in one case it cannot be said that no reasonable man could come to the conclusion that those employments were essential for securing public safety and for maintaining supplies and services necessary to the life of the community.	Reasoning
18.	None
The only exception we find is veneer mills.	Reasoning
Veneering, we understand, is a process by which thin flat plates or slips of fine wood or other suitable material are applied to other inferior wood in cabinet work or similar other furniture.	Reasoning
In the Concise Oxford Dictionary, the word veneer means cover (wood.	None
furniture, etc.)	None
with thin coating of finer wood, and that is the meaning which must be given to veneer mills as entered at No. 5 of the notification for that entry is employment in plywood and veneer mills.	None
Veneering, we understand, is done for the purpose of beautifying furniture.	None
etc.	None
We fail to see how veneer mills which carry on this process of laying finer wood on inferior wood for purposes of beautifying furniture.	None
etc., can be said by any reasonable man to be essential for the maintenance of supplies and services necessary to the life of the community and for securing public safety.	Reasoning
It is open to us to strike down the notification under subr.	Reasoning
(1) with respect to veneer mills alone, for the present notification including a large number of employments can be read to amount to so many single notifications, relating to each employment, rolled into one.	Reasoning
Therefore, as we see the notification under subr.	Reasoning
(1) we see no reason to hold that the Governor had not applied his mind to the conditions precedent before he issued the notification in question.	Reasoning
We are also satisfied except in the case of veneer mills that it cannot be raid that no reasonable man could have come to the conclusion that the employments included in the notification were not essential for securing public safety and for maintaining supplies and services necessary to the life of the community.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter we cannot see how the notification under subr.	Reasoning
(1) can be said to be for any extraneous purpose unconnected with the purposes mentioned in the subrule nor is there any reason to hold that the employments mentioned in the notification (except one) were not essential for securing public safety in addition to maintenance of supplies and services necessary to the life of the community.	Reasoning
Nor do we see any reason to hold that the notification under subr (1)was mala fide.	Reasoning
We have already mentioned that there are no mala fides in fact and we do not think there can be any question of any mala fide in law in view of what we have said above.	Reasoning
We, therefore, uphold the notification under subr.	Reasoning
(1), dated September 26, 1964 except in the case of veneer mills.	Reasoning
We strike down the notification only with respect to the veneer mills mentioned at Item 5 of the employments included therein.	Reasoning
19.	None
We now come to the two notifications under subr.(4).	Reasoning
Incidentally we may mention that though the second notification is, dated November 4, 1964, the letter written by the Department of Labour, Government of Assam, to the Charduar Cotton Mills says that the cost of living allowance for persons engaged on daliy wages provided in the notification of November 4, 1964 should be paid from September 26, 1964.	Reasoning
Now there is nothing in the notification of November 4, 1964 to show that it was retrospective, and we cannot understand how the Department of Labour advised the Mills in question to pay cost of living allowance to persons engaged on daily wages from September 26, 1964, which was the date of the notification under subr.	Reasoning
(1).	Facts
Nor do we think that there is anything in subr.	Reasoning
(4) which authorises the Government to make an order thereunder with retrospective effect.	None
20.	None
But apart from this, we have to consider whether the two notifications under subr.	None
(4) are valid or not.	None
The High Court struck them down on the ground that there was nothing in the two notifications to show that it was necessary to pay cost of diving allowance which comes within the ambit of the words regulation of wages for purposes of securing public safety and maintaining supplies and services necessary to the life of the community and that those purposes would be achieved by the notification.	None
the High Court also seems to have struck down the notifications on the ground that action should have been taken under the Minimum Wages Act and thus the power exercised under subr.	None
(4 of R. 126AA was a colourable exercise of power.	None
For these two reasons, the High Court also held that the notifications were mala fide in law, though there was nothing to suggest that they were in fact mala fide.	Facts
We cannot agree with the High Court that it was necessary to recite in the notifications under subr.	None
(4) that action was being taken thereunder for the purpose of securing public safety and for maintaining supplies and services necessary to the life of the community.	Reasoning
Nor do we think that subr.	Reasoning
(4) requires that notifications should show that the two purposes would in fact be achieved by the provision made thereunder.	Reasoning
Further it is clear that the power under subr.	Reasoning
(4) is not for fixation of minimum wages.	Reasoning
It is power to regulate wages and this power is analogous to the power of industrial tribunals and, therefore the fact that there is provision in the Minimum Wages Act for fixation of minimum wages is no ground for holding that the power exercised by subr.	Reasoning
(4) must be colourable.	Reasoning
The two reasons given by the High Court for striking down the two notifications and holding them mala fide do not, appear to us to be correct.	Reasoning
But this in our opinion is not the end of the matter.	None
21.	None
The real question is whether the power under subr.	None
(4) is a power which can be exercised merely on the subjective opinion of Government or whether subr.	Issue
(4) requires anything more.	None
The notifications seem to proceed on the view that powers exercised thereunder are entirely within the subjective satisfaction of Government and it is that view which we must examine now.	Reasoning
It is true that this aspect of the matter was not put forward in clear terms before the High Court, but it so clearly arises that we have permitted learned counsel for the respondents, when they raised this aspect of the matter, to do so.	None
22.	None
We have already indicated that the power conferred by subr.	Reasoning
(4) is consequential to the issue of a notification under subr.	Reasoning
(1), in case of employment other than those under the Central Government or the State Government.	Reasoning
Once the notification under subr.	Reasoning
(1) is issued, the Central Government or the State Government has the power to regulate the wages and other conditions of service of persons or any class of persons engaged in any employment or class of employment included in the notification.	Reasoning
Of course, the wages and other conditions of service of Central Government and State Government employees are also liable to be regulated under subr.	Reasoning
(4).	Reasoning
But it is unnecessary to refer to that aspect of the matter and what we say hereafter may be taken to apply only to those employments which are brought under R. 126AA.	Reasoning
by issue of a notification under subr.	Reasoning
(1) thereof.	None
23.	None
The main argument or, behalf of the respondents in this behalf is that there is nothing in subr.	Arguments of Respondent
(4) to show that the regulation envisaged therein by an order depends entirely on the subjective satisfaction of the Central Government and the State Government.	Arguments of Respondent
It is urged that subr.	Arguments of Respondent
(4) gives power to Government which is analogous to the power of industrial tribunals and enables Government to interfere with contractual relations between employers and employees and even in many cases with relations between employers and employees established by industrial awards.	Arguments of Respondent
It is, therefore, urged that when there is nothing express in subr.	Arguments of Respondent
(4) to show that the power thereunder can be exercised merely on the subjective satisfaction of Government it should be held that power thereunder can only be exercised after consultation with employers and employees concerned.	Arguments of Respondent
On the other hand it is urged on behalf of the appellant that these powers are meant to be exercised in a real emergency and, therefore, though the powers conferred by subr.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) are analogous to the powers of industrial tribunals they are still meant to be exercised on the subjective satisfaction of Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that in a read emergency it would not be possible for Government to go through the elaborate procedure of industrial tribunals, for a real emergency may require immediate action.	Arguments of Petitioner
24.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the appellant also referred to certain other provisions of the Rules where according to him there was no express provision with respect to subjective satisfaction and still the powers conferred thereunder were intended to be exercised on subjective satisfaction of Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
Particular reference in this connection is made to Kumaon Motor Owners Union, Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (1966) 2	None
SCR 121 (AIR 1966 SC 785 ), and it we, pointed out that in that case the power conferred on the State Government under R. 131 (2) (gg) and (i) was held to be exercisable on the subjective satisfaction of Government.	None
That case dealt with control of road transport during emergency, which in our opinion stands on a different footing altogether from regulation of wages and other conditions of service of employees.	None
The particular provisions considered in that case provided for prohibition and restriction of carriage of persons or goods by any vehicle or class of vehicles, either generally or between any particular places or on any particular route and making of other provisions in relation to road transport.	None
The order in that case was passed in the interest of defence of India and civil defence prohibiting certain class of vehicles from plying in certain areas near the Chinese holder with India.	None
Considering the nature of the power conferred and the purpose for which it was conferred and its effect, this Court in the context of that provision held that the rule envisaged subjective satisfaction of Government.	None
The present case, however which deals with regulation of wages and other conditions of service and has a farreaching effect on industrial relations based on contracts or even on industrial awards stands on a different footing altogether and cannot be governed by the ratio of that case.	Reasoning
25.	None
We do not think it necessary in the present appeals to consider the various other rules to which reference has been made.	Reasoning
Nor would it be desirable to do so for those rules do not arise for interpretation in the present appeals.	Reasoning
We propose therefore to confine ourselves to subr.	Reasoning
(4) with which alone we are concerned in these cases.	Reasoning
26.	None
Now the question whether the power under a particular provision has to be exercised purely on the subjective satisfaction of Government or other authority or has to be exercised subject to some objective tests depends upon a number of factors.	Issue
The language of the provision, the nature of the power conferred and the purpose for which it has been conferred, the circumstances and the manner of the exercise of power, what things are affected by such exercise and how, and other relevant factors, in the context of the particular provision, may have to be considered in determining whether the power envisaged can be exercised merely on the subjective satisfaction of Government or other authority, or there are to be some objective tests before the power can be exercised.	None
The intention of the legislature is primarily to be gathered from the language used and where the language used is plain and unambiguous, effect must be given to it and there is nothing more to be said.	None
But where the language is not clear, all these factors must be weighed to arrive at the final conclusion whether the power conferred depends entirely on the subjective satisfaction of Government or the authority concerned or there have to be some objective tests before the power can be exercised.	None
It is on the basis of these principles that we have to decide whether subr.	None
(4) gives power to Government to regulate wages and other conditions of service purely on its subjective satisfaction.	None
27.	None
We have already set out subr.	Reasoning
(4) and a perusal of its language will show that there is nothing in the words themselves which plainly and unambiguously indicates that the power exercised thereunder depends purely on the subjective satisfaction of Government.	Reasoning
It is true that subr.	Reasoning
(4) so far as it applies to employments other than those of Government is consequential on a notification under sub r. (l).	Reasoning
But that does not mean in the absence of express words in subr (4) that the power exercised thereunder depends purely on the subjective satisfaction of Government.	Reasoning
We have already indicated that the power under subr.	Reasoning
(4) is analogous to the power of industrial tribunals to decide disputes between employers and employees.	Reasoning
The result of the exercise of the power under subr.	Reasoning
(4) is to vary the contractual relations between employers and employees concerned in employments with respect to which a notification under subr.	Reasoning
(1) has been issued.	Reasoning
The effect of the exercise of such power is to unsettle settled relations between employers and employees which may be existing for a long time and which may be the outcome either of contractual relations or even of industrial awards.	Reasoning
Subrule (4) not only deals with wages but also with other conditions of service and thus in a real emergency may practically supersede all industrial adjudication.	Reasoning
The power conferred is thus of a farreaching nature in the field of industrial relations and may have the effect of disturbing all such relations for the duration of a real emergency.	Reasoning
The question therefore arises whether in the absence of express words in subr.	Reasoning
(4) to indicate that the power is to be exercised purely on the subjective satisfaction of Government we should hold that an order under subr.	Reasoning
(4) can be passed purely on such subjective satisfaction.	Reasoning
When the effect of orders passed under subr.	Reasoning
(4) can be so farreaching and so wide in its impact we would be loath to hold that such wide and farreaching powers were conferred on Government to be exercised purely on its subjective satisfaction without even consulting the interests concerned specially when the language is not plain and unambiguous and there is no indication in the subrule itself that the power can be exercised purely on the subjective satisfaction of Government.	Reasoning
We are not unmindful of the fact that the power under subr.	Reasoning
(4) has to be exercised in a real emergency.	Reasoning
But the ambit of the power therein is analogous to the power of industrial courts.	Reasoning
The power under subr.	Reasoning
(4) may be exercised instead of referring industrial disputes relating to wages and other conditions of service to industrial tribunals.	Reasoning
We are also not unmindful of the fact that in a real emergency, decisions may have to be taken quickly and delay inevitable in the elaborate procedure provided for resolution of industrial disputes by industrial tribunals may not be desirable.	Reasoning
Even so in the absence of express words in subr.	Reasoning
(4) to show that the power thereunder depends for its exercise entirely on the subjective satisfaction of Government we would not be prepared to hold that that is what subr.	Reasoning
(4) indicates.	Reasoning
We have already said that the effect of subr.	Reasoning
(4) is to disturb settled industrial relations whether based on contracts or on industrial awards, and it seems to us that before Government exercises the power under subr.	Reasoning
(4) it should even in a real emergency consult the interests concerned before taking action thereunder.	Reasoning
28.	None
It is not for us to indicate in detail what should be the procedure adopted by Government in a real emergency to consult the interests concerned, as that is a matter for Government to evolve for itself.	Reasoning
But we may indicate that some kind of public notice to the particular interests should be given indicating what the Government intends to do and inviting representations from those interests and if necessary calling for data from them and also giving an oral hearing to the representatives of the interests concerned.	Reasoning
This does not mean that notice should he given to individual employers or employees.	Reasoning
Nor do we mean to say that this consultation should be of the same amplitude as adjudication by a quasijudicial tribunal.	Reasoning
It is not necessary that oral evidence should be taken and witnesses should be called, examined and crossexamined and documents produced or called for and arguments heard as if the matter was being tried by a quasijudicial tribunal.	Reasoning
But some kind of collection of data with the help of the interests concerned and some kind of hearing or conference with the interests concerned seems to us to be the barest minimum necessary to enable Government to exercise the power conferred under subr.	Reasoning
(4) for we have no doubt that this subrule does not intend that Government should have power of the farreaching nature conferred thereunder purely on its subjective satisfaction.	Reasoning
Further if such consultation is necessary under subr.	Reasoning
(4) and it seems to us that it is necessarybefore an order can be passed thereunder, it would in our opinion be more convenient to hold consultation employment by employment, for it may be that needs of every employment may not be the same.	Reasoning
After such consultation and consideration of data collected by Government itself as well as supplied by the interests concerned, it would be open to Government to pass an order under subr.	Reasoning
(4) indicating that it has considered the data and consulted the interests concerned.	Reasoning
We have indicated this procedure merely to illustrate what we say but it is for Government to evolve such procedure as it considers will meet the needs of subr.	Reasoning
(4).	Reasoning
Once it is clear, as we have no doubt that it is so, that the order under subr.	Reasoning
(4) is not to be passed merely on the subjective satisfaction of Government, it seems to us that even in a real emergency this consultative procedure should not take long and should be over within a few weeks.	None
29.	None
It has been urged on behalf of the appellant that though the appellants contention has been that the power under subr.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) can be exercised purely on the subjective satisfaction of Government, in effect the Government had consulted the interests concerned before issuing the two notifications under subr.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) and therefore the two notifications should be upheld.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection, an affidavit was filed on behalf of the appellant in this Court and the contention that there was consultation is based on that affidavit.	Arguments of Petitioner
The facts stated in that affidavit are these.	None
Soon after the Chinese invasion in 1962, the Labour Minister, Assam called an emergent meeting at Gauhati of the representatives of employees and workmen.	None
49 persons including about 17 representatives of employers attended the meeting.	None
Unanimous resolutions were passed exhorting the employers and workmen to keep industrial peace and it was resolved to set up a SubCommittee for the purpose of working out details of a machinery to be set up for adjustment of D. A. to neutralise any rise in the cost of living.	None
A SubCommittee consisting of three officials, three representatives of employers and three of workmen was set up.	None
This SubCommittee submitted its report in July 1964 and evolved a formula to neutralise any rise in working class cost of living of workers getting a salary of Rs. 400 or less.	None
Complaints were received from Industrial Workers Unions of Tinsukia and Kamrup Districts in 1963 and 1964 about rise in prices of essential commodities and requests were made to Government to grant substantial emergency allowance.	None
Consequently after consultation with the Director of Statistics on the rise in the cost of living the Government on a consideration of all this material and the report of the SubCommittee decided to issue the notifications in questions ordering payment of Ad Hoc cost of living allowance of Rs. 10 per mensem to all workers driving upto Rs. 400 per mensem whether monthly rated or daily rated.	Facts
This affidavit has been challenged on behalf of the respondents but accepting it as correct, it still in our opinion falls short of the consultation necessary under subr.	None
(4).	Reasoning
As we have said already, the consultation must be with the interests concerned including employers and employees and should be employment by employment for needs of every employment may not be the same.	Reasoning
All that we may accept after considering the affidavit filed on behalf of the appellant is that the notifications in question were not issued entirely arbitrarily but we do not think that the consultation to which reference was made in the affidavit of the appellant was enough for the purpose of subr.	Reasoning
(4).	Reasoning
We are therefore of opinion that the two notifications should be struck down and we do so, but for reasons different from those which commended themselves to the High Court.	Reasoning
30.	None
We therefore partly allow the appeals and uphold the notification under subr.	Decision
(1) except as to veneer mills.	Decision
The order of the High Court striking down the notifications under subr.	Decision
(4) is upheld, though for different reasons.	Decision
In the circumstances we order parties to bear their own costs in all the appeals.	Decision
31.	None
Appeal partly allowed.	None
