 Dr. Arijit Pasayat, J. Leave granted.	None
Challenge in this appeal is to the order passed by a Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court dismissing the writ petition filed by the appellant questioning correctness of the orders dated 27.10.2004 and 31.3.2005 passed by the officers of New Okhla Industrial Development Authority (in short NOIDA) and praying for a direction to the respondents not to interfere with the possession of the appellant with plot no.	Facts
P1, Sector 18, NOIDA.	None
The notice in question was issued for unauthorized additional construction and change of user of land.	Facts
The notice dated 21.4.2004 was issued by NOIDA under Section 10(1) of the U.P. Industrial Development Act, 1976 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	None
It was indicated in the notice that at the time of inspection on 21.4.2004 it was found that the appellant had violated the building byelaws and directions and terms and conditions in the lease deed which act prejudicially affected the proper planning and amenities of the industrial development area which was against interest of general public.	None
Therefore, appellant was required to remove the unauthorized construction within a period of 15 days and bring the construction in conformity with the sanctioned plan so that interest of the general public was not adversely affected.	Facts
It was subsequently pointed out that the appellant was not using the ground floor as per the rules and conditions imposed.	Facts
It was also mentioned that in the event the appellant failed to do the needful, NOIDA was to get the illegal construction removed at the cost of the appellant.	Facts
Since there was no compliance with the direction, another notice dated 23.8.2004 was sent to the appellant.	Facts
He was again required to comply with the directions contained in the earlier notice as the ground floor and service floor were not being used as per the conditions of the lease deed.	Facts
Reply dated 23.9.2004 was submitted by the appellant.	Facts
It was pointed out that the appellant had completed the construction on 9.10.1992 and completion certificate was issued thereafter.	Facts
The appellant had not made any construction and the allegations contained in the notice were incorrect.	Facts
The letter was followed by another letter dated 7.10.2004 in which the request was made by the appellant for changed user of ground floor and upper ground floor.	Facts
This request of the appellant was rejected by the NOIDA in terms of the communication dated 27.10.2004.	Facts
It was pointed out that the ground floor was required for exclusive use for parking, but it was being used otherwise and even the basement was being used as office.	None
Challenging the order dated October 27, 2004, the appellant filed writ petition before the Allahabad High Court which was disposed of on December 23, 2004, with direction that the appellants reply dated December 8, 2004 should be decided if not already done by a speaking order.	None
On 31.3.2005, representation filed by the appellant was rejected.	Facts
The appellant took the stand that he should be permitted to use these floors as was done in the cases of lessees of plot nos.	Facts
P4 and P5 and P6.	Facts
The High Court found that appellant made a bare denial relating to allegations contained in the notices that ground floor and the service floors were not being used in accordance with the terms and conditions.	Facts
Stand of the appellant that there was no contravention was also turned down.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court also noted that there was no question of any advantage being granted by the appellant for the purpose of permission granted to the lessor in respect of some other plots.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even in case of allotment of plot No.P2 and P3 a departure was made.	Arguments of Petitioner
The writ petition was accordingly dismissed.	None
Stand of the appellant in the appeal was that discrimination is being made visvis some others.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is stated that change of policy on the question of regularization was done and the benefit which has been extended to others should be allowed to the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is stated that there is nothing sacrosanct about clause 10(a) upon which the respondents have relied.	None
The same can be modified by the Chief Executive Officer, NOIDA.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondents submitted that there is no question of any discrimination.	Arguments of Respondent
In fact, the NOIDA have already issued notice to the persons to whom certain benefits as claimed by the appellant were purportedly given.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no dispute that unauthorized additions have been made.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that construction was completed in 1990.	Arguments of Respondent
The completion certificate was issued on 19.4.1993.	Arguments of Respondent
The representations were made on 11.5.1993 and 5.7.1993.	Arguments of Respondent
In 199596 a new scheme with fresh policy was introduced which was made applicable to all adjoining plots P3, P4, P5 and P6.	Arguments of Respondent
Additional affidavit has been filed on behalf of the respondents 2, 3 and 4, inter alia, stating that on 29.6.2004, the Chairman of the Industrial Committee vide communication to the Chief Secretary, Industrial Development, Government of U.P., and others informed that irregularities have been committed by NOIDA during the period from 20.5.2002 to 29.8.2003 in the construction of the plot nos.	Arguments of Respondent
P5 and P6.	Arguments of Respondent
Further action has also been taken against allottees in respect of plot nos.	Arguments of Respondent
P5 and P6 for violating the norms conditions of the allotment lease.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also stated that the notice has been issued is being issued to find out the irregularities, if any, committed in respect of other plots.	Arguments of Respondent
When the representation was made by the appellant in 1993 there was no policy in question.	None
In fact, the change of policy came subsequently.	None
The authorities may have acted in an irregular manner in case of some others.	Reasoning
That does not confer any legal right on the appellant to claim a similar benefit.	None
So far as the allotment of plot nos.	None
P5 and P6 are concerned, they stand on different footing.	None
The conditions in the brochure issued in the year 199596 were different.	None
Relevant Clause of the aforesaid scheme reads as follows Use Uses The basement and ground floor may be used for shops showrooms, subject to the conditions that the activities considered to be a public nuisance hazard shall not be out and that on all other floors the commercial activities institutional residential use shall be allowed got the act to the condition that no public nuisance is caused.	None
Immediately, after completion of the commercial building appellant submitted letters dated 1.5.1993 and 5.7.1993 for change in user of ground floor from parking place to shops.	None
No approval was granted for such change or user and change the user for which notices were issued.	None
The relevant terms and conditions contained in the brochure in question read as follows Approval of drawings (a) The successful bidder will start the construction after obtaining due approva1 of building plans by competent authority.(b)	None
The architectural control drawings for the plot shall be exhibited at the time of auction.	None
The successful bidder shall have to purchase the architectural control drawings from New Okhla Industrial Development Authority on payment.	None
Thereafter the allottee shall get the plans prepared from the architects on the basis of the architectural control drawings received from New Okhla Industrial Development Authority and obtain sanction of the same from New Okhla Industrial Development Authority as per Building Regulations and Directions and procedures laid down by the Authority.	None
The allottee will then carry on the construction of the building strictly in accordance with the sanctioned plans obtained from New Okhla Industrial Development Authority.	None
On completion of the building, the allottee shall obtain completion certificate from New Okhla Industrial Development Authority as per the procedure laid down by the Authority before occupying the building.	None
The notes, specifications and other stipulations mentioned in the architectural control drawings shall be strictly adhered to.	None
No addition alteration shall be carried out by the allottee or the purchasers of floor area after obtaining completion certificate, without getting necessary permission and sanction from the Authority.6.	None
(c)(i) The Ground floor (of the building constructed on the allotted commercial office plot) will be exclusively used for parking and no temporary or permanent construction of any sort would be allowed in any circumstances.6.	None
(c)(ii) Construction of basement is optional and if constructed shall be as per architectural control drawings and building plans approved by the Authority.	None
The basement shall be strictly used for services and storage purpose.6.	None
(c)(iii) No barricade or boundary wall will be permitted on any side on the plot and there will be free access from one plot to another on the ground floor.6.	None
(c)(iv) The first floor of the building constructed on the allotted plot will be used for showroom cumoffice only.6.	None
(c)(v) The remaining upper floors constructed will be exclusively used for offices only and for no other purpose.6.	None
(c)(vi)	None
The area on each floor includes area of balcony also.	None
No projection on any side will be allowed beyond proposed plot line.	None
(Emphasis Supplied)	None
Subsequently the lease deed dated 8th August, 1990 was executed between the appellant and NOIDA.	None
The terms and conditions contained in the brochure were repeated in the lease deed.	None
The relevant clauses of the lease deed are quoted below X(A).	None
The ground floor (of the building constructed on the allotted office plot) will be exclusively used for parking and no temporary or permanent construction of any sort would be allowed in any circumstances.X(B).	None
Construction of basement is optional and if constructed, shall be as per architectural control drawing and building plans approved by the lessor.X(C).	None
No barricade or boundary wall will be permitted on any side of the plot and there will be free access from one plot to another on the ground floor.X(D).	None
The first and above floors of the building constructed on the allotted plot will be exclusively used for showroomcumoffice only.	None
The above floors of the building constructed on the allotted plot will be exclusively used for office only and for no other purpose.	None
XI.  	None
That the lessee shall obey and submit the rules, building regulations and directions of the lessor, and proper municipal or other authority now existing or hereinafter to exist, so far as the same relate to the immovable property in the said area so far as they affect the health, safety and convenience of the other inhabitants of the place.	None
XIV.	None
(A) The plot or building thereon shall not be used for a purpose other than that specified in the lease deed and architectural control drawings prescribed by the lessor.	None
The architectural control drawings will be supplied by the lessor on payment of the prescribed fee by the allottee who shall carry out construction of the plot strictly in accordance with the same after the approval from the lessor.	None
XXI.	None
If the lessee does not abide by the terms and conditions and building rules or any other rules framed by the Authority, the lease may be cancelled by the lessor and the lessee in such event will not be entitled to claim any compensation in respect thereof.	None
(Emphasis Supplied) Even otherwise, Article 14 is not meant to perpetuate an illegality.	None
It provides for positive equality and not negative equality.	Reasoning
Therefore, we are not bound to direct any Authority to repeat the wrong action done by it earlier.	Reasoning
In Sushanta Tagore Ors.	None
Vs. Union of India Ors., (2005 (3) SCC 16 ), this Court rejected such a contention as sought to be advanced in the present case by observing Only because some advantages would ensue to the people in general by reason of the proposed development, the same would not mean that the ecology of the place would be sacrificed.	None
Only because some encroachments have been made and unauthorised buildings have been constructed, the same by itself cannot be a good ground for allowing other constructional activities to come up which would be in violation of the provisions of the Act.	None
Illegal encroachments, if any, may be removed in accordance with law.	None
It is trite law that there is no equality in illegality.	None
This view also finds support from the judgments of the this Court in Snehprabha v. State of U.P. Ors., (AIR 1996 SC 540 )	None
Secretary, Jaipur Development Authority, Jaipur v. Daulat Mal Jam Ors., (1997 (1) SCC 35 ), State of Haryana Ors.	None
v. Ram Kumar Mann, (1997 (3) SCC 321 ), and	None
Faridabad C.T. Scan Centre v. D.G. Health Services Ors.	None
(1997 (7) SCC 752 ).	None
In Finance Commissioner (Revenue) v. Gulab Chandra Anr.	None
(2001 AIR SCW 4774)	None
this Court rejected the contention that as other similarly situated persons had been retained in service, persons senior to the petitioner could not have been discharged during the period of probation observing that even if no action had been taken in similar situation against similarly situated persons then too it did not confer any legal right upon the petitioner.	None
In Jalandhar Improvement Trust v. Sampuran Singh, (AIR 1999 SC 1347 ) and Union of India Ors.	None
v. Rakesh Kumar (AIR 2001 SC 1877 ), this Court held that Courts cannot issue a direction that the same mistake be perpetuated on the ground of discrimination or hardship.	None
Any action order contrary to law does not confer any right upon any person for similar treatment.	None
(See State of Punjab Ors.	None
v. Dr. Rajeev Sarwal, (1999 (9) SCC 240 )	None
Yogesh Kumar Ors.	None
v. Government of NCT Delhi Ors., (2003 (3) SCC 548 ) Union of India Anr.	None
v. International Trading Company Anr., (2003 (5) SCC 437 ) and M s Anand Button Ltd. v. State of Haryana Ors.	None
(2005 AIR SCW 67).	None
Recently in State of Kerala v. K. Prasad Anr.	None
(JT 2007 (9) SC 140 ), it was inter alia held as follows Dealing with such pleas at some length, this Court in Chandigarh Administration Anr.	None
v. Jagjit Singh Anr. has held that if the order in favour of the other person is found to be contrary to law or not warranted in the facts and circumstances of his case, it is obvious that such illegal or unwarranted order cannot be made the basis of issuing a writ compelling the authority to repeat the illegality or to pass another unwarranted order.	None
The extraordinary and discretionary power of the High Court under Article 226 cannot be exercised for such a purpose.	None
This position in law is well settled by a catena of decisions of this Court.	None
See Secretary, Jaipur Development Authority, Jaipur v. Daulat Mal Jain Ors. and Exta Shakti Foundation v. Govt.	None
of N.C.T. of Delhi.	None
It would, thus, suffice to say that an order made in favour of a person in violation of the prescribed procedure cannot form a legal premise for any other person to claim parity with the said illegal or irregular order.	None
A judicial forum cannot be used to perpetuate the illegalities.	None
In view of the factual position, the actions of the respondents are not without sanction of law.	Reasoning
Appeal is sans merit, deserves dismissal, which we direct.	Decision
P. (C) No.846 of 2005.	None
In view of our order in Civil Appeal No. of 2007 (Arising out of S.L.P. (C) No. 12531 of 2005), no further order is necessary to be passed in Transfer Petition.	None
