 KHANNA J. 1.	None
The short question which arises for consideration in these seven appeals filed on certificate against the judgment of Assam and Nagaland High Court is the scope and validity of the following part of rule 23 of the Assam Agricultural Incometax Rules, 1939 (hereinafter referred to as the rules), framed under section 50 of the Assam Agricultural Incometax Act (Assam Act 9 of 1939) (hereinafter referred to as the Act)Where an order apportioning the liability to the tax on the basis of partition has not been passed in respect of a Hindu family hitherto assessed as undivided or joint, such family shall be deemed for the purposes of the Act, to continue to be a Hindu undivided or joint family.	Issue
2.	None
The High Court held that the facts of this case were covered by the above quoted rule.	Facts
The High Court also repelled the challenge to the vires of the rule.	None
The appeals arise out of seven petitions filed under articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India by the appellant which were dismissed by a common judgment.	None
The matter relates to assessment years 194647, 194748, 194849, 194950, 195051, 195152 and 195556.	Facts
Each writ petition related to one of these years.	Facts
We may set out the facts relating to the assessment year 194647, as it is the common case of the parties that the decision about the writ petition relating to that year would govern the other writ petitions also.	None
3.	None
The appellant, Sashi Prasad Barooah, was the karta of a Hindu undivided family styled as S. P. Barooah and others.	None
The family was governed by the Dayabhaga school of Hindu law and consisted of three members.	Facts
The family owned certain tea estates and carried on the business of tea plantation.	Facts
It was assessed under the Act in respect of its income derived from manufacture and sale of tea.	Facts
The case of the appellant is that there was a partition of the family on January 1, 1945, and as a result of that partition, some of the tea estates fell to the share of the appellant and he became exclusive owner thereof from the date of the partitionA general notice dated April 3, 1946, was published in the Assam Gazette and local newspapers in terms of subsection (1) of section 19 of the Act calling upon persons whose agricultural income exceeded the limits of taxable income to furnish returns within the specified time.	Facts
On March 24, 1947, the appellant addressed a letter to the Agricultural Incometax Officer praying for extension of time for submission of the return.	Facts
Another letter dated May 10, 1947, was addressed by the appellant to the Agricultural Incometax Officer stating that he was trying to expedite the submission of the return.	Facts
On February 15, 1951, the Agricultural Incometax Officer addressed a communication to the appellant asking him to file the return by March 14, 1951.	Facts
The appellant by letter dated March 16, 1951, informed the said officer that he would meet him at Shillong.	Facts
In his letter dated July 21, 1951, the appellant informed the Agricultural Incometax Officer that he would file his return as soon as some matters were settled.	Facts
On March 25, 1955, the appellant addressed another letter to the Agricultural Incometax Officer stating that he had not received the relevant assessment orders made by the Incometax Officer (the Incometax Officer under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922) relating to the assessment years 194647 onwards.	Facts
On July 11, 1959, the following two notices were sent by the Agricultural Incometax Officer to the appellant.	None
I am to inform you that following the dissolution of family business of Sashi Prasad Barua and others in the year 1945, you are liable to furnish a return of agricultural incomes including those from the tea estate under your ownership from the assessment year 194647.	Facts
Please also note that the returns along with certified copies of Central incometax assessment should reach this office on or before August 15, 1959.	None
In default, you will be liable for summary assessment.	None
Whereas I have reason to believe that your total agricultural income from sources chargeable to agricultural incometax in the year ending the 31st March, 1947, to 1959 (a) has wholly escaped assessment (b) I therefore propose (i) to assess the said income that has escaped assessment I hereupon require you to deliver to me not later than August 15, 1959, or within 30 days of the receipt of this notice, a return in the attached form of your total agricultural income during the previous year ending the 31st March, 1946 to 1958.	Facts
4.	None
Accompanying the two notices sent by the Agricultural Incometax Officer was also a notice under section 19(2) and section 30 of the Act.	None
The appellant failed to submit a return or to furnish certified copies of the Central assessment orders.	Facts
The Agricultural Incometax Officer, as per order dated June 22, 1961, assessed the total agricultural income of the appellant for the year 194647 to be Rs. 1, 45, 994.	Facts
An amount of Rs. 19, 321.44 was held to be recoverable from the appellant.	Facts
The appellant filed an appeal against that order but the same was dismissed by the Assistant Commissioner of Taxes on December 27, 1962.	Facts
Revision filed by the appellant was dismissed by the Commissioner of Taxes as per order dated September 28, 1964.	Facts
Certificate of public demand showing an amount of Rs. 3, 74, 087.89 as due from the appellant for the seven years in question was then issued by the Agricultural Incometax Officer.	Facts
Proclamation for the sale of the property of the appellant was thereafter issued for the recovery of the amount due from the appellant.	Facts
The appellant thereupon filed, as mentioned earlier, seven writ petitions.	Facts
Prayer made in the writ petitions was to quash the impugned assessment orders dated June 22, 1961, the notice of demand dated July 4, 1961, and the proclamation of sale dated December 31, 1964From one of the notices addressed by the taxation authorities to the appellant as well as from the return filed on their behalf, it would appear that the taxation authorities were not averse in the event of partition among the members of the Hindu undivided family, to assess the appellant in his individual capacity in respect of the agricultural income arising from those tea estates which had fallen to his share.	Facts
Such a course, it seems, was also not acceptable to the appellant.	Facts
His stand at the same time was that no assessment could be made in the name of the Hindu undivided family as according to him the same had been disrupted as a result of partition.	Facts
The appellant thus wanted a complete immunity from payment of agricultural incometax during the years in question even though agricultural income had arisen from tea estates 5.	Facts
Although a number of grounds were taken in the writ petitions, at the hearing before the High Court only two grounds were pressed on behalf of the appellant.	Facts
The first ground was that after the dissolution of the Hindu undivided family, no assessment order could be made under the Act in respect of such disrupted Hindu undivided family.	Facts
The second submission advanced on behalf of the appellant was that in case it be held that the matter was covered by rule 23 reproduced above, in that event the said rule was ultra vires the powers of the State Government to frame rules under the Act.	Facts
The High Court, as already mentioned, decided on both the points in favour of the revenue and against the appellant 6.	Facts
In appeal before us Mr. Sen on behalf of the appellant has contended that the Hindu undivided family of which the appellant was the karta was disrupted on January 1, 1945.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged, as was done before the High Court, that after the disruption of that family, it could not be assessed under the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Rule 23 reproduced above, according to the learned counsel, is not attracted in the present case.	Arguments of Petitioner
In case, however, it be held that the said rule applies to the present case, the State Government, Mr. Sen submits, had no power to make such a ruleThe above contentions have been controverted by Mr. Chatterjee on behalf of the respondents.	None
The learned counsel has also emphasised the fact that in none of the communications sent by the appellant mentioned above, there was any reference to partition of the Hindu undivided family 7.	Arguments of Respondent
After giving the matter our consideration, we are of the opinion that the two contentions advanced by Mr. Sen on behalf of the appellant are not wellfounded.	Reasoning
It is consequently not necessary for us to go into the question as to what is the effect of the omission of the appellant to refer to the partition in the communications sent by him to the Agricultural Incometax Officer 8.	None
It may be apposite at this stage to refer to the material provisions, as they stood at the relevant time, of the Act which provides for the imposition of tax on agricultural income arising from lands situated in Assam.	None
According to the definition of person as given in section 2(m) of the Act, person includes an undivided or joint Hindu family.	None
Section 3 is the charging section.	None
According to this section, agricultural incometax at the rate or rates specified in the annual Assam Finance Acts subject to the provisions of section 6 shall be charged for each financial year in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of this Act on the total agricultural income of the previous year of every individual, Hindu undivided or joint family, company, firm and other association of individuals.	None
Section 19 of the Act deals with the return of income and reads as under 19.	None
(1) The Agricultural Incometax Officer shall, on or before the first day of May or for the year commencing 1st April, 1939, any later day notified by the Government in each year, give notice by publication in the press and otherwise in the manner prescribed by rules, requiring every person whose agricultural income exceeds the limit of taxable income prescribed in section 6 to furnish, within such period not being less than thirty days as may be specified in the notice, a return, in the prescribed form and verified in the prescribed manner, setting forth (along with such other particulars as may be required by the notice) his total agricultural income during the previous yearrovided that the Agricultural Incometax Officer may in his discretion extend the date for the delivery of the return in the case of any person or class of persons (2) In the case of any person whose total agricultural income is in the opinion of the Agricultural Incometax Officer, of such amount as to render such person liable to payment of agricultural incometax for any financial year the Agricultural Incometax Officer may serve in that financial year a notice in the prescribed form upon him requiring him to furnish, within the prescribed period, a return in the prescribed manner setting forth his total agricultural income during the previous year (3) If any person has not furnished a return within the time allowed by or under subsection (1), or subsection (2) or, having furnished a return under either of those subsections, discovers any omission or wrong statement therein, be may furnish a return or a revised return, as the case may be, at any time before the assessment is made, and any return so made shall be deemed to be made in due time under this section.	None
9. Section 20 provides for the making of an assessment order.	None
Section 30 deals with income escaping assessment, and its material part reads as under If for any reason any agricultural income chargeable to agricultural incometax has escaped assessment for any financial year, or has been assessed at too low a rate, the Agricultural Incometax Officer may, at any time within three years of the end of that financial year, serve on the person liable to pay agricultural incometax on such agricultural income or, in the case of a company on the principal officer thereof, a notice containing all or any of the requirements which may be included in a notice under subsection (2) of section 19, and may proceed to assess or reassess such income, and the provisions of this Act shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly as if the notice were a notice issued under that subsection.	None
10. Section 50 empowers the State Government to make rules.	None
The material part of that section reads as under 50.	None
(1) The Provincial Government may, subject to previous publication, make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act, and such rules may be made for the whole of the Province or such part or parts thereof as may be specified (2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may (j) prescribe the manner in which the tax shall be payable where the assessment is made on the agricultural income of a Hindu undivided or joint family and a partition of the property of such family has been effected after the date of such assessments 11.	None
We have set out above the relevant part of rule 23.	None
The rule clearly states that where an order apportioning the liability to the tax on the basis of partition has not been passed in respect of a Hindu family hitherto assessed as undivided or joint, such family shall be deemed for the purposes of the Act, to continue to be a Hindu undivided or joint family.	Reasoning
It would, therefore, follow that unless an order apportioning the liability to the tax on the basis of partition is passed in respect of a Hindu undivided family which was hitherto assessed as such undivided family, the said family shall be deemed for the purpose of the Act to continue to be a Hindu undivided family.	Reasoning
Admittedly, no order apportioning the liability to the tax on the basis of the alleged partition has been passed in respect of the Hindu undivided family of which the appellant was the karta.	Reasoning
As such, the aforesaid family shall continue to be treated, for the purposes of the Act, as Hindu undivided family.	Reasoning
We are unable to subscribe to the submission of Mr. Sen that the above rule would apply only in those cases where the Hindu undivided family has already been assessed under the Act and the only thing which remains is the recovery of the tax in pursuance of the said assessment order.	Reasoning
Such cases, in our view, are covered by the other part of rule 23.	Reasoning
We are, however, not concerned with that part.	Reasoning
So far as the part of rule 23 which has been reproduced above is concerned, its language is clear and unambiguous.	Reasoning
The language clearly warrants the conclusion that in the absence of an order apportioning the liability to the tax on the basis of partition in respect of a Hindu undivided family hitherto assessed as undivided or joint, such family shall be deemed for the purposes of the Act to continue to be a Hindu undivided familyAs regards the second contention, Mr. Sen submits that the power which has been conferred by clause (j) of subsection (2) of section 50 of the Act is to make rules prescribing the manner in which the tax shall be payable when the assessment is made on the agricultural income of a Hindu undivided or joint family and a partition of the property of such family has been effected after the date of such assessment.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged that, apart from that, the State Government has no power to make a rule for assessment of a Hindu undivided family after a partition takes place in such family.	Arguments of Petitioner
This contention is devoid of force as we are of the opinion that the State Government was competent to make the part of rule 23 reproduced above in exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (1) of section 50.	None
According to that subsection, the State Government may subject to previous publication make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.	None
It has not been disputed before us that there was previous publication of the rules in question.	None
The question is whether the part of rule 23 reproduced above can be said to have been made for carrying out the purposes of the Act.	None
The answer to this question, in our opinion, should be in the affirmative.	None
What the rule contemplates in that unless an order was made on the basis of the alleged partition of a Hindu undivided family, such family shall be deemed for the purposes of the Act to continue to be a Hindu undivided family.	Reasoning
The rule thus relates to the working of the Act.	Reasoning
Section 3 of the Act is the charging section and creates liability for tax in respect of the total agricultural income of every individual, Hindu undivided family, firm and other association of persons.	Reasoning
Such a liability having already been created by the above provision, rule 23 reproduced earlier deals with the question as to who should be the person as defined in the Act who should be assessed in respect of the agricultural income arising from property in respect of which the Hindu undivided family was assessed hitherto.	Reasoning
The rule provides that such family shall continue to be deemed as Hindu undivided family for the purposes of the Act unless an order is made on the basis of the partition amongst the members of the family.	Reasoning
This is a matter of detail to carry out the purposes of the Act and the State Government, in our opinion, was well within its competence to make the impugned rule in exercise of its powers under subsection (1) of section 50 of the ActThere is also nothing novel in a Hindu undivided family being taxed as such in spite of a claim of its disruption unless an order on the basis of the partition is made by the taxing authorities.	Reasoning
Subsection (1) of section 171 of the Incometax Act, 1961, provides that a Hindu undivided family hitherto assessed as undivided shall be deemed for the purposes of the Act to continue to be a Hindu undivided family, except where and in so far as a finding of partition has been given under that section in respect of the Hindu undivided family.	Reasoning
The fact that, unlike the Incometax Act, there is no statutory provision in the Act with which we are concerned and the matter is dealt with by the rules framed under the Act would not make any material difference.	Reasoning
The rules would be as much binding as would be the statutory provision in this respect.	Reasoning
The only requirement is that the rules should be validly made in exercise of the powers conferred by the Act.	Reasoning
So far as this aspect is concerned, we have already held above that the rule in question was validly made as it was within the competence of the State Government to make such rule.	Reasoning
12.	None
The proposition is well settled that it is not unconstitutional for the legislature to leave it to the executive to determine details relating to the working of taxation laws, such as the selection of persons on whom the tax is to be laid, the rates at which it is to be charged in respect of different classes of goods, and the like (See Pt. Banarsi Das Bhanot v. State of Madhya Pradesh 1958 9 STC 388 (SC)).	None
In that case this court dealt with the provisions of the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947.	None
The said Act provided for exemption from taxation in respect of the supply of certain material.	None
Power was also conferred upon the State Government to amend such exemption by notification.	None
This court upheld the validity of that notificationWe may also refer to the case of Powell v. Apollo Candle Company Ltd. 1885 10 App Cas 282, 291 (PC), which dealt with section 133 of the Customs Regulation Act of 1879 of New South Wales.	None
That section conferred a power on the Governor to impose tax on certain articles of import.	None
While repelling the challenge to the constitutional validity of that provision, the Privy Council observed It is argued that the tax in question has been imposed by the Governor, and not by the Legislature, who alone had power to impose it.	None
But the duties levied under the Order in Council are really levied by the authority of the Act under which the order is issued.	None
The Legislature has not parted with its perfect control over the Governor, and has the power, of course, at any moment, of withdrawing or altering the power which they have entrusted to him.	None
Under these circumstances, their Lordships are of opinion that the judgment of the Supreme Court was wrong in declaring section 133 of the Customs Regulations Act of 1879 to be beyond the power of the Legislature.	None
13.	None
In V. M. Syed Mohamed Co. v. State of Madras 1952 3 STC 367 (Mad) the question was as to the vires of rules 4 and 16 framed under the Madras General Sales Tax Act.	None
Section 5(vi) of that Act had left it to the rulemaking authority to determine at which single point in the series of sales by successive dealers the tax should be levied, and pursuant thereto, rules 4 and 16 had provided that it was the purchaser who was liable to pay the tax in respect of sales of hides and skins.	None
The validity of the rules was attacked on the ground that it was only the legislature that was competent to decide who shall be taxed, and that the determination of that question by the rulemaking authorities was ultra vires.	None
The Madras High Court rejected this connection, and held on a review of the authorities that the delegation of authority under section 5(vi) was within permissible constitutional limitsowells case 1885 10 App Cas 282 (PC) as well as the case of V. M. Syed	None
Mohamed 1952 3 STC 367 (Mad) were referred to with approval by this court in the case of Pt. Banarsi Das Bhanot 1958 9 STC 388 (SC).	None
The above decisions clearly lend support for the conclusion arrived at by the High Court in the judgment under appeal that the State Government was within its competence to make rule 23 reproduced above.	None
14.	None
We, therefore, uphold the judgment of the High Court and dismiss the appeals with costs.	Decision
One set of fee.	Decision
15.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
