 Subba Rao, CJ.1.	None
This appeal by certificate raises the question of the constitutional validity of the Metal Corporation of India (Acquisition of Undertaking) Act (No. XLIV of 1965), hereinafter called the Act.2.	Issue
The relevant facts lie in a small compass.	Facts
The 1st respondent, The Metal Corporation of India Limited, hereinafter called the Corporation, was a limited company constituted under the Indian Companies Act, having for its objects, inter alia, the development of zinc and lead mines at Zawar in the State of Rajasthan and the construction of a zinc smelter and other connected works for producing electrolytic zinc and byproducts.	Facts
The Government was satisfied that it was necessary to acquire the said Corporation in public interest and on October 22, 1965, the President of India promulgated an Ordinance (No. 6 of 1965) providing for the acquisition of the Corporation by the Central Government.	Facts
Pursuant to the said Ordinance, on or about October 23, 1965, the Central Government took over the possession, control and administration of the said Corporation.	Facts
The Corporation, the 1st respondent and its Managing Director, the 2nd respondent filed a Writ Petition under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution in the High Court of Judicature for the State of Punjab, Circuit Bench at New Delhi, being Petition No.	Facts
631D of 1965, challenging the validity of the said Ordinance.	Facts
In the meantime, the Parliament passed the Act on the same terms as contained in Ordinance No. 6 of 1965 it received the assent of the President of India on December 12, 1965.	Facts
The respondent filed another writ petition in the said High Court, being Writ Petition No. 832D of 1965, for a declaration that the Act was ultra vires the Constitution.	Facts
The said High Court held that the Ordinance and the Act contravened the relevant provisions of Art.	Facts
31 of the Constitution and.	Issue
therefore, were constitutionally void.	Facts
The present appeal is preferred against the said judgment of the High Court.3.	Issue
It will be convenient at this stage to, read the relevant provisions of the Act.	None
The preamble and the relevant provisions of the Act readPreamble.	None
An Act to provide for the acquisition of the undertaking of the Metal Corporation of India Limited for the purpose of enabling the Central Government in the public interest to exploit, to the fullest extent possible zinc and lead deposits in and around the Zawar area in the State of Rajasthan and to utilise those minerals in such manner as to subserve the common good.	None
Section 3.	None
On the commencement of this Act, the undertaking of the company shall, by virtue of this Act, be transferred to, and vest in, the Central Government.	Reasoning
Section 10.	None
(1) The Central Government shall pay compensation to the company for the acquisition of the undertaking of the company and such compensation shall be determined in accordance with the principles specified in the Schedule and in the manner hereinafter set out, that is to say, (2) Notwithstanding that separate valuations are calculated under the principles specified in the Schedule in respect of the several matters referred to therein, the amount of compensation to be given shall be deemed to be a single compensation to be given for the undertaking as a whole.(3) THE SCHEDULEPrinciples for determining compensation for acquisition of the undertakingParagraph I.The compensation to be paid by the Central Government to the company in respect of the acquisition of the undertaking thereof shall be an amount equal to the sum total of the value of the properties and assets of the company on the date of commencement of this Act calculated in accordance with the provisions of Para.	Reasoning
II less the sum total of the liabilities and obligations of the company as on the said date calculated in accordance with the provisions of Para.	None
III.Paragraph lI.(a)	None
The market value of any land or buildings(b) the actual cost incurred by the company in acquiring any plant, machinery or other equipment which has not been worked or used and is in good condition and the writtendown value determined in accordance with the provisions of the Incometax Act, 1961 (XLIII of 1961), of any other plant, machinery or equipment(c) the market value of any shares, securities or other investments held by the company(d) the total amount of the premiums paid by the company in respect of all leasehold properties reduced in the case of each such premium by an amount which bears to such premium the same proportion as the expired term of the lease in respect of which such premium shall have been paid bears to the total term of the lease(e) the amount of debts due to the company, whether secured or unsecured, to the extent to which they are reasonably considered to be recoverable.(f) the amount of cash held by the company, whether in deposit with a bank or otherwise.(g) the value of all tangible assets and properties other than those falling within any of the preceding clauses.	None
Paragraph III.  	None
The total amount of liabilities and obligations incurred by the company in connection with the formation, management and administration of the undertaking and subsisting immediately before the commencement of this Act.	None
The gist of the said provisions may be given thus.	None
The Act was made to acquire in public interest the undertaking of the Corporation.	Reasoning
On the commencement of the Act, the undertaking was transferred and vested in the Central Government.	Reasoning
Under S. 10 of the Act, the Government shall pay compensation to the undertaking as a whole but, in the absence of an agreement between the Government and the Corporation.	Reasoning
The compensation, payable to the Corporation has to be ascertained.	Reasoning
under the principles specified in the Schedule in respect of several in matters referred to therein.	Reasoning
Paragraph l of the Schedule lays down the manner in which the compensation, is to be paid to the Corporation for the acquisition of the undertaking is to be ascertained.	Reasoning
The said compensation shall be an amount equa1 to the sum total of the value of the properties and assets of the Corporation on the date of the commencement of the Act calculated in accordance with the provisions of paragraph II less the liabilities on the said date calculated in accordance with the provisions of paragraph III of the Schedule.	Reasoning
Broadly.	Reasoning
the said paragraph lays down the principles for ascertaining the value of lands, buildings machinery and equipment, amounts clue to the undertaking and other tangible assets and properties.	Reasoning
The different clauses of the paragraph adopt different principles for valuation.	Reasoning
But what is important for the present purpose is the principle embodied in Cl.	Reasoning
(b) of para II.	Reasoning
It is in two parts the first provides for the valuation of plant machinery or other equipment which has not been worked or used and is in good condition and the second provides for the valuation of any other plant, machinery or equipment.	Reasoning
The former has to be valued at the actual cost incurred by the Corporation in acquiring the same and the latter at the writtendown value determined in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Incometax Act, 1961.4.	Reasoning
The High Court held, on a construction of the said provisions, that the principle contained in Cl.	None
(a) of paragraph II of the Schedule to the Act in respect of machinery etc., cannot be called relevant to the determination of just equivalent as it takes no notice of the notorious fact that prices have been steadily rising during the past several years particularly of imported machinery and plant.	None
It also held, that depreciation rule does not even pretend to determine the actual depreciation in a particular case and it is obvious that such depreciation has no real relationship with the actual value of any machinery at any particular point of time.	None
On that reasoning it came to the conclusion having regard to the decision of this court in Vajravelu v. Special Deputy Collector, (1965) 1	None
SCR 614 (AIR 1965 SC 1017 ) that the said provision in respect of machinery did not lay down a principle for fixing compensation i. e., a just equivalent to the machinery acquired.5.	None
The reasoning of the High Court was attacked by the learned Additional Solicitor General on the ground that it did not appreciate the true scope of the said decision of this Court and that in any view, it went wrong in applying the principle of the said decision to the provisions of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended that the Act laid down the broad principle that compensation shall be paid for the entire undertaking as a unit, but provided different modes for the ascertainment of the value of different parts thereof in such a way that the deficiency in the valuation of one part was offset by the liberal valuation of the other part.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that view he contended, the Act embodied a principle relevant to the ascertainment of compensation for the undertaking acquired and therefore the product worked out under the said principle pertained only to the realm of adequacy which was beyond the ken of judicial review.	Arguments of Petitioner
He added that compensation in Art. 31 of the Constitution meant that compensation which was regarded as just in the context of public acquisitions and that that test was satisfied in the present case.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. M. C. Setalvad, learned counsel for the respondents, contended that though under the Act compensation was to be given to the undertaking as one unit, the Act laid down principles for arriving at the valuation of the parts to arrive at the valuation of the whole and that therefore every such principle should stand the text laid down by this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
So judged, the argument proceeded, both the principles laid down in Cl.	Arguments of Respondent
(b) of para II of the Schedule had no nexus to the ascertainment of compensation for the machinery acquired, for in the case of unused machinery.	Arguments of Respondent
its cost price was the guide and in the case of used machinery its writtendown value was the criterion and that both the methods were arbitrary.7.	Arguments of Respondent
We find it difficult to appreciate the arguments of the learned Solicitor General.	Reasoning
It is true that under S. 10 of the Act the Central Government shall pay compensation for the acquisition of the undertaking to the Corporation and the said compensation arrived at in the manner prescribed in the Schedule to the Act shall be deemed to be a single compensation to be given to the undertaking as a whole.	Reasoning
But it will be noticed that though a single compensation for the undertaking is given the said compensation shall be determined in accordance with the principles specified in the Schedule.	Reasoning
Under the Schedule, the compensation for the entire undertaking shall be the amount equal to the sum total of the value of the properties and assets of the Corporation calculated in accordance with the provisions of para II of the Schedule.	Reasoning
Under the said para II, different principles are laid down for ascertaining the value of different parts of the undertaking.	Reasoning
If all the said principles laid down in para II of the Schedule do not provide for the just equivalent of all the parts of the undertaking mentioned therein, the sum total also cannot obviously be a just equivalent of the undertaking.	Reasoning
So too, if some of them do not provide for a just equivalent and others do so, the sum total cannot equally be a just equivalent to the undertaking.	Reasoning
In the case of the undertaking in question, the machinery is the most valuable part of the undertaking.	Reasoning
Apropos the unused machinery in good condition, how can the price for which the said machinery was purchased years ago possibly represent its price at the time of its acquisition?	Reasoning
A simple illustration will disclose the irrelevance of the principle.	Reasoning
Suppose in 1950 a machinery was purchased for Rs. 100/ and, for some reasons, the same has not been used in the working of the undertaking but has been, maintained in good condition.	Reasoning
That machinery has become obsolescent and still can be used effectively.	Reasoning
If purchased in open market it will cost the owner Rs. 1000/.	Reasoning
A compensation of Rs. l00/ for that machinery cannot be said to be a just equivalent of it.	Reasoning
It is common knowledge that there has been an upward spiral in prices of the machinery in recent years.	Reasoning
The cost price of machinery purchased about ten years ago is a consideration not relevant for fixing compensation for its acquisition in l965.	Reasoning
The principle must be such as to enable the ascertainment of its price at or about the time of its acquisition.	Reasoning
Nor the doctrine of writtendown value accepted in the incometax law can afford any guide for ascertaining the compensation for the used machinery acquired under the Act.	Reasoning
Under the general scheme of the Incometax Act, the income is to be charged regardless of the diminution in the value of the capital.	Reasoning
But the rigour of this hard principle is mitigated by the Act granting allowances in respect of depreciation in the value of certain assets such as machinery buildings, plant, furniture etc.	Reasoning
These allowances are worked out on a notional basis for giving relief to the incometax assessee.	Reasoning
This artificial rule of depreciation evolved for incometax purposes has no relation to the value of the said assets.	Reasoning
To illustrate a machinery was purchased in the year 1950 for Rs.l,000/. The aggregate of all the depreciation allowances made year after year for ten years may exhaust the sum of Rs 1,000  with the result, after the tenth year, the assessee will not be entitled to any depreciation.	None
From this it cannot be said that after the tenth year the machinery has no value.	Reasoning
Indeed, a machinery purchased for Rs. l, 000/ in 1950, because of subsequent rise in prices, may be sold in 1965 for Rs. 10,000/.	Reasoning
But the application of the principle laid down in Cl.	Reasoning
(b) of para II of the Schedule to the Act in regard to used machinery gives the owner no compensation at all.	Reasoning
Yet, the Government takes the machinery worth Rs. 10,000/ gratis.	Reasoning
This illustration exposes the extreme arbitrariness of the principle.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, manifest that the two principles of valuation embodied in Cl.	Reasoning
(b) of para II of the Schedule to the Act are not relevant to the fixing of compensation for the machinery at the time of its acquisition under the Act.	Reasoning
The argument of the learned Additional Solicitor General that the working out of all the principles in respect of different parts of the undertaking would result in a product which would fairly represent, in the context of public acquisitions, the just equivalent to the undertaking acquired is purely based on a surmise for, it is not shown that the working out of any one or more of the principles would give a higher compensation to some parts of the undertaking that the excess paid under one head would offset the deficiency under another head.	Reasoning
Nor can the doctrine of inherent worth of a machinery has any relevance in the matter of giving compensation for its acquisition at a particular point of time for the simple reason that the worth of an article depends upon the market conditions obtaining at the time of its acquisition.	Reasoning
It is impossible to predicate, irrespective of such conditions, that a particular machinery has a fixed value for all times.8.	Reasoning
Four decisions of this Court laid down the principles applicable to the present case.	Reasoning
Indeed, but for the said decisions, we would have posted this case before a Constitution Bench of five Judges.	Reasoning
But, as this appeal involves only the application of the construction put upon Art. 31 of the Constitution by this Court in the said decisions, we did not resort to that course.	Reasoning
The first of them is State of West Bengal v. Mrs. Bela Banerjee, 1954 SCR 558 at p. 564 (AIR 1954 SC 170 at p 173).	Reasoning
There, the validity of the West Bengal Land Development and Planning Act. 1948 was under scrutiny.	Reasoning
Section 8 thereof provided that compensation to be awarded for compulsory acquisition to owners of land was not to exceed the market value as on December 31, 1946.	Reasoning
This Court held that the said Act was ultra vires the Constitution and void under Art. 31 (2) thereof.	Reasoning
In that context, Patanjali Sastri, C. J., observedTurning now to the provisions relating to compensation under the impugned Act, it will be seen that the latter part of the proviso to S. 8 limits the amount of compensation so as not to exceed the market value of the land on December 31, 1946, no matter when the land is acquired.	Reasoning
Considering that the impugned Act is a permanent enactment and lands may be acquired under it many years after it came into force, the fixing of the market value on December 31, 1946, as the ceiling on compensation, without reference to the value of the land at the time of the acquisition is arbitrary and cannot be regarded as due compliance in letter and spirit with the requirement of article 31	Reasoning
(2).The above decision was followed by this Court in State of Madras v. D. Namasivaya Mudaliar, (1964) 6	None
SCR 936 at p. 945 (AIR 1965 SC 190 at p. 194).	Reasoning
There the respondents were owners of certain lands which were to be compulsorily acquired under Madras Lignite (Acquisition of Land) Act, 1958.	Reasoning
The Act came into force on August 20 1958, before Art.	Reasoning
31 of the Constitution was amended by the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955.	Reasoning
By the said Act compensation for the acquisition of lignitebearing lands under the Land Acquisition Act was to be assessed on the market value of the land prevailing on August 28, 1947 and not on the date on which the notification was issued under S. 4 (1) of the Land Acquisition Act.	Reasoning
It also provided that in awarding compensation, the value of nonagricultural improvements commenced since April 28, 1947, would not be taken into consideration.	Reasoning
This Court held that the said Act was bad, because it contravened Art. 31 (2) of the Constitution, as it stood before the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955.	Reasoning
This Court, speaking through Shah, J., observedAssuming that in appropriate cases, fixation of a date anterior to the publication of the notification under S. 4 (1) for ascertainment of market value of the land to be acquired, may not always be regarded as a violation of the constitutional guarantee, in the absence of evidence that compensation assessed on the basis of market value on such anterior date, awards to the expropriated owner a just monetary value of his property at the date on which his interest is extinguished, the provisions of the Act arbitrarily fixing compensation based on the market value at a date many years before the notification under S. 4 (1) was issued, cannot be regarded as valid.	Reasoning
Then the learned Judge proceeded to stateTo deny to the owner of the land compensation at rates which justly indemnify him for his loss by awarding him compensation at rates prevailing ten years before the date on which the notification under S. 4 (1) was issued amounts in the circumstances to a flagrant infringement of the fundamental right of the owner of the land under Art. 31 (2) as it stood when the Act was enacted.	None
These two decisions turned upon the construction of Art. 31 (2) of the Constitution before the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955.	Reasoning
These cases laid down two propositions (1) Compensation under Art. 31 (2) of the Constitution means a just equivalent of what the owner has been deprived and (2) the value of land at an anterior date is presumed to be no compensation within the meaning of the said Article.	Reasoning
After the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955, this Court had to construe in two decisions the amended provision of Art. 31 (2) visavis the expression compensation found therein.	None
The first decision is that in (1965) 1	Reasoning
SCR 614 (AIR 1965 SC 1017 ).	Reasoning
There, this Court observed at pp. 625626 (of SCR) (at p. 1023 of AIR)A scrutiny of the amended Article discloses that it accepted the meaning of the expressions compensation and principles as defined by this Court in Mrs. Bela Banerjees case 1954 SCR 558 (AIR 1954 SC 170).And	Reasoning
it held that, if the compensation is illusory or if the principles prescribed are irrelevant to the value of the property at or about the time of its acquisition, it can be said that the Legislature committed a fraud on power and, therefore, the law is bad.	None
One of the illustrations given at p. 627 (of SCR) (at p. 1024 of AIR) is relevant to the present enquiry and that is as follows .	Reasoning
if a law lays down principles which are not relevant to the property acquired or to the value of the property at or about the time it is acquired, it may be said that they are not principles contemplated by Art.	Reasoning
31 (2) of the Constitution If a law says that though it (house) is acquired in 1950 its value in 1930 should be given the principles do not pertain to the domain of adequacy but are principles unconnected to the value of the property acquired.	Reasoning
Applying these principles, this Court in Jeejeebhoy v. Assistant Collector, (1965) 1	None
SCR 636 (AIR 1965 SC 1096 ) held that the fixation of an anterior date for the ascertainment of the value of the property acquired without reference to any relevant considerations which necessitated in fixing of an earlier date for the purpose of ascertaining the real value is arbitrary.	Reasoning
On that ground this Court held that the Land Acquisition (Bombay Amendment) Act, 1948, did not provide for payment of just equivalent of what the owner was deprived, as it provided for the trans ascertainment of compensation on the basis of the value of lands acquired as on January 1, 1948 and not as on the date on which S. 4 notification under, the 1894 Act was issued.9.	Reasoning
The relevant aspect of the legal position evolved by the said decisions may be stated thus Under Art.	Reasoning
31 (2) of the Constitution, no property shall be compulsorily acquired except under a law which provides for compensation for the property acquired and either fixes the amount of compensation or specifies the principles on which and the manner in which compensation is to be determined and given.	Reasoning
The second limb of the provision says that no such law shall be called in question in any court on the ground that the compensation provided by the law is not adequate.	Reasoning
If the two concepts, namely, compensation and the jurisdiction of the court are kept apart, the meaning of the provisions is clear.	Reasoning
The law to Justify itself has to provide for the payment of a just equivalent to the land acquired or lay down principles which will lead to that result.	Reasoning
If the principles laid down are relevant to the fixation of compensation and are not arbitrary, the adequacy of the resultant product cannot be questioned in a court of law.	Reasoning
The validity of the principles, judged by the above tests, falls within the judicial scrutiny, and if they stand the tests, the adequacy of the product falls outside its jurisdiction.	Reasoning
Judged by the said tests, it is manifest that the two principles laid down in Cl.	Reasoning
(b) of para II of the Schedule to the Act, namely, (i) compensation equated to the cost price in the case of unused machinery in good condition, and (ii) writtendown value as understood in the Incometax law is the value of used machinery, are irrelevant to the fixation of the value of the said machinery as on the date of acquisition.	Reasoning
It follows that the impugned Act has not provided for compensation within the meaning of Art.	Reasoning
31	Reasoning
(2) of the Constitution and therefore, it is void.10.	Reasoning
The mere fact that in regard to some parts of the undertaking the principles provide for compensation does not affect the real question, for, machinery is the major part of the undertaking and, as the entire undertaking is acquired as a unit, the constitutional invalidity of Cl.	Reasoning
(b) of para II of Schedule to the Act affects the totality of the compensation payable to the entire undertaking.	Reasoning
In the context of compensation for the entire undertaking, the clauses of para II of the Schedule to the Act are not severable.	Reasoning
In the result, the Act, not having provided for compensation, is unconstitutional and the conclusion arrived at by the High Court is correct.11.	Reasoning
The appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.12.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
