 Leave granted in SLP (C) No.16404 of 2006 and SLP(C)	None
No.5838 of 2008.	None
The Government of Uttar Pradesh acquired land in various districts and conveyed the same to the appellantU.P. State Industrial Development Corporation (hereinafter referred to as, the Corporation for short) for the purpose of setting up industrial area.	None
The Corporation thereafter divided the said land into plots for leasing the same to industrial units.	None
The respondentsCompanies, applied to the appellantCorporation for grant of lease.	None
On receiving part premium of the plot, the appellant executed an agreement for licence and later executed lease deed in favour of the respondentsCompanies.	None
Later the appellantCorporation made an allegation that the respondentscompanies share holders transferred their company their shares to new shareholders without the consent of appellantCorporation, which amounted to transfer of interest, for which transfer levy is required to be deposited.	None
Demand notices were issued by the appellantCorporation to the respondentsCompanies.	None
Those demand notices were challenged by the respondentsCompanies in different writ petitions or suits which were allowed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad by impugned judgments.	Facts
In the aforesaid cases the High Court held that unless the respondentsCompanies transfer its right in the plot in question in favour of another legal entity, there is no question to apply clause 4(h) of the Agreement for licence.	None
The High Court further held that mere change in shareholders or Directors, does not change legal entity of the Company and as such it continues unchanged.	None
The questions that arise for our consideration in these appeals are Whether by the alleged action the respondentsCompanies directly or indirectly had transferred or parted with their interest benefit under their respective agreements for licence.	None
Whether the respondentsCompanies violated the terms as contained in Clause 4(h) of agreement and Clause 3(p)of their lease deed and Whether the respondentsCompanies are liable to pay transfer fee for alleged transfer of its own interest.	Issue
The facts leading to the cases are as followsMonsanto Manufactures Private Ltd.(A Company registered under the Companies Act, 1956)The respondentCompany applied to the appellantCorporation for grant of lease of plot of land bearing no.38/1A situated in Sahibabad Industrial Area, Site No.4 of Tehsil and District Ghaziabad admeasuring 14,533 square yards for the purpose of constructing an industrial unit.	Facts
The appellantCorporation after receiving part premium of the plot land executed an agreement for licence on 12th June, 1978 in favour of the respondentCompany.	Facts
The possession of the land was given on 12th June, 1978.	Facts
After construction of the building of the factory, the respondentCompany and the appellantCorporation executed a deed of lease on 5th September, 1979 for a period of 90 years.	Facts
Later, the appellantCorporation vide letter dated 12th April, 1994 asked the respondentCompany to provide the list of its Directors and shareholders duly certified by the Chartered Accountant.	Facts
The same was furnished by the respondentCompany to the appellantCorporation on 7th May, 1994.	Facts
According to the appellantCorporation the respondentCompany changed the Directors and shareholders without prior permission and consent of the appellantCorporation and since the respondentCompany was purchased by the present Directors from the previous Directors.	Facts
The appellantCorporation by letter dated 27th May, 1994 asked for details in order to take necessary action in accordance with the terms of the lease deed.	Facts
The respondentCompany categorically denied the allegations levelled by the appellantCorporation by their letter dated 27th September, 1994.6.	Facts
By letter dated 1st October, 1999 the appellantCorporation demanded Rs.25,51,781/ from respondentCompany towards transfer levy charges as the original shareholders of the respondentCompany transferred their entire shareholding and interest to the new shareholders and there was change in the Directors of the respondentCompany.	Facts
According to the appellant such change makes the shifting of the controlling interest of the respondentCompany and transfer levy for the same was demanded from the respondentCompany as per the rules of the Corporation.	Facts
The Company submitted its reply vide letter dated 8th December, 1999 and reiterated its earlier stand to the effect that there is no breach of any terms of the lease deed as no transfer or assignment or sale of premises in question has been made.	Facts
However, it was not accepted by the Corporation, who sent another reminder dated 13th January, 2000 asking the Company to pay a sum of Rs.25,51,781/ towards transfer levy charges.	Facts
The aforesaid demand notice was challenged by the respondentCompany before the High Court of Allahabad which by impugned judgment dated 11th May, 2004 allowed the writ petition.	Facts
U.P. Twiga Fiberglass Limited (A Company registered under the Companies Act, 1956)7.	Facts
The appellantCorporation executed an agreement with respondentCompany followed by lease deed dated 27th May, 1977 by which the Corporation leased plot nos.9 and 23A admeasuring approximately 1,10,926 square meters of land situated at Sikandrabad Industrial Area, District Bulandshahr, Uttar Pradesh to the respondentCompany.	Facts
The lease was executed for 90 years.	Facts
In the year 1994, the respondentCompany suffered heavy losses to the tune of Rs.42 crores.	Facts
Therefore, the respondentCompany sold almost its entire shares including shares of its promoters and shares lying with financial institutions to a foreign company known as Rotar India Ltd As entire shares of the respondentCompany transferred to Rotar India Ltd., the promoters of the said Company were replaced by new promoters Directors.8.	Facts
According to the appellantCorporation, in view of the above disposal of controlling interest in the venture of the existing allottee, they were liable to pay transfer levy as per Clause 6(f) of the guidelines of the Corporation pertaining to reconstitution and transfer.9.	Facts
The Corporation vide its letter dated 26th April, 1995 requested the respondentCompany to supply list of new shareholders, list of new Directors and copies of Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association.	Facts
However, it is alleged that respondentCompany neglected the same and refused to supply the documents.	Facts
The appellantCorporation thereafter vide letter dated 15th May, 1995 asked the respondentCompany to pay a sum of Rs.24,95,835/ towards transfer levy as there was disposal of controlling interest in the venture by the existing allottee.	Facts
The said demand of transfer levy, according to appellant, was as per lease deed and guidelines of the Corporation pertaining to reconstitution and transfer.10.	Facts
Being aggrieved the respondentCompany filed suit bearing No.876 of 1996 before Civil Judge, Bulandshahr seeking permanent injunction and praying for restraining the appellantCompany from claiming any amount as transfer levy.	Facts
The appellant filed written statement and contested the suit.11.	Facts
The Civil Judge, Bulandshahr vide judgment and decree dated 23rd January, 1999 allowed the suit and directed the appellantCorporation not to charge transfer levy from the respondentCompany.	Facts
The Civil Judge, held that the respondentCompany is a legal person and disposal of its majority shares in the name of a foreign Company namely Rotar India Ltd. does not change the legal status of the Company and therefore, there is no transfer.12.	Facts
The appellantCorporation being dissatisfied with the aforesaid order filed Civil Appeal No.45 of 1999 in the Court of District Judge, Bulandshahr which was dismissed vide order dated 15th July, 2000.	Facts
Thereafter, the appellantCorporation filed Second Appeal No.1425 of 2000 before the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad and the same dismissed by impugned judgment dated 24th October, 2005.M s Enrich Engineering Works Pvt.	Facts
Ltd.(A Company registered under the Companies Act, 1956)13.	Facts
One M s Tyres Tubes Co.	Facts
Pvt. Ltd.	Facts
having its registered office at	Facts
Scooters India Ltd.	Facts
Premises, Sarojini Nagar, PO Lucknow through its Directors Shri S.Sounderarajan s o of late Shri S. Srinivasan applied to appellantCorporation for allotment of plots of land.	Facts
After agreement which was followed by lease deed dated 21st December, 1976 the appellantCorporation allotted industrial plot no.	Facts
A4 and A5 admeasuring approximately 40,489 square yards and 8.36 square yards respectively situated at site no.2, Rai Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh to M s Tyres Tubes Company Pvt.	Facts
Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
The lease was for 90 years.	Facts
M s Tyres Tubes Co.	Facts
Pvt. Ltd. suffered heavy losses and pursuant to its winding up, Allahabad High Court vide judgment and order dated 9th January, 1996 appointed Official Liquidator.	Facts
The Official Liquidator sold the properties of M s Tyres Tube Co. Pvt. Ltd. including right and interest on the land in question to respondent M s Enrich Engineering Pvt.	Facts
Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said sale was affirmed by the Allahabad High Court vide order dated 9th February, 2000.	Facts
Pursuant to the order of the Allahabad High Court dated 10th September, 2003 the Official Liquidator issued sale certificate dated 12th March, 2004 in favour of respondentCompany.14.	Facts
The appellantCorporation was not a party in the winding up proceedings nor was any notice issued to the appellantCorporation by the Official Liquidator.	Facts
On knowing about transfer of the rights of the original allottee	Facts
M s Tyres Tubes Co.	Facts
Pvt. Ltd., the appellantCorporation demanded transfer levy amounting to Rs.3,80,621.25/ from respondentCompany.	Facts
According to the appellant, such demand was made from the respondentCompany, as the said company had purchased M s Tyres Tubes Co. Pvt. Ltd., with all its assets and liabilities.15.	Facts
Against the demand, respondentCompany preferred a writ petition being Civil Misc.	Facts
Writ Petition No.56982 of 2005 before the Allahabad High Court which was allowed by the impugned judgment dated 27th April, 2006.	Facts
The demand notice was set aside by the High Court in view of judgment rendered in another similar case.	Facts
M s Super Tannery (India) Ltd.(A Company registered under the Companies Act, 1956)16.	Facts
The appellantCorporation entered into an agreement dated 10th October, 1990 with one M s Super Agro Tech Ltd. for setting up of specialty paper unit in industrial plot nos.	Facts
A9 and A10 admeasuring approximately 45,080/ square meters in Industrial Area Unnao Site2.	Facts
No right whatsoever in regard to transfer of said plots were given to the licensee M s Super Agro Tech Ltd.	Facts
The possession of the said plots was handed over on 25th January, 1991 and subsequently lease was also executed.	Facts
M s	Facts
Super Agro Tech Ltd. thereafter did not set up any specialty paper unit and no investment was made.	Facts
According to the appellantCorporation said licensee M s Super Agro Tech Ltd. with a view to enrich itself started amalgamation proceeding with the new company namely M s Super Tannery (India) Ltd.respondent herein.	Facts
The said amalgamation was a mutual understanding between M s Super Agro Tech Ltd. and M s Super Tannery (	Facts
India) Ltd.	Facts
The Allahabad High Court vide order dated 9th May, 1997 sanctioned the amalgamation in Company Petition No.32 of 1997.	Facts
Though the land belongs to the appellantCorporation, it was not made a party to the said petition.	Facts
According to the appellantCorporation, the amalgamation does not create any right whatsoever on respondentM s Super Tannery (India) Ltd. over industrial plots in question and the said two plots cannot be legally transferred to the new Company i.e. M s Super Tannery (India) Ltd.17.	Facts
The respondentSuper Tannery (India) Ltd. made an application for the transfer of the said industrial plot.	Facts
On such request, the appellantCorporation demanded transfer levy from M s Super Tannery (India) Ltd. for transfer of the said industrial plot.	Facts
However, no amount was deposited.	Facts
The Corporation by notice dated 3rd November, 2001 demanded a sum of Rs.34,23,954.51/ as on that date from M s Super Tannery (India) Ltd. towards transfer levy.	Facts
The aforesaid notice was challenged by the respondentM s Super Tannery (India) Ltd. by filing a writ petition being Civil Misc.	Facts
Writ Petition No.18535 of 2002 before Allahabad High Court and the same was allowed, by the impugned judgment dated 22nd August, 2007 following the decision rendered in another case.	Facts
Case wise stand of the parties and finding of this Court.	Facts
Monsanto Manufactures Private Ltd. Learned counsel for the appellantCorporation submitted that the respondentCompany has violated Clause 3(p) of lease deed dated 5th September, 1979 entered into between the said Company and appellantCorporation inasmuch as its Memorandum of Association and Article of Association were altered without the written consent of Lessor i.e. appellantCorporation.	None
In view of the same the appellantCorporation has the right to determine the said lease deed dated 5th September, 1979.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, according to counsel for the respondent as the Company has got separate legal status and the Corporation has allotted the industrial plot to it by name and not in the name of its Directors, the Directors being only officials working on behalf of the Company, mere change of names of Directors or shareholders does not in any way or manner affect the legality or status of the respondentCompany.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further contended that change of names of Directors, shareholders duly done within the purview of the Companies Act, 1956, does not affect the legal status of the respondentCompany and much less there has been any transfer of the site by the Company to any other individual person.	Arguments of Respondent
For deciding the issue involved in the present case it is necessary to refer certain clauses of licence agreement, lease deed and guidelines issued by the appellantCorporation which are common in all the cases.	None
Clause 4(h) of the licence agreement prohibits licensees acts to directly or indirectly transfer, assignment, sale, encumber or part with its interest under the benefit of the said Agreement without previous consent in writing of the Grantor, relevant portion of which reads as follows 4(h).	None
That the Licence will not directly or indirectly transfer, assign, sell, encumber or part with its interest under or the benefit of this Agreement or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever without the previous consent in writing of the Grantor and it shall be open to the Grantor to refuse such consent or grant the same subject to such conditions as may be laid down by the Grantor in the behalf.	None
SubClause (p) of Clause 3 of lease deed also prohibits any alteration in the Memorandum and Articles of Association or in its capital structure without the written consent of the Lessor, relevant portion of which reads as follows 3(p) That the Lessee being a registered partnership firm declares, affirms and undertakes that during the subsistence of the terms of this agreement, the said partnership shall not be dissolved, reconstituted or wound up, and or dealt with in any way which may jeopardize the rights and interests of the Lessor in the matter of this lease, nor shall its constitution be altered in any manner otherwise written consent of the Lessor, first and obtained, and it shall not stand dissolved on the death or insolvency of any of its partnersORThe Lessee being an individual or sole proprietor of a firm, shall not allow any person(s) as partner(s) with him without the prior written consent of the LessorORThe Lessee being a Company shall not make or attempt to make any alterations, whatsoever in the provisions of its Memorandum and Articles of Association or in its capital structure without the written consent of the Lessor, first had and obtained, and the Lessee hereby undertakes to get registered the prescribed particulars of the charge hereunder created with Registrar of Joint Stock Companies under Section 126 of Companies Act, 1956, within stipulated period.	None
While granting its consent as aforesaid the Lessor may require the successor in interest of the Lessee to enter into a binding contract with the Lessor to abide by and faithfully carry out the terms, conditions, stipulations, provisos and agreements herein contained or such other terms and conditions as the Lessor may, in its discretion, impose including the payment by the successorininterest such additional premium and or enhanced rent as the Lessor may in its discretion think proper.	None
In the even of breach of this condition the agreement shall be determined at the discretion of the Lessor.	None
Provided that the right to determine this agreement under this clause will not be exercised if the industry at the premises has been financed by the State Government or the Industrial Finance Corporation of India or the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India, or the U.P. Financial Corporation or Pradeshiya Industrial and Investment Corporation of Uttar Pradesh or any scheduled bank(including the State Bank of India) and the said financing body or bodies mentioned above decide to take over possession or sell, or lease or assign the mortgaged assets in exercise vesting in it or them by virtue of the deeds or deed executed in its or their favour by the Lessee as provided herein above, or under any law for the time being in force.	None
The Corporation has issued guidelines for transfer reconstruction in respect of the plots in the industrial area of the Corporation.	None
Clause 6.01(E) of the said guidelines prescribes Transfer Levy and Clause 6.01(F) defines transfer.	None
The aforesaid provisions reads as follows 6.01(E) Transfer Levy  per sq.m.	None
5 to 15 of the rate of premium in fast moving areas and 2.5 to 7.5 of the current premium in slow moving areas prevailing on the date of issuance of transfer approval letter will be changed as applicable.	None
While calculating the transfer levy the locational charges of a particular plot will not be considered and only basic premium will be taken into account.6.01(F) Transfer  Means disposal of controlling interest in the venture by the existing allottee.	None
In the case of reconstitution, the existing allottee retains controlling interest except in case, where interest is transferred to family members as defined in 6.3(iv)(a) below or where there is change in the constitution of the allottee due to inheritance, succession or operation of law.	None
In the present case the entire shareholding of Goyal family headed by Mr. Amar Nath Goyal in the said company was transferred to the MehtaLamba Family.	Reasoning
The entire list of shareholders, Managing Director and Board of Directors was provided by Monsanto to the appellantCorporation vide letter dated 7.5.1994.	Reasoning
The record shows that the original subscribers of shares were members of Goyal family and the entire shareholding was transferred to MehtaLamba family.	Reasoning
Therefore, the original subscribers of shares of respondent No. 1 Company were totally changed.25.	Reasoning
The Memorandum of Association of a company limited by shares mandatorily prescribes in TableB (TableB of 1956 Act and TableA of 2013 Act deals with Company Limited by shares) of the Companies Act mandatorily prescribed that the names, addresses, description, occupation of subscribers shall be given in Memorandum of Association.	Reasoning
In this case as the original subscribers of shares were changed in 1994, there was material alteration in the Memorandum of Association of respondent no. 1 Company.26.	Reasoning
It was also contended that there was an alteration in Articles of Association of respondent no. 1 Company as well.	Reasoning
The last column of Articles of Association also mandatorily provides for giving names, addresses and description of subscribers.	Reasoning
In this case, the subscribers of shares has been completely changed from the Goyal Family to MehtaLamba Family and hence there was material alteration of Articles of Association of the respondent no. 1 Company.27.	Reasoning
In this case, the ownership of a huge Industrial plot measuring 14,533 sq. ft.	Reasoning
in the prestigious and economically affluent area of Sahibabad (Ghaziabad) has been transferred from Goyal family to the Mehta Lamba family for material financial gains, by adopting clever means that too without taking written consent of the Lessor i.e. appellantCorporation.	Reasoning
There are many instances examples in which the lessee gets allotment of huge industrial plots and thereafter sells the same for huge monetary gains.	Reasoning
This adversely affects the aims and objectives of appellantCorporation i.e. the planned development of industrial areas in the State of Uttar Pradesh.	Reasoning
The Honble High Court ought not to have interfered in the matter looking into the public interest involved and Clause 3(p) of the lease deed.	Reasoning
P. Twiga Fiberglass Limited Similar submissions as made in the above case were made by the learned counsel for the appellant in the present case also.	None
It was contended that the respondentU.P. Twiga Fiberglass Ltd. has violated Clause 3(p) of lease deed dated 27th May,1977 entered between the said company and appellantCorporation inasmuch as its Memorandum of Association, Articles of Association and capital structure were altered without the written consent of Lessor appellantCorporation and in view of the same, the appellantCorporation has the right to determine the said lease deed dated 27th May,1977.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, according to the respondent, the aforesaid contention(s) are fallacious, misconceived and untenable.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the respondent made the following submissions The LeaseDeed dated 27th May, 1977 has been executed by the respondentcompany, in the capacity of a lessee.	Arguments of Respondent
Consequently, the provisions of the LeaseDeed obligate the Lessee the Company and not its shareholder(s)ii) The LeaseDeed contains no clause whatsoever, that authorises such levy of transferfee, nor does it prohibit any change in the shareholding of the respondentcompany.	Arguments of Respondent
Even otherwise, such change in shareholding was committed with the express consent and approval of the petitioneriii)	Arguments of Respondent
Law recognises a categorical distinction between a Company and its shareholders, who have otherwise no right whatsoever on the assets of a company.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance was placed on Constitution Bench decision in Bacha F. Guzdar, Bombay vs.Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay, AIR 1955 SC 74 , which observed as followsA shareholder has got no interest in the property of the company though he has undoubtedly a right to participate in the profits if and when the company decides to divide them.	Arguments of Respondent
Andthe Company is a juristic person and is distinct from the shareholders.	Arguments of Respondent
It is the Company which owns the property and not the shareholders.iv) In a relationship between the Lessor and a Lessee, it is the LeaseDeed which is paramount and whose contents are binding on the parties.v)	Arguments of Respondent
A unilateral guideline issued by the Lessor cannot be held applicable or binding to a lessee.	Arguments of Respondent
On the face of the lease deed, such guideline has no binding force.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, change in shareholding was admittedly done with the express consent approval of the appellant andvi)	Arguments of Respondent
Any fee, penalty, compensation, damages or transfer charges to be claimed by the lessor from the lessee must necessarily be provided in the leasedeed.	Arguments of Respondent
Otherwise, such fee, penalty, compensation, damages or transfer charges being beyond the terms of the LeaseDeed cannot be sought or claimed by the Lessor Thus the levy of transferfee as sought and claimed by the appellant is illegal, misconceived and untenable, being beyond the terms of the lease deed.	Arguments of Respondent
It is not a transfer in law, since transfer in shareholding does not amount to any transfer in the Companys assets, immovable or otherwise.	Arguments of Respondent
It is equally not a transfer in fact, since the provisions of the LeaseDeed do not recognise nor prohibit any such transfer.vii) The Guidelines and in particular Clause 6.01(F) is not applicable in the present case as there has been no disposal of controlling interest in the venture by an existing allottee.	Arguments of Respondent
Undoubtedly, the respondentcompany is the existing allottee and the respondentcompany has not disposed its controlling interest in the venture.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, there is no transfer even upon a literal construction of the Guidelines.	Arguments of Respondent
It is not in dispute that the appellantCorporation on 27th May, 1977 allotted huge plot measuring 1,10,926 sq. mtrs.	None
to respondent no. 1 Company in the industrial area, Sikandarabad, Bulandshehar on nominal amount.	None
The respondent no. 1 clearly admitted that it had a huge debt of Rs.13,14,00,000/ the different financial institutions and, therefore, it sold shares of company, its own shares, shares of promoters and shares of financial institutions to the foreign company, namely,	None
M s Rotar Ltd.	None
The appellantCorporation in written statement filed in Suit No. 876/1996 clearly and categorically mentioned that the shares of original promoters were transferred in the name of new promoters of foreign company and therefore, the appellantCorporation demanded list of new shareholders and Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company.	None
The change of original promoters shares to the new promoters means the subscribers of shares were changed and, therefore, there is material change in the Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association of the Company.	None
The appellantCorporation clearly brought on record that there is change in Capital Structure of the company and the Capital structure in common parlance means debtequity ratio.	Reasoning
In this case admittedly there a huge amount of Rs. 13,14,00,000/ was funded by the foreign company, i.e. M s Rotar Ltd. towards settling the debt.	Reasoning
In this background the appellant alleged that there is change in debtequity ratio resulting alteration in the capital structure of the company.33.	Reasoning
There is larger public interest involved in incorporating alteration in Capital Structure in Clause 3(p) of the lease deed.	Reasoning
There are many instances where the company takes loan from third parties on the security and land and structure allotted to them in lease, keeping in dark the lessor which amounts to incurring liabilities on the property without the knowledge of the lessor.	Reasoning
In this case also there was huge amount of debt on the company as it took loan on land and building factory from different financial institutions.	Reasoning
Therefore, there is public interest involved for which consent of lessor was necessary.	Reasoning
M s Enrich Engineering Works Pvt.	None
Ltd	Arguments of Petitioner
In this case also similar submission has been made by the parties.	None
It is not in dispute that the huge plot of about 40, 489 8.35 sq. yards in the industrial area of Rai Bareilly (U.P.) was allotted by appellantCorporation to M s Tyres and Tubes Company Pvt.	None
Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
As the said company suffered heavy losses, on 9.1.1996 the company Judge of Allahabad High Court appointed Official Liquidator and perused High Courts Order on 12.3.2004 the said company was sold to M s Enrich Engineering Works Pvt. Ltd., by the Official Liquidator.	None
Learned counsel for the respondent submitted that it was a case of reconstitution and therefore payment of transfer fee does not arise.	Arguments of Respondent
However, such submission can not be accepted in view of Clause 6.01(E) (F) of the guidelines.	Arguments of Respondent
The fact that there is a change of hand of the asset including the land in question by transfer.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the respondent is liable to pay transfer fee.	Arguments of Respondent
M s Super Tannery (India) Ltd. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the huge plot of 45080 sq. mtrs.	None
in Kanpur was allotted to M s Supre Ago Tech Ltd. For establishing and running a Specialty Paper Industry.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this case, only a License Agreement dated 10.10.1990 was executed by UPSIDC and the admitted fact on record is that no lease deed was executed by UPSIDC with M s Super Agro Tech.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the above, M s Super Agro Tech Ltd. was merely a licensee and as per the license agreement dated 10.10.1990 it had no authority whatsoever to transfer the said industrial land to	None
M s Super Tannery (I) Ltd.	Reasoning
On the other hand, according to the learned counsel for the respondents, due to various constraints over head costs and financial hardship company became non viable and the major production activities was not feasible to run the company.	Arguments of Respondent
In order to avoid the future problem a scheme of amalgamation was prepared as per the provisions of the Companies Act, seeking amalgamation under Chapter V of the Companies Act.	Arguments of Respondent
A joint application was filed before the Allahabad High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court vide order dated 9.5.1997 allowed the petition for amalgamation and sanctioned the scheme of amalgamation and ordered that M s Super Agro will be merged into	Arguments of Respondent
M s Super Tannery (India) Ltd.	Reasoning
In the present case it has not been denied that respondent company M s Super Tannery (India) Ltd. and the other company Super Agro Tech.	Reasoning
Ltd. are family held companies of the same family having common Directors Promoters.	Reasoning
Pursuant to the order of amalgamation by the High Court the plot of land in question namely A9, A10, Industrial Area Unnao SiteII which was allotted to Super Agro Tech.	Reasoning
Ltd. became the asset of the respondent company M s	Reasoning
Super Tannery (India) Ltd.	Reasoning
As per Amalgamation Scheme, all the property, rights and power of Super Agro Tech. Ltd., having its office at 184/170, Jajmau Kanpur was transferred without further act or deed to M s Super Tannery (India) Ltd.	Reasoning
Thus it is clear that by the order of the Court the premises in question was transferred in favour of the other Company.41.	Reasoning
In view of the aforesaid facts as noticed in each case, we hold that the appellant rightly issued notice demanding transfer fee from each of the respondents and there was no reason for the High Court to interfere with the same.	Reasoning
For the reason aforesaid, we set aside the impugned judgments dated 11th May, 2004 in C.W.P.No.5094 of 2000, 24th October, 2005 in Second Appeal No.1425 of 2000, 27th April, 2006 in Civil Misc.W.P.No.56982 of 2005 and 22nd August, 2007 in C.M. Writ Petition No.18535 of 2002 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad and allow the appeals.	Decision
