 Jagannadhadas, J.1.	None
This is an appeal by special leave against the judgment and order of the Election Tribunal, Akola, Madhya Pradesh, dated 151953, dismissing the election petition filed by the appellants.	None
It relates to the election for the Akola constituency of the State Assembly of Madhya Pradesh which was held on 13121951, and the result of which was notified in the Gazette on 441952.	Facts
The two appellants are the electors of the said constituency.	Facts
Respondent 1 was the successful candidate at the election.	None
Respondents 2, 3 and 4 were the other three candidates who, having been validly nominated went to the polls but were defeated.	Facts
The appellants filed the election petition under S. 80, Representation of the People Act, 1951 (Act 43 of 1951) (hereinafter referred to as the Act) for setting aside the election on various allegations.	Facts
The petition was filed on 1941952, before the Election Commission at Delhi and was admittedly one day beyond the prescribed time.	Facts
The Election Commission admitted the petition after condoning the delay under the proviso to S. 85 of the Act and thereupon constituted a Tribunal for the trial of the petition at Akola by notifications dated 3071952, and 2291952.	Facts
In due course respondent 1 appeared and filed his written statement on 6101952 and the petitioners filed their reply thereto on 16101952.	Facts
With reference to these pleadings, the Tribunal was of the opinion that it was advisable to frame certain preliminary issues and to dispose of the same before entering on the trial of the case on its merits.	Facts
Accordingly, nine preliminary issues were framed.	None
These nine issues substantially cover the following questions (1) Whether the election petition was presented by a properly authorised person.	Facts
(2) Whether there was sufficient cause for presentation of the petition one day out of time.	Facts
(3) Whether the petition was defective for nonjoinder of certain parties as respondents.	None
(4) Whether the petition is defective for want of proper verification.	Facts
(5) Whether the petition was defective for vagueness of the particulars relating to the corrupt practices set out in Sch.	Facts
A thereto.	None
The Tribunal found only the first of the above points in favour of the petitioners by a majority.	Facts
But in respect of the other four points, it held against the petitioners unanimously.	Facts
As a result of the adverse findings on these four points, the petition was dismissed without any trial on the merits.	Facts
It is against this dismissal that the appellants have now come up to this Court on obtaining special leave.2.	Facts
Before dealing with the merits of the appeal, it may be mentioned that at an early stage of these proceedings before the Tribunal, an objection was taken to the composition of the Tribunal on the allegation that one of the members, Shri A. S. Athalye was not competent to be a member thereof on account of his alleged bias in favour of respondent1.	Facts
The bias was sought to be made out by showing that shortly before the election, Shri Athalye had written a letter to respondent 1 offering to assist him in his election campaign.	None
On objection being taken, the Tribunal stayed its hands for a preliminary decision of that question.	None
Meanwhile, the petitioners took proceedings in the High Court far the quashing of the constitution of the Tribunal on the above ground by means of an application under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution.	Facts
That application was dismissed after hearing both sides.	Facts
Thereupon the petitioners moved this Court for special leave against the order of the High Court.	Facts
But this Court declined to grant leave.	Facts
Learned counsel for the appellants attempted to attack the validity of the decision of the Tribunal now under appeal on the same ground.	Reasoning
But this having been already determined against the petitioners in the previous proceedings, we declined to allow the matter to be reopened.	Reasoning
On the other side, the learned AttorneyGeneral for respondent 1 attempted to reopen before us the question as to whether the petition was presented to the Election Commission by an authorised person, which as stated above, was found against him by a majority of the Tribunal.	Reasoning
The ground on which he attempted to reopen this question was that the finding was based on a wrong view as to the burden of proof.	Reasoning
We were not prepared, however, to permit this finding of fact to be reopened in this appeal on special leave, irrespective of the question whether the burden of proof was rightly laid on the petitioners.3.	None
The only points, therefore, that have been argued before are whether the view taken by the Tribunal with reference to the following questions, viz.	Issue
(1) limitation, (2) joinder of parties, (3) verification, and (4) specification of particulars of corrupt practices in Sch.	None
A attached to the petition, is correct, and if so, whether the same entailed dismissal of the petition.	Issue
The questions may be taken up one after the other.4.	None
Limitation As stated above, the petition was filed on 1941952, admittedly one day beyond time.	Facts
On 2841952, the petitioners filed also an application for condonation of delay setting out the reasons for the same.	Facts
In paras. 3, 4 and 5 thereof the circumstances under which the delay is said to have occurred were set out as follows3	None
The applicants were under the belief that notice under R.113 of the Rules framed under the above Act was published on 541952.	None
in the Official Gazette of the State of Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
They felt therefore that their petition was duly presented within 14 days as prescribed by R.119 Applicants, however learned that actually the notice under R. 113 was published in the Official Gazette of 441952.	Facts
It therefore appears that there was delay of one day in the representation of the election petition .	Facts
This delay occurred under the following circumstances.4.	Facts
The application prepared their election petition on 1741952.	Facts
They sent the said petition with Shri P. B. Gole, Senior Advocate, Akola with a written authority to present the petition through any person of his choice at Nagpur on the 18th April.	Facts
They also sent with Shri Gole Rs. 1,000 for being deposited in the Government Treasury at Nagpur as required by S. 117 of the Act and to obtain Treasury receipt for security of costs to be filed with the petition.	Facts
The applicants were under the belief that an officer must have been appointed by the Election Commission under S. 81 of the Act to whom election petitions could be represented for the State of Madhya Pradesh at Nagpur.	Facts
Accordingly Shri Gole left Akola for Nagpur by the 1 Down Nagpur Mail, reaching Nagpur at about 930 A.M. on 1841952.5.	Facts
Mr. Gole caused the deposit of Rs. 1,000 security for costs to be made in the Government Treasury at Nagpur through Mr. Sidhaye, Advocate, Nagpur, and obtained the necessary Government Treasury receipt on 1841952.	Facts
He then made enquiries about the officer who may have been appointed to receive the election petitions.	Facts
He consulted R. S. Rangole, who was attached to the Election Office at Nagpur.	Facts
On enquiries Shri Gole learnt that there was none at Nagpur, who was authorised to receive election petition under the Act.	None
Under these circumstances Shri Gole booked a seat in the Night Plane for Delhi and flew to Delhi on the 18th and reached there on the morning on 1941952.	None
On 19th April Shri Gole caused the petition to be presented to the Secretary to the Election Commission.	Facts
The explanation thus furnished was accepted by the Election Commission as appears from the intimation to the petitioners by letter dated 3071952.	None
The Tribunal was of the opinion that notwithstanding the order of the Election Commission condoning the delay and admitting the petition, it was free to reconsider the question by virtue of the powers vested in it under S. 90 (4) of the Act.	Facts
In this view it went into the merits of the explanation furnished and came to the conclusion that the petitioners were negligent and that the delay, even of one day, could not be condoned.	Facts
It accordingly held that the petition was liable to be dismissed as barred by time.	Facts
Now, apart from the merits of the sufficiency of the cause for delay, the question as to whether, notwithstanding the condonation of the delay by the Election Commission, it was open to a Tribunal to reconsider the matter by virtue of S. 90(4) of the Act, is now covered by the decision of this Court reported in  Dinabandhu Sahu v. Jadumoni Mangaraj AIR 1954 SC 411 (A).	None
It was therein held that it was not open to the Tribunal to reconsider the matter in such a case.	Reasoning
The conclusion of the tribunal, therefore, on this point cannot be maintained.	None
The learned AttorneyGeneral attempted to argue that the decision of this Court referred to above was obiter as regards the legal point and required further consideration.	None
But we were not prepared to permits that question to reopened.	Reasoning
We were also not satisfied that there was any adequate reason for the Tribunal to interfere with the view taken by the Election Commission condoning the delay of one day on the explanation furnished to it.	Reasoning
This explanation has not been found, even by the Tribunal , to be false.5.	None
Joinder of Parties The objection as to Joinder of parties arises as follows.	Facts
Three persons by name Shri Sohoni, Shri Kulkarni, and Shri Kothkar were nominated as candidates at the election.	Facts
Their nominations were found to be in order on scrutiny by the Returning Officer.	Facts
But within the time allowed, these three withdrew from the elections under S. 37 of the Act.	Facts
The petitioners while they impleaded as respondents the three unsuccessful candidates who went to the polls, did not implead these three persons.	Facts
The view taken by the Tribunal was that these were also necessary parties and that their nonjoinder rendered the petition liable for dismissal.	Facts
In support of their view, the Tribunal relied upon S. 82 of the Act which is, as follows A petitioner shall join as respondents to his petition all the candidates who were duly nominated at the election other than himself if he was so nominated.	Facts
It has been argued before us that this view it erroneous that persons who filed their nominations and who withdrew from the contest within the prescribed time in spite of their nominations having been found to be in order on scrutiny by the Returning Officer, cannot be said to fall within the category of candidates duly nominated at the election.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this contention two decisions Sitaram Hirachand v. Yograjsing, AIR 1953	None
Bom 293 (B) and  Sheo Kumar v. V. G. Oak, AIR 1953	None
All 633 (C) have been cited.	None
On the other side the case in  Mohammad Umair v. Ram Charan Singh , AIR 1954 Pat 225 (D) was brought to our notice in support of the view taken by the Tribunal.	None
These three decisions have treated the decision of the question as depending on a construction of the phrase at the election in S. 82 of the Act.	None
The Bombay and Allahabad cases hold that this phrase confines the necessary parties under this section to those who were candidates for the actual poll, while the Patna High Court takes the view that the phrase at the election has no such limiting significance.	None
It appears to us to be unnecessary and academic to go into this judicial controversy having regard to the decision of this Court in Jagan Nath v. Jaswant Singh, AIR 1954 SC 210 (E).	None
If we were called upon to settle this controversy, we would prefer to base the decision not on any meticulous construction of the phrase at the election but on a comprehensive consideration of the relevant provisions of the Act and of the rules framed thereunder and of the purpose, if any of the requirement under S. 82 as to the joinder of parties other than the returned candidate.	None
We are, however, relieved from this since it has been decided in AIR 1954 SC 210 (E) that evenif any of the necessary parties other than the returned candidate has not been impleaded, the petition is not liable to be dismissed in limine on that sole ground but that it is a matter to be taken into consideration at the appropriate stage with reference to the final result of the case.	Reasoning
In view of this ruling the decision of the Tribunal on this point also cannot be maintained.6.	None
Verification The view taken by the Tribunal on this question is based on S. 83 (1) of the Act which is as follows An election petition shall contain a concise statement of the material facts on which the petitioner relies and shall be signed by the petitioner and verified in the manner laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, l908, for the verification of pleadings.	None
The relevant provision in the Civil Procedure Code referred to herein is O. 6, R. 15, cls.	None
(2) and (3), which are as follows(2)	None
The person verifying shall specify, by reference to the numbered paragraphs of the pleading, what he verifies of his own knowledge and what he verifies upon information received and believed to be true.(3)	Facts
The verification shall be signed by the person making it and shall state the date on which and the place at which it was signed.	Facts
In the present case the verification of the petition as well as the schedule of particulars of corrupt practices are each signed by both the petitioners and there is now no dispute about it.	Facts
The verification clause in the petition is as follows The above named applicants hereby affirm that the contents of the above petition are true to information received from the press reports and several other electors and believed by them to be true.	Facts
Signed and verified at Akola on The verification clause relating to the particulars of corrupt practices in Sch.	Facts
A is as follows The abovenamed applicants affirm that the contents in this schedule are true to information received and believed by us to be true.	Facts
Signed and verified at Akola on In the view of the Tribunal there were two defects in these verifications.	Facts
They do not refer to any numbered paragraphs nor do they bear the dates on which they were signed.	Facts
In the view of the Tribunal the petition was liable to dismissal for noncompliance with the specific provision in the Act in this behalf.	Facts
That the verification neither in the petition nor in the schedule of particulars bears any date is not disputed.	Facts
But it is contended that the view taken by the Tribunal in so far as it was of the opinion that the verifications do not refer to any numbered paragraphs is unsustainable.	None
It is pointed out that the statements in the verification were clearly meant to convey that the various allegations in the petition and schedule were, in their entirely, based on information and belief.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged, therefore, that there was no scope and hence no need to specify which based on personal knowledge and which upon information.	None
We agree with this contention.	None
It is to be noticed that a verified pleading is different from an affidavit which, by virtue of O. 19, R. 3, is specifically required to be confined to such facts as the deponent is able of his own knowledge to prove (except on interlocutory applications, on which statements of his belief may be admitted, provided that the grounds thereof are stated).But there is not  and in the nature of things here cannot be  any such limitation for pleadings.	Reasoning
Hence it became necessary in the verification of a pleading to demarcate clearly between the two.	Reasoning
The allegations in the petition in this case purport to he based only on information.	Reasoning
Since the verification clauses refer to the entirety of the petition and the attached schedule, absence of enumeration of the various paragraphs therein as having been based on information cannot be considered to be a defect.	Reasoning
The verifications are accordingly defective only as, regards the requirement of the dates thereof.	None
The question is whether the petition is liable to dismissal on this ground.	None
Though there may be cases where the date of the pleading and the verification may be relevant and important, it would be a wrong exercise of discretionary power to dismiss an application on the sole ground of absence of date of verification.	Reasoning
In such a case the applicants should normally be called upon to remove the lacuna by adding a supplementary verification indicating the date of the original verification and the reason for the earlier omission.7.	None
Particulars of Corrupt Practices The objection is based on S. 83(2) of the Act which is as follows The petition shall be accompanied by a list signed and verified in like manner setting forth full particulars of any corrupt or illegal practice which the petitioner alleges, including as full a statement as possible as to the names of the parties alleged to have committed such corrupt or illegal practice and the date and place of the Commission of each such practice.	Facts
The objection is that the particulars of the instances furnished in Sch.	None
A to the petition are all of them vague and not in compliance with the above provision.	Facts
The list of particulars is as follows SCHEDULE AList of particulars of instances referred in the accompanying petition.1.	Facts
That in the month of December, 1951.	None
respondent 1 has been to the premises of Akola Shree Gurudwara, where the Local Sikh Community had assembled to listen to the recitation of the holy book Granth Saheb on the 7th day of the death of daughter of one Sardar Suratsingh,At this meeting respondent 1 canvassed for votes for himself and paid Rs. 201/, apparently as donation to the Gurudwara, but really as gift for inducing the Sikh Community in the Akola Constituency in general and the Sikhs assembled in particular to induce them to vote for himself at the ensuing election.	Facts
Respondent 1 was guilty of bribery within the meaning of that term in S. 123 Representation of the People Act.	Facts
Similar instances of giving illegal gratifications for securing votes of respective groups are(a) Donation to Hariharpeth Akhada (b) Payment to Panchbungalow committtee of Bhangis of Old City.(c) Donation to Bhaji Bazar Association.(d) Distribution of blankets and saries and money to voters.2.	Facts
At the instance of respondent 1 a meeting of workers in Berar Oil Industries  a concern of Birla, was called by its manager on the eve of the election and they were threatened to vote for respondent 1 on pain of losing their service or suffer pecuniary loss, in case they did not vote for respondent1.	Facts
The poster of the rival candidate affixed on the postoffice within the premises of the Berar Oil Industries was removed and stolen away.3.	Facts
Respondent 1 caused groups and sections of castes and communities, such as Bohora, Lohars.	Facts
Marwaries, Muslims, Rajasthanies, Bhangies, to issue appeals stating that resolutions were passed for voting for respondent 1, coercing the voters by threats etc., to vote for respondent 1 and openly canvassing on communal and caste lines and using undue influence.4.	Facts
Issuing pamphlets and handbills without names of printer or publisher.5.	Facts
At the time of counting votes in Polling Station No. 53, several folded bundles amounting to about 20 in number, of ballot papers were found in the ballot box of respondent 1, when it was opened for counting votes.	Facts
This was noted by the Returning Officer.	Facts
Each bundle consisted three or more than three ballot papers, folded together.	Facts
Obviously each of the bundle of these ballot papers were put in the ballot box by one person, as the ballot papers put in the ballot box by different voters could not automatically fold themselves into a compact bundle in the ballot box.	Facts
The ballot papers issued to voters were not put in the box by the voters themselves, but were illegally brought back by the voters and handed over to persons working for and on behalf of respondent 1 on payment of illegal gratification.	Facts
These ballot papers thus collected were bundled together and put in the ballot box by persons working for and on behalf of respondent 1 by taking illegal gratifications.	Facts
This was done on 31121951, at Chandur by persons with the connivance of respondent 1.6.	Facts
False personation of several dead voters and voters absent in Pakistan has taken place in Wards Nos. 12 and 15.7.	Facts
Respondent 1 resorted to false propaganda.	Facts
His man announced on loud speakers from place to place that rival candidate Dr. Joglekar was of the caste and party of Godse, the murderer of Mr. Gandhi and a vote for him was a vote for Gandhis murderer.	Facts
Another false propaganda was that Dr. Joglekar was Mishras man, supported by Mishras money.	Facts
Lectures for respondent 1 in public meetings, including respondent 1 have freely made these false defamatory and malicious statements against Dr. Joglekar, the rival candidate and thus prejudiced the prospects of Dr. Joglekars election.	Facts
Personal character and conduct of Dr. Joglekar was also falsely attacked, thus prejudicing his prospects of election.8.	Facts
Voters were carried in hired carts at many polling stations, particularly at Kapshi Polling Station.	Facts
This was arranged by persons working for and on behalf of respondent 1 at his expense and connivance.	Facts
A written objection for police enquiry was given at Kapshi and one in Rifle Range area.9.	Facts
Respondent 1 spent lacs of rupees over his election transgressing the prescribed limit of Rs.	Facts
6,000/. He has given a totally untrue return of election expenses.	Facts
This is in contravention of law.10.	Facts
Mohota Mills released workers and paid them for canvassing work for respondent 1 on polling day.	Facts
Substitutes for these workers were engaged by the mills and they were also paid.	Facts
This was done at the instance of respondent 1.There can be no doubt that almost all the instances hereinabove set out are extremely vague and lack sufficient particulars.	None
Learned counsel for the appellants invited our attention to the fact that the Tribunal, while considering the question of vagueness dealt only with the instances of corrupt practices specified in paras.	None
1(a), l (b), 1(c), 1(d), 2,4,5, 6, 7 and 8 and not others.	Arguments of Petitioner
He accordingly contended that, by implication, the Tribunal was not prepared to hold that items mentioned in paras 1, 3, 9 and l0 were vague.	Arguments of Petitioner
He urged that at least these four items must be taken not to be vague and that there is no reason why the petitioners should not have been called upon to amend the schedule by furnishing better particulars as to the rest.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further urged that, at any rate, they were entitled to a trial in respect of those four items of corrupt practices.	None
We cannot agree with learned counsel for the appellants that the items set out in paras 3, 9 and l0 are not vague.	None
There is no specification therein of the requisite details which the Act in terms requires.	None
Section 83 (2) requires not only what may reasonably be considered full particulars having regard to the nature of each allegation, but enjoins in terms that the following particulars should also be given.(1) Names of the parties alleged to have committed the corrupt or illegal practice.	None
(2) The date of the commission of each such corrupt or illegal practice.	None
(3) The place of commission of each such corrupt or illegal practice.	None
There can be no reasonable doubt that the requirement of full particulars is one that has got to be complied with with sufficient fullness and clarification so as to enable the opposite party fairly to meet them and that they must be such as not to turn the enquiry before the Tribunal into a rambling and roving inquisition.	None
On a careful scrutiny of the list in Sch.	None
A we are satisfied that none of the items except that which is set out in para 1 of item No. 1 can be said to comply with the requirements of S. 83 (2).In this view of the contents of Sch.	None
A, the contention of the learned counsel for the appellants is that even so the Tribunal should have called upon the petitioners to furnish better particulars as regards all the other items, by virtue of the powers conferred on it under S. 83 (3), and in the alternative, it should have at least called upon them to substantiate the allegation in para 1 in item No. 1, which was sufficiently specific and which, if made out, might have resulted in the election being set aside.	None
On the question whether or not the Tribunal should have called upon the petitioners to amend the schedule by furnishing better particulars, the learned AttorneyGeneral for respondent 1 has invited our attention to the objection taken in the written statement as regards the vagueness of the particulars and to the various orders made by the Tribunal as appears from the ordersheet of the case.	Arguments of Respondent
In the written statement of respondent 1 para 9 is as follows 9 (a) It is, further, submitted that the petition ought to be dismissed as it does not contain concise statement of material facts on which the petitioners rely, similarly the list of particulars given in the Schedule or in the petition are not in compliance with S. 83(2).(b)	None
Without prejudice to the generality of this objection, it is further submitted that para V of petition read with para VI(e) will show that the particulars given in Schedule related to corrupt and illegal practices alleged to have been committed by respondent 1 and by his agents and persons working on behalf of respondent 1 with his connivance.	None
Such particulars are bad in law.	None
The applicants are bound to state the names of the persons who are alleged to have actually committed the corrupt or illegal practice.(c)	None
Paras 1 and 2 of the petition allege that there was no free election by reason of general bribery and undue influence exercised by and on behalf of respondent1.	None
Similarly the allegation in para 2 is that the coercion was the result of manipulation by or at the instance of respondent1.	None
Thus these allegations must be supported by giving the necessary particulars regarding the names, date and place of commission of corrupt or illegal practice alleged.	None
The allegations in paras 1 and 2 of the petition are allegations of corrupt and illegal practice within the meaning of Ss. 123, 124 and 125 of the Act, and are not allegations of a general character which do not implicate the candidate personally.(d)	None
Further by way of example, para 1 of the schedule, no names, date of the alleged practices are given.	None
Same is the case with the allegations in paras 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10.(e)	None
It is for the petitioners to satisfy the Election Commission and the Tribunal that the particulars given are according to law.	None
This has not been done and the petition, therefore, ought to be dismissed on this ground.	None
Now the ordersheet of the proceedings before the Tribunal discloses the following.	None
By order dated 16101952, the Tribunal decided that the case was in the first instance to be taken up for decision on the preliminary issues.	None
Having so decided it passed the following order.	None
We call upon the parties whether they want to add by way of amendment to the pleadings on facts which they have already made, as in some of the preliminary points the question of fact is involved.	None
The respondents do not want to add to their pleadings on facts in respect of the above preliminary issues.	None
the petitioners have made an application under O. 6, .R. 16, C. P. C. for striking out some portion in para 3b and para 4 (d) (2) of the written statement of respondent 1.On 1711953 the Tribunal passed the following orderRespondent 1 prays for time to amend his written statement and to ask for particulars.	None
In the interests of justice the time is granted The application for amendment and for particulars to be filed five days before the date of hearing and copies thereof be given to the petitioners.	None
The petitioners shall be ready with their replies on the date of hearing.	None
On 2711953, the order isThe petitioners have filed their reply to the amendment application of respondent 1.	None
The latter has attended his application, to which there was no objection.	None
On 2911953, the order isThe petitioners do not want to amend their pleadings in view of the amendment of the written statement.	None
In view of the specific objection taken in the written statement and the opportunities which the petitioners had for amending the petition which the above orders disclose, there is considerable force in the contention of the learned AttorneyGeneral that the petitioners, for some reasons best known to themselves, have come forward with a some what irresponsible petition and thatwhile the Court has undoubtedly the power to permit amendment of the schedule of corrupt practices by permitting the furnishing of better particulars as regards the items therein specified, there was no duty cast upon the Tribunal to direct suo motu the furnishing of better particulars.	None
It is true that the petitioners in the reply that they filed to the written statement of respondent 1 and in answer to the objection at the particulars as to the alleged corrupt practices were vague, said as followsThe petitioners are prepared to give further particulars if the Tribunal is pleased to permit under S. 83(3), Representation of the People Act,.	None
This reply was flied on 16101952, which is the very date on which the first of the above orders extracted from the ordersheet was passed.	None
It is also true that the orders dated 1711953, shows that respondent 1 at one stage, indicated on intention himself to ask for particulars.	None
But in a matter of this kind the primary responsibility for furnishing full particulars of the alleged corrupt practices and to file a petition in full compliance with S. 83(2) of the Act was on the petitioners.	None
While undoubtedly the Tribunal has, in our opinion, taken all too narrow a view of their function in dealing with the various alleged defects in the petition and in treating them as sufficient dismissal, the petitioners are not absolved from their duty to comply, of their own accord, with the requirements of S. 83(2) of the Act and to remove the defects when opportunity was available.	None
They cannot take shelter behind the fact that neither the Tribunal nor respondent 1 has, in terms , called upon them to furnish better particulars.8.	Reasoning
The position, therefore, on the question of compliance or otherwise of the requirements of S. 83 of the Act is that (1) the verifications in the petition and schedule are defective inasmuch as the dates thereof are not specified, and (2) the schedule of particulars consists of a number of items of which only one at best could have been taken up for inquiry by the Tribunal.	Reasoning
But all the rest were not only extremely vague but no amendment was applied for nor was an opportunity for amendment of pleadings in general, open on two occasions, availed of.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the appellants urges that however this may be, there was no justification for the Tribunal dismissing the petition in toto and that it was bound to have called upon the petitioners to substantiate the first allegation by evidence after striking out, if need be, the rest of the particulars under the powers vested in it under O. 6 R. l6, C. P. C. On the other hand the learned AttorneyGeneral for respondent 1 urges that in such a situation it was open to the Tribunal to consider whether, taking the petition as a whole and in its total effect, there was substantial compliance with the requirements of S. 83.He contends that if, in exercise of its judgment, it thought that there was substantial noncompliance, notwithstanding that one out of the various items may have been specific, it was not bound to exercise its discretion in favour of the petitioners by ordering a striking out of the various items and to direct the trial of the petition to be confined to one single item which may be in order.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Attorney General argues that this would be really making out for the petitioners a different petition from what they brought up before the Election Commission and that in this class of cases the Tribunal had the right and the duty to exercise great strictness in order that the machinery for setting aside elections might not be abused for the purpose of maligning the successful candidate by levelling vague and irresponsible charges against him.	Arguments of Respondent
While there is considerable force in this argument, we think that in a case of this kind the Tribunal when dealing with the matter in the early stages should not have dismissed the application.	None
It should have exercised its powers and called for better particulars, on noncompliance therewith, it should have ordered a striking out of such of the charges which remained vague and called upon the petitioners to substantiate the allegations in respect of those which were reasonably specific.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, of the opinion that, the order of the tribunal dismissing the petition outright was clearly erroneous.	Reasoning
Notwithstanding this opinion we would, in the normal course, not have felt called upon to interfere in this case under Art. 136 after this lapse of time and at the instance of persons like the appellants before us who are mere voters having no direct personal interest in the result of the election.9.	Reasoning
But there is one other circumstance in this case which we have noticed and which we feel we ought not to overlook, though in the course of the arguments the same was not brought to our notice.	None
Paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of the application for setting aside the election set out certain grounds of alleged disqualification of the returned candidate to stand for the election.	None
It is also stated therein that objections in this behalf were taken at the time of scrutiny of the nominations papers but that they were summarily overruled by the Returning Officer without any enquiry and that accordingly the objections to the disqualification have been raised in the application.	None
The objections are as follows 6.	None
The material facts in support of the grounds are as follows(a)	None
The election of candidate for the Madhya Pradesh State Assembly in the single member Akola Constituency was announced to be held on 3112195l.	None
Nominations were to be filed on or before 15111951, and scrutiny of nomination was due on 17ll1951.	None
At this time of scrutiny objection was taken to the nomination paper of respondent 1 on several grounds but the material grounds were that respondent 1 was disqualified for being chosen as and for being a Member of Madhya Pradesh State Assembly under Chapter III, S. 7(d), Representation of the People Act, 1951.	None
(Act 43 of 1951).That respondent 1 is disqualified to fill the seat under the Act, because he is the Managing Agent or Managing Director of Rajasthan Printing, and Litho Works  private limited company under the Indian Companies Act.	None
He has, as a shareholder and director, interest, in contracts for supply of goods, viz., stationery, paper and printing materials, etc., to the State Government of Madhya Pradesh.	None
He has also interest in contracts for the execution of works or performance of services, such as printing, etc., undertaken by the State Government of Madhya Pradesh.	None
Respondent 1 gets a share by way of commission on sales effected by the Limited Company.	None
He has, therefore, by himself interest in the contracts of the company with the State Government of Madhya Pradesh.(b)	None
Respondent 1 is a partner in the firm Berar General Agency.	None
The said firm has entered into a contract for the performance of cloth distribution on behalf of the State Government to retailers and holds a licence for the same.	None
Respondent 1, therefore, has interest by himself in the said contract for the performance of services undertaken by the Government.(c) Respondent 1 is the proprietor of the monthly Journal Prawaha and a by weekly paper Matrubhumi	None
These publications print Government advertisements on contract basis.	None
Respondent 1 has, therefore, interest in the said contract for the performance of services undertaken by the State Government, Madhya Pradesh.	None
The income derived from these contracts by respondent 1 are noted in the private accounts of respondent 1 and their details are shown in the profit and loss statements filed with incometax return of respondent 1 for the relevant year and current year.	None
The sales and other details of the Matrubhumi concern are noted in the private accounts of respondent 1.These objections were summarily overruled by the Returning Officer, without any inquiry or any reason.	None
These allegations, if made out with such further details as may be necessary, might well prove serious and bring about the setting aside of the election of the returned candidate.	None
Respondent 1 in answer to these allegations states as followsIt is denied that there was any improper acceptance of the nomination paper of respondent 1 and in particular it is denied that any of the allegations made in paras 6 (a), (b) and (c) of the petition constitute in law a disqualification of S. 7, Representation of the People Act.	None
Without prejudice to this it is submitted that respondent 1 was not suffering from any of these disqualifications in fact on the date of the submission of the nomination paper.	None
Having regard to the nature of the alleged disqualification, which is substantially to the effect that the returned candidate had interest in contracts with the Government at the relevant dates.	None
it was very necessary that the matters should have been cleared up in the enquiry before the Election Tribunal.	Reasoning
It is not in the interest of purity of elections that such allegations of disqualification should be completely ignored without enquiry and it appears rather surprising that the Tribunal should have ignored them and exercised its power to dismiss the petition .	Reasoning
However reluctant we might be to interfere in a matter like this after the lapse of three years and four months and with only an year and eight months before the general elections, we feel constrained to send this matter back for due enquiry.	Reasoning
But before doing so and in view of the delay and other circumstances that have already happened, we, in exercise of the powers which the Tribunal in the normal course might itself have exercised, direct the striking out of all the items of alleged output practices set out in Sch, A excepting the one covered by para 1 of item 1, i.e., as follows That in the month of December, 1951, respondent 1 had been to the premises of Akola Shree Gurdwara, where the Local Sikh Community had assembled to listen to the recitation of the holy book Granth Saheb on the 7th day of the death of daughter of one Sardar Suratsingh.	None
At the meeting respondent 1 canvassed for votes for himself and paid Rs. 20l, apparently as donation to the Gurudwara, but really as gift for inducing the Sikh Community in the Akola constituency in general and the Sikhs assembled in particular to induce them to vote for himself at the ensuing election.	Facts
Respondent 1 was guilty of bribery within the meaning of that term in Section 123, Representation of the People Act The case will, therefore, go back for enquiry and trial with reference only to (1) the allegations in paras 6(a), (b) and (c) of the application for setting aside the election, and (2) the allegations in para 1 of item 1, in Sch.	None
A attached to the application as set out above.10.	None
The Election Commissioner will now reconstitute an appropriate Tribunal for the purpose.	None
The Tribunal when constituted and before proceeding to trial will call upon the petitioners to rectify the lacuna as to dates in the verification clauses in the petition and the schedule.	Reasoning
It is to be hoped that the fresh proceedings before the Tribunal will be disposed of at a very early date.	Reasoning
The appeal is allowed as stated above but, in the circumstances, without costs.11.	None
Order accordingly.	None
