Arijit Pasayat, J. Leave granted.	None
Appellant calls in question legality of judgment rendered by a Division bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court, Jabalpur Bench.	Issue
Background facts leading to filing of the appeal are as follows Respondent No.1Prem Kumar Sharma filed a writ Petition before the High Court claiming appointment on the ground that he was a land loser.	Facts
High Court by its order dated 8.8.2001 directed consideration by the subDivisional Officer.	Facts
Since the subDivisional officer held that he was entitled to employment, a writ petition was filed by the appellant before the High Court.	Facts
The High Court held that since the land of the respondent No. 1 had been acquired, he was entitled for compensatory appointment.	Facts
The High Court gave the following directions The petitioner is directed to extend the employment to the son defendant as the case may be of respondent no.3, within a period of twelve months from today, on availability of first vacancy with the petitioner.	Facts
In case no vacancy arises within the period, the petitioner shall create a post for the employment, in this regard.	Facts
Questioning correctness of the judgment, a Letters Patent Appeal was filed by the appellant before the Division Bench of the High Court.	Facts
By the impugned judgment, the High Court modified the direction to the following extent On due consideration of the submissions of the learned counsel for the parties, we direct the petitioner to consider the case of respondent No. 3	Facts
Prem Kumar Sharma for the employment to his son dependent as the case may be whenever the vacancy arises.	Facts
Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the entitlement to employment of a person whose land has been acquired is governed by the guidelines dated 22.12.1984.	Arguments of Petitioner
The approved recommendations of the Committee constituted by the Government of India, Ministry of Energy, Department of Coal, evolving uniform guidelines for employment to the land losers stipulated that the person concerned should have lost either 3 acres of nonirrigated land or 2 acres of irrigated land.	Arguments of Petitioner
Admittedly, the total land acquired in the case of respondent No.1 is .72 decimal which the respondent No. 1 originally owned along with 10 others.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, he is not entitled to any relief and the High Court should not have given the directions as done.	Arguments of Petitioner
In response, learned counsel for the respondent No.1 submitted that the norms fixed have not been uniformly followed and in several cases acquisitions were for lesser extents of land and they have been given employment.	Arguments of Respondent
Several instances have been highlighted.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellant has filed affidavits indicating as to how those cases were not similar.7.	Arguments of Respondent
The guidelines which are undisputedly applicable read as follows The Government had earlier constituted a Committee to consider evolution of uniform guidelines for providing employment to landlosers.	None
The committee had submitted its report and the same has now been accepted by the Govt.	None
subject to one amendment vide letter No. 55011/14/83PIR	None
CP	None
Dated 17th November, 1984.	None
Copy enclosed.	None
The approved uniform guideline is annexed with this letter.	None
You are requested to kindly ensure that these guidelines are implemented in your company.	None
In the approved recommendations of the Committee constituted by Government of India, Ministry of Energy, Deptt.	None
of Coal evolving Uniform Guidelines for employment to the land losers, it has been inter alia stated as follows The standard norm should be one employment for 3 acres of nonirrigated land and 2 acres of irrigated land.	None
The practice ECL should be brought at par with the practice in the other 3 Companies.(ii)	None
However, if the land loser being considered for employment is a matriculate or above, the norm may be reduced to 2 acres per person if he opts to join initially as an apprentice for a period of 2 years during which he may be paid a fixed stipend per month.	None
His regulation will subsequently, be governed by the normal rules of the Company.(iii)	None
For the purpose of employment the Unit will be landowner Raiyat whose title appears in the record of rights of the particular village and will include his direct linear dependent.(iv)	None
The Committee deliberated on the point whether employment to landloser should be accepted as a compulsory obligation of management of the coal Company, irrespective of the requirement of manpower.	None
The Committee recommends that wherever possible, effort should be made to offer increased amount of compensation to the landlosers with a view to content the manpower unless the Company has the requirement of personnel in a particular category within the sanctioned strength of the manpower.	None
A bare perusal of the recommendations and the guidelines make the position clear that acquired area should be 3 acres of nonirrigated land or 2 acres of irrigated land.	Reasoning
Because the acquired area is much less under the recommendation guidelines, respondent was not entitled to any relief.	Reasoning
The other question is as to whether the respondent No. 1 was entitled to be appointed on the ground that some others have been appointed.	None
The concept of equality as envisaged under Article 14 of the Constitution of India, 1950 (in short the Constitution) is a positive concept which cannot be enforced in a negative manner.	None
When any authority is shown to have committed any illegality or irregularity in favour of any individual or group of individuals other cannot claim the same illegality or irregularity on ground of denial thereof to them.	None
Similarly wrong judgment passed in favour of one individual does not entitle others to claim similar benefits.	None
In this regard this Court in Gursharan Singh Ors. v. NDMC Ors. 1996 (2) SCC 459 held that citizens have assumed wrong notions regarding the scope of Article 14 of the Constitution which guarantees equality before law to all citizens.	None
Benefits extended to some persons in an irregular or illegal manner cannot be claimed by a citizen on the plea of equality as enshrined in Article14 of the Constitution by way of writ petition filed in the High Court.	None
The Court observed Neither Article 14 of the Constitution conceives within the equality clause this concept nor Article 226 empowers the High Court to enforce such claim of equality before law.	None
If such claims are enforced, it shall amount to directing to continue and perpetuate an illegal procedure or an illegal order for extending similar benefits to others.	None
Before a claim based on equality clause is upheld, it must be established by the petitioner that his claim being just and legal, has been denied to him, while it has been extended to others and in this process there has been a discrimination.	None
In Secretary, Jaipur Development Authority, Jaipur v. Daulat Mal Jain and Ors.	None
(1997 (1) SCC 35 ), this Court considered the scope of Article 14 of the Constitution and reiterated its earlier position regarding the concept of equality holding Suffice it to hold that the illegal allotment founded upon ultra vires and illegal policy of allotment made to some other persons wrongly, would not form a legal premise to ensure it to the respondent or to repeat or perpetuate such illegal order, nor could it be legalised.	None
In other words, judicial process cannot be abused to Perpetuate the illegalities.	None
Thus considered, we hold that the High Court was clearly in error in directing the appellants to allot the land to the respondents.	None
In State of Haryana Ors.	None
v. Ram Kumar Mann 1997 (3) SCC 321	None
this Court observed The doctrine of discrimination is founded upon existence of an enforceable right.	None
He was discriminated and denied equality as some similarly situated persons had been given the same relief.	None
Article 14 would apply only when invidious discrimination is meted out to equals and similarly circumstanced without any rational basis or relationship in that behalf.	None
The respondent has no right, whatsoever and cannot be given the relief wrongly given to them, i.e., benefit of withdrawal of resignation.	None
The High Court was wholly wrong in reaching the conclusion that there was invidious discrimination.	None
If we cannot allow a wrong to perpetrate, an employee, after committing misappropriation of money, is dismissed from service and subsequently that order is withdrawn and he is reinstated into the service.	None
Can a similarly Circumstanced person claim equality under Section 14 for Reinstatement?	None
The answer is obviously No.	None
In a converse case, in the first instance, one may be wrong but the wrong order cannot be the foundation for claiming equality for enforcement of the same order.	None
As stated earlier, his right must be founded upon enforceable right to entitle him to the equality treatment for enforcement thereof.	None
A wrong decision by the Government does not give a right to enforce the wrong order and claim parity or equality.	None
Two wrongs can never make a right.	None
See State of Bihar and others v. Kameshwar Prasad Singh and Another (2000) 9 SCC 94 .	None
Above being the legal position, the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench were not justified in giving impugned directions.	None
Their orders are accordingly set aside.	None
Appeal is allowed with no order as to costs.	Decision
