 Vaidialingam, J. 1.	None
The short question that arises for consideration in this appeal, by certificate, is whether a term in a registered lease deed, in and by which the lessee of a vacant piece of land, agrees to surrender, on termination of the lease, not only the land but also the superstructure put up by him, for the price agreed to between the parties and provided for in the lease, is a stipulation made by the tenant in writing registered as to attract, in favour of the landlord, the proviso to S. 12 of the Madras City Tenants Protection Act, 1921 (Madras Act III of 1922), as amended by the Madras City Tenants Protection (Amendment) Act, 1955 (Act XIX of 1955)  	Issue
hereinafter called the Act.	None
In this appeal we are not concerned with the later amendment made to the Act.	None
2.	None
The appellant was the owner of a vacant site bearing No. 4/7, Ponambala Vathiar Street, Mylapore, Madras4.	Facts
The respondent made a request to the appellant, by his letter Exhibit A2, dated January 30, 1947, to lease in his favour the said vacant site for a period of ten years on a monthly rental of Rs. 30.	Facts
In that letter the respondent stated that he wanted to put up a building on that site at a cost of not more than Rupees 6,500 and that, after the expiry of the lease period it was open to the appellant to continue the lease or not but, in case the lease period was not extended, the respondent made a request that he should be paid back the amount of Rs. 6,500 or any less amount that might have been incurred for putting up the superstructure on the plot.	Facts
After further correspondence between the parties, the appellant finally wrote, on April 22, 1947, to the respondent a letter, Exhibit A6, by which they intimated to the respondent that on vacating or giving possession of the land and building that may be put up by the lessee the appellants will pay the valuation of the building on the date of surrender or a sum of Rs. 5,000, whichever is less.	Facts
The appellant further intimated that if the respondent was agreeable, the draft lease agreement sent by them might be approved for being finalised.	Facts
It was, under those circumstances, that finally the lease arrangement, Exhibit A1, was jointly entered into by the parties by a registered document dated April 30, 1947.	Facts
3.	None
Under Exhibit A1 the respondent took the land on lease for a period of ten years commencing from May 1, 1947.	Facts
The document provided that the lessee was to pay a ground rent of Rs. 45 per month.	Facts
Clauses 2, 4 and 9 of the lease deed are relevant and may be set out 2.	Facts
The lessee is permitted to put up a building at a cost of not more than Rs. 10,000 on the plot leased to him, after approval of the plan of the proposed building by the Board of directors of the lessors, and the construction to be put up must be in accordance with the plan approved by the Directors of the lessors.	Facts
4.	None
The lease shall be in force for a term of ten years commencing from the first day of May, 1947 and on the expiry thereof the lessee shall surrender possession of the entire property and the construction if any thereon.	Facts
On vacating or giving possession as above the lessors shall pay the valuation thereof, then current or the sum of Rs. 5,000, whichever is less.	Facts
9.	None
In case for breach or infringement of any of the conditions above mentioned by the lessee, the lessors are at liberty to determine the lease irrespective of the period provided herein by giving three months notice to the lessee and the lessors may take possession of the property themselves without any compensation.	Facts
There were other clauses relating to the payment by the lessee of all taxes that may be imposed on the property so long as he was in possession and prohibiting the lessee from subletting, assigning or transferring the plot to any one without the permission in writing of the lessors.	Facts
There were also provisions regarding payment of advance rent and also the date within which the monthly rent was to be paid.	Facts
5.	None
There is no controversy that the respondent put up a building at his own cost for the purpose of his business in accordance with the terms and conditions of the lease deed.	Facts
On the expiry of the lease period of 10 years, the appellant, by notice dated August 1, 1957 (Exhibit A36), called upon the respondent to surrender possession of the land as well as the building in accordance with the provisions of the lease deed dated April 30, 1947 and offering to pay a sum of Rs. 5,000 for the building.	Facts
The respondent sent a reply, Exhibit A37, dated August 27, 1957, declining to surrender possession either of the land or the building.	Facts
He stated that in view of the rights conferred on him as a tenant of the land under the Act as amended by Act XIX of 1955, he was entitled to continue in undisturbed occupation as a tenant of the leasehold and that if eviction proceedings are taken by the appellant he will be obliged to apply under the Act for directing the landlord to convey to him the land at a price to be fixed by the Court as per the provisions of the Act.	Facts
The respondent declined to accept the amount of Rs. 5,000 offered by the appellant as the value of the house put up by him on the property.	Facts
6.	None
The appellant instituted on April 22, 1958 O. S. No. 796 of 1958 in the City Civil Court, Madras, seeking to recover possession from the respondent of the land and building and also offering to pay the sum of Rs. 5,000 as the value for the building in accordance with the terms of the lease deed.	Facts
There was also a claim for mesne profits.	Facts
The respondent contested the suit on various grounds.	Facts
In particular, the respondent pleaded that under the Act he is not bound to surrender possession of the land with the building, as claimed by the plaintiff.	Facts
On the other hand, according to the respondent, notwithstanding the expiry of the lease period, he was entitled to continue in possession of the land and that he had a right under Section 9 to call upon the plaintiff to sell the land to him for a price to be fixed by the Court in accordance with the provisions of the Act.	Facts
For this purpose, the respondent filed an application, I. A, No. 484 of 1958, under Section 9 requesting the Court for an order that the landlord be directed to sell the land for a price to be fixed by the Court.	Facts
7.	None
The learned City Civil Judge, by his judgment and decree dated December 10, 1959, upheld the contentions of the respondent.	Facts
The learned Judge held that notwithstanding the agreement entered into by the tenant to surrender the land and also the building on receiving the value mentioned in Exhibit A1 after the termination of the lease period, such and agreement no longer held good in view of the protection conferred on tenants by the Act.	Facts
The learned Judge further held that the respondent was entitled to exercise his option under Section 9 to purchase the land for the price fixed by the Court.	Facts
In this view the learned Judge disallowed the plaintiffs prayer for recovery of possession of the land and building and allowed I. A. No. 484 of 1958 filed by the respondent under Section 9.	Facts
But the learned Judge, however, directed that it was only if default was committed by the respondent in paying the value that may be fixed by the Commissioner in I. A. No. 484 of 1958 the appellant would be entitled to get a decree for possession on payment of Rs. 5,000 to the respondent as compensation for the superstructure, under Section 3 of the Act.	Facts
8.	None
The appellant carried the matter in appeal to the Madras High Court in A. S. No. 208 of 1960.	Facts
By judgment dated January 30, 1963, the learned Single Judge, Ramakrishnan, J., set aside the decree of the City Civil Judge after holding that the tenant was bound by the terms and conditions under Exhibit A1 and, as such, was liable to surrender possession not only of the land but also of the building, on receipt of the sum of Rs. 5,000 from the landlord as per clause 4 of Exhibit A1.	Facts
That is, the learned Judge took the view that the terms contained in clause 4 read with clause 2 of Exhibit A1 amounted to stipulations as to the erection of buildings, attracting the proviso to Sec.	Facts
12 and those stipulations will have to be enforced as against the tenant.	Facts
Ultimately, the learned Single Judge decreed the plaintiffs claim for recovery of possession of the land and building on his depositing the sum of Rupees 5,000 representing the value of the superstructure.	Facts
There was a further direction given to the trial Court for ascertaining the quantum of mesne profits.	Facts
9.	None
The respondent carried the matter in appeal before the Division Bench of the High Court under cl.	Facts
15 of the Letters Patent.	Facts
By decree and judgment dated December 1, 1964, the Letters Patent Bench reversed the decree of the learned Single Judge and dismissed the appellants suit, with costs throughout.	Facts
According to the learned Judge of the Letters Patent Bench, clauses 2 and 4 of the lease deed did not and could not deprive the rights conferred on a tenant under the Act, of claiming compensation for the building under Section 3 or his exercising the option to purchase the land under Section 9.	Facts
The further view of the Division Bench is that the matters referred to in clauses 2 and 4 in Exhibit A1 cannot be considered to be stipulations as to the erection of buildings, so as to attract the proviso to Section 12 of the Act.	Facts
10.	None
It may be stated, at this stage, that the Division Bench has, by and large, taken the view that the position is concluded against the appellant landlord by the decision of this Court in N. Vajrapani Naidu v. New Theatre Carnatic Talkies, 19646 SCR 1015 (AIR 1964 SC 1440 ), wherein this Court had upheld a decision of the Madras High Court that a stipulation in the lease for demolition of the building and surrender of vacant possession of the site was not one within the proviso to Section 12 of the Act.	Facts
We shall refer to that decision at the appropriate stage and consider whether the point in issue before us is covered by the same, as assumed by the Letters Patent Bench of the High Court.	None
But we may indicate that the appellant had raised a contention in the suit, as well as before the High Court that the lease in favour of the respondent was not of a vacant piece of land but of a land together with a building and hence the Act had no application to that lease arrangement.	None
So far as this aspect is concerned, it has been now concurrently held by all the Courts that the lease under Exhibit A1 was of only a vacant piece of land.	None
Therefore, we have to discuss the problem arising before us on the basis that the lease was only of vacant land.	None
If clause 4 read with clause 2 of the lease deed Exhibit A1 is construed as a stipulation as to the erection of buildings within the proviso to Section 12, the appellant will have to succeed.	None
If not, the respondent will be entitled to the rights conferred on him under the Act and pursue the relief asked for by him in the application filed by him under Section 9 of the Act.	None
11.	None
The Act was passed with a view to give protection to tenants who, in certain areas, had constructed building in others lands in the hope that they would not be evicted so long as they paid the fair rent of the land.	None
Originally the Act applied only to tenancies of land created before its commencement, viz., February 8, 1922.	Facts
But, by the Amending Act XIX of 1955, which came into force on September 10, 1955, the Act has been made applicable in the City of Madras to tenancies of land created before the commencement of the Amendment Act of 1955.	Facts
Therefore, it follows that the suit lease is one to which the Act will apply.	Facts
It is not really necessary for us to elaborately consider the scheme or the various provisions of the Act as amended from time to time, as they have all been referred to in decisions of this Court to which we will advert later.	Facts
It is enough to note that under the Act, land does not include buildings (S. 2 (2) )	Facts
Landlord means any person owning any land (S. 2(3) )	Facts
Tenant in relation to any land is a person liable to pay rent in respect of such land, and includes any person who continues in possession of the land after the determination of the tenancy agreement (S. 2(4)).	Facts
Section 3 provides that every tenant shall, on ejectment, be entitled to be paid as compensation the value of any building which may have been erected by him and for which compensation has not already been paid.	Facts
Section 4 provides, among other matters, for the Court ascertaining the amount of compensation payable under Section 3 in a suit for ejectment of a tenant in which the landlord succeeds.	Facts
Section 5 deals with computation of the compensation awardable under Section 4.	Facts
Section 9 (1) provides that a tenant who is entitles to compensation under Section 3 and against whom a suit in ejectment has been instituted may, within the time prescribed therein, apply to the Court for an order that the landlord should be directed to sell the whole or part of the land for a price to be fixed by the Court.	Facts
Section 12 provides Nothing in any contract made by a tenant shall take away or limit his rights under this Act provided that nothing herein contained shall affect any stipulations made by the tenant in writing registered as to the erection of buildings, in so far as they relate to buildings erected after the date of the contract.	Facts
Section 13 provides that in its application to the City of Madras and to other notified areas, the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, shall, to the extent necessary to give effect to the provisions of the Act, be deemed to have been repealed or modified.	Facts
12.	None
Mr. M. Natesan, learned counsel for the appellant, urged that in this case, clauses 2 and 4 of the lease deed read together would amount to a stipulation as to the erection of buildings within the proviso to Section 12 of the Act and, as such, the respondent is bound to surrender, on expiry of the lease period, possession of the land and also the building after receiving the sum of Rs. 5,000 as the value of the superstructure.	Facts
The counsel pointed out that in this case the respondenttenant in Exhibit A1, a document which is in writing, registered, has agreed to surrender possession of the entire property and the constructions thereon, on the expiry of the period of the lease, on receiving the sum of Rs. 5,000 as the value of the superstructure.	Facts
In this case, that term really relates to the building which has been put up by the tenant after the date of the contract and clauses 2 and 4 amount to a stipulation made by the tenant as to the erection of buildings.	Facts
That is, according to the learned counsel, the tenants agreement to receive the sum of Rs. 5,000 as the value of the superstructure that may be put up by him on the land demised under the lease and to surrender possession of the land and building, is a stipulation as to the erection of buildings, coming under the proviso to Section 12 and, as such, the respondent is not entitled to any rights under the Act.	Facts
The counsel also pointed out that the Letters Patent Bench has not properly appreciated the scope of the decision of this Court in Vajrapanis case, 19646 SCR 1015 (AIR 1964 SC 1440 ).	Facts
Counsel further urged that in this case, as the tenant had agreed to receive the particular amount of compensation under Exhibit A1, there was no question of his claming any further right to compensation under Section 3 in which case alone Section 9 would apply.	Facts
As Section 3 did not apply, he pointed out, the application filed by the respondent under Section 9 was not maintainable.	Facts
13.	None
Mr. S. C. Manchanda, learned counsel appearing for the respondenttenant, on the other hand, urged that the clauses in the lease deed, Exhibit A1, relied on by the appellant, cannot be considered to be a stipulation as to the erection of buildings, so as to attract the proviso to Section 12 and that, on the other hand, the opening part of Section 12 which preserves the right conferred on a tenant under the Act, has full force and effect.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel further urged that neither the right to claim compensation in the manner provided under the Act, by Section 3, nor the right to exercise the option to purchase the land, conferred on a tenant under Section 9 can be either taken away or limited by any contract and, if so, the respondents application, filed under Section 9, 10 direct the appellant to sell the land, was properly entertained and allowed by the Letters Patent Bench.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel also pointed out that the decision in Vajrapanis case, 19646 SCR 1015 (AIR 1964 SC 1440 ), fully covers the point in issue and concludes the case in favour of the tenant.	Arguments of Respondent
14.	None
Before we proceed to discuss the above contentions of the learned counsel, it is necessary to point out that on the date when the registered lease arrangement was entered into, between the parties (April 30, 1947), the Act did not apply to such leases.	None
It is only by the Amendment Act XIX of 1955, which came into force on September 10, 1955, that the Act has been made applicable to the present lease.	None
Therefore, on the date when the lease arrangement was entered into, neither party would have contemplated entering into any arrangement taking away or limiting the rights conferred on a tenant by the Act.	None
Now that the Act has been made applicable to the present lease, without anything more and as is made clear by the opening words of Section 12the respondenttenant will be entitled to avail himself of the rights conferred on him under the Act, and any contract limiting or taking away such rights will have no effect, unless the appellantlandlord is able to establish that his claim for recovery of possession of the land and building is saved by the proviso to Section 12 of the Act.	None
15.	None
We shall now consider what the rights given to a tenant under the Act are.	None
Broadly speaking, two kinds of rights have been conferred on lessees under tenancies falling within the scope of the Act.	None
The first is a right to be paid compensation for the buildings erected by them on the leased land before they are evicted under Section 3 of the Act.	None
The second right is the one conferred under Section 9 to the tenant to exercise the option to require the landlord to sell to him the land covered by the lease for a price to be computed in accordance with the said section.	None
It should be further pointed out that under Section 9 (1) (a) any tenant who is entitled to compensation under Section 3 is alone made eligible, when a suit in ejectment against him has been instituted, to exercise the option given to him under the said section.	None
Therefore, before a tenant can apply to the Court for an order that the landlord should be directed to sell the land for a price to be fixed by it, he must satisfy the essential requirement that he is a tenant who is entitled to compensation under Section 3.	None
Without anything more if a land had been leased to a tenant and if the latter puts up a building on the property, he will be entitled on ejectment to be paid compensation for the value of the building under Section 3, to be computed in the manner prescribed under the Act.	Reasoning
Or, in the alternative, he can fall back upon his right to have the land sold to him in accordance with Section 9 of the Act.	None
16.	None
Therefore, the question naturally arises whether the respondent, in this case, having entered into an agreement with the landlord under Exhibit A1, to receive the amount specified therein as the value of the building and surrender possession of the land and the said building, is entitled to ignore those terms and fall back upon Section 3 for the Act and claim compensation in accordance with the Act.	None
If he can, then it is needless to state that he will be eligible to file an application under Section 9.	None
Ultimately, the question resolves itself to this Whether a stipulation made by a tenant in the registered leasedeed limiting the quantum of compensation payable to him in respect for the buildings constructed by him on the land is covered by the proviso to Section 12 of the Act 17.	None
There is no controversy that in this case the tenant has entered into a written agreement which has been registered and he has put up the building on the land after the date for the contract.	None
18.	None
Section 12 of the Act consists of two parts The first part is a general provision saving to tenants comprehended by the Act the rights conferred by its operative terms notwithstanding any contract.	None
Such rights would, amongst others, include the right to claim compensation under Section 3 and 4 and the right to exercise option to purchase the land from the lessor by an order of Court under Section 9 of the Act.	None
The second part consists for the proviso which, so to say, makes an inroad into the generality of the saving, by saving contradictory stipulations from the operation of the statutory rights created by the Act.	None
It is needless to state that if Section 12 had stopped with the first part, the respondent would be entitled to the benefit of every right conferred upon tenants by the Act.	None
There is no controversy that the proviso is intended to cut down the scope of that saving so to say, from and out of the prohibition against the operation of any stipulation in a contract limiting the rights conferred on tenants by the Act, an exception is carved out.	None
The controversy before us is centered round the scope and limits of that exception.	None
19.	None
We have already referred to the fact that Section 13 provides that in its application to the City of Madras and to any other area to which the Act is extended, the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, shall, to the extent necessary to give effect to the provisions of the Act, be deemed to have been repealed or modified.	Facts
If the provisions of the Act do not apply, the position would be that normally, under Section 108 of the Transfer of Property Act, before the expiry of the lease, a lessee can remove all structures and buildings erected by him on the demised land.	None
Further, under Section 108, there is nothing to prevent the lessees contracting to hand over any building or superstructure erected on the land by him to the lessors, without receiving any compensation.	None
That is, though under S. 108 the lessee has a right to remove the building, by contract, he may agree to hand over the same to the lessor without the right to receive compensation at the end of the lease, the matter being entirely one of contract between the parties.	None
But this normal rule under the Transfer of Property Act will not apply to the case before us as the provisions of the Act govern the rights of the parties.	None
20With the background mentioned above, we shall now proceed to refer to the decisions to which our attention has been drawn, by learned counsel on both sides.	None
Quite naturally, Mr. Manchanda placed considerable reliance on the decision of this Court in Vajrapanis case, 19646 SCR 1015 (AIR 1964 SC 1440 ), which decision, we have already stated, has been treated by the Letters Patent Bench also as concluding the case against the appellantlandlord.	None
On the other hand, Mr. Natesan, for the appellant, has urged that the question that arose before this Court in the said decision was a very limited one, viz., whether a stipulation, made by a tenant, for giving vacant possession of the land after demolition of the building which he had been authorised to construct thereon, is not one as to the erection of buildings within the proviso to Section 12 and it was answered in the negative.	None
That decision, according to the counsel, has no application to the facts of this case where the object of the act, viz., of preserving a building constructed on the land, has been given effect to by the terms of the contract entered into between the parties.	None
As the Letters Patent Bench has proceeded on the basis that the said decision concludes the point against the appellant, it is necessary to refer to the facts of that case in some detail.	None
21.	None
In Vajrapanis case, 19646 SCR 1015 (AIR 1964 SC 1440 ), the appellant had granted a lease of an open site in the town of Coimbatore to one Abirama Chettiar under a registered lease deed dated Sept. 19, 1934 for 20 years at an annual rent of Rs.1,080 for putting up a building suitable for use as a theatre.	None
After the expiry of the term of 20 years stipulated under the deed, the lessee had an option of renewal for another period of 20 years on fresh terms and conditions.	None
The deed further provided that if after the termination of the stipulated period the lessees fail to pay the arrears of rent that will fall due till that date and hand over possession of the site to the lessors after making it clear by dismantling the constructions therein and by demolishing the walls, etc., the lessors shall, besides realising the arrears of rent due to them according to law, have the right to take possession through Court of the site in which the aforesaid buildings are put up after dismantling the construction and demolishing the buildings therein.	None
The original lessee constructed a theatre on the site and assigned his rights to the new theatre Carnatic Talkies Ltd., which was the respondent in the said appeal.	None
The assignee was recognised as tenant under the original lease deed of 1934.	None
The lessors called upon the lessees to surrender vacant possession of the site on the expiry of the lease period and, on the lessee declining to comply with the said requisition, a suit was instituted by the lessors for recovery of possession of the land.	None
During the pendency of the litigation the Act, as amended by Madras Act XIX of 1955, was extended to Coimbatore and the tenant filed an application under Section 9 for an order directing the lessors to convey the site covered by the lease deed for a price to be fixed by the Court.	None
The learned Single Judge of the Madras High Court allowed the application of the tenant under Section 9 on payment of full market value of the land.	None
The landlord unsuccessfully appealed to a Division Bench under cl.	None
15 of the Letters Patent	Facts
and came up to this Court on certificate granted by the High Court.	None
22.	None
The question that was debated before this Court, on behalf of the appellantlandlord was that the application filed by the tenant under Section 9 was not maintainable as the proviso to Section 12 is attracted to the stipulation made by the tenant to demolish the building and surrender vacant possession of the land.	Issue
After stating that the Act was passed to prevent loss to tenants who had constructed buildings on lands taken on lease by them consequent upon the enforcement of the strict provisions of the Transfer of Property Act, this Court considered the scheme of the Act with particular reference to Sections 3, 9 and 12.	None
It was contended on behalf of the landlordappellant that the stipulation relating to delivery of vacant possession of the site on the expiry of the period of lease, after removing the buildings is a stipulation as to the erection of buildings, coming within the proviso to Section 12 and, as such, the restriction on the liberty of contract between the landlord and tenant imposed by the opening clause of Section 12 stood removed.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further contended on this basis that the lessee was bound by the terms of the lease and that he was not entitled to claim the benefit of Section 9 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
23.	None
The majority constituting the Bench did not uphold this contention of the landlord and said A covenant in a lease which is duly registered that the tenant shall on expiry of the lease remove the building constructed by him and deliver vacant possession, is undoubtedly a stipulation relating to the building, but it is not a stipulation as to the erection of building.	None
Section 12 has manifestly been enacted to effectuate the object of the Act which is set out in the preamble, viz., to give protection to tenants who have constructed buildings on others lands in the hope that they would not be evicted so long as they pay a fair rent for the land.	None
The Legislature has sought thereby to protect the tenants against any contractual engagements which may have been made expressly or by implication to deprive themselves wholly or partially of the protection intended to be conferred by the statute.	None
And the only class of cases in which the protection becomes ineffective is where the tenant has made a stipulation in writing registered as to the erection of buildings, erected after the date of the contract of lease.	None
The restriction is, therefore, made only in respect of a limited class of cases which expressly attract the description of the stipulations as to the erection of buildings.	None
Having regard to the object of the Act, and the language used by the Legislature, the exception must be strictly construed, and a stipulation as to the erection of buildings would not, according to the ordinary meaning of the words used, encompass a stipulation to vacate and deliver possession of the land on the expiry of the lease without claiming to enforce the statutory rights conferred upon the tenant by Section 9.	None
The stipulations not protected in Section 12 are only those in writing registered and relate to erection of buildings such as restrictions about the size and nature of the building constructed, the building materials to be used therein and the purpose for which the building is to be utilised.	None
Based upon the concluding portion of the above extract, Mr. Manchanda has urged that the proviso to Section 12 will apply only to those stipulations as to the restrictions as to the size, the nature of the building constructed, the building material to be used therein and the purpose for which the building is to be utilised.	None
The Letters Patent Bench has also adopted the same test for holding against the appellant.	None
24.	None
The minority judgment, on the other hand, in the said decision, held that a stipulation by the lessee to remove the buildings, which he has been permitted to erect, when surrendering the land on the termination of the tenancy, is a stipulation as to the erection of buildings coming within the proviso to Section 12 of the Act.	None
A perusal of the minority judgment further shows that it was conceded by Mr. Setalvad, learned counsel appearing for the appellantlandlord, that a stipulation limiting the quantum of compensation payable in respect of buildings constructed by a tenant, provided for by Section 3 is within the meaning of the proviso to Section 12 as being one with respect to the erection of buildings.	None
This concession is no doubt not referred to in the majority judgment but, apart from the concession, the minority judgment has discussed this aspect further and it was held ultimately that the stipulation in the lease deed before them whereunder the tenant agreed to dismantle the buildings put up by him on the leased land was a stipulation as to the erection of buildings and covered by the proviso to section 12.	None
But, in accordance with the majority view, the appeal was dismissed.	None
25.	None
Though prima facie the last part of the extract in the majority judgment, quoted above, and relied on by Mr. Manchanda, may appear to support his contention as also the view taken by the Letters Patent Bench,we are however not inclined to hold that the majority judgment in the above decision intended to lay down that only stipulations regarding restrictions about the size, nature the building constructed, the building materials to be used therein and the purpose for which the building is to be utilised, exhaust completely all the stipulations that are protected by the proviso to section 12.	None
Those observations cannot be taken out of the context in which they appear.	None
A reading of the extract quoted above from the majority judgment clearly shows that the object of the statute was to protect tenants against any contractual engagements which may have been made expressly or by implication to deprive themselves wholly or partially of the protection intended to be conferred by the statute.	None
Having regard to this object, the learned Judges have come to the conclusion that a stipulation to vacate and deliver possession of the land after demolishing the building constructed by the tenant will not amount to a stipulation as to the erection of buildings, coming under the proviso to S. 12.	None
On the other hand, the majority view is that the stipulation, that came up for consideration before them, would really amount to a stipulation by a tenant giving up his right to enforce the statutory right conferred on him under section 9.	None
It is also significant to note that in the earlier part of the judgment, the majority judgment has emphasised that on account of the inflationary pressure in the wake of the First World War many tenants who had constructed buildings on lands taken on lease by them were sought to be evicted by the landlords and, with a view to prevent loss to such tenants, the Act was passed.	None
The concluding part of the observations in the extract, relied on by Mr. Manchanda will have to be read in this background and, so read, in our opinion the position becomes clear that the learned Judges were only referring to the size and nature the building, materials used for building, etc., as illustrative examples of stipulations which will be covered by the proviso to S. 12 of the Act.	None
26.	None
The provision in the lease deed which came up for consideration in the above decision, in and by which the tenant agreed to surrender possession of the land after demolishing the building, will, in our opinion, really amount to the tenant contracting himself out of the right to claim either compensation for the building under Section 3 or to exercise his option under Section 9 to purchase the land and that such a provision will be hit by the first part of Section 12 which, as we have already indicated, preserves the rights given to a tenant under the Act.	None
Therefore, in our opinion, the decision in Vajrapanis case, 19646 SCR 1015 (AIR 1964 SC 1440 ) has been misunderstood by the learned Judges of the Letters Patent Bench and the said decision is no authority for the proposition that the stipulation contained in the lease deed before us cannot come within the proviso to section 12.	None
The case before us is not one under which the tenant has in any manner contracted himself out of the rights conferred on him by the statute.	None
On the other hand, by allowing the building to stand on the property and agreeing to receive the amount of compensation provided for in the lease deed,the object of the legislation is fully satisfied.	None
It must also be emphasised that the first part of Section 12 protects a tenant against the deprivation or limitation of his rights under the act andthe rights conferred by the Act do not directly relate to covenants relating to erection of buildings.	Facts
27.	None
We may add that clause 2 of Exhibit A1 clearly provides that the lessee can put up a building whose cost should not exceed Rs. 10,000/ and the plan of the proposed building has also to be approved by the Directors of the appellants and the construction to be put up by the tenant must be in accordance with the plan approved by the directors of the lessors.	None
Though clause 2 does not, in so many words, refer to the size and nature of the building to be constructed or the building materials to be used therein, they are all implicit in the said clause where the cost has been mentioned and the plan of the building has to be approved by the directors of the appellants.	None
Apart from the fact that in view of the upper limit of the cost having been fixed, which itself will place a limitation on the size and nature of the building that could be constructed, as also the building materials that could be used therein, there is the further stipulation that the plan has to be approved by the directors of the lessors as the plan will clearly and accurately give a correct idea about the size and nature of the building proposed to be put up on the land.	None
It is only as per the plan so approved by the lessors that the building has to be put upon the land.	None
This stipulation clearly shows that there is a restriction about the size and nature of the building.	None
And it is in respect of such a building put up by the tenant in accordance with clause 2 that the value is fixed under clause 4.	None
Therefore it follows that clause 2 read with clause 4 amount to stipulations as to the erection of buildings and, in this view the proviso to Section 12 will apply.	None
This aspect has not been adverted to by the Letters Patent Bench.	None
28.	None
In R. V. Naidu v. Naraindas, 19661 SCR 110 (AIR 1966 SC 361 ) this Court had to deal with a clause in the lease deed which provided that the tenants shall not raise any building whatsoever in the vacant site, but the lessee committed a breach of the covenant by putting up a building on the land.	None
In the suit filed by the landlord for ejectment, the tenant claimed the right of option to purchase the land under Section 9 of the Act.	None
The Letters Patent Bench of the Madras High Court rejected the claim for the tenant and declined to grant relief on his application filed under section 9.	None
In dealing with the claim of the tenant who was the appellant, this Court noted that the lease was not by a registered document and, therefore, the proviso to Section 12 has no application.	None
But this Court has emphasised that a tenant, entitled to purchase under Section 9, must be a tenant entitled to compensation under Section 3.	None
In view of the fact that the lease deed was not registered and as the proviso to section 12 was ruled as not applicable, this Court held that the covenant in the lease deed prohibiting the tenants from putting up constructions will have to be ignored and the tenants declared entitled to compensation under S. 3 of the Act and in turn also to exercise the option to purchase the land under Section 9.	None
Ultimately, this Court held that the tenants, in that case, must be held entitled to their rights under Sections 3 and 9 in spite of the covenant not to build and breach of it by them.	None
29.	None
It is to be noted that this decision had to deal with a case where the lease deed was not a registered document and, as such, the application of the proviso to Section 12 was summarily ruled out.	None
Hidayatullah, J. (as he then was), in his separate judgment, while agreeing with conclusion reached by the other learned Judges, has emphasised that by the first part of Section 12, the tenant is protected against his own contract and the landlord is protected by the second part of the said section but in the case before them the landlord could not seek protection of the second part because the lease deed was not registered.	None
30.	None
In V. S. Mudaliar v. N. A. Raghavacharry, 19692 SCR 158 (AIR 1969 SC 435 ) by registered lease a vacant land was let to a tenant on the specific condition that the tenant should not erect any kind of permanent superstructures on the vacant site so as to entitle him to claim in future the value thereof . . .	None
In contravention of this stipulation and without any authority from the landlord, the tenant put up a permanent superstructure on the land.	None
The lease was for a period of 5 years.	None
As the tenant refused to vacate the land on the expiry of the lease term, the landlord filed a suit for recovery of possession of the land.	None
The tenant claimed protection under the Act and also filed an application under Section 9.	None
The High Court of Madras decreed the suit of the landlord and rejected the application filed by the tenant under Section 9.	None
This Court, after again adverting to the scheme of the Act with special reference to Ss. 3, 9 and 12 distinguished the decision of this Court in Naidus case, 19661 SCR 110 (AIR 1966 SC 361 ) on the ground that the stipulation which was almost identical with the one before them was contained in an unregistered lease deed and ultimately held that a stipulation by a tenant, made in a registered lease deed that he would not build any permanent structure on the land so as to entitle him to claim in future the value thereof, is a stipulation as to the erection for a building within the proviso to Section 12 and, as such, upheld the decision of the High Court which declined to grant relief to the tenant.	None
In the said decision, this Court again emphasised that Section 3 and 9 are subject to and controlled by the proviso to S 12.	Reasoning
Though Section 3 provides that a tenant shall, on ejectment, be entitled to be paid as compensation the value of any building erected by him, the right conferred on the tenant by Section 3 is controlled by the stipulation in the registered lease deed that he shall not erect permanent structures of any kind on the land so as to entitle him to claim in future the value thereof.	Reasoning
This Court further held that the said stipulation in the registered lease deed overrides the tenants rights under Section 3 and that if a tenant erects a permanent structure in contravention of the stipulation, he is not entitled to any compensation under Section 3.	Reasoning
It was further held that as the said tenant was not entitled to any compensation under S. 3, he cannot claim the benefit of S. 9. 31.	None
If a stipulation, contained in a registered lease deed that the tenant shall not erect permanent structures on the land so as to entitle him to claim the value thereof and if such a stipulation overrides the tenants rights under Sec.	Reasoning
3 disentitling him to claim compensation under S. 3 in respect of buildings put up by him in contravention of the said stipulation, as held in Mudaliars Case, 19692 SCR 158 (AIR 1969 SC 435 )we have no hesitation in holding that Clause 4 read with Clause 2 of Exhibit A1, under which the respondent has agreed to limit the quantum of compensation payable in respect of the buildings constructed by him is a stipulation as to the erection of buildings, attracting the proviso to Section 12 of the Act.	Reasoning
In this view, we further hold that the said stipulation overrides the tenants rights under Section 3, as he will not be eligible to claim compensation under the Act.	Reasoning
It follows that as he is not entitled to compensation under Section 3, but only to the value of the building as per the agreement Exhibit A1, the tenant cannot claim the benefit of Section 9.	None
Therefore, it follows that the decree and judgment of the Letters Patent Bench under appeal has to be set aside.	None
32.	None
Before we conclude we may also state that Mr. Natesan drew our attention to a Division Bench Judgment of the Madras High Court in Palaniappa Gounder v. Sridharan Nair, 19632 Mad LJ 559 (AIR 1964 Mad 285 ).	None
We do not propose to consider that decision as it is seen that the learned Judges had to consider the question whether a term in the contract as to transfer of ownership of the building without any claim for compensation, at the termination of the lease, could be construed to be a stipulation made by the tenant as to the erection for buildings.	Reasoning
The clauses that arise for consideration before us to which reference has been made, are entirely different.	Reasoning
Though under Exhibit A1 the respondent is bound to surrender possession of the land and the building, after receiving the sum for Rs. 5,000/ as the value of the building, during the arguments Mr. Natesan, learned counsel for the appellantlandlord has quite fairly stated that his clients are prepared to pay a sum of Rs. 10,000/ as the value of the building provided the respondenttenant surrenders vacant possession of the building and the land to the landlord within a period of six months from the date of this judgment, without putting the appellant to the necessity of taking out execution proceedings.	Reasoning
We are of the view that the appellants offer is quite reasonable.	Reasoning
Accordingly, while allowing the appeal and setting aside the decree and judgment of the Letters Patent Bench, we restore the judgment and decree of the learned Single Judge of the Madras High Court in A. S.No. 208 of 1960 dated January 30, 1963, subject to the following conditions (1) The appellant will deposit in the trial Court, within three months from this date the sum of Rs. 10,000/ (rupees ten thousand) as offered by their counsel as the value of the building.	Decision
(2) The respondent is directed to surrender possession of the land and building within a period of six months from the date of this judgment.	Decision
(3) If the respondent so surrenders vacant possession of the building and the land within six months or at any earlier time, on such surrender of possession he will be entitled to withdraw from Court the sum of rupees 10,000/ (rupees ten thousand deposited by the appellants).	Decision
(4) If the respondent does not deliver possession of the land and building within the period mentioned above, the appellants can levy execution and recover possession of the properties but, under that contingency the respondent will be entitled only to a sum of Rs. 5,000/ as the value of the building and the balance amount can be withdrawn by the appellants.	Decision
(5) If the respondent surrenders possession of the building and the land within the period mentioned in this judgment, there will be no liability for mesne profits and the direction given by the learned Single Judge in that regard will stand cancelled.	Decision
If however, possession is not delivered within time, the enquiry into mesne profits, as ordered by the learned single Judge, will proceed.	Decision
(6) If the respondent delivers possession of the land and the building within six months, parties will bear their own costs throughout.	Decision
If on the other hand the respondent commits default in the matter of delivery of possession, the appellants will be entitled to their costs throughout.	Decision
33.	None
Order accordingly.	None
