 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted.	None
Appellant is a Government company.	Facts
The Parliament enacted the Burmah Shell (Acquisition of Undertakings in India) Act, 1976 (The said Act), inter alia, to provide for acquisition and transfer of the title, right and interest in the Burmah Shell Oil Storage and Distributing Company of India Ltd. to Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited.	Facts
The said Act came into force on 24.01.1976 which was the appointed day fixed within the meaning of Section 2A(c) of the Act.	Facts
By reason of Section 3 of the said Act the right, title and interest of Burmah Shell stood transferred to and vested in the Central Government.	Facts
Section 5 of 1976 Act provides that the Central Government shall be deemed to be the lessee or tenant under the circumstances specified therein.	None
Subsection (2) of Section 5 which is relevant for our purpose reads thus On the expiry of the terms of any lease or tenancy referred to in subsection (1) such lease or tenancy shall if so desired by the Central Government be renewed on the same terms and conditions on which the lease or tenancy was held by BurmahShell immediately the appointed day.	None
It is not in dispute that the Central Government in exercise of its power conferred upon it under section 7 of the said Act directed that the undertaking of the Burmahshell shall vest in the appellant herein which is a Government company the consequences, inter alia, wherefore is laid down in subsection (3) thereof which reads as under The provisions of subsection (2) of section 5 shall apply to a lease or tenancy, which vests in a Government company, as they apply to a lease or tenancy vested in the Central Government and reference therein to the Central Government shall be construed as a reference to the Government company.	Facts
Burmahshell, the predecessorininterest of the appellant was a lessee for a period of 30 years by virtue of a deed of lease which was executed on or about 25.07.1959 by the respondent.	None
The stipulated rent was Rs.50/ per month.	Facts
On expiry of the period of lease on 30.08.1985, the appellant exercised its purported right of renewal by issuing a notice on or about 24.05.1989 stating On 1st August, 1977, another fresh certificate of incorporation was issued under the same section of the Companies Act, 1956, effecting the change in the name of the Company from Bharat Refineries Ltd., to Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd., which change as before does not affect any rights or obligations of the Company.	Facts
This is to advise you that in terms of Section 5 and Section 7(3) of the BurmahShell (Acquisition of Undertaking in India) Act, 1976, extract of which is enclosed for your reference, we desire to renew the lease for a further period of 30 years commencing from 25.7.1989 on the same terms and conditions on which the lessee abovementioned viz.	Facts
BurmahShell Oil Storage Distributing Co. of India Ltd., held the lease immediately before the appointed day viz.	Facts
24th January, 1976.	Facts
May we therefore, request you to let us know when it will be convenient for you to have the lease registered on terms similar to those existing in the current lease.	Facts
On receipt of your advice in this matter, we shall take further action.	Facts
Respondents did not agree thereto.	Facts
They, on the other hand, by a letter dated 26.08.1990 stated that as the rent in respect of the said land has not been paid and the provisions of the said Act have no application, the tenancy shall stand terminated with effect from 24.09.1990.	Facts
Appellant was called upon to vacate and deliver possession of the said premises stating Please therefore take notice that if you fail to vacate and deliver vacant possession of the said property immediately after 24.09.1990 paying damages for use and occupation at Rs.5,000/ per month and the costs of this notice to my clients, they will be constrained to file a suit against you for appropriate reliefs and that you will also be liable for all my clients cost.	Facts
Despite service of the said notice, as the appellant did not deliver vacant possession of the tenanted premises a suit for eviction was filed.	Facts
In their written statement, the appellants averred The allegations that the lease expired on 24.07.1989, that the plaintiffs demanding delivery of vacant possession and arrears of rent or damages, that the plaintiffs require the plaint schedule property for their bonafide use for construction of shops and carrying on business are all absolutely false.	Facts
The alleged requirement of the plaintiffs is false and its an afterthought and made to lend support of their claim for possession contrary to the statutory renewal protection available to this defendant.	Facts
By reason of a judgment dated 30.12.1999, the learned Senior Civil Judge, Anakapalle, Andhra Pradesh dismissed the said suit in view of the provisions of the 1976 Act holding that the appellant had a right to continue to occupy the leasehold as a tenant on the same terms and conditions on which the tenancy was granted.	Issue
An appeal preferred there against, however, was allowed by the First Appellate Court opining In the above decision, it was held that the words if so desired means if so needed, and it is quite likely that immediately after the undertakings were taken over by the Central Government, it could not be possible to obtain suitable alternative premises, for continuing business activities of the undertakings of the Caltex (India) and therefore, the Central Government has to be armed with the power to get the leases and tenancies renewed or continued after their expiry under subsection (3).	Facts
So the power under sec.7(3) for renewing or continuing by the Act of Parliament, and as per the Act, the defendant company got right to renew the lease on the same terms and conditions for a further period of 30 years.	Facts
He further deposed that they exercised their option to renew the lease by a letter dt.	Facts
24.5.1989.	Facts
Thus, D.W. has not explained or given reasons to show that the need for renewal of lease for a further period of 30 years.	Facts
In the chiefexamination he stated that there is a bridge viz., Sarda Bridge near lease hold premises, and bridge was closed due to heavy traffic and the traffic was diverted to byepass road, and therefore, the rental value of the lease hold premises is reduced.	Facts
At page4 he admitted that Subramanyam and others are the retail dealers of Bharat Petroleum Corporation and after closure of the bridge the sale of petroleum products are decreased as heavy traffic was effected.	Facts
He stated that the local trade was continuing.	Facts
It is, therefore, clear from the above admission of D.W.1 that due to the closure of the bridge near the schedule premises, the highway traffic is being diverted through the byepass road.	Facts
It is thus clear from the above evidence that there is no need for renewal of the lease.	Facts
There is no allegation in the written statement that the defendant needs the premises.	Facts
Therefore, it is clear from the pleadings, as well as the evidence of DW.1 that there is no need for renewal of lease.	Facts
By virtue of the above provision as of right, the defendantcorporation is not entitled for renewal of lease for a further period of 30 years.	Facts
It is against the spirit of the above decisions.	Facts
The learned Senior Civil Judge, has lost sight of the above aspects and erroneously held that the defendant Corporation as of right, by virtue of the above provisions, is entitled for renewal of the lease.	Facts
Thus the finding of the lower court that Ex.A.1 quit notice is invalid is erroneous.	Facts
The object of the Act is to prove better service to the public and the same can be achieved only when the outlet is situated at a place where there will be more vehicular traffic but the vehicular traffic at the schedule premises is completely closed, and the same has been diverted into the byepass road.	Facts
Therefore, the defendant cannot serve the public, as it was earlier by continuing petrol bunk in the schedule premises.	Facts
By taking shelter under the above technicality, the retailer of the defendantCorporation Subramanayam and others cannot be allowed to squat on the property for a poultry (sic paltry) monthly rent of Rs.50/. A Second Appeal preferred there against by the appellant has been dismissed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh holding In this case, it is an admitted fact that for 17 long years during the pendency of this lis, neither the appellant paid the rents nor deposited to the credit of the suit to prove their bona fides that there is a bona fide requirement, apart from their legal right to have renewal automatically under sections 5(2) and 7(3) of the Act.	Facts
Further, it is in the evidence that as soon as the bypass road had come up in Anakapalle, the diesel component of the petrol bunk was closed and the business of the appellantcompany was decreased to a considerable extent.	Facts
This all shows that since the rent was only Rs.50/ per month as agreed under Ex.	Facts
B1 lease deed and the appellant though not having much business at the present place, just they want to enjoy the suit land for another 30 years in the guise of sections 5(2) and 7(3) of the Act, just for a rent of Rs.50/ per month.	Facts
During the pendency of the lis, the appellant has not come forward with any proposal to enhance the rent.	Facts
In fact, appellant did not deposit even that meager rent of Rs.50/ per month for 17 long years.	Facts
Therefore, it cannot be said that the appellant acted fairly.	Facts
The renewal was actuated by unfair and unreasonable motives.	Facts
As such, it cannot be said that in the guise of section 5(2) of the Act, the appellant is entitled for automatic renewal.	Facts
In view of the above discussion, whether mere expressing desire for renewal or not furnishing reasons for renewal is necessary to be examined in this case.	Facts
May be, in Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd.	Facts
Vs.	Facts
P. Kesavan (supra), the point did not arise for consideration directly, and only as a general discussion, the Apex Court held that in view of sections 5(2) and 7(3) of the Act, renewal is automatic.	Facts
Further, whether sections 5(2) and 7(3) of the Act are to be given a restrictive meaning to construe that with an intention to protect the interest of the Government of India under the Act, the automatic renewal was contemplated of those leases, which were expired around that time i.e. 1976 also need not be gone into in this case.	Facts
The very conduct of the appellant is nauseating and does not inspire the confidence of the Court to show any indulgence.	Facts
No substantial question of law arises for consideration under section 100 of the Civil Procedure Code.	Facts
The Second Appeal is devoid of merit and liable to be dismissed.	Facts
Appellant is, thus, before us.10.	Facts
Before embarking upon the rival contentions of the parties we may, however, notice that the decree passed by the Appellate Court as affirmed by the High Court was put to execution by the respondents on 04.06.2006.	Facts
Indisputably, the decree has been executed and the respondent has been put in possession of the decretal premises.	Facts
Mr. Sudhir Chandra, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant submitted that the appellant, by reason of Section 5(2) read with Section 7(3) of the 1976 Act, had an unbridlled statutory right to exercise its option for renewal of the lease which in terms thereof would be deemed to have been renewed for another term of 30 years from 25.07.1989 and in that view of the matter the impugned judgment cannot be sustained.12.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Aman Lekhi, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, on the other hand, submitted that an action on the part of the appellant should conform to the doctrine of fairness and in that view of the matter, the impugned judgment cannot be interfered with.	Arguments of Respondent
Appellantcompany is a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India.	None
It is, therefore, enjoined with a duty to act fairly and reasonably.	None
Just because it has been conferred with a statutory power, the same by itself would not mean that exercise thereof in any manner whatsoever will meet the requirements of law.	None
The statute uses the words if so desired by the Central Government.	None
Such a desire cannot be based upon a subjective satisfaction.	None
It must be based on objective criteria.	None
Indisputably, the 1976 Act is a special statute.	None
It overrides the provisions of Section 107 of Transfer of Property Act.	None
The action of the State, however, must be judged on the touchstone of reasonableness.	None
Learned counsel for both the parties have relied upon a 3 Judge Bench decision of this Court in Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. v. P. Kesavan Anr.	None
(2004) 9 SCC 772 wherein this Court held The said Act is a special statute visavis the Transfer of Property Act which is a general statute.	None
By reason of the provisions of the said Act, the right, title and interest of Burmah Shell vested in the Central Government and consequently in the appellant Company.	Facts
A lease of immovable property is also an asset and or right in an immovable property.	None
The leasehold right, thus, held by Burmah Shell vested in the appellant.	None
By reason of subsection (2) of Section 5 of the Act, a right of renewal was created in the appellant in terms whereof in the event of exercise of its option, the existing lease was renewed for a further term on the same terms and conditions.	None
As noticed hereinbefore, Section 11 of the Act provides for a non obstante clause.	None
Whereas submission of Mr. Sudhir Chandra, learned Senior counsel is that the Court can interfere with the desire expressed by the Government company only when it is actuated by any malice or illwill but not when the same was either unfair or unreasonable.	None
In fine, the contention is that the State in a matter of this nature is required to act fairly.15.	None
We do not see any incongruity in the said decision.	Reasoning
A judgment, as is well known, must be read in its entirety.	Reasoning
It must be construed reasonably and if necessary, in the light of the constitutional and statutory provisions.16.	Reasoning
An executive action must be informed by reason.	Reasoning
An unfair executive action can only survive for a potent reason.	Reasoning
An action which is simply unfair or unreasonable would not be sustained.	Reasoning
Objective satisfaction must be the basis for an executive action.	Reasoning
Even subjective satisfaction on the part of a State is liable to judicial review.	Reasoning
The State acting whether as a landlord or a tenant is required to act bona fide and not arbitrarily, when the same is likely to affect prejudicially the right of others.17.	Reasoning
In Amarnath Ashram Trust Society Anr.	Reasoning
v. Governor of U.P. Ors.	Reasoning
(1998) 1 SCC 591 , it was held Thus the decision of the Government to withdraw from acquisition was based upon a misconception of the correct legal position.	Reasoning
Such a decision has to be regarded as arbitrary and not bona fide.	Reasoning
Particularly in a case where as a result of a decision taken by the Government the other party is likely to be prejudicially affected, the Government has to exercise its power bona fide and not arbitrarily.	Reasoning
Even though Section 48 of the Act confers upon the State wide discretion it does not permit it to act in an arbitrary manner We are, however, not oblivious of the legal principle that only because a statute causes hardship, the same may not be declared ultra vires.	Reasoning
(Dura Lex Sed Lex).	Reasoning
We may, in this regard, notice certain principles In Raghunath Rai Bareja and Anr.	None
v. Punjab National Bank and Ors. 2006	None
(13) SCALE 511 , it is stated Learned counsel for the respondentBank submitted that it will be very unfair if the appellant who is a guarantor of the loan, and director of the Company which took the loan, avoids paying the debt.	None
While we fully agree with the learned counsel that equity is wholly in favour of the respondentBank, since obviously a Bank should be allowed to recover its debts, we must, however, state that it is well settled that when there is a conflict between law and equity, it is the law which has to prevail, in accordance with the Latin maxim dura lex sed lex, which means the law is hard, but it is the law.	None
Equity can only supplement the law, but it cannot supplant or override it.	None
A statute, however, must be construed justly.	None
An unjust law is no law at all (Lex injusta non est lex).	None
In Kailash Chand Anr.	None
v. Dharam Dass (2005) 5 SCC 375 , Lahoti, C.J. opined We find it difficult to accept the construction placed on the third proviso, in para 14 of the judgment in Molar Mal case.	None
In Rakesh Wadhawan v. Jagdamba Industrial Corpn.	None
this Court has held that a statute can never be exhaustive.	None
The legislature is incapable of contemplating all possible situations which may arise in future litigation and in myriad circumstances.	None
The scope is always there for the court to interpret the law with pragmatism and consistently with the demands of varying situations.	None
The construction placed by the court on statutory provisions has to be meaningful.	None
The legislative intent has to be found out and effectuated.	None
Law is part of the social reality.	None
(See Law in the Scientific Era by Justice Markandey Katju, 2000 Edn., p. 33.)	None
Though law and justice are not synonymous terms they have a close relationship, as pointed out by the American jurist Rawls.	None
Since one of the aims of the law is to provide order and peace in society, and since order and peace cannot last long if it is based on injustice, it follows that a legal system that cannot meet the demands of justice will not survive long.	None
As Rawls says Laws and institutions no matter how efficient and well arranged, must be reformed or abolished if they are unjust.	None
(ibid., p. 72.)	None
Clearly, law cannot be so interpreted as would cause oppression or be unjust.	None
The Parliament moreover is presumed to have enacted a reasonable statute (see Breyer, Stephen (2005) Active Liberty Interpreting Our Democratic Constitution, Knopf (Chapter on Statutory Interpretation  pg.	Reasoning
99 for Reasonable Legislator Presumption ).	Reasoning
We may also notice that recently in M s. Ispat Industries Ltd. v. Commissioner of Customs, Mumbai 2006 (9) SCALE 652 , one of us (Katju, J.) stated In this connection, it may be mentioned that according to the theory of the eminent positivist jurist Kelsen (The Pure Theory of Law) in every legal system there is a hierarchy of laws, and whenever there is conflict between a norm in a higher layer in this hierarchy and a norm in a lower layer the norm in the higher layer will prevail (see Kelsens The General Theory of Law and State).	Reasoning
With that we may add that a statutory order or discretion exercised by a statutory authority must also be tested on the anvil of the constitutional scheme.	None
This Court number of times has laid emphasis on reasonable action on the part of the State even as a landlord.	Reasoning
See M s. Dwarkadas Marfatia Sons v. Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay (1989) 3 SCC 293 and in contractual matters Noble Resources Ltd. v. State of Orissa Anr.	Reasoning
(2006) 10 SCC 236 and State of Karnataka Anr.	Reasoning
v. All India Manufacturers Organisation Ors.	Reasoning
(2006) 4 SCC 683 .	None
Reasonableness and nonarbitrariness are the hallmarks of an action by the State.	None
Judged from any angle, the action on the part of the appellant does not satisfy the test of fairness or unreasonableness.	Reasoning
It being wholly arbitrary cannot be sustained.	Reasoning
In any event, when two views are possible, a view which satisfies the constitutional rights or requirements, must be preferred.	Reasoning
In M.L. Kamra v. ChairmancumManaging Director, New India Assurance Co. Ltd. Anr.	Reasoning
(1992) 2 SCC 36 , this Court held The Court ought not to interpret the statutory provisions, unless compelled by their language, in such a manner as would involve its unconstitutionality, since the legislature or the rule making authority is presumed to enact a law which does not contravene or violate the constitutional provisions.	Reasoning
Therefore, there is a presumption in favour of constitutionality of a legislation or statutory rule unless ex facie it violates the fundamental rights guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution.	Reasoning
If the provisions of a law or the rule is construed in such a way as would make it consistent with the Constitution and another interpretation would render the provision or the rule unconstitutional, the Court would lean in favour of the former construction.	Reasoning
Right of property although is not a fundamental right, nonetheless remains a constitutional right and any expropriatory legislation must be construed strictly.	Reasoning
See Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. v. Darius Shahpur Chennai Ors.	Reasoning
(2005) 7 SCC 627 .	Reasoning
In the instant case, the concurrent finding of fact is that the desire of the appellant was not bona fide.	Reasoning
In any event, possession of the lease holding has already been delivered.	Reasoning
Respondents have received possession after a long struggle.	Reasoning
It is, therefore not a case where we should interfere with the impugned judgment particularly in view of the finding of fact arrived at by the courts below.	Reasoning
For the aforementioned reasons, these appeals are dismissed with costs.	Decision
Counsels fee assessed at Rs. 50,000/.	Decision
