 P. Mathur, J. Criminal Appeal No. 222 of 1997 In view of difference of opinion between two learned Judges who heard the appeal	None
, the matter has been placed before this larger bench and the question for consideration is whether the safeguards provided by Section 50 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (for short the NDPS Act or the Act) regarding search of any person would also supply to any bag, briefcase or any article or container etc. which is being carried by him.2.	Issue
The essential facts of the case, which are necessary for decision of the appeal, may be stated in brief.	Facts
According to the case of the prosecution, Hukum Singh and Munshi Ram, Head Constables and some police personnel were checking buses at the bus stand, Mandi in the night of 18.7.1994.	Facts
While checking a bus at about 8.45 p.m., they noticed that the accused Pawan Kumar (respondent herein), who was carrying a bag, Ex. P3, slipped out from the rear door of the bus and thereafter started running towards Subzi Mandi side.	Facts
The police personnel got suspicious and after a chase apprehended him near the gate of bus stand.	Facts
They felt smell of opium emitting from the bag and, therefore, telephonically informed Prem Thakur, Deputy S.P. S.H.O., P.S. Sardar, Mandi.	Facts
Prem Thakur came to the spot and inquired from the accused whether he wanted to be searched by police or by a Magistrate.	Facts
The accused disclosed his name and expressed his willingness to be searched by the police.	Facts
A search of the accused and the bag being carried by him was then conducted and 360 gms.	Facts
of opium wrapped in polythene was found inside the bag.	Facts
Two samples of the recovered opium, each weighing 20 gms.	Facts
were taken and were sealed separately and a seizure memo was prepared.	Facts
On the basis of the Ruka Ex. P8, an FIR lodged at the Police Station and thereafter usual investigation followed which culminated in filing of a chargesheet against the accused.	Facts
The learned Sessions Judge, Mandi, by the judgment and order dated 26.11.1994 convicted the respondent (accused) under Section 18 of the NDPS Act and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine of Rs. 1 lakh.	Facts
The respondent preferred an appeal against his conviction and sentence before the High Court of Himachal Pradesh.	Facts
The High Court held that the opinion given by the Chemical Examiner regarding the substance recovered from the bag of the accused could not be treated to be opinion of the Chemical Examiner as defined under the Act and the Rules and, therefore, the same had to be excluded from consideration.	Facts
It was further held that the provisions of Section 50 of NDPS Act had not been complied with while conducting the search of the bag and, therefore, recovery of opium from the possession of the accused was not established.	Facts
On these findings, the appeal was allowed by the judgment and order dated 26.8.1996 and the conviction of the respondent was set aside.	Facts
The State of Himachal Pradesh preferred the present appeal by special leave challenging the judgment of acquittal passed by the High Court.	None
The appeal was initially heard by a Bench of two learned Judges.	None
Honble Y.K. Sabharwal	None
, J. held that the view taken by the High Court that the report of the Chemical Examiner could not be taken into consideration was not correct.	None
The finding recorded by the High Court that the prosecution had failed to prove that any incriminating substance had been recovered from the possession of the accused was accordingly reversed.	None
Regarding the applicability of Section 50 of NDPS Act, after referring to Namdi Francis Nwazor vs. Union of India and another, 1997 Drugs Cases 477 1998(8)	None
SCC 534, His Lordship held as under The answer to the real question in cases where the line of separation is thin and fine can be obtained by applying the test of inextricable connection and then conclusion reached as to whether the search was that of a person or not.	None
If the search is of a bag which is inextricably connected with the person of the accused, Section 50 of the NDPS Act will apply, and if it is not so connected, the provisions will not apply The offending article was found in the bag which accused respondent was carrying.	None
The test of inextricable connection between the person searched and the object recovered is demonstrably applicable.	None
It cannot be held that Section 50 has no application merely because the offending article was in the bag which the accused was carrying with him.	None
Finally it was held as under On this fact situation, it cannot be held that the search was not of a person but was of a bag.	Facts
Both are inextricably connected.	Facts
It has to be held that the search was that of the respondents person.	Facts
Clearly, Section 50 of the NDPS Act was applicable but was not complied.	Facts
Therefore, the conviction of the respondent could not be sustained and the High Court rightly held that Section 50 had been reached breached.	None
Honble Arijit Pasayat, J. expressed agreement with the view that the report of the Chemical Examiner could not be excluded but on the question of applicability of Section 50 of NDPS Act held that the said provision was applicable only in the case of a search of a person and not when search of a bag which is being carried by a person on his shoulder or back is conducted.	Facts
His Lordship accordingly held that having regard to the purport and object of the NDPS Act, the language of Section 50 cannot be given any strained meaning so as to frustrate the legislative purpose.	Facts
It was thus held that there was no infraction of the requirement of Section 50 and the finding to the contrary recorded by the High Court was clearly wrong.	Facts
In view of this difference of opinion, the appeal has been placed before the present Bench.4.	Facts
The controversy turns round Section 50 of the NDPS Act and the same (at the relevant time) read as under Conditions under which search of persons shall be conducted  (1) When any officer duly authorized under section 42 is about to search any person under the provisions of Section 41, Section 42 or Section 43, he shall, if such person so requires, take such person without unnecessary delay to the nearest Gazetted Officer of any of the departments mentioned in section 42 or to the nearest Magistrate.(2)	Facts
If such requisition is made, the officer may detain the person until he can bring him before the Gazetted Officer or the Magistrate referred to in subsection (1)(3)	Facts
The Gazetted Officer or the Magistrate before whom any such person is brought shall, if he sees no reasonable ground for search, forthwith discharge the person but otherwise shall direct that search be made.(4)	Facts
No female shall be searched by anyone excepting a female.	Facts
The question, which requires consideration is what is the meaning of the words search any person occurring in subSection (1) of Section 50 of the Act.	None
Learned counsel for the accused has submitted that the word person occurring in Section 50 would also include within its ambit any bag, briefcase or any such article or container, etc. being carried by such person and the provisions of Section 50 have to be strictly complied with while conducting search of such bag, briefcase, article or container, etc. Learned counsel for the State has, on the other hand, submitted that there is no warrant for giving such an extended meaning and the word person would mean only the person himself and not any bag, briefcase, article or container, etc. being carried by him.	Arguments of Respondent
The word person has not been defined in the Act.	None
Section 2(xxix) of the Act says that the words of expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Code of Criminal Procedure have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Code.	None
The Code of Criminal Procedure, however, does not define the word person.	None
Section 2(y) of the Code says that the words and expressions used therein and not defined but defined in the Indian Penal Code have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Code.	None
Section 11 of the Indian Penal Code says that the word person includes any Company or Association or body of persons whether incorporated or not.	None
Similar definition of the word person has been given in Section 3(42) of the General Clauses Act.	None
Therefore, these definitions render no assistance for resolving the controversy in hand.	None
One of the basic principles of interpretation of Statutes is to construe them according to plain, literal and grammatical meaning of the words.	None
If that is contrary to, or inconsistent with, any express intention or declared purpose of the Statute, or if it would involve any absurdity, repugnancy or inconsistency, the grammatical sense must then be modified, extended or abridged, so far as to avoid such an inconvenience, but no further.	None
The onus of showing that the words do not mean what they say lies heavily on the party who alleges it.	None
He must advance something which clearly shows that the grammatical construction would be repugnant to the intention of the Act or lead to some manifest absurdity (See Craies on Statute Laws, Seventh ed. page 8385).	None
In the well known treatise  Principles of Statutory Interpretation by Justice G.P. Singh, the learned author has enunciated the same principle that the words of the Statute are first understood in their natural, ordinary or popular sense and phrases and sentences are construed according to their grammatical meaning, unless that leads to some absurdity or unless there is something in the context or in the object of the Statute to suggest the contrary (See the Chapter  	None
The Rule of Literal Construction  page 78  Ninth Ed.).	None
This Court has also followed this principle right from the beginning.	None
In Jugalkishore Saraf vs.	None
M s. Raw Cotton Co. Ltd. AIR 1955 SC 376 ,	None
S.R. Das, J., said The cardinal rule of construction of statutes is to read the statute literally that is, by giving to the words used by the legislature their ordinary, natural and grammatical meaning.	None
If, however, such a reading leads to absurdity and the words are susceptible of another meaning the Court may adopt the same.	None
But if no such alternative construction is possible, the Court must adopt the ordinary rule of literal interpretation.	None
A catena of subsequent decisions have followed the same line.	None
It, therefore, becomes necessary to look to dictionaries to ascertain the correct meaning of the word person.	None
The dictionary meaning of the word person is as under We are not concerned here with the wide definition of the word person, which in the legal world includes corporations, associations or body or individuals as factually in these type of cases search of their premises can be done and not of their person.	None
Having regard to the scheme of the Act and the context in which it has been used in the Section it naturally means a human being or a living individual unit and not an artificial person.	None
The word has to be understood in a broad commonsense manner and, therefore, not a naked or nude body of a human being but the manner in which a normal human being will move about in a civilized society.	None
Therefore, the most appropriate meaning of the word person appears to be  the body of a human being as presented to public view usually with its appropriate coverings and clothings.	None
In a civilized society appropriate coverings and clothings are considered absolutely essential and no sane human being comes in the gaze of others without appropriate coverings and clothings.	None
The appropriate coverings will include footwear also as normally it is considered as essential article to be worn while moving outside ones home.	None
Such appropriate coverings or clothings or footwear, after being worn, move along with the human body without any appreciable or extra effort.	None
Once worn, they would not normally get detached from the body of the human being unless some specific effort in that direction is made.	None
For interpreting the provision, rare cases of some religious monks and sages, who, according to the tenets of their religious belief do not cover their body with clothings, are not to be taken notice of.	None
Therefore, the word person would mean a human being with appropriate coverings and clothings and also footwear.	None
A bag, briefcase or any such article or container, etc. can, under no circumstances, be treated as body of a human being.	None
They are given a separate name and are identifiable as such.	None
They cannot even remotely be treated to be part of the body of a human being.	None
Depending upon the physical capacity of a person, he may carry any number of items like a bag, a briefcase, a suitcase, a tin box, a thaila, a jhola, a gathri, a holdall, a carton, etc. of varying size, dimension or weight.	None
However, while carrying or moving along with them, some extra effort or energy would be required.	None
They would have to be carried either by the hand or hung on the shoulder or back or placed on the head.	None
The common parlance it would be that a person is carrying a particular article, specifying the manner in which it was carried like hand, shoulder, back or head, etc.	None
Therefore, it is not possible to include these articles within the ambit of the word person occurring in Section 50 of the Act.	None
An incriminating article can be kept concealed in the body or clothings or coverings in different manner or in the footwear.	None
While making a search of such type of articles, which have been kept so concealed, it will certainly come within the ambit of the word search of person.	None
One of the facts, which can be applied is, where in the process of search the human body comes into contact or shall have to be touched by the person carrying out the search, it will be search of a person.	None
Some indication of this is provided by Sub section (4) of Section 50 of the Act, which provides that no female shall be searched by anyone excepting a female.	None
The legislature has consciously made this provision as while conducting search of a female, her body may come in contact or may need to be touched and, therefore, it should be done only by a female.	None
In the case of a bag, briefcase or any such article or container, etc.	None
they would not normally move along with the body of the human being unless some extra or special effort is made.	None
Either they have to be carried in hand or hung on the shoulder or back or placed on the head.	None
They can be easily and in no time placed away from the body of the carrier.	None
In order to make a search of such type of objects, the body of the carrier will not come in contact of the person conducting the search.	None
Such objects cannot be said to be inextricably connected with the person, namely, the body of the human being.	None
Inextricable means incapable of being disentangled or untied or forming a maze or tangle from which it is impossible to get free.	None
The scope and ambit of Section 50 of the Act was examined in considerable detail by a Constitution Bench in State of Punjab vs. Baldev Singh (1999(6) SCC 172 and para 12 of the reports is being reproduced below On its plain reading, Section 50 would come into play only in the case of a search of a person as distinguished from search of any premises etc.	None
However, if the empowered officer, without any prior information as contemplated by Section 42 of the Act makes a search or causes arrest of a person during the normal course of investigation into an offence or suspected offence and on completion of that search, a contraband under the NDPS Act is also recovered, the requirements of Section 50 of the Act are not attracted.	None
The Bench recorded its conclusion in para 57 of the reports and subparas (1), (2), (3) and (6) are being reproduced below On the basis of the reasoning and discussion above, the following conclusions arise(1) That when an empowered officer or a duly authorized officer acting on prior information is about to search a person, it is imperative from him to inform the person concerned of his right under subsection (1) of Section 50 of being taken to the nearest gazetted officer or the nearest Magistrate for making the search.	None
However, such information may not necessarily be in writing.(2) That failure to inform the person concerned about the existence of his right to be search before a gazetted officer or a Magistrate would cause prejudice to an accused.(3) That a search made by an empowered officer, on prior information, without informing the person of his right that if he so requires, he shall be taken before a gazetted officer or a Magistrate for search and in case he so opts, failure to conduct his search before a gazetted officer or a Magistrate may not vitiate the trial but would render the recovery of the illicit article suspect and vitiate the conviction and sentence of an accused, where the conviction has been recorded only on the basis of the possession of the illicit article, recovered from his person, during a search conducted in violation of the provisions of Section 50 of the Act(6) That in the context in which the protection has been incorporated in Section 50 for the benefit of the person intended to be searched, we do not express any opinion whether the provisions of Section 50 are mandatory or directory, but hold that failure to inform the person concerned of his right as emanating from subsection (1) of Section 50, may render the recovery of the contraband suspect and the conviction and sentence of an accused bad and unsustainable in law.	None
The above quoted dictum of the Constitution Bench shows that the provisions of Section 50 will come into play only in the case of personal search of the accused and not of some baggage like a bag, article or container, etc. which he may be carrying.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the State has referred to large number of decisions of this Court wherein Section 50 was held inapplicable in the case of search of some baggage or article etc. which was in immediate possession or was being carried by the accused.	None
We do not consider it necessary to burden this judgment by referring to all the authorities cited but would only give a gist of some of the cases which is as under Abdul Rashid Ibrahim Mansuri vs. State of Gujarat, 2000 Drugs Case (Narcotic) 1 (2000 (2) SCC 513 )  	None
This is a decision by a Three Judge Bench presided over by Dr. A.S. Anand, C.J., who wrote the opinion of the Court in the Constitution Bench decision in State of Punjab vs. Baldev Singh.	None
In this case four gunny bags were found in an auto rickshaw which the accused was driving and there was no other person present.	None
The argument based on noncompliance of Section 50 an explained in the case of Baldev Singh was rejected on the ground that the gunny bags were not inextricably connected with the person of the accused.	None
II.	None
Madan Lal vs. State of H.P. 2003 Drugs Cases (Narcotic) 454 (2003(7) SCC 465 (para 16)  	None
It was held that Section 50 would apply in the case of search of a persona as contrasted to search of vehicles, premises or articles.	None
III.	None
Gurbax Singh vs. State of Haryana 2001 Drugs Cases (Narcotic) 8 (2001(3) SCC 28  	None
Accused got down from a train carrying a Katta (gunny bag) on his shoulder.	None
Held that Section 50 was not applicable.	None
IV.	None
State of Punjab vs. Makhan Singh 2004 Drugs Cases (Narcotic) 114	None
(2004(3) SCC 453)  	None
The accused was apprehended while alighting from a bus with a tin box in his hand in which contraband was found.	None
The High Court acquitted the accused on account of noncompliance of Section 50.	None
On the finding that Section will not apply, the judgment of the High Court was reversed and the accused was convicted.	None
V. Kanhaiya Lal vs. State of M.P. 2002 Drugs Cases (Narcotic) 36 2000(10) SCC 380  	None
One kg. of opium was found in a bag which was being carried by the accused.	None
The argument based on Section 50 was rejected on the ground that it was not a case of search of the person of the accused.	None
VI.	None
Birakishore Kar vs. State of Orissa 2001 Drugs Cases (Narcotic) 337 2000(9) SCC 541  Accused was found lying on a plastic bag in a train compartment.	None
Argument based on Section 50 was rejected on the ground that the accused was sitting on the plastic bag and it was not a case of the search of the person of the accused.	None
VII.	None
Krishna Kanwar vs. State of Rajasthan 2004 Drugs Cases (Narcotic) 21 2004(2) SCC 608 (para 19)  Held, Section 50 applies where search has to be in relation to a person as contrasted to search of premises, vehicles, articles or bag.	None
VIII.	None
Sarjudas vs. State of Gujarat, 99 Drugs Cases 310 (1999 (8) SCC 508 )  	None
The accused were riding a scooter on which a bag was hanging in which charas was found  Section 50 was held not applicable as it was not a case where the person of the accused was searched.	None
IX.	None
Saikou Jabbi vs. State of Maharashtra, 2003 Drugs Cases (Narcotic) 335 JT 2003(9) SC 609 )  	None
Heroine was found in a bag.	None
It was held that Section 50 was not applicable as it applies to search of a person.	None
Learned counsel for the respondent has placed strong reliance on Namdi Francis Nwazor vs. Union of India and another, 1998(8)	None
SCC 534 which is a decision by a Bench of three learned Judges.	None
In this case, the accused had checked in at the Indira Gandhi International Airport for taking the flight from Delhi to Lagos.	None
A team of the Narcotics Control Bureau, on suspicion, decided to check his baggage.	None
At the point of time when the actual search took place, he was carrying two handbags but nothing incriminating was found therefrom.	None
The had booked one bag which had already been checked in and was loaded in the aircraft by which he was supposed to travel.	None
The bag was brought to the customs counter and on checking 180 gms.	None
of heroine was found therein.	None
The Bench held that on a plain reading of Subsection (1) of Section 50, it applies to cases of search of a person and not to search of any article in the sense that the article is at a distant place from where the offender is actually searched.	None
After arriving at the above finding, the Bench also observed  We must hasten to clarify that if that person is carrying a handbag or the like and the incriminating article is found therefrom, it would still be a search of the person of the accused requiring compliance with Section 50 of the Act.	None
However, when an article is lying elsewhere and is not on the person of the accused and is brought to a place where the accused is found, and on search, incriminating articles are found therefrom it cannot attract the requirements of Section 50 of the Act for the simple reason that it was not found on the accused person.	None
The Bench then finally concluded that on the facts of the case Section 50 was not attracted.	None
The facts of the case clearly show that the bag from which incriminating article was recovered had already been checked in and was loaded in the aircraft.	None
Therefore, it was not at all a search of a person to which Section 50 may be attracted.	None
The observations, which was made in the later part of the judgment (reproduced above), are more in the nature of obiter as such a situation was not required to be considered for the decision of the case.	None
No reasons have been given for arriving at the conclusion that search of a handbag being carried by a person would amount to search of a person.	None
It may be noted that this case was decided prior to the Constitution Bench decision in State of Punjab vs. Baldev Singh.	None
After the decision in Baldev Singh, this Court has consistently held that Section 50 would only apply to search of a person and not to any bag, article or container, etc. being carried by him.	Reasoning
Another judgment relied upon by the learned counsel for the accused is Beckodan Abdul Rahiman vs. State of Kerala 2002 Drugs Cases (Narcotic) 96 JT 2002 (3 ) Cri.	None
L.J. 2529 (SC).	None
Here 11 gms of opium was found in a polythene bag which had been concealed in the fold of dhoti which the accused was wearing.	None
This was clearly a case of search of a persons, as explained above, and Section 50 was rightly held applicable.	None
There is another aspect of the matter, which requires consideration.	None
Criminal law should be absolutely certain and clear and there should be no ambiguity or confusion in its application.	None
The same principle should apply in the case of search or seizure, which come in the domain of detection of crime.	None
The position of such bags or articles is not state and the person carrying them often changes the manner in which they are carried.	None
People waiting at a bus stand or railway platform sometimes keep their baggage on the ground and sometimes keep in their hand, shoulder or back.	None
The change of position from ground to hand or shoulder will take a fraction of a second but on the argument advanced by learned counsel for the accused that search of bag so carried would be search of person, it will make a sharp difference in the applicability of Section 50 of the Act.	None
After receiving information, an officer empowered under Section 42 of the Act, may proceed to search this kind of baggage of a person which may have been placed on the ground, but if at that very moment when he may be about to open it, the person lifts the bag or keeps it on his shoulder or some other place on his body, Section 50 may get attracted.	None
The same baggage often keeps changing hands if more than one person we moving together in a ground.	None
Such transfer transfer of baggage at the nick of time when it is about to be searched would again create practical problem.	None
Who in such a case would be informed of the right that he is entitled in law to b searched before a Magistrate or a Gazetted Officer?	None
This may lead to many practical difficulties.	None
A statute should be so interpreted as to avoid unworking or impracticable results.	None
It Statutory Interpretation by Francis Bennion (Third ed.)	None
para 313, the principle has been stated in the following manner	None
The court seeks to avoid a construction of an enactment that produces an unworkable or impracticable result, since this is unlikely to have been intended by Parliament.	None
Sometimes however, there are overriding reasons for applying such a construction, for example where it appears that Parliament really intended it or the literal meaning is too strong.	None
The learned author has referred to Sheffield City Council vs. Yorkshire Water Services Ltd. (1991) 2 WLR 58 at 71, where it was held s under Parliament is taken not to intend the carrying out of its enactments to be unworkable or impracticable, so the court will be slow to find in favour of a construction that leads to these consequences.	None
This follows the party taken by judges in developing the common law.	None
the common law of England has not always developed on strictly logical lines, and where the logic leads down a path that is beset with practical difficulties of the courts have not been frightened to turn aside and seek the pragmatic solution that will best serve the needs of society.	None
While interpreting a provision in the Finance Act, 1972, Lord Denning in S.J. Grange Ltd. vs. Customs and Excise Commissioners (1979) 2 All ER 91, observed that if the literal construction leads to impracticable results, it would be necessary to do little adjustment so as to make the section workable.	None
As pointed out in State of Punjab vs. Baldev Singh, drug abuse is a social malady.	None
While drug addiction eats into the vitals of the society, drug trafficking not only eats into the vitals of the economy of a country, but illicit money generated by drug trafficking is often used for illicit activities including encouragement of terrorism.	None
It has acquired the dimensions of an epidemic, affects the economic policies of the State, corrupts the system and is detrimental to the future of a country.	None
Reference in the said decision has also been made to some United Nation Conventions against illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs, which the Government of India has ratified.	None
It is, therefore, absolutely imperative that those who indulge in this kind of nefarious activities should not go scotfree on technical pleas which come handy to their advantage in a fraction of second by slight movement of the baggage, being placed to any part of their body, which baggage may contain the incriminating article.	None
It will be useful here to take note of the general law regarding search and seizure and the effect of any illegality committed during the course of search on the seizure or recovery made of any incriminating article.	Reasoning
In State of Maharashtra vs. Natwarlal Damodardas Soni AIR 1980 SC 593 , the AntiCorruption Bureau had recovered 100 gold bars each weighing 10 tolas having foreign markings from the residential premises of the accused, consequent upon which the custom authorities initiated proceedings in which he was convicted.	Reasoning
The contention raised was that the search and seizure of the gold by the police was illegal.	Reasoning
It was held that the police had powers under the Code of Criminal Procedure t search and seize the gold if they had reason to believe that a cognizable offence had been committed in respect thereof.	Reasoning
Assuming arguendo that the search was illegal, them also, it will not affect the validity of the seizure and further investigation by the custom authorities or the validity of the trial which followed on the complaint of the Assistant Collector of Customs.	Reasoning
In Radha Kishan vs. State of U.P. AIR 1963 SC 822 , the recovery of certain articles was challenged on the ground that the search was made in contravention of Sections 103 and 165 Cr.P.C.	None
The contention was repelled thus So far as the alleged illegality of the search is concerned it is sufficient to say that even assuming that the search was illegal the seizure of the articles is not vitiated.	None
It may be that where the provision of Ss.103 and 165, Code of Criminal Procedure, are contravened the search could be resisted by the person whose premises are sought to be searched.	None
It may also be that because of the illegality of the search the Court may be inclined to examine carefully the evidence regarding the seizure.	None
But beyond these two consequences no further consequence ensues.	None
Again in Shyam Lal vs. State of M.P. AIR 1972 SC 886 , it was held that even if the search is illegal being in contravention with the requirement of Section 165 Cr.	None
P.C.	None
that provision ceases to have any application to the subsequent steps in the investigation.	None
This question has recently been examined by a Three Judge Bench of this Court in State vs. N.M.T. Joy Immaculate 2004 (5) SCC 729 and the relevant portion of paragraph 14 and 15.1 are being reproduced below The admissibility or otherwise of a piece of evidence has to be judged having regard to the provisions of the Evidence Act.	None
The Evidence Act or the Code of Criminal Procedure or for that matter any other law in India does not exclude relevant evidence on the ground that it was obtained under an illegal search and seizure.	None
Challenge to a search and seizure made under the Criminal Procedure Code on the ground of violation of fundamental rights under Article 20(3) of the Constitution was examined in M.P. Sharma vs. Satish Chandra AIR 1954 SC 300 by a Bench of 8 Judges of this Court.	None
The challenge was repelled and it was held as underA power of search and seizure is in any system of jurisprudence an overriding power of the State for the protection of social security and that power is necessarily regulated by law.	None
When the Constitution makers have thought fit not to subject such regulation to constitutional limitations by recognition of a fundamental right to privacy, analogous to the American Fourth Amendment, we have no justification to import it, into a totally different fundamental right, by some process of strained construction.	None
Nor is it legitimate to assume that the constitutional protection under Article 20(3) would be defeated by the statutory provisions for searches.	None
The law of evidence in our country is modeled on the rules of evidence which prevailed in English Law.	None
In Kuruma vs. The Queen 1955 AC 197 an accused was found in unlawful possession of some ammunition in a search conducted by two police officers who were not authorised under the law to carry out the search.	None
The question was whether the evidence with regard to the unlawful possession of ammunition could be excluded on the ground that the evidence had been obtained on an unlawful search.	None
The Privy Council stated the principle as under The test to be applied, both in civil and in criminal cases, in considering whether evidence is admissible is whether it is relevant to the matters in issue.	None
If it is, it is admissible and the Court is not concerned with how it was obtained.	None
15.1	None
This question has been examined threadbare by a Constitution Bench in Pooran Mal vs. Director of Inspection 1974(1)	None
SCC 345 and the principle enunciated therein is as under If the Evidence Act, 1872 permits relevancy as the only test of admissibility of evidence, and, secondly, that Act or any other similar law in force does not exclude relevant evidence on the ground that it was obtained under an illegal search or seizure, it will be wrong to invoke the supposed spirit of our Constitution for excluding such evidence.	None
Nor is it open to us to strain the language of the Constitution, because some American Judges of the American Supreme Court have spelt out certain constitutional protections from the provisions of the American Constitution.	None
So neither by invoking the spirit of our Constitution nor by a strained construction of any of the fundamental rights can we spell out the exclusion of evidence obtained on an illegal search.	None
So far as India is concerned its law of evidence is modeled on the rules of evidence which prevailed in English Law, and Courts in India and in England have consistently refused to exclude relevant merely on the ground that it is obtained by illegal search or seizure.	None
Where the test of admissibility of evidence lies in relevancy, unless there is an express or necessarily implied prohibition in the Constitution or other law evidence obtained as a result of illegal search or seizure is not liable to be shut out.	None
In the United States the law regarding illegally obtained evidence has been stated as under in 29 American Jurisprudence 2d (para 408) Generally In criminal prosecutions, in particular, evidence is frequently obtained by methods that are morally reprehensible and offensive to fair dealing, under circumstances which meet with disapprobation of the courts, and in many instances, by means that are illegal.	None
However, it is a rule of the Common law that the admissibility of evidence is not affected by the illegality of the means by which it is obtained, and if evidence offered in support of a fact in issue is relevant and otherwise competent, it is generally admissible, though it may have been obtained unethically, wrongfully, or unlawfully, unless its admission will violate a constitutional guaranty of the person against whom its admission is sought, or is in contravention of a statutory enactment of the jurisdiction.	None
Accordingly, the exclusion of evidence logically relevant in a criminal prosecution can be justified only by an overriding public policy expressed in the Constitution or the law of the land.	None
The underlying principle admitting evidence wrongfully or illegally obtained is that the objection to an offer of proof made upon the trial raises no question other than competency, relevancy, and materiality, and the court cannot enter upon the trial of collateral issues as to the source from which the evidence was obtained.	None
It has also been said that a farreaching miscarriage of justice would result if the public were to be denied the right to use convincing evidence of a defendants guilt because it had been brought to light through the excessive zeal of an individual, whether an officer or not, whose misconduct must be deemed his own act and not that of the state The Fourth Amendment of American Constitution guarantees the right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers and effects and against unreasonable searches and seizures.	None
On the basis of the aforesaid Constitutional provision, the United States Supreme Court in some earlier decisions laid down the rule that evidence obtained by means of an unlawful search and seizure by federal officers is not admissible against an accused in a criminal prosecution in a federal court where timely objection to the use of such evidence has been made.	None
However, in Stone vs. Powell 428 US 465 the aforesaid view was reversed and it was held that the application of the rule deflects the truth finding process and often frees the guilty.	None
The disparity in particular cases between the error committed by the police officer and the windfall afforded to a guilty defendant by application of the rule is contrary to the idea of proportionality that is essential to the concept of justice.	None
It was observed that although the rule is thought to deter unlawful police activity in part through the nurturing of respect for Fourth Amendment values, if applied indiscriminately it may well have the opposite effect of generating disrespect for the law and administration of justice.	None
The Court quoted with approval the following point highlighted by Justice Black, in his dissenting opinion in a earlier decision rendered in Kaufman vs. United States 394 US 237 A claim of illegal search and seizure under the Fourth Amendment is crucially different from many other constitutional rights ordinarily the evidence seized can in no way have been rendered untrustworthy by the means of its seizure and indeed often this evidence alone establishes beyond virtually any shadow of a doubt that the defendant is guilty.	None
The Constitution Bench decision in Pooran Mal vs. The Director of Inspector 1974 (1) SCC 345 was considered in State of Punjab vs. Baldev Singh, 1999 Drugs Case 150 1999 (6) SCC 172 and having regard to the scheme of the Act and especially the provisions of Section 50 thereof, it was held that it was not possible to hold that the judgment in the said case can be said to have laid down that the recovered illicit article can be used as proof of unlawful possession of the contraband seized from the suspect as a result of illegal search and seizure.	None
Otherwise, there would be no distinction between recovery of illicit drugs etc. seized during a search conducted after following the provisions of Section 50 of the Act and a seizure made during a search conducted in breach of the provisions of Section 50.	None
Having regard to the scheme and the language used, a very strict view of Section 50 of the Act was taken and it was held that failure to inform the person concerned of his right as emanating from subSection (1) of Section 50 may render the recovery of the contraband suspect and sentence of an accused bad and unsustainable in law.	None
As a corollary, there is no warrant or justification for giving an extended meaning to the word person occurring in the same provision so as to include even some bag, article or container or some other baggage being carried by him.	None
Coming to the merits of the appeal, the High Court allowed the appeal on the finding that the report of the Chemical Examiner had to be excluded and that there was non compliance of Section 50 of the Act.	Reasoning
The learned Judges of this Court, who heard the appeal earlier, have recorded a unanimous opinion that the report of the Chemical Examiner was admissible in evidence and could not be excluded.	Reasoning
In view of the discussion made earlier, Section 50 of the Act can have no application on the facts and circumstances of the present cases as opium was allegedly recovered from the bag, which was being carried by the accused.	Reasoning
The High Court did not examine the testimony of the witnesses and other evidence on merits.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the matter has to be remitted back to the High Court for a fresh hearing of the appeal.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeal is allowed.	Decision
The judgment and order dated 26.8.1996 of the High Court is set aside.	Decision
The appeal preferred by the respondent Pawan Kumar shall be heard afresh by the High Court in the light of the findings recorded by this Court and in accordance with law.	Decision
Criminal Appeal No.375 of 200325.	Facts
According to the case of the prosecution, Ram Niwas, SHO Police Station Pilibanga received information that the accused who was indulged in smuggling of opium was standing at the bus stand.	Facts
A police party reached the main bus stand at about 7.10 p.m. and found the accused standing with an attache in his hand.	Facts
A written notice was then given to the accused that his attachecase will be searched as information has been received that the same contains opium.	Facts
He was also asked whether he would like the search to be conducted before a Magistrate r a Gazetted Officer.	Facts
This fact was also mentioned in the notice.	Facts
The accused said that he did not want to be searched before any Magistrate or Gazetted Officer and the SHO could carry on the search.	Facts
This statement of the accused was signed by him.	Facts
The search of the attache revealed 5 kgs.	Facts
of opium.	Facts
After conducting other formalities and investigation of the case, the accused was put up for trial.	Facts
The learned Sessions Judge convicted the accused under Section 8/18 of the NDPS Act and sentenced him to 10 years RI and a fine of Rs.1 lakh.	Facts
The High Court by a very cryptic judgment held that the provisions of Section 50 of the NDPS Act were not complied with as the accused was not informed of his right to be searched in presence of a Magistrate or a Gazetted Officer and accordingly allowed the appeal and set aside the conviction and sentence of the accused.	Facts
For the reasons discussed earlier, the view taken by the High Court cannot be sustained as it was a case of search of an attache which was carried by the accused.	Decision
The appeal is accordingly allowed and the judgment and order dated 5.10.2001 of the High Court is set aside.	Decision
The matter is remitted back to the High Court for a fresh consideration of the appeal on merits and in accordance with law.	Decision
