 CHANDRACHUD, C.J.1.	None
The question which arises in this appeal by special leave is whether a debt owed by the respondent, an agriculturist, to the appellantThe State Bank of Travancorefalls within the purview of the Kerala Agriculturists Debt Relief Act, 11 of 1970, hereinafter called the Act.2.	Issue
The respondent had an overdraft Account with the Erattupetta Branch of the Kottayam Orient Bank Ltd., at the foot of which he owed a sum of over Rs. 3000/ to the Bank.	Facts
The said Bank which was a Banking Company as defined in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, was amalgamated with the appellant Bank with effect from June 17, 1961 in pursuance of a scheme of amalgamation prepared by the Reserve Bank of India in exercise of the powers conferred by section 45 (4) of the Banking Regulation Act and sanctioned by the Central Government under subsection (7) of section 45.	Facts
Upon the amalgamation, all assets and liabilities of the Kottayam Orient Bank stood transferred to the appellant Bank.	Facts
The notification containing the scheme of amalgamation was published in the Gazette of India Extraordinary dated May 16, 1961 .3.	None
The appellant filed a suit (O.S. No. 28 of 1963) in the Sub Court, Meenachil, against the respondent for recovery of th e amount due from him in the overdraft Account with the Kottayam Orient Bank, the right to recover which had come to be vested in the appellant as a result of the aforesaid scheme of amalgamation.	Facts
That suit was decreed in favour of the appellant, but when it took out execution proceedings in the SubCourt, Kottayam, the respondent filed a petition under section 8 of the Act seeking amendment of the decree in terms of the provisions of the Act.	Facts
The respondent claimed that he was an agriculturist within the meaning of the Act and was therefore entitled to the benefit of its provisions, including those relating to the scaling down of debts.	Facts
The learned Subordinate Judge assumed, what was evidently not controverted, that the respondent was an agriculturist.	Facts
But the learned Judge held that the respondent was not entitled to the benefit of the provision regarding scaling down of the debt because the debt, having been once owed by him to the Kottayam Orient Bank Ltd., which was a Banking Company as defined in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, was outside the purview of section 5 of the Act which provided for the scaling down of debts owed by agriculturists.	Facts
According to the learned Judge, the respondent was only entitled to the benefit of the proviso to section 2 (4) (l) of the Act under which the amount could be repaid in eight halfyearly installments.	Facts
Since the relief which the respondent had asked for was that his debt should be scaled down and since he was held not entitled to that relief, his application was dismissed by the learned Judge.4.	None
The respondent preferred an appeal to the High Court of Kerala, the maintainability of which was challenged by the appellant on the ground that no appeal lay against the order passed by the Subordinate Judge on the application filed by the respondent under section 8 of the Act.	Facts
The High Court accepted the preliminary objection but granted permission to the respondent to convert the appeal into a Civil Revision Application and dealt with it as such.	Facts
In view of the general importance of the questions involved in the matter, the revision application was referred by a Division Bench to the Full Bench.5.	None
It was contended in the High Court on behalf of the appellant, Bank that the debt owed to it by the respondent was excluded from the operation of the Act by reason of section 2 (4) (a) (ii) and section 2 (4) (1) of the Act.	Facts
By its judgment dated February 1, 1978 the High Court rejected that contention, allowed the Revision Application and held that the respondent was entitled to all the relevant benefits of the Act, including the benefit scaling down of the debt.	Issue
The Bank questions the correctness of that judgment in this appeal.6.	Facts
Section 8 of the Act provides, in so far as is material, that where, before the commencement of the Act, a court has passed a decree for, the repayment of a debt, it shall, on the application of a judgmentdebtor, who is an agriculturist, apply the provisions of the Act to such a decree and shall amend the decree accordingly.	None
It is in pursuance of this section that the respondent applied to the executing Court for amendment of the decree.	None
Section 4(1) of the Act provides that notwithstanding anything contained hl any law or contract or in a decree of any court, but subject to the provisions of subsection (5), an agriculturist may discharge his debts in the manner specified in subsections (2) and (3).	None
Subsection (2) of section 4 provides that if any debt is repaid in seventeen equal half yearly installments together with interest at the rates specified in section 5, the whole debt shall be deemed to be discharged.	None
Subsection (3) specifies the period within which the installments have to be paid.	None
The respondent claims the benefit of the provision contained in section 4 (1) of the Act.7.	None
In order to decide whether the respondent is entitled to the relief claimed by him, it would be necessary to consider the provisions of sections 2 (1) and 2 (4) of the Act.	None
The short title of the Act shows that it was passed in order to give relief to indebted agriculturists in the State of Kerala.	None
The State Legislature felt the necessity of passing the Act because, the Kerala Agriculturists Debt Relief Act, 31 of 1958, conferred benefits on agricultural debtors in respect of debts incurred by them before July 14, 1958 only.	None
The Statement of objects and Reaso ns of the Act slows that the agricultural indebtedness amongst the poorer sections of the community showed an upward trend after July 14, 1958 owing to various economic factors.	None
A more comprehensive legislation was therefore introduced by the State Legislature in the shape of the present Act in substitution of the Act of 1958.	None
The Act came into force on July 14, 1970.8.	None
Section 2 (1) of the Act which defines an agriculturist need not be reproduced because it was common ground at all stages between the parties that the respondent is an agriculturist within the meaning of the definition in section 2 (1).Section 2 (4) of the Act, in so far as is material for our purposes, reads thusSection 2 (4)debt means any liability in cash or kind, whether secured or unsecured, due from or incurred by an agriculturist on or before the commencement of this Act, whether payable under a contra ct, or under a decree or order of any court, or otherwise, but does not include(a) any sum payable to(i) the Government of Kerala or the Government of India or the Government of any other State or Union territory or any local authority or(ii) the Reserve Bank of India or the State Bank of India or any subsidiary bank within the meaning of clause (k) of section 2 of the State Bank of India (Subsidiary Act, 1959, or the Travancore Credit Bank (in liquidation) constituted under the Travancore Credit Bank Act, IV of 1113Provided that the right of the bank to recover the sum did not arise by reason of(A) any assignment made or(B) any transfer effected by operation of law, subsequent to the 1st day of July, 1957.9.	None
As stated above, the respondent is admittedly an agriculturist and he owes a sum of money to the appellant Bank under a decree passed in its favour by the SubCourt, Meenacil, in O.S. No. 28 of 1963.	Reasoning
The liability which the respondent owes to the appellant Bank is therefore a debt within the meaning of section 2 (4) of the Act.	Reasoning
But certain liabilities are excluded from the ambit of the definition of Debt.	Reasoning
The liabilities which are thus excluded from the definition of debt are specified in clauses (a) to (n) of section 2 (4).	Reasoning
W e are concerned in this appeal with the liabilities specified in clause (a) (ii) and clause (1) of section 2 (4), which are excluded from the operation of clause 2 (4).	Reasoning
We will first consider the implications of the exclusion provided for in subclause (ii) of clause (a) of section 2 (4).	Reasoning
Under the aforesaid subclause, any sum payable to a subsidiary bank within the meaning of section 2 (k) of the State Bank of India (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959, is excluded from the definition of debt.	Reasoning
Section 2 (k) of the Act of 1959 defines a subsidiary bank to mean any new bank, including the Hyderabad Bank and the Saurashtra Bank.	Reasoning
The expression new bank is defined in section 2 (f) of the Act of 1959 to mean any o f the banks constituted under section 3.	Reasoning
Section 3 provides that with effect from such date, as the Central Government may specify, there shall be constituted the new banks specified in the section.	Reasoning
Clause (f) of section 3 mentions the State Bank of Travancore amongst the new banks which may be constituted under section 3.	Reasoning
It is thus clear that the appellant Bank, namely, the State Bank of Travancore, is a subsidiary bank as contemplated by sub clause (ii) of clause (a) of section 2 (4) of the Act.	Reasoning
If the matter were to rest there, the decretal amount payable by the respondent to the appellant Bank will not be a debt within the meaning of section 2 (4) of the Act, since the appellant is a subsidiary bank within the meaning of section 2 (k) of the State Bank of India (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959.	Reasoning
But by reason of clause (B) of the proviso to section 2 (4) (a) (ii) of the Act, the amount payable to a subsidiary bank is not to be regarded as a debt within t he meaning of the Act, only if the right of the subsidiary bank to recover the amount did not arise by reason of any transfer effected by operation of law subsequent to July 1, 1957.	Reasoning
The proviso is thus in the nature of an exception to the exceptions contained in section 2 (4) (a) (ii) of the Act.10.	None
The respondent initially owed a sum exceeding Rs. 3000/ to the Erattupetta Branch of the Kottayam Orient Bank Ltd. which was amalgamated with the appellant Bank with effect from June 17, 1961 pursuant to an amalgamation scheme prepared by the Reserve Bank of India.	None
All the rights, assets and liabilities of the Kottayam Orient Bank were transferred to the appellant Bank as a result of the amalgamation.	Facts
The notification containing the scheme of amalgamation was published on May 16, 1961.	None
Thus, the right of the appellant Bank, though it is a subsidiary Bank, to recover the amount from the respondent arose by reason of a transfer effected by operation of law, namely, the scheme of amalgamation, which came into effect after July 1, 1957.	None
Since clause (B) of the proviso to section 2 (4) (a) (ii) is attracted, the appellant Bank will not be entitled to the benefit of the exclusion contained in section 2 (4) (a) (ii) of the Act and the respondents claim to the benefits of the Act will remain unaffected by that provision.11.	Arguments of Respondent
That makes it necessary to consider the question whether the appellant Bank can get the advantage of any of the other exclusionary clauses (a) to (n) of section 2 (4) of the Act.	None
The only other clause of section 2 (4) which is relied upon by the appellant in this behalf is clause (1), according to which the word debt as defined in section 2 (4) will not includeany debt exceeding three thousand rupees borrowed under a single transaction and due before the commencement of this Act to any banking company (emphasis supplied)	None
Provided that in the case of any debt exceeding three thousand rupees borrowed under a single transaction and due before the commencement of this Act to any banking company, any agriculturist debtor shall be entitled to repay such debt in eight equal half yearly installments as provided in subsection (3) of section 4, but the provisions of section 5 shall not apply to such debt.	None
The question for consideration is whether the amount which the respondent is liable to pay under the decree was due before the commencement of the Act to any Banking Company.12.	None
Turning first to the question whether the appellant Bank is a banking company, the learned Subordinate Judge assumed that it is, but no attempt was made to sustain that finding in the High Court.	None
Shri Abdul Khader, who appears on behalf of the appellant conceded before us that it is not a banking company.	None
The concession is rightly made, since according to section 2(2) of the Act, Banking Company mea ns a banking company as defined in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.	Reasoning
Section S(c) of the Act of 1949 defines a banking company to mean any Company which transacts the business of banking in India (subject to the provision contained in the Explanation to the section).	Reasoning
Thus, in order that a bank may be a banking company, it is in the first place necessary that it must be a company.	Reasoning
The State Bank of Travancore, which is the appellant before us, is not a company properly so called.	Reasoning
It is a subsidiary bank which falls within the definition of section 2(k) of the State Bank of India (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959.	Reasoning
It was established by the Central Government in accordance with the Act of 1959 and is not a company and therefore, not a banking company.	Reasoning
It must follow that the decretal debt which the respondent is liable to pay to the appellant is not owed to a banking company.	Reasoning
It was indeed not owed to any banking company at all on July 14, 1970, being the date on which the Act came into force.	Reasoning
It may be recalled that the respondent owed a certain sum exceeding three thousand rupees to the Kottayam Orient Bank Ltd., a banking company, on an overdraft account.	Reasoning
That Bank was amalgamated with the appellant Bank with effect from May 16, 1961, as a result of which the latter acquired the right to recover the amount from the respondent.	Reasoning
It filed Suit No. 28 of 1963 to recover that amount and obtained a decree against the respondent.	Reasoning
It is precisely this small conspectus of facts, namely, that the amount was at one time owed to a banking company but was not owed to a banking company at the commencement of the Act, which raises the question as regards the true interpretation of clause (1) of section 2 (4).13.	Reasoning
The fact that the amount which the respondent owes to the appellant was not owed to a banking company on the date on which the Act came into force, the appellant not being a banking company, does not provide a final solution to the problem under consideration.	None
The reason for this is that clause (1) of section 2(4) speaks of a debt due before the commencement of the Act to any banking company, thereby purporting to make the state of affairs existing before the commencement of the Act decisive of the application of that clause.	Reasoning
The contention of the learned Attorney General, who led the argument on behalf of the appellant, is that the respondent owed the debt before the commencement of the Act to a banking company and, therefore, the appellant is entitled to claim the benefit of the exclusion provided for in clause (1).	None
The argument is that, for the purposes of clause (1), it does not matter to whom the debt is owed on the date of the commencement of the Act what matters is to whom the debt was owed before the commencement of the Act.14.	None
The learned Attorney General is apparently justified in making this submission which rests on the plain language of clause (1) of section 2(4), the plain, grammatical me aning of the words of the statute being generally a safe guide to their interpretation.	None
But having considered the submission in its diverse implications, we find ourselves unable to accept it.15.	None
In order to judge the validity of the submission mad e by the Attorney General, one must of necessity have regard to the object and purpose of the Act.	None
The object of the Act is to relieve agricultural indebtedness.	Reasoning
In order to achieve that object, the legislature conferred certain benefits on agricultural debtors but, while doing so, it excluded a class of debts from the operation of the Act, namely, debts of the description mentioned in clauses (a) to (n) of section 2(4).	Reasoning
One class of debts taken out from the operation of t he Act is debts owed to banking companies, as specified in clause (1).	Reasoning
The reason for this exception is obvious.	Reasoning
It is notorious that money lenders exploit needy agriculturists and impose upon them harsh and onerous terms while granting loans to them.	Reasoning
But that charge does not hold true in the case of representative institutions, like banks and banking companies.	Reasoning
They are governed by their rules and regulations which do not change from debtor to debtor and which, if any thing, are intended to benefit the weaker sections of society.	Reasoning
It is for this reason that debts owing to such creditors are excepted from the operation of the Act.16.	None
A necessary implication and an inevitable consequence of the Attorney Generals argument is that in order to attract the application of clause (1) of section 2 (4), it is enough to show that the debt was, at some time before the commencement of the Act, owed to a banking company it does not matter whether it was in its inception owed to a private moneylender and, equally so, whether it was owed to such a moneylender on the date of the commencement of the Act.	Reasoning
This argument, if accepted, will defeat the very object of the Act.	Reasoning
The sole test which assumes relevance according to that argument is whether the debt was owed, at any time before the commencement of the Act, to a banking company.	Reasoning
It means that it is enough for the purpose of attracting clause (1) that, at some time in the past, may be in a chain of transfers, the right to recover the debt was vested in a banking company.	Reasoning
A simple illustration will elucidate the point.	Reasoning
If a private moneylender had initially granted a loan to an agricultural debtor on usurious terms but the right to recover that debt came to be vested in a banking company some time before the commencement of the Act, the debtor will not be able to avail himself of the benefit of the provisions of the Act because, at some point of time before the commencement of the Act, the debt was owed to a banking company.	Reasoning
And this would be so irrespective of whether the banking company continues to be entitled to recover the debt on the date of the commencement of the Act.	Reasoning
Even if it assigns its right to a private individual, the debtor will be debarred from claiming the benefit of the Act because, what is of decisive importance, according to the Attorney Generals argument is the fact whether, some time before the commencement of the Act, the debt was due to a banking company.	Reasoning
We do not think the Legislature could have intended to produce such a startling result.17.	None
The plain language of the clause, if interpreted so plainly, will frustrate rather than further the object of the Act.	None
Relief t o agricultural debtors, who have suffered the oppression of private moneylenders, has to be the guiding star which must illumine and inform the interpretation of the beneficent provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
When clause (1) speaks of a debt du e before the commencement of the Act to a banking company, it does undoubtedly mean what it says, namely, that the debt must have been due to a banking company before the commencement of the Act.	Reasoning
But it means something more that the debt mus t also be due to a banking company at the commencement of the Act.	Reasoning
We quite see that we are reading into the clause the word at which is not there because, whereas it speaks of a debt due before the commencement of the Act, we are reading the cla use as relating to a debt which was due at and before the commencement of the Act to any banking company.	Reasoning
We would have normally hesitated to fashion the clause by so restructuring it but we see no escape from that course, since that is the only rational manner by which we can give meaning and content to it, so as to further the object of the Act.18.	None
There is one more aspect of the matter which needs to be amplified and it is this When clause (1) speaks of a debt due before the commencement of the Act, what it truly means to convey is not that the debt should have been due to a banking company at some point of time before the commencement of the Act, but that it must be a debt which was incurred from a banking company before the commencement of the Act.19.	Reasoning
Thus, the application of clause (1) is subject to these conditions (i)	None
The debt must have been incurred from a banking company (ii) the debt must have been so incurred before the commence ment of the Act, and (iii) the debt must be due to a banking company on the date of the commencement of the Act.	None
These are cumulative conditions and unless each one of them is satisfied, clause (1) will not be attracted and the exclusion provided for t here in will not be available as an answer to the relief sought by the debtor in terms of the Act.20.	None
Our attention was drawn by the Attorney General to the provisions of sections 2 (4) and 2 (4) (j) of the Act the former using the expression on or before the commencement of the Act and the latter at the commencement of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Relying upon the different phraseology used in these two provisions and in clause (1) inter se, he urged that the legislature has chosen its words carefu lly and that when it intended to make the state of affairs existing at the commencement of the Act relevant, it has said so.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are not impressed by this submission.	None
Section 2 (4) which defines a debt had to provide that debt means a liability due from or incurred by an agriculturist on or before the commencement of the Act.	None
It could not be that liabilities incurred before the commencement of the Act would be debts even though they are not due on the date of commencement of the Act.	None
The words on or before the commencement of the Act are used in the context of liabilities due from or incurred by an agriculturist.	None
For similar reasons, clause (j) had to use the expression at the commencement of the Act, the subje ct matter of that clause being debts due to widows.	None
The benefit of the exclusion provided for in clause (j) could only be given to widows to whom debts were due at the commencement of the Act.	None
The legislature could not have given that benefit in respect of debts which were due before but not at the commencement of the Act.	None
Thus, the language used in the two provisionals on which the learned Attorney General relies is suited to the particular subject matter with which those provisions deal and is apposite to the context in which that language is used.	None
We have given to the provision of clause (1) an interpretation which, while giving effect to the intention of the legislature in the light of the object of the Act, brings out the tru e meaning of the provision contained in that clause.	None
The literal construction will create an anomalous situation and lead to absurdidities and injustice.	None
That construction has therefore to be avoided.21.	None
Any other interpretation of clause (1) w ill make it vulnerable to a constitutional challenge on the ground of infraction of the guarantee of equality.	None
The object of the Act being to confer certain benefits on agricultural debtors, the legislature would be under an obligation, while excepting a certain category of debts from the operation of the Act, to make a classification which will answer the test of article 14.	None
Debts incurred from banking companies and due to such companies at the commencement of the Act would fall into a separate and distinct class, the classification bearing a nexus with A the object of the Act.	None
If debts incurred from private moneylenders are brought within the terms of clause (1) on the theory that the right to recover the debt had passed on t o a banking company sometime before the commencement of the Act, the clause would be unconstitutional for the reason that it accords a different treatment to a category of debts without a valid basis and without the classification having a nexus with the object of the Act.22.	None
In State of Rajasthan v. Mukanchand section 2 (e) of Jagirdars Debt Reduction Act, 1937 was held invalid on the ground that it infringed Article 14 of the Constitution.	None
The object of that Act was to re duce the debts secured on jagir lands which had been resumed under the provisions of the Rajasthan Land Reforms and Resumption of Jagirs Act.	None
The Jagirdars capacity to pay debts had been reduced by the resumption of his lands and the object of the Act was to ameliorate his condition.	None
It was held that no intelligible principle underlies the exempted category of debts mentioned in section 2(e) since the fact that the debts were owed to a government or to a local authority or similar other bodies, had no real relationship with the object sought to be achieved by the Act.	None
In Fatehand Himmatlal v. Slate of Maharashtra, in which the constitutionality of the Maharashtra Debt Relief Act, 1976 was challenged, it was held by this Court that the exemption granted by the statute to credit institutions and banks was reasonable because liabilities due to Government, local authorities and other credit institutions were not tainted by the view of the debtors exploitation.	None
Fatehchand would be an authority for the proposition that clause (1), in the manner interpreted by us, does not violate Article 14 of the Constitution.23.	None
Shri Vaidyanathan, who appears on behalf of the respondent, contended that the claim made by the appellant Bank falls squarely under section 2 (4) (a) (ii) of the Act and that if the appellant is not entitled to the benefit of the specific provision contained therein, it is impermissible to consider whether it can cl aim the benefit of some other exclusionary clause like clause (1).	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel is right to the extent that the appellant is not entitled to claim the benefit of the provision contained in section 2 (4)(a)(ii) because of Proviso B to that section.	Reasoning
The simple reason in support of this conclusion is that the right of the appellant to recover the debt arose by reason of a transfer effected by operation of law subsequent to July 1, 1957.	Arguments of Respondent
We have already dealt with that aspect of the matter.	None
But we are no t inclined to accept the submission that if a particular case falls under a specific clause of section 2 (4) which is found to be inapplicable, the creditor is debarred from claiming the benefit of any of the other clauses (a) to (n).	Reasoning
The obje ct of the exclusionary clauses is to take category of debts from out of the operation of the Act and there is no reason why, if a specific clause is inapplicable, the creditor cannot seek the benefit of the other clauses.	Reasoning
The exclusiona ry clauses, together, are certainly exhaustive of the categories of excepted debts but to make those clauses mutually exclusive will be to impair unduly the efficacy of the very object of taking away a certain class of debts from the operation of the Act.	Reasoning
We are not therefore, inclined to accept the submission made by the learned counsel that section 2 (4) (a) (ii) is exhaustive of all circumstances in which a subsidiary bank can claim the benefit of the exceptions to section 2 (4 ).24.	Reasoning
For these reasons we affirm the view of the High Court that the exclusion provided for in clause (1) of section 2 (4) of the Act can be availed of if the debt is due to a banking company at the time of the commencement of the Act.	Decision
We have already indicated that the other condition which must be satisfied in order that clause (1) may apply is that the debt must have been incurred from a banking company before the commencement of the Act.	Decision
For these reasons we dismiss the appeal.	Decision
Appellant will pay the costs of the respondent throughout.25.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
