 Hidayatullah, J.1.	None
This is an appeal by certificate granted by the High court of Madras against its common judgment and decree dated November 3, 1955 in A. S. Nos. 88 and 138 of 1947.	None
The appellants are 7 of the original 139 defendants and the respondents are the two plaintiffs and the original defendant No.1.	Facts
The appeal arises from a suit for redemption of a usufructuary mortgage dated April 26, 1862 and for delivery of possession of properties described in Schs.	Facts
A and B of the plaint together with mesne profits from the date of redemption till delivery of possession, the mortgaged property had passed into the hands of several persons and this is why so many defendants were joined, life shall now give the facts which go back for an incredibly long period.2.	Facts
The plaint incorporates three schedules distinguished as A, B and C Schedules and they describe properties which belonged to the Alyasantana family of the second respondent.	Facts
On April 14, 1842, one Madana, who was then the Ejaman of the family, usufructuarily mortgaged the A, B and C Schedule properties in favour of one Kunhanmmu Hajar for 1250 varahas or pagodas (equal to Rs. 5,000/) under Ex.	Facts
P1 This deed did not contain any provision for repayment of the amount or for the usufructuary mortgage to be worked off.	None
It contained a clause to the following effect At the end of the cultivation season, whenever you state that the said land is not required, the said one thousand, two hundred and fifty Varahas due to you and also the value of improvements shall be paid to you in one lump sum and the said land, house, cattleshed, outhouse, etc., shall be obtained back from you, and this document as well as the previous documents shall be got redeemed.	None
Though the mortgage deed was taken ostensibly in his own name by Kunhanmmu Hajar, he did so on behalf of his brothers, sisters, nephews and nieces etc.	None
The mortgaged property was described as land bearing a beriz of 441/2 pagodas (equal to Rs. 227108) situated in Warg No. 34 of Kumbadaje village, Netanige Magne, Bekal taluk (the whole Warg bore a beriz of 561/2 pagodas), comprising 37 fields which were described by their names without boundaries.	Facts
The mortgagees who were given possession of lands were also placed in possession of some heads of cattle and other movables and for the redemption of the movables there was separate term in the deed.3.	Facts
In 1857, the family of the mortgagees effected a partition by registered documents which are marked collectively as Ex.	Facts
P6 series.	None
This partition was not by metes and bounds or by the allotment of whole fields but a division of lands with reference to the fraction of the beriz payable.	Facts
We are concerned in this appeal only with the share which went to Kunhammu Hajar whose share was 1/4.	Facts
In Ex.	None
P6 which is the partition deed concerning him, his share was described as followsFurther, out of Belinjada land bearing a beriz of Rs. 2271010 and entered in No. 34 Maindana Kuntamma Varg of Kunbadaji village Nettanige Magne, the onefourthportion bearing a beriz of Rs. 56148 and consisting.	Facts
of land and Bavaities including border trees, soil and field attached thereto.	None
Other members of the family received shares according to their own right mentioned in separate documents.	None
The earliest such document was of April 3, 1857 and the last of April 30, 1857.	Facts
Kunhanmu Hajar died after this partition and on April 26, 1862, the mortgagors and mortgagees entered into an agreement evidenced by Exs. P2 and P2 (a) by which Ex.	Facts
P1 was reaffirmed the mortgagees, however, released from Ex.	None
P1 certain properties which are now shown in Schedule C to the plaint.	None
The mortgagors on their part agreed that the remaining properties (which are now shown in Schedules A and B to the plaint) would be enjoyed by the mortgagees for a period of 40 years from the date of the document together with improvements made thereon.	Facts
The mortgagors covenanted that it after the expiry of the stipulated, period this land was required by them and it at the time of the cultivation season of that year the mortgage amount of the usufructuary mortgage (Ex. P1) together with the amounts of two other deeds creating a charge and Rs. 100/ taken at the execution of Ex.	Facts
P2 together with the amounts relating to improvements were paid in one lump sum, the land and the bond would stand redeemed.	None
Ex.	None
P2 was executed by the mortgagors and a counterpart (Ex. P2(a)) was executed, among others, by Aliamma, the widow of Kunhanmmu Hajar, who signed for herself but not on behalf of Kunhi Pakki her minor son by Kunhanmmu Hajar.	Facts
Kunhi Pakkis share in the mortgage was thus not represented in Exs.	Facts
P2 and P2(a).	None
Kunhi Pakki died in 1934.	Facts
and the first defendant also Kunhi Pakki who is the third respondent in this appeal is his grantedson, It may be mentioned that the two deeds which created a charge and which were to be discharged along with Exs. P1 and P2 have been held by the High Court and the Court below to be for the principal amount of Rs.	Facts
2,000/.	None
We may now omit for the time being a reference to the further devolution of the share of Kunhi Pakki son of Kunhnammu Hajar in respect of, whose share in Ex.	Facts
P1 the main dispute in the case has arisen.	None
We shall mention those details later.4.	Facts
The present suit was filed for redemption of Ex.	Facts
P2 by the first and the second respondents.	None
The first respondent purchased schedule A properties in July 1943 by Ex.	None
P83 and undertook to redeem the mortgaged properties described in schedules A and B and to hand over possession of schedule B properties to the legal representative in the family of Madana.	Facts
Respondent No. 2 the then Ejamanthi is that representative.	Facts
This suit was filed on April 20, 1944 and it would clearly be barred under Art.	Facts
148 of the Indian Limitation Act unless Exs. P.2 and P.2(a) and the term of 40 years for which the mortgagees were to remain in possession from 1862 were taken into consideration and saved limitation.	Facts
The plaintiffs in their suit stated that the claim was within time, because under Ex.	None
P2 the mortgagees were entitled to remain in possession for 40 years from April 26, 1862 and the right of redemption thus accrued for the first time on April 27, 1902 and the claim made in 1944 was within 60 years of that date as required by Art.	Facts
148.	Facts
The defence was that in so far as the share of Kunhammu Hajar was concerned, Kunhi Pakki, who inherited it was not bound by Ex. P2(a) because he was neither a signatory to it being a minor, nor had any legal guardian executed Ex. P.2(a) on his behalf.	Facts
It was pleaded that there was no doctrine of representation in Muhammadan Law, and the mother, even if she had signed Ex. P2(a), would have been a fazuli, that is to say, an unauthorised person.	Facts
It was further pleaded that in respect of Kunhi Pakkis share Exs.	None
P2 and P2(a) could not save limitation and 1/4 share of Kunhanmmu Hajar was not liable to be redeemed.	None
It was also claimed that the plaintiffs must pay for improvements.5.	Facts
The trial Judge held the suit to be within time applying to the 1/4 share of Kunbanmmu Hajar then owned by C. Mahmood defendant 8, the equitable doctrine of election on the ground that Kunhi Pakki had approved and adopted Exs.	Facts
P.2 and P.2(a) and taken benefit under them and his successors could not therefore avoid them.	Facts
With regard to improvements the trial Judge found that an amount of Rs.	Facts
4,089.2.0 was due.	Facts
The trial Judge accordingly passed a decree inter alia for the redemption of the share of C. Mahamood on payment of the price of redemption and improvements together with interest thereon.	Facts
From this judgment, A. S. 138 of 1947 was filed by defendants 3, 5, 8, 9, 49, 50, 52. 67, 68 and 121 and A. S. 88 of 1941was filed by defendant 58.	Facts
The plaintiffs also cross objected.	Facts
The judgment of the High Court modified the decree in the matter of the amounts due for improvements but on the main question, it endorsed the views of the trial Judge with regard to limitation and the application of the equitable doctrine of election to Kunhi Pakki in respect of documents Exs.	Facts
P2 and P2(a).6.	None
In this appeal, it is contended that the conclusions of the High Court with regard to limitation and the doctrine of election were erroneous and further that the High Court was in error in awarding mesne profits from the date fixed in the preliminary decree for redemption, in view of the fact that the High Court found an increased amount in respect of improvements and the amount of improvements had to be paid for in full before redemption could be claimed.	Facts
Before we deal with these points, we must narrate more facts.7.	Facts
The present appeal has been filed by Beepathumma the legal representative of deft.	Facts
8C. Mahamood son of Abdul Rahaman Haji, who died during the pendency of the appeal in the High Court and by the daughter (deft.9) and the sons (defts.	Facts
52, 67 and 68) of C. Mahamood the other appellants are Abdulla (deft.	Facts
49) son and Bipathumma (deft.	Facts
50) daughter of Mammachumma (deft.	Facts
48).	Facts
This Mammachumma was the sister of Kunhi Pakki son of Kunhanmmu Hajar.	Facts
These names have to be borne in mind, because they are connected with the,1/4 share which on partition went to Kunhanrnmu Hajar by Ex.	Facts
P6, and will figure in the narrative which follows.	None
It must also be remembered that Warg No. 34 was also called Belinja MaindaKinhana.8.	Facts
After the partition Kunhanmmu Hajar executed a usufructuary mortgage (Ex. P16) in favour of his elder sister Cheriamma in respect of his 1/4 share on September 23, 1857.	Facts
Cheriatmma had received 1/8 share (beriz of Rs. 2874) at the partition vide Ex. P6(c).	Facts
In the mortgage deed (Ex. P16)	None
it was stated that Kunhanmmu Hajar would redeem the property whenever he wanted it.	Facts
Exs.	None
P2 and P2(a) then came into existence.	None
Cheriamma was not a signatory to Ex. P2(a), because she had died earlier.	None
After Cheriammas death her share of 1/8 and the mortgagee rights were divided between Mammachumma and Aisumma by Exs.	Facts
P17 and P.17(a) on October 6, 1861.	None
Each of these two sisters was allotted property of the beriz of Rs. 2874 from the 1/4 share mortgaged by Kunhanmmu Hajar and of Rs. 14.3.8 from the share proper of Cheriamma.	Facts
Mammachumma and Aisumma thereafter held properties of a total beriz of Rs. 42110 each and each share was 3/16th of the entire mortgaged property.9.	Facts
After Kunhanmmu Hajars death, his sons Kunhi Pakki ignored the usufructuary mortgage in favour of Cheriamma.(Ext.	Facts
P16).	None
On July l0, 1884, he took a sale deed (Ex. P.59) from Hammadekunhi son of Mammachumma.	Facts
The property was described as of beriz of Rs. 2874 in Warg No. 34 and of the beriz of Rs. 1438.	Facts
In other words, though the property was shown in two lots he obtained the 3/16 share of Cheriamma.	Facts
No boundaries were mentioned in the deed because it was stated that Kunhi Pakki was in possession of a portion of the properties in the same Warg.	Facts
In this way, Kunhi Pakki obtained properties of a total beriz of Rs. 42110, which had belonged to Mammachumma.10.	Facts
Kunhi Pakki then executed a simple mortgage (Ex. P60) in favour of one Laxmana Bhakta on January 18, 1887 for Rs.	Facts
5,500/.	None
The property was said to be of Belinja Mainda Kinhana (Warg No. 34) and to be in two lots, one lot bearing a beriz of Rs. 2874 and the other a beriz or Rs. 1438.	Facts
This showed that Kunhi Pakki was mortgaging the above 3/16 share acquired by him by Ex. P59.	Facts
This conclusion is reinforced by the fact that the boundaries in Ex.	Facts
P60 are said to be as mentioned in Ex. P59.	None
The right of Kunhi Pakki in this property was said to be AvadhiIlrdarwar (usufructuary mortgage for a fixed term in lieu of interest) (Ex. P1 read with Ex. P2).	Facts
Later, Kunhi Pakki executed a simple mortgage Ex.	Facts
P61 for Rs. 2,000/ on February 11, 1892 in favour of one Anantha Kini.	Facts
The property, this time, was said to be of the beriz of Rs. 58.	Facts
odd and also property of the beriz of Rs. 2874 and Rs. 1438.	None
In other words, he was mortgaging the entire 7/16 share (1/4 plus 3/16).	Facts
No boundaries were given but it was stated that the boundaries were the same as in the mortgage deed of January 18, 1887 in favour of Laxmana Bhakta.	Facts
This document recited that no other documents were handed over, but the mortgagor undertook to send them later.	Facts
On September 29, 1902, Kunhi Pakki, his wife Beepathumma and his son Kunhamu executed a usufructuary mortgage (Ex. P62) for Rs. 32,000/ in favour of one Vailcunta Bhakta.	Facts
Several lots of properties were included and Item 18 referred to property of the beriz of Rs 98110 in Belinjada Maindana Kinyana (Warg No. 34).	Facts
This showed that he was mortgaging his 1/4 share and 3/16 share of Cheriamma.	Facts
A recital showed that all Voladocuments were handed over and evidence has established that Ex.	None
P2 was one of them.	None
Vaikunta Bhakta transferred the mortgagee rights under Ex.	None
P62 to Abdul Rahiman and Koragappa by Ex.	None
P64 dated April 10, 1913 Item 18 in Ex.	None
P64 is land of Warg No. 34 of the beriz of Rs. 98110 and the boundaries are said to be as shown in the Ilidarwar (Exs, P1 and P2).	None
Kunhi Pakki also executed on August 26, 1924, a document (Ex. P65) creating a charge on the same properties in favour of the assignees.	Facts
These properties were again said to be those that had been usufructuarily mortgaged under the Ilidarwar of September 29, 1902 in favour of Vaikunta Bhakta by Ex.	None
P62.11.	None
On January 23, 1930, the heirs of Abdul Rahiman and the heirs of Koragappa executed a partition deed (Ex. D54) and at that partition, the Kumbadaje properties which were the subjectmatter of the mortgagees and charge fell to the share of Abdul Rahamans heirs.	Facts
It is stated in Ex.	Facts
D.54 that all the documents were handed over to the heirs of Abdul Rahiman.	Facts
C. Mahmood was the son of Abdul Rahiman and on September 23, 1930, he obtained a release of the shares of his mother, brother and sister by Ex. P66.	Facts
In Ex. P.66, there is a mention that the properties of Kumbadaje village had been obtained by an assignment from Vaikunta Bhakta and were being enjoyed as a usufructuary mortgage with a term.	Facts
It also mentioned the charge created by Kunhi Pakki for Rs.	Facts
9,500/. on August 26, 1924.	Facts
It was also mentioned that all the documents relating to properties in Kumbadaje village had been handed over to C. Mahamood son of Abdul Rahiman.	Facts
The total beriz of the Kumbadaje properties was shown to be Rs. 19880 because it included certain subdivisions other than those included in Exs. P.64 and P65.	Facts
In this manner, the 8th defendant acquired the 7/18 share cr Kunhi Pakki.12.	Facts
We have now to see three other documents which were executed either by Kunhi Pakki or were in his favour.	None
The most important of these is Ex.	None
P3 dated September 4, 1871.	None
This was a mortgage by the original mortgagors in favour of Kunhi Pakki.	None
It will be recalled that schedule C properties were released at the time when Ex. P1, which was without any time limit, was converted into a mortgage with a time limit by Ex.	None
P.2 in 1862.	None
Kunhi Pakki now obtained a mortgage of the released properties with a term of 32 years enjoyment, thus putting all the three properties described in Schedules A, B and C in the plaint and mentioned in Ex.	None
P1 on the same footing.	None
The significance of 32 years term is quite clear.	None
This mortgage was to run for the same period for which the other mortgage deed was to run.	None
It was stated in this document that Kunhi Pakki was already enjoying the other property out of property bearing a beriz of Rs. 22710l0 of Warg No. 34 under a usufructuary mortgage with a time limit by virtue of a registered document of 1862 executed by Kunhi Pakkis mother Aliamma.	None
Certain recitals of that document may be reproduced here	None
xxx xxx xxxOut of the property enjoyed by you previously under usufructuary mortgage with timelimit i.e., out of the property bearing a beriz of Rs. 22210.10	None
And entered in Muli No. 34 our ancestor, Maindana Kinhanna warg in Kumbadaje village, the said Nettanige Magne attached to the subdistrict of Kasaragod, south Kanara district, in respect of which property the entire tirve is paid by yourself, the particulars of the property enjoyed by us without payment of tirve under the registered Karar (Agreement) deed executed on the 14th of Chitra Bahula of Dundubhi (1862) year (27th April 1862) by your mother Alima Hajjumma and others in favour of ourselves and others are as follows	None
xxx xxx xxxAll	None
this entire property is mortgaged to you with a timelimit of thirtytwo years from this Prujothpathi year onwards and the one said Karar document obtained by us and mentioned above is given to youxxx xxx xxxIf	None
the principal amount and interest fall into arrears, that arrears of interest also shall be paid, after the due date, at that time only when the mortgage amount relating to your Avadhi Ilida Arwar (usufructuary mortgage with timelimit) is paid and when the property and the documents are redeemed and, the property, this document, and the documents mentioned herein and also to be got redeemed by you from the said Hammada Kunhi Beary shall be got redeemed by us.xxx xxx xxxThe consideration of this mortgage was to go to pay off the dues of Hammada Kunhi and others amounting in all to Rs. 56580.	None
The mortgagors also acknowledged receipt of an amount of Rs. 23480.	None
By this document, Kunhi Pakki placed all the properties on the same footing and neutralised so to speak the effect of the release of properties by Ex. P2(a).	None
Kunhi Pakki appears not to have paid these amounts himself, because on September 21, 1872, he executed a simple mortgage in favour of Hamlnada Kunhi for an amount of Rs. 800/(Ex. P3(a) ).	None
He stated in that deed that the property was mortgaged without possession And was still in the enjoyment of the original proprietors.13.	None
The last document to be mentioned is Ex. P4, which was a usufructuary mortgage by the original mortgagors in favour of Hammada Kunhi dated May 29, 1877.	None
This document makes a reference to the earlier documents of Kunhi Pakki in respect of the released properties.	None
It refers specially to Ex.	None
P.2 and states that that property was now being held on a usufructuary mortgage with a time limit.14.	None
It was contended in this case on behalf of the mortgagees that the 1/4 share of Kunhi Pakki, on which time limit was not imposed, because Kunhi Pakki was a minor	Arguments of Petitioner
when Exs. P2 and P2(a) were executed, could not be redeemed by the plaintiff as the suit in respect of them was timebarred.	None
To understand this contention, it is necessary to give a short history of the Law of Limitation between the years 1842 and 1902.	Reasoning
In 1842 when Ex. P1 was executed there was no law prescribing a period of limitation for the redemption of a usufructuary mortgage such limit came in 1859 for the first time and a period of 60 years from the date of the mortgage was prescribed.	Reasoning
it is this statute which seems to have been the cause for the execution of Exs.	Reasoning
P2 and P2(a)	None
the mortgagees were perhaps afraid that the mortgage could be redeemed at any time within 60 years from the date of the mortgage of 1842.	Reasoning
The last date for redemption thus was 1902.	Reasoning
By getting the term Certain for 40 years, the date for redemption was shifted by them to 1902 and redemption could not take place till that year.	Reasoning
The mortgagors also benefited, because they obtained a release of some properties and received Rs. l00/ in cash.	Reasoning
The period of 60 years was repeated in the Act of 1871 but it contained a rider that if during the period of 60 years, there was an acknowledgment then the period would run from the date of that acknowledgment.	Reasoning
Article 148 of the Limitation Act as it stands today was introduced by the Act of 1877.	Reasoning
It makes the 60 years period run from the time when redemption is due.	None
The mortgagors contend that they have the benefit of the present Act read with Exs.	None
P2 and P2 (a) and the time for redemption will expire at the end of 60 years from the date on which redemption became due under Exs.	None
P2 and P.2 (a), that is to say, 1902.There is no doubt that the Law of Limitation is a procedural law and the provisions existing on the date of the suit apply to it.	None
This suit was filed in 1944 and the Act of 1877 governs it.	Reasoning
The only dispute is when did the mortgage become due for redemption?	None
According to the mortgagees, time ran from the date of the mortgage under the Act of 1859 and did not stop in respect of the share of Kunhi Pakki, because he was not bound by Exs.	None
P2 and P2 (a).	None
The mortgagors, on the other hand, contend that Kunhi Pakki had accepted Exs.	None
P2 and P2 (a) as his own documents and have obtained benefit under then in various ways and the appellants are either estopped from contending the contrary or having approved and adopted those documents and taken benefit, cannot repudiate them.	None
In other words, they seek to apply the equitable doctrine of election to Kunhi Pakki and thus to deft.	Arguments of Respondent
8 who derived title from Kunhi Pakki.	Arguments of Respondent
This plea of the mortgagors was accepted by the High Court and the court below.	Arguments of Respondent
It is contended that these courts erroneously applied the doctrine to the present case.,15.	None
Mr. S. T. Desai learned counsel for the appellants admits that the mortgagors had not lost their right to the properties comprised in Ex.	Arguments of Petitioner
P2 and that Ex.	None
P1 incorporated Ex. P1.	None
Exhibits P63 and P63 (a) were filed to establish the connection which in view of the admission, it is not necessary to set forth here.	None
He also admits that he cannot make out a case under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
134 of the Indian Limitation Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contends that the doctrine of election is but a species of estoppel and there can be no estoppel against law especially against the Limitation Act, because of S. 3 of that Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He relies upon a decision of the Madras High Court reported in Sitarama Chetty v. Krishnaswami Chetty, ILR 38 Mad 874 (AIR 1915 Mad 979) where White, C. J. quoting a passage from Mr. Mitras book on the Law of limitation, observed that an agreement by a person against whom a cause of action has arisen, that he would not take advantage of the statute, cannot affect its operation on the original cause of action, unless such agreement amounts to an acknowledgment of liability which the statute recognises as an exception to the rule.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Desai also relies upon Govardhan Das v. Dau Daval, ILR 54 All 5713 (AIR 1932 All 273 FB) for the proposition that no one can contract himself out of the statute of limitation, nor can estoppel be pleaded against a statutory bar of limitation.	None
Some other cases cited by him are not in point and need not be mentioned on the basis of these cases Mr. Desai contends that unless Exs. P2 and P2 (a) can be pleaded as an acknowledgment limitation cannot be saved in respect of Kunhi Pakkis share and the suit itself must be dismissed under S. 3 of the Limitation Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contends that the equitable doctrine of election does not apply to the present case, because the documents on which reliance is placed refer not to the 1/4 share of Kunhi Pakki but to the 3/16 share of Cheriamma which Kunhi Pakki subsequently obtained.	Arguments of Petitioner
He states that the latter conclusion is inescapable if Exs. P59, P60 and P61 are read together.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that in these documents Kunhi Pakki no doubt connected the 3/16 share, with Exs. P2 and P2(a) but treated his own 1/4 share separately.16.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no doubt that Kunhi Pakki was not directly bound by Exs.	Reasoning
P2 and P2 (a).	None
Mr. Desai is right in contending that as Kunhi Pakki was a minor and no guardian signed on his behalf, Ex.	None
P2 (a) cannot be used to show either an acknowledgment by him or an extension of the term of the original usufructuary mortgage.	None
The only question thus is whether by reason of the later documents and the conduct of Kunhi Pakki it can be said that Kunhi Pakki had obtained the benefit of Ex.	None
P2 (a) which bound him to accept Exs.	None
P2 P2(a) in their entirety.	None
In binding Kunhi Pakki in this way, no question of extending the period of limitation or of acknowledgment arises, and S. 3 of the Limititation Act is not in the way because time would run only from 1902.	None
This result follows because the mortgagors could not redeem the property including the share of Kunhi Pakki for 40 years from 1862.17.	None
The doctrine of election which has been applied in this case is wellsettled and may be stated in the classic words of MaitlandThat he who accepts a benefit under a deed or will or other instrument must adopt the whole contents of that instrument, must conform to all its provisions and renounce all rights that are inconsistent with it(See Maitlands lectures on	None
Equity Lecture18)The same principle is stated in White and Tudors Leading cases in Equity Vol, 1 8th Edn, at n. 444 as followsElection is the obligation imposed upon a party by courts of equity to choose between two inconsistent or alternative rights or claims in cases where there is clear intention of the person from whom he derives one that he should not enjoy both That he who accepts a benefit under a deed or will must adopt the whole contents of the instrument.18.	None
The Indian courts have applied this doctrine in several cases and a reference to all of them is hardly necessary.	None
We may, however, refer to a decision of the Madras High Court in Ramakottayya v. Viraraghavayya, ILR 52 Mad 556 (AIR 1929 Mad 502 FB) where after referring to the passage quoted by us from White and Tudor, courts Trotter, G. J. observed that the principle is often put in another form that a person cannot approbate and reprobate the same transaction and he referred to the decision of the Judicial committee in Rangaswami Gounden v. Nachiappa Gounden, ILR 42 )	None
Mad 523 (AIR 1918 PC 196).Recently, this court has also considered the doctrine in Bhau Ram v. Baij Nath Singh, AIR 1961 SC 1327 .19.	None
The short question is whether, in the words of the Scottish lawyers Kunhi Pakki can be said to have approbated Exs. P1 and P2(a) and therefore his successorsintitle cannot now reprobate them.	None
In this connection, Exs. P3 and P4 quite clearly show that Kunhi Pakki considered that he was bound by Ex. P2(a) and the mortgagors were bound by Ex. P2.	None
His taking of the mortgage of the released properties clearly indicated that he accepted that the mortgagors were released from the obligations of Ex. P1.	None
In Ex. P3, he took the mortgage of the released properties for a period of 32 years which made the two mortgages run for an identical term, and that document referred to the earlier transaction as one under an Avadhi Illida Arwar (usufrucluary mortgage with a time limit) which indicated that the time limit imposed by Exs. P2 and P2(a) was in his contemplation.	Reasoning
In all subsequent documents, reference is to be found to the Illida Arwar and the reference is not only to the 316 share of Cheriamma but, to the entire 716 share of Kunhi Pakki, that is to say, his original share of 1/4 obtained by him through his father by Exs.	Reasoning
P6 and 3/16 share which he obtained later.	None
In view of the fact that in this way, Kunhi Pakki obtained the enjoyment of the mortgage in respect of his 1/4 share for a period of 40 years certain, he must be taken to have elected to apply to his own 1/4 share the terms of Ex.	Reasoning
P2.Having in this way accepted benefit and thus approbated that document, neither he nor his successors could be heard to say that the mortgage in Ex.	None
P1 was independent of Ex.	None
P2 and that the limitation ran out on the lapse of 60 years from 1842.	None
In our opinion, the doctrine of election was properly applied in respect of Kunhi Pakkis 1/4 share now in the possession of the present appellants through defendant 8.20.	Reasoning
The next point that was urged was that the High Court and the Court below should not have awarded mesne profits against the appellants till they were paid the full price of redemption including the compensation for improvements.	None
The trial court had found that an amount of Rs. 4,08920 was due to defendant No. 8.	None
This amount was increased by the High Court to Rs. 6,62570.	None
This was a substantial increase and even though the plaintiffs had earlier deposited the entire amount for redemption including the sum of Rs.	None
4,08920, they cannot be said to have fulfilled the condition on which redemption was to be allowed to them, Under Ex.	None
P1 from which we have quoted the relevant passage earlier, it was agreed that the sum of 1250 varahas and the value of improvements would be paid in one lump sum.	None
In the subsequent documents also the same term was included.	None
The respondents contend that interest on the extra amount of compensation for improvement has been awarded by the High Court and this makes it equitable that the appellants should pay mesne profits for the period of their possession after the deposit of the amount found by the trial Judge in court.	Arguments of Respondent
No question of equity really arises, because the mortgage had to be redeemed according to its own terms.	None
The mortgagors undertook that they would redeed the properties by paying the principal of the mortgage amount and the compensation for improvements in a lump sum and cannot complain if the mortgagees are not compelled to hand over the property or to pay mesne profits till the mortgagors have paid the full amount.	Reasoning
Both sides referred to certain cases which are really not in point because the facts were entirely different.	Reasoning
It is not necessary to refer to them, because no principle can be gathered from them.	Reasoning
In the present case, April 15, 1946 was fixed for redemption and the mortgagors put into court a sum of about Rs.	Reasoning
17,000/.	None
The appellate decree was passed on November 3, 1955 and possession was delivered in 1957.	Reasoning
We were informed that a sum of Rs. ll,800/ per year was deposited in court by way of mesne profits.21.	Reasoning
Now the mortgagees cannot claim to hold the lands and use the amount paid as price of redemption.	Reasoning
Even if they were not required to hand over possession till the amount together with the compensation for improvements was paid in full to them, they could not have the use of the money as well.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the mortgagees must pay interest on the amount paid by the mortgagors from the date of withdrawal of the amount till possession was delivered to the mortgagors at 6 per annum simple.	Decision
The extra amount due to the mortgagees by way of compensation will be deductible and accounts shall be adjusted between the parties accordingly.22.	Decision
The appeal is thus partly allowed as indicated above.	Decision
In view of the failure on the main point, the appellants must pay the costs of the appeal to the respondents.23.	Decision
Appeal partly allowed.	Decision
