 F. Nariman, J. This matter has come before a three Judge Bench by an order of reference of a Division Bench of this Honble Court dated 7th April, 2010.	None
The referral order reads thus In this appeal, the question that arises for decision is which Court will have the jurisdiction to entertain and decide an application under Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter for short the Act).	None
Mr. Bikas Ranjan Bhattacharya, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants cited the judgments in the case of National Aluminium Co. Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Vs. Pressteel Fabrications (P) Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
And Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2004) 1 SCC 540 , Bharat Coking Coal Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Annapurna Construction (2008) 6 SCC 732 , Bharat Coking Coal Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
H.P. Biswas and Company (2008) 6 SCC 740 and	Arguments of Petitioner
Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Vs. Krishna Travel Agency (2008) 6 SCC 741 in support of his submission that it is only the Principal Civil Court, as defined in Section 2(e) of the Act, which can entertain and decide an application under Section 34 of the Act for setting aside the Award.3.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Pradip Ghosh, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent on the other hand submitted that in the present case the Calcutta High Court exercising jurisdiction under Clause 12 of the Letters Patent had passed an interim order under Section 9 of the Act before commencement of the arbitration proceedings and by virtue of Section 42 of the Act, it is only the Calcutta High Court which will have jurisdiction to entertain and decide an application under Section 34 of the Act for setting aside the Award.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of his submission, he relied upon judgment of this Court in the case of Jindal Vijaynagar Steel (JSW Steel Ltd.)	Arguments of Respondent
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Jindal Praxair Oxygen Co. Ltd. (2006)	Arguments of Respondent
11 SCC 521.	Arguments of Respondent
4.	None
We have perused the decisions cited by learned counsel for the parties, which are all decisions of two Judges Bench.	None
In our opinion, the law has to be clarified beyond doubt as to which Court will have the jurisdiction to entertain and decide an application for setting aside the Award under Section 34 of the Act read with Section 2(e) of the Act and other provisions, including Section 42 of the Act.	None
We, therefore, refer the matter to a larger Bench to decide this question of law.5.	None
Let the papers of this case be placed before Honble the Chief Justice for constituting an appropriate Bench.6.	None
Till the disposal of the appeal by a larger Bench, the interim order dated 17.05.2007 shall continue to operate.	None
The facts necessary to decide this matter are as followsIn 199596 an Item Rate Tender was duly executed and signed between the respondent Associated Contractors and the concerned Superintending Engineer for execution of the work of excavation and lining of Teesta Jaldhaka Main Canal from Chainage 3 Kms.	None
to 3.625 Kms.	Facts
in Police Station Mal, District Jalpaiguri, West Bengal.	Facts
Para 25 of the said Item Rate Tender and Contract contained an arbitration clause.3.	Facts
The respondent herein filed an application under Section 9 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 for interim orders in the High Court of Calcutta.	Facts
A learned Single Judge of the High Court of Calcutta, after granting leave under Clause 12 of the Letters Patent, passed an adinterim exparte injunction order.	Facts
This order was continued from time to time until it was confirmed by an order dated 10th December, 1998.	Facts
Meanwhile, in an application under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, Justice B.P. Banerjee (retired), was appointed as an Arbitrator to adjudicate upon the disputes between the parties.	Facts
A Recalling Application filed by the State was dismissed on 20th January, 2000.4.	Facts
An appeal was filed against the order dated 10th December, 1998, confirming the adinterim exparte injunction.	Facts
On 5th July, 2000, delay in filing the appeal was condoned and on 20th July, 2000, the interim order was stayed by the Division Bench.	Facts
The Arbitrator was, however, asked to complete the proceedings before him which would go on uninterrupted.5.	Facts
Meanwhile, several orders were passed by the High Court regarding remuneration of the Arbitrator and payment of the same.	Facts
The arbitration proceedings culminated in an Award dated 30th June, 2004 by which the claimant was awarded a sum of Rs.2,76,97,205.00 with 10 interest from 1st July, 1998 till the date of the Award.	Facts
If not paid within four months, the same would then attract interest at the rate of 18 per annum.	Facts
Costs were also awarded in the sum of Rs.50,000/. The counter claims of the respondent were rejected.6.	None
On 21st September, 2004, the State of West Bengal filed an application under Section 34 of the 1996 Act to set aside the arbitral Award before the Principal Civil Court of the learned District Judge at Jalpaiguri, West Bengal.	Facts
On 6th October, 2004, the learned District Judge at Jalpaiguri issued notice to the other side directing the respondent to appear and file its written objections on or before 4th January, 2004.	Facts
On 10th December, 2004, the respondent filed an application under Article 227 of the Constitution challenging the jurisdiction of the court of the learned District Judge at Jalpaiguri.	Facts
By the impugned judgment dated 11th April, 2005, a Single Judge of the High Court of Calcutta allowed the petition under Article 227 holding Accordingly, I hold that since the parties already had submitted to the jurisdiction of this Court in its Ordinary Original Civil jurisdiction in connection with different earlier proceedings arising out of the said contract, as indicated above, the jurisdiction of the court of the learned District Judge at Jalpaiguri to entertain the said application for setting aside of the award was excluded under Section 42 of the said Act.	Facts
Thus, I find that this Court in its Ordinary Original Civil Jurisdiction is the only court which can entertain an application for setting aside the said award.	Facts
The Revisional Application, thus, stands allowed.	Facts
The impugned notice is, thus, quashed.	None
In an S.L.P. filed against this order, Mr. Anip Sachthey, learned advocate for the State of West Bengal, argued that since the application itself made under Section 9 was without jurisdiction, Section 42 of the Arbitration Act would not be attracted.	Arguments of Petitioner
He argued that the reason the Division Bench stayed the interim order passed under Section 9 was because it was convinced prima facie that the High Court had no territorial jurisdiction in the matter.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. P.K. Ghosh, learned senior advocate for the respondent, contended that Clause 12 leave had already been granted and a number of orders have been passed after the adinterim exparte order dated 22nd July, 1998 by the learned Single Judge of the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
There is, in fact, no order of any court which has pronounced upon jurisdiction, and therefore, Section 42 would necessarily apply to the facts of the case.	Arguments of Respondent
As the matter has been referred to us for an authoritative pronouncement on Section 2(1)(e) and Section 42 it will be important to set out Section 2(1)(e) and Section 42 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 which read as follows 2(1)(e) Court means the principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction in a district, and includes the High Court in exercise of its ordinary original civil jurisdiction, having jurisdiction to decide the questions forming the subjectmatter of the arbitration if the same had been the subjectmatter of a suit, but does not include any civil court of a grade inferior to such principal Civil Court, or any Court of small Causes.42.	Reasoning
Jurisdiction Notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in this Part or in any other law for the time being in force, where with respect to an arbitration agreement any application under this Part has been made in a Court, that Court alone shall have jurisdiction over the arbitral proceedings and all subsequent applications arising out of that agreement and the arbitral proceedings shall be made in that Court and in no other Court.	None
Section 2(1)(e) had its genesis in Section 2(c) of the 1940 Act.	None
Section 42 had its genesis in Section 31(4) of the 1940 Act.	None
These sections of the 1940 Act read as follows 2(c)	None
Court means a Civil Court having jurisdiction to decide the questions forming the subject matter of the reference if the same had been the subject matter of a suit, but does not, except for the purpose of arbitration proceedings under section 21, include a Small Cause Court31(4) Notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in this Act or in any other law for the time being in force, where in any reference any application under this Act has been made in a Court competent to entertain it, that Court alone shall have jurisdiction over the arbitration proceedings, and all subsequent applications arising, out of that reference, and the arbitration proceedings shall be made in that Court and in no other Court.	None
It will be noticed that Section 42 is in almost the same terms as its predecessor Section except that the words in any reference are substituted with the wider expression with respect to an arbitration agreement.	None
It will also be noticed that the expression has been made in a court competent to entertain it, is no longer there in Section 42.	None
These two changes are of some significance as will be pointed out later.	None
Section 42 starts with a nonobstante clause which does away with anything which may be inconsistent with the Section either in PartI of the Arbitration Act, 1996 or in any other law for the time being in force.	None
The expression with respect to an arbitration agreement widens the scope of Section 42 to include all matters which directly or indirectly pertain to an arbitration agreement.	None
Applications made to Courts which are before, during or after arbitral proceedings made under PartI of the Act are all covered by Section 42.	None
But an essential ingredient of the Section is that an application under PartI must be made in a court.	None
Part1 of the Arbitration Act, 1996, contemplates various applications being made with respect to arbitration agreements.	None
For example, an application under Section 8 can be made before a judicial authority before which an action is brought in a matter which is the subject of an arbitration agreement.	None
It is obvious that applications made under Section 8 need not be to courts, and for that reason alone, such applications would be outside the scope of Section 42.	None
It was held in P. Anand Gajapathi Raju Ors.	None
v. P.V.G. Raju (Dead) Ors., (2000) 4 SCC 539 at para 8	None
that applications under Section 8 would be outside the ken of Section 42.	None
We respectfully agree, but for the reason that such applications are made before judicial authorities and not courts as defined.	None
Also, a party who applies under Section 8 does not apply as dominus litis, but has to go wherever the action may have been filed.	None
Thus, an application under Section 8 is parasitical in nature  it has to be filed only before the judicial authority before whom a proceeding is filed by someone else.	None
Further, the judicial authority may or may not be a Court.	None
And a Court before which an action may be brought may not be a Principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction or a High Court exercising original jurisdiction.	None
This brings us then to the definition of court under Section 2(1)(e) of the Act.	None
It will be noticed that whereas the earlier definition contained in the 1940 Act spoke of any civil court, the definition in the 1996 Act fixes court to be the Principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction in a district or the High Court in exercise of its ordinary original civil jurisdiction.	None
Section 2(1)(e) further goes on to say that a court would not include any civil court of a grade inferior to such Principal Civil Court, or a Small Causes Court.	None
It will be noticed that the definition is an exhaustive one as it uses the expression means and includes.	None
It is settled law that such definitions are meant to be exhaustive in nature	None
See P. Kasilingam Ors.	None
v. P.S.G. College of Technology Ors., (1995) Suppl.	None
2 SCC 348 at para 19.	None
A recent judgment of this Honble Court reported in Executive Engineer, Road Development Division No. III, Panvel Anr.	None
v. Atlanta Limited, AIR 2014 SC 1093 has taken the view that Section 2(1)(e) contains a scheme different from that contained in Section 15 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
Section 15 requires all suits to be filed in the lowest grade of court.	None
This Honble Court has construed Section 2(1)(e) and said that where a High Court exercises ordinary original civil jurisdiction over a district, the High Court will have preference to the Principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction in that district.	None
In that case, one of the parties moved an application under Section 34 before the District Judge, Thane.	None
On the same day, the opposite party moved an application before the High Court of Bombay for setting aside some of the directions contained in the Award.	None
In the circumstances, it was decided that the Court for the purpose of Section 42 would be the High Court and not the District Court.	None
Several reasons were given for this.	None
Firstly, the very inclusion of the High Court in the definition would be rendered nugatory if the above conclusion was not to be accepted, because the Principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction in a district is always a court lower in grade than the High Court, and such District Judge being lower in grade than the High Court would always exclude the High Court from adjudicating upon the matter.	None
Secondly, the provisions of the Arbitration Act leave no room for any doubt that it is the superior most court exercising original jurisdiction which has been chosen to adjudicate disputes arising out of arbitration agreements.	None
We respectfully concur with the reasoning contained in this judgment.	None
Similar is the position with regard to applications made under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act.	None
In Rodemadan India Ltd. v. International Trade Expo Centre Ltd., (2006) 11 SCC 651 , a Designated Judge of this Honble Court following the seven Judge Bench in S.B.P. and Co. v. Patel Engineering Ltd. Anr., (2005) 8 SCC 618 , held that instead of the court, the power to appoint arbitrators contained in Section 11 is conferred on the Chief Justice or his delegate.	None
In fact, the seven Judge bench held It is common ground that the Act has adopted the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration.	None
But at the same time, it has made some departures from the model law.	None
Section 11 is in the place of Article 11 of the Model Law.	None
The Model Law provides for the making of a request under Article 11 to the court or other authority specified in Article 6 to take the necessary measure.	None
The words in Section 11 of the Act, are the Chief Justice or the person or institution designated by him.	None
The fact that instead of the court, the powers are conferred on the Chief Justice, has to be appreciated in the context of the statute.	None
Court is defined in the Act to be the principal civil court of original jurisdiction of the district and includes the High Court in exercise of its ordinary original civil jurisdiction.	None
The principal civil court of original jurisdiction is normally the District Court.	None
The High Courts in India exercising ordinary original civil jurisdiction are not too many.	None
So in most of the States the concerned court would be the District Court.	None
Obviously, the Parliament did not want to confer the power on the District Court, to entertain a request for appointing an arbitrator or for constituting an arbitral tribunal under Section 11 of the Act.	None
It has to be noted that under Section 9 of the Act, the District Court or the High Court exercising original jurisdiction, has the power to make interim orders prior to, during or even post arbitration.	None
It has also the power to entertain a challenge to the award that may ultimately be made.	None
The framers of the statute must certainly be taken to have been conscious of the definition of court in the Act.	None
It is easily possible to contemplate that they did not want the power under Section 11 to be conferred on the District Court or the High Court exercising original jurisdiction.	None
The intention apparently was to confer the power on the highest judicial authority in the State and in the country, on Chief Justices of High Courts and on the Chief Justice of India.	None
Such a provision is necessarily intended to add the greatest credibility to the arbitral process.	None
The argument that the power thus conferred on the Chief Justice could not even be delegated to any other Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court, stands negatived only because of the power given to designate another.	None
The intention of the legislature appears to be clear that it wanted to ensure that the power under Section 11(6) of the Act was exercised by the highest judicial authority in the concerned State or in the country.	None
This is to ensure the utmost authority to the process of constituting the arbitral tribunal.18.	None
It is true that the power under Section 11(6) of the Act is not conferred on the Supreme Court or on the High Court, but it is conferred on the Chief Justice of India or the Chief Justice of the High Court.	None
One possible reason for specifying the authority as the Chief Justice, could be that if it were merely the conferment of the power on the High Court, or the Supreme Court, the matter would be governed by the normal procedure of that Court, including the right of appeal and the Parliament obviously wanted to avoid that situation, since one of the objects was to restrict the interference by Courts in the arbitral process.	None
Therefore, the power was conferred on the highest judicial authority in the country and in the State in their capacities as Chief Justices.	None
They have been conferred the power or the right to pass an order contemplated by Section 11 of the Act.	None
We have already seen that it is not possible to envisage that the power is conferred on the Chief Justice as persona designata.	None
Therefore, the fact that the power is conferred on the Chief Justice, and not on the court presided over by him is not sufficient to hold that the power thus conferred is merely an administrative power and is not a judicial power.	None
It is obvious that Section 11 applications are not to be moved before the court as defined but before the Chief Justice either of the High Court or of the Supreme Court, as the case may be, or their delegates.	None
This is despite the fact that the Chief Justice or his delegate have now to decide judicially and not administratively.	None
Again, Section 42 would not apply to applications made before the Chief Justice or his delegate for the simple reason that the Chief Justice or his delegate is not court as defined by Section 2(1)(e).	None
The said view was reiterated somewhat differently in Pandey Co.	None
Builders (P) Ltd. v. State of Bihar Anr., (2007) 1 SCC 467 at Paras 9, 2326.	None
That the Chief Justice does not represent the High Court or Supreme Court as the case may be is also clear from Section 11(10)	None
The Chief Justice may make such scheme as he may deem appropriate for dealing with matters entrusted by subsection (4) or subsection(5) or subsection (6) to him.	None
The scheme referred to in this subsection is a scheme by which the Chief Justice may provide for the procedure to be followed in cases dealt with by him under Section 11.	None
This again shows that it is not the High Court or the Supreme Court rules that are to be followed but a separate set of rules made by the Chief Justice for the purposes of Section 11.	None
Subsection 12 of Section 11 reads as follows Where the matters referred to in subsections (4), (5), (6), (7), (8) and (10) arise in an international commercial arbitration, the reference to Chief Justice in those subsections shall be construed as a reference to the Chief Justice of India.(b) Where the matters referred to in subsections (4), (5), (6), (7), (8) and (10) arise in any other arbitration, the reference to Chief Justice in those subsections shall be construed as a reference to the Chief Justice of the High Court within whose local limits the principal Civil Court referred to in clause (e) of subsection (1) of section 2 is situate and, where the High Court itself is the Court referred to in that clause, to the Chief Justice of that High Court.	None
It is obvious that Section 11(12)(b) was necessitated in order that it be clear that the Chief Justice of the High Court will only be such Chief Justice within whose local limits the Principal Civil Court referred to in Section 2(1)(e) is situate and the Chief Justice of that High Court which is referred to in the inclusive part of the definition contained in Section 2(1)(e).	None
This subsection also does not in any manner make the Chief Justice or his designate court for the purpose of Section 42.	None
Again, the decision of the Chief Justice or his designate, not being the decision of the Supreme Court or the High Court, as the case may be, has no precedential value being a decision of a judicial authority which is not a Court of Record.	None
In contrast with applications moved under Section 8 and 11 of the Act, applications moved under Section 9 are to the court as defined for the passing of interim orders before or during arbitral proceedings or at any time after the making of the arbitral Award but before its enforcement.	None
In case an application is made, as has been made in the present case, before a particular court, Section 42 will apply to preclude the making of all subsequent applications under PartI to any court except the court to which an application has been made under Section 9 of the Act.	None
One of the questions that arises in the reference order is whether the Supreme Court is a court within the meaning of Section 2(1)(e) of the Act.	Issue
In two judgments under the 1940 Act, namely, State of Madhya Pradesh v. Saith and Skelton (P) Ltd., (1972) 1 SCC 702 and Guru Nanak Foundation v. Rattan Singh Sons, (1981) 4 SCC 634 , the Supreme Court took the view that where an Arbitrator was appointed by the Supreme Court itself and the Supreme Court retained seisin over the arbitration proceedings, the Supreme Court would be court for the purpose of Section 2(c) of the 1940 Act.	None
These judgments were distinguished in National Aluminium Co. Ltd. v. Pressteel Fabrications (P) Ltd.	None
Anr., (2004) 1 SCC 540 , Bharat Coking Coal Limited v. Annapurna Construction, (2008) 6 SCC 732 and Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam Ltd. v. Krishna Travel Agency, (2008) 6 SCC 741.	None
The first of these judgments was a judgment under the 1996 Act wherein it was held that when the Supreme Court appoints an Arbitrator but does not retain seisin over the proceedings, the Supreme Court will not be court within the meaning of Section 2(1)(e) of the Act.	None
Similar is the position in the third judgment, the Garhwal case.	None
Even under the 1940 Act, in Bharat Coking Coal, the same distinction was made and it was held that as the Supreme Court did not retain seisin over the proceedings after appointing an Arbitrator, the Supreme Court would not be court within the meaning of the Arbitration Act, 1940.	None
As noted above, the definition of court in Section 2(1)(e) is materially different from its predecessor contained in Section 2(c) of the 1940 Act.	None
There are a variety of reasons as to why the Supreme Court cannot possibly be considered to be court within the meaning of Section 2(1)(e) even if it retains seisin over the arbitral proceedings.	None
Firstly, as noted above, the definition is exhaustive and recognizes only one of two possible courts that could be court for the purpose of Section 2(1)(e).	None
Secondly, under the 1940 Act, the expression civil court has been held to be wide enough to include an appellate court and, therefore would include the Supreme Court as was held in the two judgments aforementioned under the 1940 Act.	None
Even though this proposition itself is open to doubt, as the Supreme Court exercising jurisdiction under Article 136 is not an ordinary Appellate Court, suffice it to say that even this reason does not obtain under the present definition, which speaks of either the Principal Civil Court or the High Court exercising original jurisdiction.	None
Thirdly, if an application would have to be preferred to the Supreme Court directly, the appeal that is available so far as applications under Sections 9 and 34 are concerned, provided for under Section 37 of the Act, would not be available.	None
Any further appeal to the Supreme Court under Article 136 would also not be available.	None
The only other argument that could possibly be made is that all definition sections are subject to context to the contrary.	None
The context of Section 42 does not in any manner lead to a conclusion that the word court in Section 42 should be construed otherwise than as defined.	None
The context of Section 42 is merely to see that one court alone shall have jurisdiction over all applications with respect to arbitration agreements which context does not in any manner enable the Supreme Court to become a court within the meaning of Section 42.	None
It has aptly been stated that the rule of forum conveniens is expressly excluded by section 42.	None
See JSW Steel Ltd. vs. Jindal Praxair Oxygen Co.Ltd., (2006) 11 SCC 521 at para 59.	None
Section 42 is also markedly different from Section 31(4) of the 1940 Act in that the expression has been made in a court competent to entertain it does not find place in Section 42.	None
This is for the reason that, under Section 2(1)(e), the competent Court is fixed as the Principal Civil Court exercising original jurisdiction or a High Court exercising original civil jurisdiction, and no other court.	None
For all these reasons, we hold that the decisions under the 1940 Act would not obtain under the 1996 Act, and the Supreme Court cannot be court for the purposes of Section 42.	None
One other question that may arise is as to whether Section 42 applies after the arbitral proceedings come to an end.	None
It has already been held by us that the expression with respect to an arbitration agreement are words of wide import and would take in all applications made before during or after the arbitral proceedings are over.	None
In an earlier judgment, Kumbha Mawji v. Dominion of India, (1953) SCR 878 , the question which arose before the Supreme Court was whether the expression used in Section 31(4) of the 1940 Act in any reference would include matters that are after the arbitral proceedings are over and have culminated in an award.	None
It was held that the words in any reference cannot be taken to mean in the course of a reference, but mean in the matter of a reference and that such phrase is wide enough and comprehensive enough to cover an application made after the arbitration is completed and the final Award is made.	None
(See Paras 891893).	None
As has been noticed above, the expression used in Section 42 is wider being with respect to an arbitration agreement and would certainly include such applications.	None
One more question that may arise under Section 42 is whether Section 42 would apply in cases where an application made in a court is found to be without jurisdiction.	None
Under Section 31(4) of the old Act, it has been held in FCI represented by Managing Director Anr.	None
v. A.M. Ahmed Co., through MD Anr., (2001) 10 SCC 532 at para 6 and Neycer India Ltd. v. GNB Ceramics Ltd., (2002) 9 SCC 489 at para 3 that Section 31(4) of the 1940 Act would not be applicable if it were found that an application was to be made before a court which had no jurisdiction.	None
In Jatinder Nath v. Chopra Land Developers Pvt. Ltd., (2007) 11 SCC 453 at para 9 and Rajasthan State Electrical Board v. Universal Petrol Chemical Limited, (2009) 3 SCC 107 at paras 33 to 36 and Swastik Gases (P) Ltd. v. Indian Oil Corporation, 2013 (9) SCC 32 at para 32, it was held that where the agreement between the parties restricted jurisdiction to only one particular court, that court alone would have jurisdiction as neither Section 31(4) nor Section 42 contains a nonobstante clause wiping out a contrary agreement between the parties.	None
It has thus been held that applications preferred to courts outside the exclusive court agreed to by parties would also be without jurisdiction.	None
Even under Section 42 itself, a Designated Judge has held in HBM Print Ltd. v. Scantrans	None
India (Pvt.) Ltd., (2009) 17 SCC 338 , that where the Chief Justice has no jurisdiction under Section 11, Section 42 will not apply.	None
This is quite apart from the fact that Section 42, as has been held above, will not apply to Section 11 applications at all.	None
If an application were to be preferred to a Court which is not a Principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction in a district, or a High Court exercising original jurisdiction to decide questions forming the subject matter of an arbitration if the same had been the subject matter of a suit, then obviously such application would be outside the four corners of Section 42.	Reasoning
If, for example, an application were to be filed in a court inferior to a Principal Civil Court, or to a High Court which has no original jurisdiction, or if an application were to be made to a court which has no subject matter jurisdiction, such application would be outside Section 42 and would not debar subsequent applications from being filed in a court other than such court.	Reasoning
Our conclusions therefore on Section 2(1)(e) and Section 42 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 are as follows Section 2(1)(e) contains an exhaustive definition marking out only the Principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction in a district or a High Court having original civil jurisdiction in the State, and no other court as court for the purpose of PartI of the Arbitration Act, 1996.(b)	Reasoning
The expression with respect to an arbitration agreement makes it clear that Section 42 will apply to all applications made whether before or during arbitral proceedings or after an Award is pronounced under PartI of the 1996 Act.(c)	Reasoning
However, Section 42 only applies to applications made under PartI if they are made to a court as defined.	Reasoning
Since applications made under Section 8 are made to judicial authorities and since applications under Section 11 are made to the Chief Justice or his designate, the judicial authority and the Chief Justice or his designate not being court as defined, such applications would be outside Section 42.(d) Section 9 applications being applications made to a court and Section 34 applications to set aside arbitral awards are applications which are within Section 42.(e)	Reasoning
In no circumstances can the Supreme Court be court for the purposes of Section 2(1)(e), and whether the Supreme Court does or does not retain seisin after appointing an Arbitrator, applications will follow the first application made before either a High Court having original jurisdiction in the State or a Principal Civil court having original jurisdiction in the district as the case may be.(f) Section 42 will apply to applications made after the arbitral proceedings have come to an end provided they are made under PartI.(g)	Reasoning
If a first application is made to a court which is neither a Principal Court of original jurisdiction in a district or a High Court exercising original jurisdiction in a State, such application not being to a court as defined would be outside Section 42.	Reasoning
Also, an application made to a court without subject matter jurisdiction would be outside Section 42.	None
The reference is answered accordingly.26.	None
On the facts of the present case, nothing has been shown as to how the High Court of Calcutta does not possess jurisdiction.	Decision
It has been mentioned above that leave under Clause 12 has been granted.	Decision
In the circumstances of the present case, therefore, the judgment dated 11th April, 2005 passed by the High Court of Calcutta is correct and does not need any interference.	Decision
Civil Appeal No.6691/2005 and Civil Appeal No.4808/2013 are hereby dismissed.	Decision
