 Shelat, J.1.	None
The appellant has been carrying on business and is a dealer in firewood and charcoal.	Facts
For the period from March 29, 1962 to April 29, 1962, he was assessed to sales tax under S.18(6) of the Madhya Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1958 as he did not have any registration certificate in respect of this period.	Facts
The Additional Sales Tax Officer, Ujjain, and the Additional Appellate Assistant Commissioner, Indore, both held that charcoal in which the appellant was dealing was not covered by Entry I of Part III of Sch.	Facts
II to the Act, but that it fell under the residuary Entry I of Part VI of that Schedule and consequently was liable to be assessed at the rate of 4 per cent of the price of charcoal.	Facts
In a further appeal before the Board of Revenue, the Board, relying on the dictionary meaning of the word coal as given in Blackies Concise Dictionary, held that charcoal would be included in the term coal, and, therefore, Entry I in Part III of Sch.	Facts
II would apply and the tax chargeable would be at 2 per cent only.	Facts
At the instance of the Commissioner of Sales Tax, the Board referred the following question to the High CourtWhether charcoal is covered under Entry I of Part III of Sch.	None
II to the M. P. General Sales Tax Act, 1958, and is taxable at the rate of 2 per cent or will be taxable at the rate of 4 per cent under Entry I of Part VI of Sch.	Facts
II to the M. P. General Sales Tax Act, 1958?The High Court held that while construing entries in a statute like the Sales Tax Acts, the Court should prefer the popular meaning of the terms used in such entries and not their dictionary meanings and that so construed charcoal would be included in the word coal.	Facts
Consequently, it answered the question in favour of the respondent.	Issue
According to the High Court, charcoal would be covered by Entry I of Part III of Sch. II and was taxable at 2 per cent.	Issue
Hence this appeal by special leave.	Issue
Entry I of Part III of Sch.	None
II reads as follows1.	None
Coal, including coke in all its forms  2 per cent.	None
Entry I of Part VI of the said Schedule reads as follows1.	None
All other goods not included in Sch.	None
I or any other part of this Schedule  4 per cent.	None
We may also reproduce Entry 8 of Part III of Sch. II which is8.	None
Firewood 2 per cent.2.	None
The meaning given to the word coal in Blackies Concise Dictionary, New Edition, p. 134 relied on by the Board reads as followsCoal	None
Kol A piece of wood or other combustible substance burning or charred charcoal a cinder now, usually a solid black substance found in the earth, largely employed as fuel, and formed from vast masses of vegetable matter deposited through the luxurious growth of plants in former epochs of the earths history.	None
The Shorter Oxford English Dictionary at pp.	None
330 and 331 gives the meaning of coal as follows1.	None
A piece of carbon glowing without a flame.	None
2.	None
A piece of burnt wood, etc., that is still capable of combustion without flame, cinder, ashes.	None
3. Charcoal.	None
4.	None
A mineral, solid, hard, opaque, black or blackish, found in seams in the earth, and largely used as fuel it consists of carbonized vegetable matter.	None
At p. 293, the said Dictionary gives the meaning of charcoal as followsThe suggestion that CharChare v. or sb.	None
as if turncoal, i.e., wood turned into coal, lacks support.	None
1.	None
The black porous residue, consisting (when pure) wholly of carbon, obtained from partly burnt wood, bones, etc.	None
Hence specified as wood, vegetable, animal, etcThe Websters New International Dictionary gives the following meaning of charcoal at p. 452(Char to burn, reduce to coal Coal)1.	None
A dark coloured or black porous form of carbon prepared from vegetable or animal substance, as that made by charging wood in a kiln, retort, etc., from which air is excluded.3.	None
According to these Dictionaries coal would appear to include charcoal.	Reasoning
The contention of the respondent was that charcoal is one of the species of coal, and, therefore, would be covered by Entry I of Part III, and, therefore, the answer given by the High Court is correct.	Reasoning
Counsel for the State, however, raised three contentions (1) that coal and charcoal are different products, one being a mineral product and the other prepared from wood and other articles by human agency, and, therefore, the term coal would not cover charcoal (2) that while construing such entries, the dictionary meaning should not be preferred to the popular meaning or the meaning in the commercial sense and (3) that the Legislative policy in reference to the term coal shows that it is not used by the Legislature in India so as to include charcoal.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
Now, there can be no dispute that while coal is technically understood as a mineral product, charcoal is manufactured by human agency from products like wood and other things.	Reasoning
But it is now wellsettled that while interpreting items in statutes like the Sales Tax Acts, resort should be had not to the scientific or the technical meaning of such terms but to their popular meaning or the meaning attached to them by those dealing in them, that is to say, to their commercial sense.	Reasoning
In Ramavatar Budhaiprasad v. Asst.	None
Sales Tax Officer, Akola, (1962) 1	None
SCR 279 (AIR 1961 SC 1325) the petitioners who were dealers in betel leaves were assessed to sales tax under the C. P. and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947.	None
They contended that under S. 6 read with the Second Schedule of the Act betel leaves were not taxable.	None
Section 6 provided that articles mentioned in that Schedule were exempt from sales tax and articles not mentioned were taxable.	None
There were two items in the Schedule, namely, item 6, vegetables, and item 36, betel leaves, but subsequently item No. 36 was deleted by an amendment of the Act.	None
This Court held that the use of two distinct and different items, i.e. vegetables and betel leaves and the subsequent removal of betel leaves from the Schedule were indicative of the Legislatures intention of not exempting betel leaves from taxation.	None
The Court laid down that the word vegetable must be interpreted not in a technical sense but in its popular sense as understood in common language, i.e., denoting a class of vegetables which are grown in a kitchen garden or on a farm and are used for the table.	None
The same principle was also laid down in His Majesty the King v. Planters Nut and Chocolate Co. Ltd., 1951 CLR (Ex) 122.	None
The question there was whether salted peanuts and cashew nuts fell within the category of either fruits or vegetables.	None
A considerable expert opinion was led in that case, but the Court ultimately found that the Parliament in enacting the Excise Tax Act, 1927, Part XIII and Sch.	None
III was not using words which were applied to any particular science or art and, therefore, the words used are to be construed as they are understood in common language.	None
It also held that what constitutes a fruit or vegetable within the meaning of the Excise Tax Act is what would ordinarily in matters of commerce in Canada be included therein and not what would be a botanists conception of the subjectmatter.	None
If a statute uses the ordinary words in every day use, such words should be construed according to their popular sense.	None
At p. 128 of the Report Cameron, J. observed, The object of the Excise Tax Act is to raise revenue, and for this purpose to class substance according to the general usage and known denominations of trade.	None
In my view, therefore, it is not the botanists conception as to what constitutes a fruit or vegetable which must govern the interpretation to be placed on the words, but rather what would ordinarily in matters of commerce in Canada be included therein.	None
Botanically, oranges and lemons are berries, but otherwise no one would consider them as such.	None
This rule was stated as early as 1831 by Lord Tenterdan in AttorneyGeneral v. Winstanley, (1821) 2 Dow and Cl 302.	None
Similarly, in Grenfell v. Inland Revenue Commrs., (1876) 1 Ex D 242 at p. 248, Pollock, B. observed, that if a statute contains language which is capable of being construed in a popular sense such statute is not to be construed according to the strict or technical meaning of the language contained in it, but is to be construed in its popular sense, meaning of course, by the words popular sense, that sense which people conversant with the subjectmatter with which the statute is dealing would attribute to it.	None
But if a word in its popular sense and read in an ordinary way is capable of two constructions it is wise to adopt such a construction as is based on the assumption that Parliament merely intended to give so much power as was necessary for carrying out the objects of the Act and not to give any unnecessary powers.	None
In other words, the construction of the words is to be adopted to the fitness of the matter of the statute.	None
On the other hand, as Fry, J. said in Holt and Co. v. Collyer, (1881) 16 Ch D 718 at p. 720	None
If it is a word which is of a technical or scientific character then it must be construed according to that which is its primary meaning, namely, its technical or scientific meaning.5.	None
Our attention was drawn to the decision in K. V. Varkey v. Agricultural Incometax and Rural Sales Tax Officer, Peermade, (1954) 5	None
STC 348 (AIR 1956 Trav Co 105), where green leaves plucked from tea bushes were held to fall under the word tea.	None
But this decision turned on the definitions of turnover in S. 3 of the Travancore General Sales Tax Act, XVIII of 1124 which while including sales of agricultural or horticultural produce included tea, coffee, rubber, etc., in the turnover.	None
The Court held there that tea was not in the statute in the sense in which it is used in commerce but in the sense of a product of plant life, and, therefore, green leaves plucked from tea plants were covered by the term tea.6.	None
The result emerging from these decisions is that while construing the word coal in Entry I of Part III of Sch.	Reasoning
II, the test that would be applied is what would be the meaning which persons dealing with coal and consumers purchasing it as fuel would give to that word.	Reasoning
A sales tax statute is being one levying a tax on goods must in the absence of a technical term or a term of science or art, be presumed to have used an ordinary term as coal according to the meaning ascribed to it in common parlance.	Reasoning
Viewed from that angle both a merchant dealing in coal and a consumer wanting to purchase it would regard coal not in its geological sense but in the sense as ordinarily understood and would include charcoal in the term coal.	Reasoning
It is only when the question of the kind or variety of coal would arise that a distinction would be made between coal and charcoal otherwise, both of them would in ordinary parlance as also in their commercial sense be spoken as coal.7.	None
There is another aspect also from which Entry I of Part III may be considered.	None
Section 14 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 declares certain goods as goods of special importance in interState trade or commerce.	None
One of these is coal including coke in all its forms.	None
Section 15 of that Act provides that the State Legislatures in their respective sales tax laws can impose only 2 per cent tax on these goods .	None
That is why in Entry I of Part III coal is stated to include coke in all its forms, and coal including coke in all its forms is charged at 2 per cent tax.	None
The State Legislature, however, knew or must be presumed to know that firewood is also used by the people as fuel, but would not fall within that Entry, and, therefore, provided 2 per cent tax on it by a separate entry, namely, Entry 8 in Part III.	None
Having taxed coal and firewood at 2 per cent it does not appear to be possible that the Legislature deliberately left out charcoal from the connotation of the word coal and left it to be charged at 4 per cent under the residuary Entry I in Part VI.	Reasoning
The object of the Legislature clearly was to tax coal and firewood as articles used as fuel and did not make a separate entry in regard to charcoal as it must be aware that coal is understood in ordinary and commercial sense would include charcoal.	Reasoning
Had that not been so, instead of leaving it to be dealt with under the residuary item, it would have enacted a separate entry just as it did in the case of firewood which it knew would not in its ordinary meaning fall under the term coal.	Reasoning
In this view, the contention of counsel for the State must be rejected.8.	None
Counsel then relied upon S. 5 of the Colliery Control Order, 1945, in order to show that the Legislature there had dealt with coal in its strict and technical meaning.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also relied upon certain other statutory provisions with a view to show that the Legislature has all along been using the word coal as a mineral product only.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Colliery Control Order deals with collieries and obviously, therefore, the term coal there is used as a mineral product.	Reasoning
It is a wellsettled principle that in construing a word in an Act caution is necessary in adopting a meaning ascribed to that word in other statutes.	None
As Lord Loreburn stated in Macbeth v. Chislett, 1910 AC 220 at p. 224, it would be a new terror in the construction of Acts of Parliament if we were required to limit a word to an unnatural sense because in some Act which is not incorporated or referred to such an interpretation is given to it for the purposes of that Act alone.	None
The strict sense in which such a word is to be found in another statute may mean the etymological or scientific sense and would not in the context of another statute be applicable.	None
From the Colliery Control Order, 1945 or the other provisions to which our attention was drawn to, it would neither be possible nor safe to adopt the meaning of the word coal given in those provisions for the purposes of the Act under construction.	Reasoning
Nor can we infer that there is a Legislative policy consistently followed by the Legislature merely because the word coal has been used as meaning a mineral product in the context of these statutes.	Reasoning
It would not, therefore, be possible to discard the meaning of the word coal in this statute as understood in its commercial or popular sense and to adopt its connotation from other statutes passed for different purposes or in context of different objects.9.	Reasoning
We agree with the meaning of the word coal given by the High Court and hold that charcoal would be taxable at the rate of 2 per cent only.10.	Reasoning
The appeal is consequently dismissed with costs.11.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
