 Ranjan Gogoi, J.1.	None
This application (I.A. NO.248 of 2015) has been filed seeking the following direction from the Courtthat ironore and manganese ore may be sold in Karnataka without recourse to eauction conducted by the monitoring committee set up by this Honble Court.2.	Facts
The response of the Central Empowered Committee (CEC for short) was sought for by this Court.	Facts
Pursuant thereto a report dated 28th April, 2016 of the CEC has been submitted.	Facts
In the said report the CEC has stated that it agrees with the statement of the applicant Federation of Indian Industries, Southern Region (FIMI South) that the basic objectives behind the sale of iron ore through the Monitoring Committee, in terms of the various orders passed by this Court from time to time, have been achieved and an alternative system needs to be put in place.	Facts
The main suggestions of the CEC are as follows(I)	None
The mechanism must provide for the registration of both the buyers and sellers of ironore.	None
The sellers of the ore, or the miningore lessees, must declare their statutory approvals, modalities of the Reclamation and Rehabilitation Plan (R R Plan) and the estimated annual quantity of ironore produced by them.	None
The buyers of the ore must declare their eligibility to purchase the ore and the industry connected with said purchase.(II) The sale of ironore by sellers to the buyers must be through an online platform.	Arguments of Respondent
This eplatform must provide for all the relevant information concerning the ironore, such as the grade and moisturecontent of the ore, minimum acceptable price by the seller and the provision to view the bids offered by registered buyers on a realtime basis so that there could be a pricematch amongst prospective buyers.(III)	Arguments of Respondent
The mechanism must provide for online registration of the agreements and transactions executed between the registered buyers and sellers.(IV)	Arguments of Respondent
The mechanism must provide a method for online deposit of applicable royalty, taxes, contribution to the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) and other statutory duties along with the subsequent online confirmation of such receipt.(V)	Arguments of Respondent
The mechanism must consist of checksandbalances which can be implemented across the eplatform, in order to ensure that the sale or purchase of ironore is not substantially below the market price.3.	None
In its counter reply, the State of Karnataka has indicated its broad agreement with the suggestions of the CEC and has incorporated certain additional recommendations including setting up of a Committee consisting of officials of the State Government to monitor the sale of ironore through the eplatform on the basis of long term agreements, a Model of which has also been submitted to the Court.4.	Arguments of Respondent
Other stakeholders like the writ petitioners in Writ Petition (C) No. 562/2009	None
Samaj Parivartana Samudaya and ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
have objected to any change from the existing pattern of sale of ironore through the Monitoring Committee whereas M s Vedanta Ltd., an ironore lessee operating within the State of Karnataka has supported the stand taken by FIMI South in the present I.A. i.e. I.A. No.248 of 2015.5.	None
The Monitoring Committee through whom ironore is currently being sold by eauction was constituted by the order of this Court dated 2nd September, 2011 accepting the recommendations of the CEC dated 1st September, 2011 to sell the total quantity of illegally extracted ironore which at that point of time was 25 MMT (approximately).6.	None
After the sale of the illegally mined ironore was complete, this Court by order dated 23rd September, 2011 continued to entrust the duty and responsibility of sale of ironore to the Monitoring Committee.	None
The above position was continued by this Court by its Order dated 18.4.2013 disposing of Writ Petition (C) No. 562/2009 and other connected cases.	Facts
This is how the current status situation with regard to sale of ironore by eauction through the Court Appointed Monitoring Committee continues.7.	None
In the order of this Court dated 18th April, 2013 in Writ Petition (C) No. 562 of 2009 there is a vivid and graphic description of the enormity of the illegal mining and consequential damage to the ecology and environment that had led to the intervention of this Court and had prompted exercise of its jurisdiction in the present matter.	Facts
Innovative measures and orders with the aid of Article 142 of the Constitution of India were felt necessary and consequently passed by the Court from time to time including the final order dated 18th April, 2013 to comprehensively deal with the issue of illegal mining and depredation of nature and environment.	Facts
It is in the above said context that the constitution of the Monitoring Committee and the continuance of its role in the matter of sale of ironore by eauction had been conceived and continued by this Court on the basis of the various orders passed from time to time.8.	Facts
It is in the aforesaid backdrop and having regard to the progress achieved in terms of what was contemplated and visualized by this Court in its final order dated 18th April, 2013 that the tenability of the prayers made by the FIMI South will have to be considered.9.	Facts
What has been suggested in the report of the CEC dated 28th April, 2016 and the inprinciple approval thereof by the State of Karnataka along with the suggestions offered by the State would seem to indicate that in place of Monitoring Committee constituted by this Court another Monitoring Committee consisting of officials of the State Government (of Karnataka) is proposed to oversee and supervise the sale of ironore through a hybrid system of long term contracts and sales through an eplatform including payment of taxes, royalty, etc.10.	None
While it is correct that any trading process has to be free and fair with liberty to the contracting parties to work out their own terms of sale and purchase, what cannot be ignored are the circumstances which had prompted the Court to conceive of and continue with a departure from the normal rule and instead to have a regulated, if not, highly controlled system of sale and purchase of ironore.	None
Sale and purchase of ironore through the Court Appointed Monitoring Committee and by eauction is not a singular but a connected facet of what was visualized by the Court in its bid to check, control and regulate mining and also to restore nature and environment to its earlier pristine purity, so far as possible.11.	None
A cap on production and restoration of ecology and environment through a Comprehensive Environment Plans for the Mining Impact Zone (CEPMIZ for short) has been visualized by this Court in its order dated 18th April, 2013.	Reasoning
The connected aspects i.e. lifting of the cap or enhancement thereof and launching of the CEPMIZ scheme is under active consideration of this Court in other connected Interlocutory Applications (I.As.).	Reasoning
When the said connected issues are pending it cannot be said that the situation has become ripe for the normal rule of sale and purchase to be restored so far as the sale of ironore in the State of Karnataka is concerned.	Reasoning
The experience of the past has been horrific.	Reasoning
It cannot be allowed to come back.	Reasoning
Sale and purchase of ironore had been conducted in the most outrageous manner and on wholly unacceptable terms resulting, inter alia, in huge leakage of government revenue.	None
Such experiences and events cannot be allowed to resurface.	Reasoning
Taking an overall view of the matter, we are of the opinion that time has not come to dispense with the existing policy of sale and purchase of ironore in the State of Karnataka through the Court Appointed Monitoring Committee by eauction.	None
The restoration of normalcy in the process of sale and purchase of ironore must wait for the future and at least till such time that significant headways are made in the other connected aspects of the matter dealt with by the final order of this Court dated 18th April, 2013 passed in Writ Petition (Civil) No.562 of 2009.12.	None
We, therefore, for the present reject the application (I.A. No.248) filed by FIMI South and consequently do not entertain the support to the prayers made therein by M s Vedanta Ltd.	Decision
For the same reason we do not also accept the suggestions of the CEC and the State of Karnataka as made in their respective reports affidavits filed before the Court.13.	Decision
I.A. No.248 accordingly is disposed of in the above terms.	Decision
