 Sujata V. Manohar, J. These appeals arise as a result of certain increases in fuel adjustment charges levied by the second respondent on the appellant and the resultant arbitration.	None
The award of the learned Arbitrator was the subject matter of challenge in the High Court.	Issue
These appeals arise from the judgment and order of the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court.	Issue
For the sake of convenience we are referring to the facts in Civil Appeal No. 1269 of 1987.	Facts
The facts in other appeals are similar and the disputes raised are the same.3.	Facts
The appellant entered into an agreement dated 26th of September, 1972 with respondent No. 2	Facts
Delhi Electricity Supply Undertaking (DESU) for the supply of electrical energy.	Facts
Clause 15(a) of the agreement is as follows15(a).	Facts
The consumer shall pay each month to the Undertaking for electrical energy supplied during the preceding month such amount as shall be calculated and ascertained in accordance with the Rate Schedules LIP attached hereto.	Facts
The rates contained in the schedule are those in force at the time of executing this agreement.	Facts
The consumer be eligible for whatever reduction or rebate as may be granted on the rates and shall be liable to pay for whatever surcharge or increase in those rates as may from timetotime be levied or made by the Undertaking.	Facts
Any other method of charging decided by the Undertaking shall also be applicable?.The Rate Schedule of Large Industrial Power (LIP) which was annexed to the said agreement was the same as was prescribed from timetotime by the Tariff which was fixed by respondent No. 2 for the relevant years.	Facts
The Tariff pertaining to large industrial power sets out the availability of such power to large industrial consumers having connected load above 100 K.W. and the character of service viz.	Facts
A.C. 50 cycles, 3 phase, 11 K.V.	Facts
The Tariff is divided into two parts.	Facts
The first part deals with demand charges.	Facts
In addition the consumers are also required to pay energy charges.	Facts
Under energy charges.	Facts
Clause 1 provides for fuel adjustment charges as follows (For the year 198283) ?	None
1.	None
An adjustment of energy charges as under(i)	None
The above energy charges are based on the basic average fuel an purchase cost of 15.25 paise per KWH.(ii)	Reasoning
The actual cost of fuel used during any period shall be the amount in rupees of the cost of all types of fuel burnt in the Undertakings Thermal Generating Plants in that period.(iii)	None
The actual cost of energy purchased shall be the amount paid in rupees for import of energy for that period.(iv)	None
The cost of energy per KWH sold shall be the quotient computed on dividing the sum of (ii) and (iii) by the KWH sold during the period.(v)	None
The increase or decrease in cost of per KWH sold shall be the difference of (iv) and (i) above and accordingly shall be added or substracted to the above energy rates.	None
Final adjustment on account of variation in energy charges will be made as soon as possible after the close of the period of account but adjustment as may be provisionally fixed by the DESU Management from timetotime will be incorporated as a part of the monthly bill and shall be payable by the consumer.	Facts
Such provisional rates as and when finalised shall have retrospective effect from the beginning of that financial year.?This was the Tariff for the year 198283.	Facts
The energy charges were prescribed at Rs. 15.25 per KWH.	None
These were subject to adjustment.4.	Facts
Respondent No. 2 enhanced the energy charges from Rs. 15.25 to 20.44 paise per unit whereupon the appellants disputed the increase and filed suits under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act for referring their dispute relating to the increase in fuel adjustment charges to arbitration.	Facts
During the pendency of the suit, fuel adjustment charges were further enhanced from 20.44 paise per unit to 29.97 paise per unit on 12th of March, 1983, and to 29.47 paise per unit in May, 1983.5.	Facts
In the suit of the appellants under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act, learned Single Judge examined the arbitration clause in the contract which was very widely worded.	Facts
He held that any question or difference arising between the parties as to any matter in any way connected with or arising out of the agreement or with regard to the rights, duties or liabilities of either party in connection with the agreement was referable to arbitration.	Facts
He said that the dispute was with regard to the liability of the petitioners to pay the fuel adjustment charges.	Facts
The quantum of this liability was disputed.	Facts
Such a dispute was covered by the arbitration caluse.	Facts
He further held, ?	Facts
It will, of course, not be open to the petitioners to contend before the Arbitrator that the rate fixed in the Tariff is high nor will it be open to the petitioners to challenge the formula which has been laid down.	Facts
It will be outside the scope of the arbitration to ask the Arbitrator to enquire into the correctness of the accounts of DESU?.	Facts
In fact in the earlier part of the judgment also learned Single Judge observed that there can be no dispute with the rates so fixed or the method of computation, which can be referred to arbitration.	Facts
The dispute in the present cases was really as to whether the variation of fuel adjustment charges had been done in accordance with the formula or not.	Facts
The petitioners said that they were willing to pay the energy charges which were fixed in accordance with the said formula.	Facts
The learned Judge then said, ?	Facts
To my mind, though it is not open to the petitioners to challenge the correctness of the rates fixed or the formula which is laid down for computing the amount of energy charges, but it is open to them to contend that in working out the formula no irrelevant or extraneous considerations have been taken into account or that the formula has not been properly followed while computing the fuel adjustment charges which are now being demanded.	Facts
While considering whether the said charges have been worked out in accordance with the formula or not it is not open to challenge the correctness of the accounts or the figures of respondent No. 2.	Facts
But as already noted it can be contended that some relevant factors have not been taken into consideration or irrelevant factors have been taken into account.?	Facts
With these directions, namely, (1) that the petitioners before the Court were not entitled to contend before the Arbitrator that the rate fixed in the Tariff was high (2) it was not open to the petitioners to challenge the formula laid down (3) it was not open to the petitioners to ask the Arbitrator to enquire into the correctness of the accounts of DESU, learned Judge referred the following question to arbitration?Whether the fuel adjustment charges have been fixed and are being demanded by respondent No. 2 from time to time in accordance with the Tariff for the year in question.?He said that this reference was comprehensive enough to include all the questions which can be raised before the Arbitrator including the question as to whether provisional revision of such charges can be made from time to time with retrospective effect.6.	Facts
The learned Judge appointed a retired Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court as Sole Arbitrator.	Facts
The Arbitrator entered upon the reference and by a speaking award dated 24.9.1985 dealt with the various issues which were raised before the Arbitrator.	Facts
The award was filed in Court and an application was made by the appellants under the Arbitration Act for the award being made rule of the Court.	Facts
The second respondent filed its objections to the award before the High Court.	Facts
A learned Single Judge of the High Court, inter alia, held that there was an error apparent on the face ofthe award in so far as it dealt with transmission and distribution losses.	Facts
The award of the Arbitrator on the question of transmission and distribution losses was set aside in so far as it said that these two items could not be taken into consideration for working out the formula for an increase in fuel adjustment charges.7.	Facts
Learned Single Judge also set aside the award in so far as it held that demurrage charges could not be included in the cost of fuel.8.	Facts
The appellants who were aggrieved by the judgment and order of learned Single Judge preferred an appeal before a Division Bench of the High Court.	Facts
The Division Bench of the High Court partly allowed the appeal on the question of demurrage.	Facts
It, however, upheld the findings of learned Single Judge on the question of transmission and distribution losses being taken into account in calculating fuel adjustment charges.	Facts
The present appeals before us are from the judgment of the Division Bench.	Facts
The question of demurrage charges has not been pressed before us.	Facts
Hence the only question we have to consider is the one relating to transmission and distribution losses.	Facts
The appellants have challenged the findings of the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
They contend that it was not open either to the learned Single Judge or to the Division Bench of the High Court to examine the correctness of the award.	Arguments of Petitioner
The award is binding on the parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents contend that the Arbitrator acted beyond the scope of his reference in examining whether transmission and distribution losses could be taken into account while applying the formula for calculating fuel adjustment charges.	Arguments of Respondent
In considering the scope of reference before the Arbitrator we have to bear in mind the observations of the Reference Court to the effect that it was not open to the Arbitrator to examine either the correctness of the formula statutorily laid down in the Tariff or the correctness of the accounts and figures supplied by DESU.	None
The Arbitrator was required to examine whether the formula was correctly applied and the amount of increase in fuel adjustment charges was correctly calculated by taking into account all relevant factors.	Reasoning
In this light if we examine the formula for fuel adjustment charges, it lays down that the actual cost of fuel used during any period in DESUs Thermal Generating Plants plus the actual cost of energy purchased from other power plants by DESU will together constitute the cost of fuel.	None
This shall be divided by the KWHs of energy sold during the same period in order to arrive at the basic average cost per unit of KWH sold.	None
This increase or decrease in the cost per KWH sold as against the energy rates already specified will be the final adjustment charge.	None
Thus in essence, what requires to be ascertained is, (1) the actual cost of fuel used in the Undertakings power plaints during any specified period (2) the actual cost of energy purchased by the undertaking for that period from other power plants and (3) the KWHs sold by the Undertaking during that period.	None
This formula has been consistently followed right from 1977 onwards.	None
Learned Single Judge in his judgment has set out how this formula has been worked by the second respondent all these years.	None
He has given comparative figures for the years 197778 and 198081.	None
No.Particulars197778	None
(Actuals)198081 (Actuals) Kw hrs.	None
generated (Million KW hrs,)1593.1941313.179	None
Auxiliaries consumption137.661129.541 Not Generation455.5331183.638 Kw hrs.	None
Purchased548.2671613.019 Net Generation purchase (3 4)2003.8002796.657 Transmission and277.539424.499 Distribution losses Units sold (56)726.261 (Million Kwhrs.)2372.158 Cost of Fuel (Rs. in lakhs)637.952443.86 Cost of Power purchases (Rs. in lakhs)1024.984301.60 10Total 8 9 Rs.	None
(lac)2662.936745.46 Fuel Purchase cost per unit (107) (paise)15.4328.44 Round up for Tariff base.15.2515.25 Fuel Purchase Surcharge??13.19	None
The table in items 1 to 5 shows the total net power units available (generation purchase) which is the figure at serial No. 5.	None
In order to arrive at the number of units sold, the second respondent has deducted from net units generated and purchased, the number of units lost in the process of transmission and distribution.	None
The rest have been sold.	None
This is how the figure of units sold at serial number 7 is arrived at.	None
The calculation appears to be correct.	None
Everything which is generated and purchased has not, and cannot be sold.	None
There are losses of power during transmission and distribution for various reasons.	None
Some of the causes of such loss have been eloquently expressed and deprecated in the two judgments of the High Court.	None
Inefficiency in transmission, not preventing loss on account of theft of power and not being able to reduce transmission and distribution losses to an acceptable level by international standards, undoubtedly result in a heavy financial burden being imposed on the nation and on the consumers of electricity.	None
When there is acute shortage of power, such losses become even more unacceptable.	None
But that is not the question before us.	None
The formula requires that the cost of fuel used for generation of power and the cost of energy purchased from other power plants has to be divided by the number of units of energy sold by respondent No. 2.	None
Units which are sold are clearly units generated plus purchased, less units lost in transmission and distribution.	None
It is the balance units which actually reach the consumer and are sold.	None
Therefore, transmission and distribution losses have to be taken into account in order to arrive at the correct figure of units which are sold to consumers.	None
There is nothing extraneous in taking into account losses during transit when energy is transmitted from the point of generation to the consumer.	None
The units sold are units which reach the consumer.11.	None
This is how the formula has been worked throughout.	Reasoning
In fact the figure of basic average fuel and purchase cost of 15.25 paise per KWH mentioned in Clause 1 Subclause (i) of the 108283 Tariff was also arrived at in the same fashion.	Reasoning
The further increases in fuel adjustment charges are also on the same basis.	Reasoning
Learned Single Judge, therefore, rightly observed that the elements which went into the calculation to arrive at the figure of 15.25 paise would be quite relevant for arriving at the increase.	Reasoning
These elements cannot be the subjectmatter of challenge before the Arbitrator.	Reasoning
The Arbitrator has also erred in considering transmission and distribution losses as a separate item of charge under the adjustment formula.	Reasoning
We agree with the reasoning and conclusion arrived at by the learned Single Judge in this regard which has been upheld by the Division Bench.	None
The Arbitrator was required to examine the narrow question whether the formula had been properly applied.	None
It was not open to him to examine the correctness or otherwise of the formula.	None
He had to examine how the formula had been worked.	None
The formula had clearly set out the various factors to be taken into account.	None
To arrive at the units which were sold, the second respondent had deducted from the total units available for distribution, units which are lost in transit.	None
This is not something which is irrelevant to the formula.	None
It is an essential element which has to be taken into account in order to decide one basic item of the formula, namely, the units which were sold.	None
The Arbitrator, therefore, was not right in distorting this formula by removing the factor of transmission and distribution losses from calculation of the units sold.	None
The Arbitrators jurisdiction was confined to examining whether the calculations were in accordance with the formula.	None
Therefore, in effect, the Arbitrator has acted beyond the scope of his reference in eliminating an important factor in calculation of the formula.	None
This can also be looked upon as an error of law apparent on the face of the record.	None
The figure of units sold cannot take into account units which were, in fact, not sold but were lost during transmission and distribution.	None
By ignoring the manner in which this formula had been applied for more than 10 years uniformly in the case of all large industrial Corporations, the Arbitrator has committed an error of law apparent on the face of record.	None
Because he has thereby distorted the formula and thus acted beyond the scope of his reference which was confined to examining a proper quantification of the increase in fuel adjustment charges in accordance with the formula.	None
The appellants have urged before us that the views of the Arbitrator are binding upon the parties and if a question of law is referred to the Arbitrator his decision will be binding on the parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
They have relied upon the wellknown decision in the case of Tarapore and Company v. Cochin Shipyard Ltd., Cochin and Anr.,(1984) 2 SCC 680 , and a series of other cases in support of the submission that if a question of law is specifically referred by the parties to the Arbitrator for decision, the award of the Arbitrator would be binding on the parties and the Court will have no jurisdiction to interfere with the award even on the ground of error of law apparent on the record.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are not citing these decisions because in the present case, as was rightly held by learned Single Judge of the High Court, there is no specific question of law which has been referred to arbitration.	None
The limited reference to arbitration was whether the fuel adjustment charges were being demanded in accordance with the Tariff and the formula laid down, for the year iI1 question.	None
It was further submitted by the appellants that the Arbitrator was required to examine whether the fuel adjustment charges were in accordance with the formula laid down in the Tariff and, therefore, it was open to the Arbitrator to examine all the ingredients of this formula.	Arguments of Petitioner
If such an examination results in the Arbitrator eliminating some important ingredients of the formula and this results in a total distortion of the formula which is agreed to be applied by both the parties, the Arbitrator exceeds the scope of the reference when he does so.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is a jurisdictional error which can be examined by the Courts in deciding whether to uphold the award or not.	Reasoning
One of the decisions which was quoted by the appellants in this connection in support of their argument was in the case Hind Buildersv.	None
Union of India,(1990) 3 SCC 338 , where, in the case of a nonspeaking award, the Arbitrators without overlooking any term of the contract acted upon an interpretation of certain clauses in the contract on which two views were possible, this Court said that this was not a case of any error apparent on the face of the award.	None
The facts of the present case are very different.	None
In the first place, there is a speaking award.	Reasoning
The Arbitrator was required to examine the application of the formula on which there was no dispute, to calculate the increase in fuel adjustment charges.	Reasoning
In doing so, the Arbitrator examined the various ingredients which went to determine, (1) the cost of the units generated (2) the cost of the units purchased from other power plants and (3) the number of units sold.	Reasoning
The formula in effect was very simple.	Reasoning
The total cost of units available for being set in transmission for supply to the consumers was to be divided by the number of units sold.	Reasoning
This would give the cost per unit of each unit sold.	Reasoning
There was no dispute with this formula.	Reasoning
What the Arbitrator in effect did was to say that the units sold are no different from the total number of units available to the second respondent for being put in transmission in order that they may be distributed to the consumers.	Reasoning
He, therefore, held that the cost of all units which were made available for transmission and distribution should be determined by dividing the total cost by the number of units which were so made available.	Reasoning
He in effect, replaced the third factor in the formula ?	Reasoning
Units sold?	Reasoning
by ?	Reasoning
Units manufactured plus units bought from other power stations?.	None
This has clearly changed the statutory formula.	Reasoning
The Arbitrator was not authorised to examine the validity of the formula or to change it.	Reasoning
He has, therefore, committed a jurisdictional error in so ?interpreting?	Reasoning
the formula.	Reasoning
This is a jurisdictional error which is also apparent on the face of the award.16.	Reasoning
We need not examine the number of cases which were cited before us setting out the grounds on which an award can be set aside partly or wholly.	Reasoning
It is well established that an Arbitrator cannot go beyond the scope of his reference.	Reasoning
If he has exceeded his jurisdiction, the award to that extent can be set aside provided that the part of the award being quashed is severable from the rest.	Reasoning
In the present case, therefore, the High Court was right in setting aside the award to the extent that it excluded transmission and distribution losses.	Reasoning
No other issue was raised before us.	Decision
Therefore, we are not examining any other aspect of the award.	Decision
In the premises, the appeals are dismissed with costs.	Decision
