 VENKATARAMA REDDI, J. The four appellants herein who are brothers faced trial before the Additional Sessions Judge  I, Jind for murdering one Hemant Kumar at a central place in Safidon town, on the night of 3.4.1996 at about 8.45 p.m.	Issue
They were convicted under Section 302 IPC and sentenced to life imprisonment.	Issue
The High Court dismissed the appeals filed by the accused.	Issue
Hence, these appeals by special leave.	Issue
The following is a brief account of the prosecution case and other relevant facts On the night of 3rd April, 1996, all the accused attacked Hemant Kumar at Chandni Chowk and stabbed him with knives.	Facts
As a result of stabbing, he received six injuries out of which two were in the chest region.	Facts
The fatal assault by the four accused was seen by the younger brother of deceasedPW4, who was returning home from his watch repair shop.	Facts
On being informed by a passerby on a bicycle, PW4 rushed to the spot and having noticed from a distance of 30 ft. or so that the attack on the deceased was going on, he raised an alarm.	Facts
Hearing the cries, PW5another relation of the deceased and one Kapoor Singh who were at a nearby sweet shop joined PW4.	Facts
On seeing all of them, the accused fled.	Facts
According to PWs 4 and 5, three accused carried knives and the accused, namely, Kala carried Neja (which resembles knife).	Facts
The injured person fell down on the spot and he was taken on a cot to the Civil Hospital, Safidon by the aforementioned three person.	Facts
At the hospital, the doctor (not examined) declared him dead.	Facts
The same doctor sent a rucca (memo) to the Police Station, Safidon at about 9.50 p.m.	Facts
The SubInspector of PolicePW9 was going on a jeep by the side of the hospital.	Facts
The Ward Boy of the hospital handed over the rucca to him PW9 then came to the hospital and after sometime, recorded the statement of PW4 at the hospital.	Facts
He sent the same to the Police Station, on the basis of which an FIR was recorded at 11.30 p.m., for an offence under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC.	Facts
Copy was sent to the Judicial Magistrate through a Constable and it reached him at about 1.00 a.m.	Facts
In the said statement given to the police, PW4 named the four accused as the assailants.	Facts
PW9 held the inquest over the dead body in the hospital and sent the dead body for postmortem.	Facts
The Medical Officer attached to the General Hospital, Jind did the postmortem examination at 9.15 a.m. on 4.4.1996 and prepared the postmortem report which is Ex.PA.	Facts
PW9 could go to the scene of occurrence at about 2.30 a.m.	Facts
The delay was for the reason that he tried to stop a reprisal attack by a mob to set fire to the houses of the accused.	Facts
He prepared a site plan.	Facts
One Gobind Das produced all the four accused persons involved in the offence in the night of 4.4.1996 before PW9 while he was at Court Road Chowk.	Facts
They were arrested and immediately thereafter, the accused Kala produced a knife(Ex.	Facts
P1).	Facts
The total length of that knife was 8 inches inclusive of 4 of handle and the width of the blade was about 0.2 to 0.3 cms.	Facts
PW10Inspector of Police, CIA, was entrusted with investigation from 6.4.1996 onwards.	Facts
He recorded the statements of some witnesses.	Facts
He applied for judicial remand of the arrested accused.	Facts
On the same day, PW10 took the knife seized from Kala to the Medical OfficerPW1, who endorsed on the postmortem report that the injuries could be inflicted by the knife.	Facts
On the basis of his investigation, PW10 found that the accused other than Kala were innocent.	Facts
Therefore, in the report under Section 173 Cr.P.C., only Kala was shown as the accused for the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC.	Facts
However, all the four accused persons were committed to Sessions.	Facts
After examining the record, the learned Judge found that there was a prima facie case to proceed against all the accused.	Facts
Accordingly, the charge was framed against all the accused under Section 302 IPC.	Facts
Curiously, Section 34 was omitted in the charge.	Facts
On the basis of the evidence of the eyewitnesses, namely, PWs 4 and 5, the accused were convicted under Section 302 IPC.	Facts
The motive of the accused is traced to an incident which had happened one and a half years earlier when the deceased Hemant Kumar identified the accused as the persons involved in the kidnapping of the daughter of one Niranjan Das.	Facts
However, the motive was held to be not proved by the trial court.	Facts
The High Court did not hold to the contra.	Facts
The details of postmortem examination may be noticed at this juncture.	Facts
The following injuries were found on the body of the deceased Spindle shaped incised wound on left side of chest just lateral to left nipple 1.5 x 1 cm x 4 cm.	Facts
The wound cut through skin, costal muscles, corresponding cut in pleura was present.	Facts
(ii) Incised wound (spindle shaped) 3 x 1 x 7 cm on the left side of chest 5 cm below injury no.1 longitudinally placed, wound cut through shirt, banian, Costal muscles 6th and 7th intercostals space, left lung.	Facts
(iii) Incised wound (spindle shaped) 2.5 x 1 cm x 6 cm obliquely placed on left side of abdomen 5 cm below the costal margin.	None
The wound cut through skin muscle, peritoneal membrane and a cut of 1.5 x 1/2 x 3/4th of cm.	Facts
on spleen was present.	None
(iv) Incised wound 4 cm x 1.5 cm muscle deep on the posterior lateral aspect of left forearm.	None
(v) Incised spindle shaped wound on upper thigh of the size of 3 x 1.5 cm x 1 cm.	None
15 cm below iliac crest.	None
(vi) Incised wound 3 cm x 1.5 bone deep on the palmer aspect of right thumb, bone was fractured.	Facts
The learned senior counsel for the appellant contended that it is a case of blind murder which might not have been witnessed by anybody and the version of PWs 4 5  the alleged eyewitnesses and close relations of the deceased is unnatural and unbelievable.	Arguments of Petitioner
No explanation was forthcoming for not examining the independent witnesses who would have been available at the place of occurrence which is in a busy locality.	Arguments of Petitioner
The scene of offence has not been established beyond doubt and the time of occurrence, the time of recording the statement of PW4 and the FIR and the time of death are all doubtful.	Arguments of Petitioner
Recovery of knife from the accused Kala is concocted, as held by the trial court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is pointed out that the pattern of stab injuries received by the victim only on one side of the body shows that one or two persons would have inflicted injuries but not as many as four.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this context, it is pointed out that the 2nd investigating officerPW10, after recording the statements of certain witnesses thought it fit to file the chargesheet against one accused only, namely Kala.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, by the order of the Sessions Judge, all the four were charged on the ground that they were named in FIR.	Arguments of Petitioner
Finally it is submitted that in the absence of charge under Section 302 IPC read with Section 34, the conviction cannot be sustained under Section 302 simplicitor.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is then submitted that the offence does not in any case fall under Section 300 IPC.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel appearing for the State as well as the learned senior counsel appearing for the informant PW4 who has been allowed by this Court to intervene have countered the above arguments.	Arguments of Respondent
It is contended by them that even in the absence of specific mention of Section 34 IPC in the charge, the conviction case still be sustained, that there is nothing to discredit the testimony of PW4 or PW5, that the arguments relating to antetiming of the FIR and the improbability of participation of as many as four accused are without substance.	Arguments of Respondent
The injuries being sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death, all accused are constructively liable for the offence of murder irrespective of which accused had inflicted the particular injury.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the concurrent findings of both the Courts cannot be legally faulted.	Arguments of Respondent
The prosecution case rests on the evidence of PWs 4 5 who are related to the deceased and who happened to be chance witnesses.	None
Before scrutinizing this evidence and testing its credibility, we have to advert to certain features in the prosecution case which make a dent on the reliability of the prosecution version.	None
They are discussed hereunder Two days after the incident i.e. on 5.4.1996, the investigation was entrusted to PW10Inspector, CIA at the instance of Superintendent of Police, Jind.	None
PW10 stated in cross examination that he inspected the place of occurrence and examined the persons staying near the place of occurrence and recorded the statements of such persons.	None
The names of those five persons were given.	None
Then he added that from their statements, it was revealed that Hemraj, Chunnilal and Omprakash were innocent.	None
He further stated that the investigation done by him was verified by DSP.	None
Ultimately he filed the final report showing only Kala as the sole accused.	None
However, as already noticed, all the four accused mentioned in the FIR were committed to Sessions and the Sessions Judge framed charge against all of them under Section 302.	None
PW10 did not choose to give all the relevant details of his investigation.	None
However, the version of this Investigating Officer itself casts a cloud on the reliability of the prosecution case as unfolded by PWs 4 and 5 that four accused were involved.	None
The fact that no independent witness  though available, was examined and not even an explanation was sought to be given for not examining such witness is a serious infirmity in the prosecution case having regard to the indisputable facts of this case.	None
Amongst the independent witnesses, Kapur Singh was one, who was very much in the know of things from the beginning.	None
Kapur Singh is alleged to have been in the company of PW5 at a sweet stall and both of them after hearing the cries joined PW4 at Channi Chowk.	None
He was one of those who kept the deceased on a cot and took the deceased to hospital.	None
He was there in the hospital by the time the first I.O.PW9 went to the hospital.	None
The evidence of the first I.O. reveals that the place of occurrence was pointed out to him by Kapur Singh.	None
His statement was also recorded, though not immediately but later.	None
The I.O. admitted that Kapur Singh was the eyewitness to the occurrence.	None
In the FIR, he is referred to as the eyewitness along with PW5.	None
Kapur Singh was present in the Court on 6.10.1997.	None
The Addl.	None
Public Prosecutor gave up the examination of this witness stating that it was unnecessary.	None
The trial court commented that he was won over by the accused and therefore he was not examined.	None
There is no factual basis for this comment.	None
The approach of the High Court is different.	None
The High Court commented that his examination would only amount to proliferation of direct evidence.	None
But, we are unable to endorse this view of the High Court.	None
To put a seal of approval on the prosecutions omission to examine a material witness who is unrelated to the deceased and who is supposed to know every detail of the incident on the ground of proliferation of direct evidence is not a correct approach.	None
The corroboration of the testimony of the related witnessesPWs 4 5 by a known independent eyewitness could have strengthened the prosecution case, especially when the incident took place in a public place.	None
Nonexamination of independent witness by itself may not give rise to adverse inference against the prosecution.	Reasoning
However, when the evidence of the alleged eyewitnesses raise serious doubts on the point of their presence at the time of actual occurrence, the unexplained omission to examine the independent witnessKapur Singh, would assume significance.	Reasoning
This Court pointed out in Takhaji Hiraji vs. Thakore Kubersing Chamansing Others (2001) 6 SCC 145  if already overwhelming evidence is available and examination of other witnesses would only be a repetition or duplication of the evidence already adduced, nonexamination of such other witnesses may not be material.	None
In such a case, the court ought to scrutinize the worth of the evidence adduced.	None
The Court of facts must ask itself  whether in the facts and circumstances of the case, it was necessary to examine such other witness, and if so, whether such witness was available to be examined and yet was being withheld from the Court.	None
If the answer be positive then only a question of drawing an adverse inference may arise.	None
If the witnesses already examined are reliable and the testimony coming from their mouth is unimpeachable the Court can safely act upon it, uninfluenced by the factum on nonexamination of other witnesses.	None
In the present case we find that there are at least 5 witnesses whose presence at the place of the incident and whose having seen the incident cannot be doubted at all.	None
It is not even suggested by the defence that they were not present at the place of the incident and did not participate therein.	None
One more aspect which deserves notice is that at the alleged scene of offence, no bloodstains were found by the I.O., though he made a search.	Reasoning
The surmise of the High Court that the blood stains at the public place would have disappeared in view of the time gap between the incident and the I.O.s inspection may not be correct, especially, in view of the fact that it is a metal road, as shown by PW8 in the site plan and it was night time.	Reasoning
It is difficult to believe that traces of blood would fade out by the time of the visit of I.O.	Reasoning
This is one of the circumstances that has to be kept in mind while appreciating the prosecution case.	Reasoning
There is also a doubt regarding the time when the first information was received at the police station.	Reasoning
The FIR was registered at 11.35 p.m. on the basis of the statement of PW4 recorded at 11.15 p.m. at the hospital.	Reasoning
However, as per the evidence of PW6 (Police Constable), the information regarding the occurrence was received in the police station at 10.30 or 10.45 p.m. and thereafter the SIPW9 accompanied by him and other police personnel went to the hospital.	Reasoning
Apart from the fact that his evidence goes contrary to the version of PW0 that on receiving the death intimation at the hospital gate, he went straight to the hospital and an hour later he recorded the statement of PW4, a doubt is cast on the time and source of first information.	Reasoning
If the information was received at the police station at 10.30 p.m. why was it suppressed?	Reasoning
What are the details of such information?	Reasoning
These are the questions which remain unanswered.	Reasoning
No weapons were recovered from any of the accused.	Reasoning
The recovery of knife from Kala at the time of surrender has been rightly disbelieved by the trial Court.	Reasoning
All the above factors would not have assumed much importance if the evidence of PWs 4 could be accepted without raising an eyebrow.	Reasoning
However, two views are possible on the point whether these persons had really witnessed the attack.	Reasoning
There is every reason to think that PW4, on being informed by a wayfarer, would have reached near the scene of offence almost after the attack was over.	Reasoning
The possibility of seeing all the accused attacking the deceased with the knives and Neja from a distance of 30 feet or more, that too, in the night time, is rather doubtful.	Reasoning
It is not safe to rely on his version that he had seen the accused with the particular weapons in their hands.	Reasoning
In this context, it may be noted that PW4 did not mention the distance from which he observed the attack.	Reasoning
In the site plan drawn to scale, the distance of the spot from where PW4 observed the incident was given as 30 ft.	Reasoning
It was night timealmost 9.00 p.m.	Reasoning
and most of the shops were closed, as seen from the evidence of PW4.	Reasoning
PW4 or any other witness did not give any details about the lighting in the vicinity.	Reasoning
However, from the site plan drawn by PW8, there was a tubelight attached to the electrical pole situated at 20 feet distance.	Reasoning
It would have been difficult for PW4 at the night time to notice each of the accused carrying a particular type of weapon, that too a small weapon like knife.	Reasoning
But, PW4 came forward with the version that all the accused except one, were carrying knives and the other was carrying Neja.	Reasoning
Thus he claims to have seen so clearly as to distinguish between a knife and Neja at that juncture, when the attack would have been almost over and PW4 was trying to evoke the attention of the people around.	Reasoning
It is difficult to accept the version of PW4 of having seen the weapon in the hand of each of accused and the nature of the weapon.	Reasoning
The reference to Neja in particular appears to have been introduced for explaining the injuries on the body of the deceased.	Reasoning
It seems to us that the picture given by PW4, as if he had seen each of them with the knife or Neja seems to be an embellishment developed with the idea of implicating all the brothers as the accused.	Reasoning
His further version that PW5 having heard his cries joined him and witnessed the attack seems to be a story invented for the purpose of introducing another eyewitness to corroborate his version.	Reasoning
The possibility of Pw5 who was at a sweet shop hearing his cries, joining PW4 and then observing the incident appears to be highly improbable.	Reasoning
If PW5 had already been there near Channi Chowk for purchasing sweets, he would have noticed the commotion caused by the attack and would have seen the assailants even before PW4 arrived at the spot.	Reasoning
But his story is different.	Reasoning
Another factor which casts a doubt on the evidence of PWs 4 5 is that there were no blood stains on their clothes, though allegedly, they placed the deceased on cot and carried him to the hospital.	Reasoning
Moreover, soon after his brother was declared dead, PW4 did not go to the police station which was quite close to the hospital to lodge a report.	Reasoning
That is not a natural course of conduct.	Reasoning
It is on account of these doubtful features in the evidence of PW4 that the factum of nonexamination of independent witness, though available, assumes importance.	Reasoning
On a consideration of the evidence on record and the broad probabilities, we come to an irresistible inference that there is a reasonable possibility of some accused who were not involved in the attack having been convicted.	Decision
It is difficult to sift the grain from the chaff.	Decision
The High Court missed to notice certain crucial aspects adverted to above.	Decision
It is a case in which benefit of doubt has to be accorded to the appellants.	Decision
It is unnecessary to consider the question whether in the absence of charge under Section 34 IPC, the conviction can be sustained.	Decision
In the result, the appeals are allowed and the conviction and sentence of all the appellants is set aside.	Decision
