 B. Majmudar, J.	None
This is an appeal by two appellants who were accused Nos. 4 and 5 respectively before the Court of Additional Sessions Judge, New Delhi in Sessions Case No. 55 of 1975.	Issue
They have preferred this appeal under S.379 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short Cr. P.C.) read with S.2 of the Supreme Court (Enlargement of Criminal Appellate Jurisdiction) Act, 1970 being aggrieved by the judgment and order dated 8th December 1978 passed in Criminal Appeal No. 257 of 1976 by the High Court of Delhi at New Delhi.	Issue
By the said decision the High Court set aside the order of acquittal of the appellants rendered by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, New Delhi in the aforesaid Sessions Case and convicted both the appellants under S.302 read with S.34, Indian Penal Code (in brief IPC) for having caused murders of Sohan Lal and Kanahiya and accordingly they were sentenced to imprisonment for life.	Issue
The appellants were also convicted under S.325 read with S.34, IPC for having caused grievous hurt to Ram Pal and were sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for one year each.	Issue
They were also convicted under S.323 read with S.34, IPC for having caused simple injuries to Smt.	Issue
Attro and were sentenced to rigorous improvement for six months.	Issue
All the sentences awarded to the appellants were ordered to run concurrently.	Issue
Pending this appeal by an order of this Court dated 31st August 1979 the appellants were ordered to be released on bail on their furnishing security of Rs. 20,000/ with two sureties of like amount plus a personal recognizance bond of the same amount.	Issue
The appellants were also directed to report to the Police Station, Kalkaji once in a fort night and were not permitted to leave Delhi without the permission of the Sessions Judge, Delhi.	Issue
This appeal reached for final hearing before us.	None
As it is a statutory appeal, learned senior counsel for the appellants Shri Jain and learned counsel for the respondent State took us through the relevant evidence on record in support of their respective cases.	None
We have carefully gone through the entire evidence on record.	None
As will be shown hereinafter we have not been able to persuade ourselves to agree with the contentions canvassed by learned senior counsel for appellants and in our view the orders of conviction and sentence rendered by the High Court against both the appellants remain well sustained on record.	None
Salient features of the Prosecution CaseAt the outset we may briefly refer to the main features of the prosecution case against the appellants centering round the incident in question.	Facts
On 18th December, 1974 at Village Tughlakabad situated in near vicinity of Delhi, at about 9.00 a.m. a criminal assault is said to have taken place in the baithak or sitting room of injured witness Ram Pal.	Facts
Eleven accused were alleged to have been involved in the said criminal assault .	Facts
They were accused No. 1 Rishi, accused No. 2 Likhi Ram, accused No. 3 Chandgi, accused No. 4 Hari Chand (appellant No. 1 before us), accused No. 6 Baleshwar, accused No. 7 Milkha accused No. 8 Dineswar Kumar, accused No. 9 Hukam Singh, accused No. 10 Badle and accused No. 11 Khazan.	Facts
It is the case of the prosecution that injured witness Smt.	Facts
Attro is the real sister of injured witness Ram Pal.	Facts
PW 8 Ram Pal had two step brothers, namely, Sohan Lal and Kanahiya.	Facts
Both were done to death in the said criminal assault.	Facts
Ram Pal, PW 8 has his residential house in Tughlakabad.	Facts
Adjacent to his house is the house of his step brother Kanahiya (deceased).	Facts
The prosecution case further is that while Ram Pal had constructed his house, his house obstructed the house of accused Milkha and completely covered the ventilator of Milkhas house.	Facts
This happened about two years before the incident in question.	Facts
The further case of the prosecution is that accused Likhi Ram used to visit the house of his brother inlaw Milkha.	Facts
One day near Diwali, in 1974 when Likhi Ram visited the house of Milkha, the wife of Milkha taunted Likhi Ram and complained to him that what was his use when he could not stop the closure of their ventilator.	Facts
After the complaint and taunt from his sister inlaw, Likhi Ram went away.4.	Facts
It is further alleged that on Goverdhan day, i.e., 14th November, 1974, Likhi Ram went to the house of injured witness Ram Pal where the wife of Ram Pal was cooking meals and threw mud on their food and there ensued a quarrel.	Facts
In this quarrel deceased Kanahiya and Sohan Lal and their brother Ram Pal were on one side while accused Likhi Ram, Chandgi, Milkha and Dineshwar as well as Hukam Singh were on the other side.	Facts
This resulted in the arrest of persons on both sides under S.107, Cr. P.C.	Facts
In these chapter proceedings 18th December, 1974 was the date fixed in the Court for their appearance.5.	Facts
On the aforesaid fateful day at about 9.00 a.m.	Facts
Ram Pal, PW 8 was having tea with his brothers Kanahiya and Sohan Lal (both deceased) and their sister Attro who had come from Bulandshahar to the house of her brother Kanahiya as he had got a son a few days earlier.	Facts
While they were sitting on cots in the baithak of the house of Ram Pal and were taking tea, the accused Likhi Ram and Chandgi along with appellants Hari Chand and Sarup Singh entered the baithak.	Facts
The baithak had two doors with a verandah and a courtyard in front of it.	Facts
Likhi Ram and Chandgi entered from one door whereas Hari Chand and Sarup Singh entered from the other door.	Facts
Likhi Ram was armed with a ballam while Chandgi, Hari Chand and Sarup Singh were armed with lathis.	Facts
The other accused were also armed and were standing near a neem tree in the courtyard of the adjacent house of Kanahiya.6.	Facts
Prosecution case further is that as soon as Likhi Ram, Chandgi, Hari Chand and Sarup Singh entered the baithak of Ram Pal, accused Likhi Ram retorted AAJ TAREEKH PAR JANA HAI TUMHARA KALYAN KAR DENGE Sohan Lal, who was sitting on a cot, got up whereupon accused Likhi Ram gave a ballam blow in his abdomen.	Facts
The other three accused, who entered in the baithak along with Likhi Ram, also gave lathi blows to all the three brothers sitting in the baithak.	Facts
Likhi Ram accused also gave a ballam blow to Kanahiya.	Facts
The other three accused also gave Lathi blows to Kanahiya.	Facts
Ram Pal also received lathi blows and he ran out to the verandah.7.	Facts
The further case of the prosecution is that Kanahiya died immediately whereas Sohan Lal fell in the baithak and Smt.	Facts
Attro tried to raise alarm by shouting bachao bachao mar diya mar diya.	Facts
In order to save Sohan Lal she bent over his body when accused Chandgi hit her with lathi.	Facts
As soon as Ram Pal came out in the verandah, he received knife injuries from Dineshwar and further Lathi blows from Khazan.	Facts
Ram Pal also felt down unconscious.8.	Facts
It is the case of the prosecution that this occurrence was witnessed by Indraj, PW 9 and Balraj, PW 10, sons of Ram Pal, One Harish Chander, PW 19 who is resident of the village, rang up the police control room at about 9.45 a.m.	Facts
The control room sent a van to the spot and in the meantime, Surjit Singh from police control room rang up Police Station, Kalkaji.	Facts
Rattan Singh of Police Station, Kalkaji in turn flashed a message to Police Post Madangir at about 10.15 a.m. A.S.I. Dhan Singh PW 27 from Police Post Madangir along with Pratap Singh Head Constable and some other constables went to the village for making inquiries.	Facts
Dhan Singh found Kanahiya, Sohan Lal,.	Facts
Ram Pal and Smt.	Facts
Attro in precarious condition.	Facts
In the meanwhile the police control room van had also reached there.	Facts
Dhan Singh immediately sent all the four injured persons to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in the van of the control room and deputed Head Constable Pratap Singh, PW 21 and other constables to guard the site.	Facts
Dhan Singh also left for the hospital, separately.9.	Facts
However, on enquiry by Dhan Singh from the doctor, Kanahiya was found dead and soon thereafter Sohan Lal died.	Facts
Ram Pal was declared unfit to make a statement.	Facts
Smt.	Facts
Attro was found by doctors to have suffered three injuries but was declared fit to make a statement.	Facts
A.S.I. Dhan Singh.	Facts
PW 27 recorded the statement of Smt.	Facts
Attro in the hospital itself.	Facts
Her statement is as under I am the real sister of Ram Pal, Kanahiya and Sohan Lal r o Tughlakabad.	Facts
About 10/12 years ago I was married to Sh.	Facts
Dunger of village	Facts
Khtera U.P.	Facts
It has been a matter of 8 days when I came to see my brother Kanahiya because of the birth of a son to him.	Facts
My brothers have an old enmity with Likhi, Chandgi, Hari Chand etc. who are the residents of Tughlakabad.	Facts
They had also raised a quarrel with my brothers on the day of Goverdhan festival.	Facts
Both of the parties had been arrested by the police, and today they had to attend the Court in that connection.	Facts
Today at about 9 A.M. when I was taking tea while sitting with my brothers Ram Pal, Kanahiya and Sohan Lal in my baithak, Likhi and Chandgi who are the sons of Lakhpat and Sarupa and Hari Chand who is known as Khotey as well, who are the sons of Nihal Chand and are the residents of Tughlakabad itself and are quite known to me, entered the baithak and Hukam Singh who is known by the name of Kaley as well, Baleshwar, Milkhey and 2/3 other persons who are the residents of Tughlakabad itself, were standing outside on the road, Likhi was holding ballam in his hand and the others were holding lathis in their hands.	Facts
Likhi said that no doubt, they had to go the Court but let them be done away with and saying as such Likhi gave a ballam blow in the abdomen of my brother.	Facts
Sohan Lal and Chandgi, Sarupa and Khotey gave lathi blows to all of my three brothers Ram Pal, Kanahiya and Sohan.	Facts
I raised an alarm to the effect bachao bachao mar diya mar diya.	Facts
In order to save Sohan Lal when I bent down over him Chandgis lathi hit me also on my left shoulder.	Facts
My brother Kanahiya could not withstand the blows of their lathis and fell down on the spot and became unconscious.	Facts
Sohan Lal and Ram Pal also got injured and became unconscious and fell down.	Facts
Police van brought us to hospital.	Facts
In hospital the doctor told about my brother Kanahiya that he had died.	Facts
This incident has been witnessed by Balraj and Inder the sons of my brother Ram Pal who were present over there at that time.	Facts
I have heard the statement and it is correct.	Facts
A.S.I. Dhan Singh made his endorsement on the statement of Smt.	Facts
Attro and sent the ruqqa along with his endorsement at about 12.50 p.m. to Police Station Kalkaji were upon formal First Information Report was recorded at about 1.05 p.m. by A.S.I. Rattan Singh.10.	Facts
On recording the aforesaid report of Smt.	Facts
Attro a case under S.302/307/425/34, IPC was registered against all the 11 accused and investigation started.11.	Facts
As noted earlier Sohan Lal also died on the same day in the hospital.	Facts
The doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) also examined injured witnesses Ram Pal and Attro.12.	Facts
After sending the ruqqa, A.S.I. Dhan Singh returned to the spot.	Facts
Soon after the injured had been removed to the hospital.	Facts
Inspector Jugraj Chand, PW 26, who was Station House Officer of Police Station, Kalkaji, also reached the spot and also went to the hospital.	Facts
In the hospital he noticed that apart from Smt.	Facts
Attro the other three persons were not in a position to make statement.	Facts
He came back to the spot and made enquiries.	Facts
He got site plan prepared and also recorded the statement of Indraj, PW 9 and Balraj, PW 10 at about 1.00 p.m.	Facts
We shall refer to the injuries noted by Dr. B. B. Aggrawal, PW 2 who conducted postmortem examination of deceased Sohan Lal and Kanahiya and also the injuries noted by the doctor who examined Smt.	Facts
Attro and Ram Pal in the latter part of this judgment.	Facts
During investigation accused Chandgi and Likhi Ram were arrested on 19th December, 1974 while the appellants were arrested on 31st December, 1974.	Facts
Remaining accused were arrested between 211975 and 1921975 on different dates.13.	Facts
A.S.I. Dhan Singh made an application to the Chief Medical Officer of AIIMS hospital for recording the statement of Ram Pal.	Facts
The CMO declared him unfit for making a statement.	Facts
Dhan Singh, again tried for recording his statement and again he was declared unfit for minimum of two days.	Facts
The police again applied on 23rd December 1974 and the doctor again declared him unfit for making a statement for seven days minimum Ram Pal was discharged from the hospital on 30th December, 1974 but his statement could be recorded on 29th January, 1975 after the S.H.O. produced him before the Medical Officer in charge for their opinion as to whether he was mentally and physically fit to make a statement.	Facts
Dr. R. Bhatia, Lecturer in Neuro Surgery, AIIMS examined him and found him fully conscious and fit to make statement to the police.	Facts
The doctor, however, made an endorsement that Ram Pal still had a speech defect in the form of slow and slavered speech.14.	Facts
The Investigating Officer, Jugraj Chand, also noticed that earlier Ram Pal was speechless and, therefore, his statement could not be recorded and, for the first time, after Dr. Bhatia had examined him on 29th January, 1975 the police recorded the statement of Ram Pal on 29th January 1975.15.	Facts
After completion of investigation the police prepared charge sheet against all the 11 accused for offences under Sections 148,302 read with S.149, I.P.C., S.307 read with S.149, I.P.C. and S.452 read with S.149, I.P.C.	Facts
The case was duly committed to the Court of Additional Sessions Judge.	Facts
All the 11 accused stood trial for the offences with which they were charged.	Facts
The Additional Sessions Judge, New Delhi who tried the Sessions Case No. 55 of 1975 against all the 11 accused came to the conclusion that out of the 11 accused only accused No. 2 Likhi Ram and accused No. 3	Facts
Chandgi were guilty of offences under S.302 read with S. 34, I.P.C. and consequently each of them was sentenced to life imprisonment.	Facts
They were also convicted under S.452, I.P.C. and each of them was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year.	Facts
They were also convicted under S.325 read with S.34, I.P.C. for causing grievous hurt to Ram Pal with blunt object and each of them was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year under the said Section, Both of them were also convicted under S.323 read with S.34, I.P.C. for causing simple injuries to Smt.	Facts
Attro and each of them was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months on this count.	Facts
All these sentences were ordered to run concurrently.	Facts
The remaining nine accused including the present two appellants were, however, acquitted by the learned Sessions Judge.16.	Facts
The convicted accused Likhi Ram and Chandgi preferred criminal appeals before the High Court of Delhi at New Delhi while the State filed appeal against acquittal of all the nine remaining accused including the present two appellants.	Facts
The two conviction appeals of accused Likhi Ram and Chandgi and the acquittal appeal by the State were heard together by a Division Bench of the Delhi High Court.	Facts
After hearing the parties through their respective counsel the High Court took the view that accused Likhi Ram and Chandgi were rightly convicted by the learned Session Judge.	Facts
So far as the appeal against acquittal moved by the State was concerned, it was partly allowed against the present two appellants who were ordered to be sentenced as noted earlier, while the said appeal of State against acquittal of remaining seven accused, namely, Rishi, Baleshwar, Milkha, Dineswar, Hukam Singh alias Kaley, Badley and Khazan was dismissed.	Facts
The State has not preferred any further appeal against acquittal of these aforesaid seven accused.	Facts
Accused Likhi Ram and Chandgi in their turn filed criminal appeals by special leave in this Court.	Facts
But their appeals have abated on account of their death pending their respective appeals.	Facts
Consequently in the present appeals we are only concerned with the orders of conviction and sentence as passed by the High Court against the present two appellants in the appeal of the State against acquittal of these two accused by the learned Sessions Judge.	Facts
Rival Contentions.	None
Shri Jain, learned senior counsel for the appellants vehemently submitted that the High Court was in error in interfering with the order of acquittal of the appellants as rendered by the learned Sessions Judge as the reasoning adopted by the learned Sessions Judge for acquitting these accused cannot be said to be perverse or unreasonable and the view of the learned Sessions Judge on evidence was well sustained and called for no interference against acquittal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned senior counsel Shri.	Arguments of Petitioner
Jain in support of the appeal took us through the evidence of prosecution witnesses Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Attro, PW 7 and Ram Pal, PW 8 and submitted that the evidence of these two injured eye witness suffered from inter se contradictions and could not have been relied upon by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also contended that the High Court was in error in placing reliance on the alleged eye witness account of Indraj, PW 9 and Balraj, PW 10 who had in fact not witnessed the incident and they were not present on the scene of offence at the relevant time.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned senior counsel Shri Jain also placed reliance on the evidence of Badley, PW 12, Ajit Ram, PW 18 and Harish Chander, PW 19 for supporting the case of the appellants accused that witness Indraj, PW 9 and Balraj, PW 10 were not present at the relevant time and on the contrary their evidence showed that appellant Hari Chand was not party to the crime and was at his place of business at the relevant time.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned senior counsel also placed strong reliance on the evidence of alibi as deposed to by Defence Witnesses Ram Saran Bhati, DW 1 Chandan Singh, DW 2, Iswar Chand Gupta, DW 3 and S. S. Goswami, DW 4.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further contended that the evidence of PW 7 Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Attro stood contradicted by her statement recorded by the police by way of FIR and that at the stage of trial she had tried to falsely rope in as many accused as possible and that no reliance ought to have been placed on her deposition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned senior counsel Shri Jain also relied upon various circumstances as emerging from the record of the case for submitting that the present appellants were wrongly roped in and were entitled to be acquitted of the charges levelled against them.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondent State on the other than submitted that prosecution had led very cogent and reliable evidence against the appellants, and the learned Sessions Judge had in a very perfunctory manner examined the case of the prosecution against the appellants accused, that the order of acquittal rendered by the learned Sessions Judge was against the weight of evidence led by the prosecution and was rightly set aside by the High Court in appeal of the State against their acquittal.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the said order of the High Court called for no interference in this appeal.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of the aforesaid rival contentions the following points arise for our determination Whether the orders of conviction and sentence as rendered by the High Court against the appellants were justified on the record of the case.2.	Issue
Whether the High Court was justified in interfering with the order of acquittal rendered by the learned Session Judge in favour of the present appellants.3.	Issue
Other incidental aspect also falls for our determination, namely, whether the appellants were able to establish their case of alibi.	Issue
We shall deal with this aspect while considering the aforesaid two main points for determination.	None
Considerations of Points Nos. 1 and 3 for determination.	None
As both these points are interwoven we will consider respective arguments of learned senior counsel for the appellants and learned counsel for the respondent State conjointly for deciding these two points.	None
At the outset it will be apposite to consider the main thrust of the prosecution case as revealed from the evidence on record for deciding the capability of the present appellants in the incident in question.	None
It cannot be disputed that there was a criminal assault on PW 7 Smt.	None
Attro and PW 8 Ram Pal, the injured eye witness and also on deceased Sohan Lal and Kanahiya who lost their lives pursuant to the said assault.	None
The moot question is whether accused Likhi Ram and Chandgi, whose convictions by both the Courts below have stood abated, were accompanied on that fateful morning by the present appellants in mounting the criminal assault on the aforesaid victims.	None
For that purpose a close look at the relevant prosecution evidence against the appellants becomes necessary.	None
As noted earlier Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Attro, PW 7 had clearly stated in her First Information Report about the involvement of the present appellants along with the convicted accused Likhi Ram and Chandgi amongst others.	None
In her statement recorded by PW 27 Dhan Singh at the earliest opportunity at the hospital she had stated that along with other accused appellants Sarup Singh and Hari Chand, who are the sons of Nihal Singh and were residents of Tughlakabad itself had come to the baithak.	None
Accused Likhi Ram was holding a ballam in his hand and others were holding lathis in their hands and they had mounted an attack on her brothers Sohan Lal and Kanahiya and had also injured her brother Ram Pal and in the process of saving her brother she also got injured.	None
As the prosecution evidence reveals, injured Kanahiya, Sohan Lal and Ram Pal as well as Smt.	Reasoning
Attro were removed by Police witness Dhan Singh to AIIMS in the van of the control room.	Reasoning
When Dhan Singh enquired from the doctor Kanahiya was found dead and soon thereafter Sohan Lal also died in the hospital.	Reasoning
Ram Pal was declared unfit to make a statement.	Facts
It is also clear from the medical reports that all the four injured had been removed to AIIMS and were with the doctors by 11.45 a.m.	Reasoning
The ruqqa itself was dispatched by 12.50 p.m. Smt.	Reasoning
Attro was first examined by doctors and thereafter her statement was recorded by A.S.I. Dan Singh and the FIR was registered at 1.15 p.m.	Reasoning
Thus at the earliest opportunity without any undue delay the FIR was registered at the police station.	Reasoning
As the incident had taken place at about 9.00 a.m. in the morning of 18th December, 1974 and when the message about the incident was flashed to the police control room at about 9.45 a.m. as deposed to by Harish Chander PW 19, it is obvious that it took sometime before the A.S.I. Dhan Singh could reach the spot.	Reasoning
He reached there by about 10.30 a.m. and simultaneously police control room van also reached.	Reasoning
It was thereafter that all four injured were taken to AIIMS where the doctors examined them by 11.45 a.m.	Reasoning
It is to be noted that when Smt.	Reasoning
Attro herself was an injured victim and when the doctors had to examine Kanahiya, Ram Pal and Sohan Lal who were very seriously injured and out of whom Kanahiya was declared dead and Sohan Lal died a little later and when Ram Pal was in a seriously injured condition having lost consciousness it would naturally take sometime before Smt.	Reasoning
Attro could be questioned by the police.	Reasoning
Her statement could be recorded at the earliest opportunity possible at the hospital when she was fit to make a statement and give information regarding the incident.	Reasoning
Consequently the High Court was perfectly justified in taking the view that there was no undue delay in recording the FIR and it was a true and correct recording of the earliest version about the incident given by injured witness Smt.	None
Attro.	None
An attempt was made by learned senior counsel Shri Jain to indicate that Smt.	None
Attro had sufficient time to be brainwashed as she was accompanied to the hospital by prosecution witness Badley Ram, PW 12 who had stated that along with him Dalip, Dalpat and Prabhu had also gone to the hospital and that Dalpat and Badley belonged to the party of Prabhu who was inimical to the accused.	None
It is difficult to appreciate this contention for the simple reason that if Badley who was inimical to the accused would have persuaded Smt.	None
Attro to falsely rope in the appellants in the crime, how is it that the very same witness Badley in the Trial Court tried to exonerate the accused?	None
Even otherwise when Smt.	None
Attro who had herself suffered injuries was being accompanied by her three brothers who were almost in a dying condition and were travelling in a police van it would be too much to expect that she would be briefed for falsely roping in the accused on her way to the hospital in such a situation.	None
It is also pertinent to note that in his cross examination nothing was even suggested to Badley, PW 12 that he was instrumental in briefing Smt.	None
Attro to falsely rope in the accused.	None
It is in the light of the aforesaid First Information Report promptly recorded at the hospital that the evidence of Smt.	None
Attro before the Trial Court has to be appreciated.	None
It is true that in her deposition before the Trial Court she tried to rope in apart from the appellants.	None
It is true that in her deposition before the Trial Court she tried to rope in apart from the appellants and convicted caused Likhi Ram and Chandgi, other accused who have been acquitted by the Trial Court and whose acquittal has been confirmed by the High Court.	Reasoning
But only because she tried to exaggerate her case at the stage of trial it cannot be said that her evidence otherwise reliable against the present appellants also should be disbelieved.	Reasoning
The High Court, therefore, was justified in sifting her evidence and in trying to see whether after discarding the unbelievable part of her evidence, the rest of her evidence against the present appellants which had stood the test of cross examination could be relied upon.	Reasoning
In our view the evidence of Smt.	None
Attro in so far as she consistently deposed in connection with the role of the appellants and which had run parallel to her FIR was rightly accepted by the High Court.	Reasoning
It is true that in the FIR as well as in her evidence before the Trial Court she had not ascribed any positive act on the part of the appellants in giving lathi blows to her brothers but she had clearly stated about their presence on spot and being party to the criminal assault on all the four of them in the baithak of Ram Pal which resulted in the death of her two brothers Sohan Lal and Kanahiya and in grievous injuries to her brother Ram Pal as well as to herself.	Reasoning
It is also true that she had not stated in her evidence that the appellants were armed with lathis when they entered the baithak along with Chandgi and Likhi Ram to attack them and in the FIR she had also stated that they were armed with lathis.	Reasoning
Consequently prosecution has clearly brought out the involvement of present appellants in the incident wherein they shared common intention with accused Likhi and Chandgi in giving fatal injuries to the two deceased as well as injuries to the tow injured witnesses Ram Pal and Smt.	Reasoning
Attro.21.	Reasoning
So far as Attro is concerned the medical evidence shows that she had suffered three injuries(1) contusion on the upper part of the shoulder, (2) abrasion on the fore arm, and (3) haematoma left side of the back of the skull.	Reasoning
This evidence supported her version that she had suffered injuries on spot at the time of incident when she tried to save her brother Sohan Lal.	None
Her evidence was fully corroborated by her brother Ram Pal who was another injured eye witness.	None
Ram Pal, PW 8 had deposed on the same lines as Smt.	None
Attro and had clearly stated that on 18th December, 1974 at about 9.00 a.m., he was sitting with his sister Attro and his brothers Kanahiya and Sohan Lal and were taking tea at the baithak and at that time accused Likhi, Chandgi and the present appellants Hari Chand and Sarup Singh came in their baitkak.	None
Chandgi, Sarup and Hari Chand were armed with lathis while Likhi was armed with ballam.	Facts
Likhi threatened to kill them and when his brother Sohan got up Likhi gave a ballam blow on his person.	None
It injured his abdomen.	None
Other three accused armed with lathis gave lathis blows.	None
The butts of lathi had injured his head.	None
Likhiaccused also gave a ballam blow to Kanahiya.	None
Kanahiya died at the spot and Sohan Lal died in the hospital.	Facts
He became unconscious on receipt of the head injuries.	None
Ram Pal did not know if Attro received any injury as he had become unconscious.	None
This part of his evidence has well stood the test of cross examination and fully supports the eye witness account of Smt.	None
Attro so far as the involvement of the present appellants in the incident is concerned.	Reasoning
Once it is found that appellants entered the baithak of witness Ram Pal armed with lathis in company of accused Chandgi and Likhi and facilitated the attack by Likhi and Chandgi on the witness and the two deceased, it cannot be urged that they did not share the common intention of murdering the concerned victims of their assault.	Reasoning
S.302 read with S.34, I.P.C. would squarely get attracted against the present appellants along with accused Likhi and Chandgi who actually mounted the assault on these victims in company of the present appellants.	Reasoning
Having given our anxious consideration to the eye witness account deposed to by prosecution witness Attro, PW 7 and Ram Pal, PW 8 in the light of the FIR we find that the High Court was perfectly justified in placing implicit reliance on the eye witness account of PWs 7 and 8 for convicting the appellants of the offences with which they were charged.	Reasoning
However, learned senior counsel Shri Jain for the appellants was justified in criticising the evidence of PW 9 Indraj and PW 10 Balraj, sons of Ram Pal whose evidence is also accepted by the High Court.	None
These two witness are the sons of Ram Pal who are alleged to have been present at the time of the incident.	None
But their conduct, as revealed from their evidence, shows that they could not have been eye witness to the incident.	None
If they were present on spot and had seen the assault on their father Ram Pal and uncle Kanahiya they would have accompanied them in the police van to the hospital.	None
That would have been natural conduct on their part.	None
But curiously enough they did not accompany them to the hospital.	None
Secondly, even though they stated in their evidence that the police had inquired of them about the nature of the incident in the morning, that version of theirs has stood contradicted by the evidence of police witness Jugraj Chand, PW 26 who had stated that he had met Balraj for the first time at 1.00 p.m. and Indraj was also there at that time.	None
Accordingly to him on meeting Indraj for the first time at 1.00 p.m. his statement was recorded by him.	None
Consequently no reliance could be placed on the alleged eye witness account deposed to by prosecution witnesses Balraj and Indraj.	None
As we are not inclined to place reliance on the evidence of Indraj, PW 9 and Balraj, PW 10 it is not necessary for us to dilate on the contention urged on behalf of the defence that the former was at the relevant time attending his school while the latter had gone to supply milk at Sunder Nagar.	None
But even leaving aside their evidence, as noted earlier, the prosecution has been able to establish through the eye witness account of Smt.	None
Attro and Ram Pal that present two appellants had accompanied accused Likhi and Chandgi being armed with lathis to mount assault on the victims on the date of the incident and had shared a common intention with Likhi Ram and Chandgi for belabouring these witnesses and liquidating deceased Kanahiya and Sohan Lal.	None
We may now proceed to consider the main submissions of learned senior counsel Shri Jain for the appellants, for not accepting the prosecution case against the appellants.	None
Shri Jain firstly contended that eleven accused were alleged to be involved in the incident.	None
That out of these eleven accused, leaving aside the two appellants, the remaining nine accused were closely related to each other.	None
That so far as the present two accused appellants are concerned they had no relation with remaining accused.	None
It was further contended that so far as accused No. 7 Milkha was concerned he might have a grievance against protection witness Ram Pal in connection with closing of his ventilator and that may make other accused interested in him against PW 8 Ram Pal and his brothers.	None
But nothing has been alleged by the prosecution against the present appellants and there was no earthly reason for them to be involved in the incident.	None
It is difficult to appreciate this contention.	None
It may be that the present appellants may not be related to Milkha and other accused but that does not mean that they may not extend their helping hand to accused Likhi Ram and Chandgi only on that ground.	None
When the eye witness account of PW 7 Attro and PW 8 Ram Pal has clearly established the presence of the two appellants in company with convicted accused Chandgi and Likhi Ram, and when all the four of them are said to have entered the baithak of PW 8 Ram Pal has clearly established the presence of the two appellants in company with convicted accused Chandgi and Likhi Ram, and when all the four of them are said to have entered the baithak of PW 8 Ram Pal armed with lathis, whether they were related to the remaining accused or not, would not be a circumstance which can have any bearing on their involvement in the incident.	None
It is also pertinent to note that it is the consistent case of Smt.	None
Attro both in her FIR and in her evidence that appellant No. 1 was inimical to them.	None
It is also not disputed that appellant No. 2 is the brother of appellant No. 1.	None
Hence it is not unnatural that they would share the common intention of accused Likhi and Chandgi for be labouring the victims.	None
It was next submitted by learned senior counsel Shri Jennifer for the appellants, that Smt.	None
Attro, PW 7 had not assigned any specific role to the appellants.	None
It is true that in her evidence she has not stated that the appellants also mounted attack with lathis and only the other two accused Likhi Ram and Chandgi were involved in the actual assault.	None
However, PW 8 Ram Pal has clearly stated that the present appellants were also wielding lathis and had taken part in the assault on Kanahiya.	Reasoning
That part of the evidence has well stood the test of cross examination.	Reasoning
Thus, their presence being armed with lathis in company with the other two accused and their participation in the assault is established on record.	Reasoning
It is easy to visualise that they would have come together sharing common intention to liquidate the victims and would not have come just for the sake of socialising.	None
It was next submitted by Shri Jain that there was undue delay in recording the statement of Smt.	None
Attro regarding the incident.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have already considered this aspect earlier.	Arguments of Petitioner
As seen earlier Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Attros statement was recorded in the hospital at the earliest opportunity and it could not be said that there was any undue delay in recording her statement.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection Shri Jain very strongly relied upon the defence case put forward by DW 2 Chandan Singh who stated that he was on inimical terms with Prabhu and many cases were pending between him and Prabhu and that appellants were openly helping against Prabhu while PW 8 Ram Pal belonged to Prabhus party and so also Dalpat and as Badley and Dalpat had accompanied Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Attro in the police van to the hospital they would have brainwashed Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Attro and would have persuaded her to falsely involve the appellants in the incident.	None
It is difficult to appreciate this far fetched suggestion on behalf of the defence.	None
As we have already discussed earlier no time was left for such an exercise when Smt.	None
Attro herself was injured and she was being carried in the police van accompanied by her three brothers one of whom was brought dead in the hospital.	None
We have also seen earlier how the said suggestion could not be accepted for the simple reason that if Badley and Prabhu were out to falsely involve the appellants and would have prevailed upon Smt.	None
Attro to falsely involve them, Badley while being examined in Sessions Case as PW 12 would not have gone out of his way in supporting the appellants.	Reasoning
Consequently, the submission of the learned senior counsel Shri Jain for discrediting the eye witness account of Smt.	Reasoning
Attro as recorded in her statement at the earliest at the hospital cannot be accepted.	None
It was next contended by Shri Jain that both PW 7 Attro and PW 8 Ram Pal even though they were injured witnesses has tried to over pitch their case and had attempted to falsely involve even the remaining seven accused who were ultimately acquitted by the Trial Court and whose acquittal was not interfered with by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection it was submitted that prosecution witness Ram Pal had stated that after receiving one blow on the head from accused Chandgi the witness had become unconscious and, therefore, he would not have seen anything further and hence his version about involvement of other accused could not be believed.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also submitted that Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Attro had tried to falsely involve accused Dineshwar and others who ultimately were acquitted and whose acquittal has not been interfered with by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Jain, therefore, submitted that the evidence of Ram Pal and Attro should be taken with a pinch of salt and should not be believed even against the present two appellants.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Jain in this connection also contended that in case these witnesses are to be relied upon even partially so far as present appellants are concerned their evidence requires corroboration so far as they tried to rope in the appellants and as the prosecution has not been able to lead any cogent evidence for corroborating their version against the appellants the appellants are at least entitled to benefit of doubt.	None
So far as this contention is concerned it must be kept in view that while appreciating the evidence of witnesses in a criminal trial especially in a case of eye witnesses the maxim falsus in uno, falsus in omnibus cannot apply and the Court has to make efforts to sift the grain from the chaff.	None
It is of course true that when a witness is said to have exaggerated in his evidence at the stage of trial and has tried to involve many more accused and if that part of the evidence is not found acceptable the remaining part of evidence has to be scrutinised with care and the Court must try to see whether the acceptable part of the evidence gets corroborated from other evidence on record so that the acceptable part can be safely relied upon.	Reasoning
So far as the aspect of corroboration to the evidence regarding the eye witness account of witnesses Ram Pal and Attro about the involvement of appellants is concerned, the said corroboration is found from the earliest recorded statement of Smt.	Reasoning
Attro at the hospital.	Facts
We have already extracted in extensor what she stated at the hospital at the earliest opportunity regarding the incident which resulted in death of her two brothers and serious injuries to her surviving brother Ram Pal and injuries to herself.	None
Her statement as recorded by A.S.I. Dhan Singh PW 27 clearly shows that her brothers had an old enmity with accused Likhi Ram, Chandgi and Hari Chand and others who were residents of Tughlakabad.	None
Hari Chand is one of the appellants before us.	None
She had also clearly stated in the said statement that on that fateful morning when she was sitting in the company of her brothers in their baithak accused Chandgi and Likhi Ram along with present appellants entered the baithak and that the appellants were armed with lathis and thereafter the actual assault began on the victims.	Reasoning
This statement recorded at the earliest fully corroborates the eye witness account of Smt.	None
Attro at the stage of trial and also the eye witness account of injured witness is further corroborated by the medical evidence.	None
The medical evidence of Dr. B. B. Aggarwal, PW 2 who conducted the postmortem examination on the body of Sohan Lal and Kanahiya shows that Sohan Lal had suffered three incised wounds besides lacerated injuries and abrasions while Kanahiyas post mortem disclosed two incised wounds besides numerous lacerated wounds and multiple abrasions.	Facts
As noted earlier the Medico legal report in respect of Smt.	None
Attro.	None
Ex.	None
PW22/B, showed that she had suffered three injuries  (1) contusion on the upper part of the shoulder.	None
(2) abrasion on the forearm, and (3) haematoma left side of the back of the skull.	None
While the medicolegal report of prosecution witness Ram Pal showed that he was drowsy	None
and he was found having (1) lacerated wound placed transversely across anterior auxiliary line in 7th Lt. ICS.	None
which was bleeding, (2) swelling and tenderness over the middle of left arm, and (3) lacerated wound over dorsum of the left hand.	None
He was advised Xray of the skull, left hand and fore arm, left hand.	None
The Xray of left elbow showed fracture.	None
In relation to Xray of the skull, the Xray film got spoiled and fresh Xray was advised.	None
The fresh Xray was performed on 21st December 1974 which showed serious internal injuries in the skull and the head.	None
In view of the aforesaid injuries suffered by the victims of the assault on that fateful morning, it would become obvious that the eye witness account of these witnesses in so far as it was deposed by them that accused Likhi was holding a ballam in his hand while the others were holding lathis in their hands, gets amply supported by this medical evidence.	None
The multiple injuries suffered by the witnesses as well as the deceased by way of incised wounds would connect accused Likhi who was armed with ballam a sharp edged weapon, while the other multiple injuries by way of abrasions sand lacerated wounds suffered by these witnesses and also the deceased would clearly show that it would not be the hand work of only the remaining accused Chandgi, but there would be more accused than only Likhi and Chandgi who could have caused so many multiple injuries on four persons, that is, two deceased as well as the two injured witnesses.	None
These multiple injuries suffered by them clearly corroborated the eye witness account of these witnesses that present two appellants were also involved in the incident.	None
May be that the appellants may not have ascribed author ship of actual blows by lathis on the victims by Smt.	None
Attro, but PW 8 Ram Pal does ascribe lathis blows to them.	None
Even that apart, their very presence on the spot armed with lathis could clearly indicate that they shared common intention with the remaining accused Likhi and Chandgi who in their company mounted the assault on the victims.	Reasoning
Even the cross examination of these eye witness has also proceeded on the basis that they were present on the scene of offence and had suffered from injuries in the assault.	Reasoning
In this connection Shri Jain submitted that so far as Smt.	Reasoning
Attro is concerned in her evidence she did not state that the present appellants were armed with lathis.	Reasoning
It is of course true that in her evidence she only stated that appellants Hari Chand and Sarup had come to their baithak in company of Likhi and Chandgi and that Likhi was armed with ballam and Chandgi was armed with lathi.	Reasoning
However, she further stated that they were all eleven accused who had come to their baithak to attack them.	None
In her statement recorded by the police at the hospital and which had become the First Information Report she had clearly stated that appellants were armed with lathis.	None
Consequently no capital can be made out by the defence on her evidence as aforesaid especially when injured witness Ram Pal had clearly stated that Chandgi, Sarup and Hari Chand accused were armed with lathis while Likhi accused was armed with ballam and all of them had mounted the attack.	None
Shri Jain submitted that PW 8 Ram Pal became unconscious after receiving head injury and hence he could not have seen the assault on others.	None
This submission cannot be accepted as it is clearly deposed by him that before receiving head injury, he had received other injuries from the assailants and had seen the assault on Kanahiya.	None
It is true, as stated by him, that he could not see the assault on Smt.	None
Attro but evidence regarding assault on her is supplied by the cogent version deposed to by injured eye witness Smt.	Reasoning
Attro herself.	Reasoning
The eye witness account of injured witness Ram Pal, PW 8 and Smt.	Reasoning
Attro, PW 7 has well stood the test of cross examination.	Reasoning
Consequently the submission of learned senior counsel Shri Jain for not accepting the eye witness account of these two witnesses so far as the present appellants are concerned, cannot be accepted.	None
It was next submitted by Shri Jain for the appellants, that prosecution witness Ram Pal was discharged from hospital on 31st December 1974 and still his statement was not recorded by the police till 29th January 1975 and because of this undue delay in recording his statement it could be said that he had tried to falsely rope in the present appellants because of enmity.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not possible to accept this contention for the simple reason that there is over whelming evidence on record to show that the witness had suffered grievous injuries in the assault and had become unconscious and in that State was brought to the hospital.	None
PW 27 Jugraj Chand, Police Inspector had clearly stated that prior to 29th January 1975 the witness was speechless and so his statement could not be recorded.	None
Witness Ram Pal had also stated that even after returning from the hospital he was speechless and the police used to come to his house at an interval of 23 days but he was not in a position to walk and he could give the narration of the incident for the first time on 29th January 1975 when he was able to speak.	None
Nothing substantial could be brought out in his cross examination for discrediting this version.	None
Consequently it cannot be said that statement of this witness was recorded by the police after undue delay.	None
It was next contended by Shri Jain that when the Trial Court thought it unsafe to convict remaining seven accused on the basis of the prosecution evidence the same yardstick should be applied while considering that very evidence against the present appellants.	None
So far as this submission is concerned it has to be kept in view that the remaining seven accused were acquitted by the Trial Court and which acquittal was accepted by the High Court on the ground that there was no clear evidence regarding their involvement in the incident and that the injured eye witnesses Ram Pal and Attro had specifically deposed about the involvement of only four accused, namely, Likhi, Chandgi and the present two appellants who were stated to have entered the baithak and mounted attack and when in the FIR it was mentioned that other seven accused were standing outside the house on the road.	Reasoning
Hence they were given benefit of doubt.	Reasoning
Only because such benefit of doubt was given to the remaining seven accused it cannot be said that clinching evidence against the remaining four accused should also be discarded.	None
Otherwise it would amount to throwing the baby out with the bath water.	None
It was lastly contended by Shri Jain, learned senior counsel for the appellants that Trial Court had seen the demean our of the prosecution witnesses and disbelieved them so far as the involvement of appellants is concerned and that view of the Trial Court cannot be said to be unreasonable or an impossible view.	None
Consequently it ought not to have been reversed by the High Court in appeal against acquittal.	Arguments of Petitioner
We shall consider this aspect a little later while we will deal with point No. 2.	None
Suffice it to say at this stage that in the light of very clear and cogent evidence of injured eye witnesses Ram Pal and Attro against the present two appellants the Trial Courts order of acquittal rendered in favour of the appellants was clearly demonstrated to be against the weight of evidence and had to be interfered with in appeal against acquittal as has been done by the High Court.	None
That takes us to the consideration of defence version about alibi.	None
So far as appellant Hari Chand is concerned DW 3 Iswar Chand Gupta had stated that he was present at their Bhatta from 7.30 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. on 18th December 1974 and accused Hari Chand was present there.	None
The witness had come back from the Bhatta after 10.30 a.m.	None
He had deposed that in November and December it was a peak season for the brick kiln and accused Hari Chand used to remain at the Bhatta for 24 hours on account of rush of work and would go to his village after 10/12 days.	None
The witness proved certain challans having been issued on 18th December 1974 out of the challan book and stated that they were issued by accused Hari Chand.	None
However the cross examination of the witness clearly exploded the version deposed to by him in his examination in chief.	None
It was found that there was no mention of time in the challan book as to when they were issued and he had never taken these challans or register to the police or any higher authority.	None
He also admitted that he came to know of the arrest of accused Hari Chand on 211995 and did not make any representation to the higher authorities although he had met him.	None
It was also established that he was a partner with accused Hari Chand in the brick business.	None
He had thus come forward to support the plea of alibi of accused Hari Chand.	None
The High Court was therefore, justified in not accepting the evidence of alibi deposed to by this witness so far as Hari Chand is concerned.	None
So far as accused Sarup Singh is concerned great reliance was placed by learned senior counsel for the appellants on the evidence of DW 1 Ram Saran Bhatti who stated that accused Sarup Singh who was appearing in his law examination had shifted to his residence from 11121974 to 31121974.	None
DW 4, S. S. Goswami had stated that accused Sarup Singh appeared in the 5th term examination held in December 1974.	None
He also proved the admission tickets Exhibits DW 4/ and DW 4/B as well as date sheet for the said examination Ex. DW 4/C. So for as the evidence of Ram Saran Bhati DW 1 is concerned it was revealed in his cross examination that he had made no representation regarding the plea of alibi of accused Sarup Singh though he had stated that he had met Superintendent of Police along with other persons and also met Shri Om Mehta, Minister of State for Home Affairs and also made representation to the Minister.	None
Even though the witness was an Assistant Director of Horticulture his conduct in not making any representation regarding the plea of alibi of accused Sarup Singh to these authorities clearly belies his version that accused Sarup Singh was not present on the scene of offence on the morning of that fateful day, namely, 18th December 1974.	None
It is, of course, true that the High Court had committed an error in holding from the date sheet produced on record that accused Sarup Singh had no papers on 17th, 18th and 19th December 1974.	None
The defence evidence clearly indicated that accused Sarup Singh had examination papers also on 17th and 19th December 1974.	None
The date sheet issued by University of Delhi as per Ex. DW 4/C clearly showed that there was an examination of the 3rd semester on 17th December 1974 the High Court seems to have assumed that accused Sarup Singh was appearing only in 5th semester but the statement of marks Ex.	None
DW 4/D issued to the accused Sarup Singh clearly showed that he had also appeared in 3rd semester, paper XIIIA	None
I which was the paper of Business AssociationI. It, is, therefore well established on record that accused Sarup Singh had appeared in L.L.B. 3rd Semester examination also on 17th and had also appeared on 19th December.	None
But that does not improve the case of alibi put forward on behalf of this accused.	None
The reason is obvious.	None
The incident is dated 18th December 1974.	None
It is in evidence that the place of offence in Village Tughlakabad is not at a long distance from Delhi where the accused was appearing in his L.L.B. examination.	None
It is not in dispute that examination was being held in the morning from 9.00 a.m. for three hours.	Reasoning
Therefore, after finishing the examination on 17th by 12.00 noon.	Reasoning
and when the next examination was on 19th December there was ample opportunity of the accused to go to his own village.	Reasoning
Consequently it is not improbable that the accused could be present on the scene of offence on 18th which was an off day for him so far as his examination was concerned.	Reasoning
Consequently the aforesaid evidence does not probabilise the theory of alibi and absence of the accused from the scene of offence on that fateful morning of 18th December 1974.	Reasoning
It is well established that it is for the accused to prove the case of alibi to the hilt.	Reasoning
The aforesaid evidence of the alibi led on behalf of both the appellants does not meet this test.	Reasoning
It must, therefore, be held that the defence has failed to establish the plea of alibi concerning the present appellants.	Reasoning
The High Court, therefore, was justified in not accepting this version of the accused.	Reasoning
Points Nos. 1 and 3, therefore, will have to be answered against the appellants.	Reasoning
It must be held that the prosecution has been able to establish beyond shadow of reasonable doubt that both the accused had shared the common intention with convicted accused Chandgi and Likhi in liquidating the victims Sohan and Kanahiya and in belabouring prosecution witnesses Attro and Ram Pal.	Reasoning
Consequently their conviction and sentence as imposed by the High Court under S.302 read with S.34 I.P.C. for causing the death of Sohan and Kanahiya and their conviction and sentence under S.325 read with S.34 for causing grievous hurt to prosecution witness Ram Pal and their conviction and sentence under S.323 read with S.34 for causing simple injuries to Smt.	Reasoning
Attro cannot be found fault with.	Reasoning
Point No. 1 is, therefore, answered in the affirmative while point No. 3 is answered in the negative.	None
Point No. 2.	None
It is now well stated that in appeal against acquittal the High Court is entitled to reappreciate the evidence if it is found that the view taken by acquitting court was not a possible view or that it has a perverse or infirm or palpably erroneous view.	Reasoning
In the case of Uppari Venkataswamy v. Public Prosecutor.	None
High Court of Andhra Pradesh, 1995 (7) SCALE 147 (1996 AIR SCW 98) a Division Bench of this Court consisting of M. K. Mukherjee, J. and one of us, S. B. Majmudar, J., has made the following observations on this aspect in para 28 (of SCALE)	None
(Para 27 of AIR) of the Report It is now well settled by a catena of decisions of this Court that in an appeal against acquittal the appellate court can interfere with the findings of fact recorded by the Trial Court and can upset the acquittal by reappreciating evidence if it is found that the view taken by the acquitting court was not a possible view on the evidence on record.	None
In this connection, we may refer to the decision of this Court in the case of State of Punjab v. Ajaib Singh, (1995) 2 SCC 486 (1995 AIR SCW 950 ) R. M. Sahai, J. speaking for this Court made the following pertinent observations in this connection in para 7 of the Report We agree that this Court is not precluded or the court hearing the appeal against acquittal is not prevented from examining and reappreciating the evidence on record.	None
But the duty of a court hearing the appeal against acquittal in the first instance is to satisfy itself if the view taken by acquitting court was possible view or not.	None
And if the court comes to conclusion that it was not, it can on reappreciation of evidence reverse the order It was also observed in the said decision that the appellate court would not be entitled to interfere unless the view of the acquitting court is found to be perverse or infirm or palpably erroneous.	None
We have, therefore, to see whether on the facts of the present case the Trial Court was justified in acquitting the present accused of the offences with which they were charged by brushing aside the eye witness account of injured P. Ws. 1 and 4 to 7.	None
So far as the facts of the present case are concerned it emerges on record that the eye witness account of prosecution witnesses Smt.	None
Attro and Ram Pal who were injured eye witnesses was acceptable to the Trial Court so far as their version about involvement of convicted accused Likhi and Chandgi is concerned.	Reasoning
But the very same evidence of injured eye witness against the appellants was not relied upon by the Trial Court by adopting a view which was clearly against the weight of evidence and not a reasonable one.	Reasoning
In paragraph 44 of the judgment of the Trial Court it has been observed that the involvement of these accused was not free from doubt.	None
The learned Trial Judge observed that they were not armed with any weapon.	None
The assertion of Ram Pal that they were armed with lathis	None
and they had joined others in inflicting lathi blows on him and other victims is totally belied by Attros conspicuous silence about the fact.	None
So far as this observation of the learned Trial Judge is concerned it was clearly against evidence for the simple reason that Attros statement recorded at the hospital clearly showed that these witnesses were armed with lathis.	None
As seen earlier even before the Trial Court she deposed that all the eleven accused had come to their baithak to attack them.	None
Consequently the view of the Trial Court giving benefit of doubt to the accused was clearly against the weight of evidence and patently a perverse and unreasonable view.	None
In this connection the High Court was justified in observing that witness.	Reasoning
Badley, P.W. 12 was examined only for proving identification of dead bodies of Sohan Lal and Kanahiya while witness Ajit Ram P.W. 18 was examined for proving the recovery of ballam and lathis.	Reasoning
But during their cross examination they tried to support the accused and had gone out of their way in deposing that the accused were not present on the scene of offence at the relevant time.	Reasoning
The evidence of witness Badley in his cross examination was clearly unreliable and was right rejected by the Trial Court.	Reasoning
Consequently the evidence of these two witnesses could not have been relied upon by the Trial Court for exonerating the accused and in holding that the accused would not be present on the scene of offence on the date of incident.	Reasoning
We have already seen earlier how the defence had failed to establish the theory of alibi still the Trial Court has accepted the theory of alibi as put forward on behalf of the defence and that is how benefit of doubt was extended to the appellants.	Reasoning
The said reasoning of the Trial Court was clearly perverse, unreasonable and against the weight of evidence.	Reasoning
Under these circumstances the High Court was perfectly justified in interfering in appeal against acquittal and in coming to its own conclusion by appreciating the evidence led by the prosecution.	Reasoning
The second point for determination also, therefore, has to be held against the appellants by answering it in the affirmative.	Reasoning
In the result this appeal fails and is dismissed.	Decision
The orders of conviction and sentence as passed by the High Court against the appellants are confirmed.	Decision
The appellants were enlarged on bail pending this appeal.	Decision
As the appeal fails the appellants are directed to surrender to the bail and to serve out the remaining part of their sentence.	Decision
Their bail bonds are ordered to be cancelled.	Decision
