 Majority view B. Sinha, J. Interpretation of certain provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1940 and the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (for short 1940 Act and 1996 Act respectively) is in question in these appeals which arise out of a judgment and order dated 13.10.1998 passed by a learned Single Judge of the Delhi High Court in O.M.P. No. 94 of 1998 and a judgment dated 17.2.2003 passed by a fiveJudge Bench of the said Court in L.P.A. No. 492 of 2002 holding that the said appeal was not maintainable.	Issue
Factual Background	None
The parties hereto entered into an agreement on or about 7.4.1992 in terms whereof the first respondent herein was to manufacture and pack in its factory a wide range of ice cream for and on behalf of the appellant.	Facts
The said agreement was to remain valid for a period of five years.	Facts
Admittedly, the said contract contained an arbitration agreement being Clause 20 thereof which is as under In case of any dispute or any difference arising at any time between the company and the Manufacturer as to the construction, meaning or effect of this agreement or any clause or thing contained therein or the rights and liabilities of the company or the Manufacturer hereunder in relation to the premises, shall be referred to a single Arbitrator in case the parties can agree upon one, and failing such agreement, to two Arbitrators one to be appointed by either party and in case of disagreement between the two Arbitrators aforesaid and in so far as and to the extent that they disagree to, an Umpire to be appointed by the said two Arbitrators before they enter upon the reference.	None
All such arbitration proceedings shall be in accordance with and subject to the provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1940, or any statutory modification or reenactment.	None
The contention of the appellant was that the first respondent herein did not fulfil its contractual obligations.	None
It was also contended and two Demand Drafts sent by it for a sum of Rs. five lakhs each which were required to be sent in the year 1992 were in fact sent on 7.5.1995 and the same were returned.4.	Facts
The contention of the first respondent, on the other hand, was that in terms of the agreement between the parties that an additional plant as per the specifications thereof for manufacture of ice cream was installed, but despite the same the appellant failed to supply the base materials for packing ice cream.5.	Facts
The first respondent herein apprehending that the appellant herein would cause disturbance in the manufacture and supply of ice cream filed a suit in the Court of Munsif 1st, Gaya which was marked as Title Suit No. 40 of 1995, wherein a decree for permanent injunction restraining the appellant from causing any disturbance in manufacture and supply of ice cream according to specifications given by the appellant was sought for.	Facts
The appellant herein, however, having regard to the arbitration agreement entered into by and between the parties filed an application under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, 1940 for stay of the suit.	Facts
By reason of an order dated 3.8.1995, the learned Munsif allowed the said application filed by the appellant herein and directed stay of the suit holding that it was a fit case in which the application under Section 34 of the Act should be allowed.	Facts
It was further directed On the request the application dated 17.7.1995 filed on behalf of the defendant Nos. 1 to 3 is allowed.	Facts
I stay the further proceeding of the suit and in the meantime the matter be referred to the arbitration.	Facts
Put up on 4.9.1995.	None
Pursuant to or in furtherance of the said direction, the appellant herein sent a notice on 14.9.1995 to the first respondent herein and its Managing Director appointing Shri H.L. Agrawal, a former Chief Justice of the Orissa High Court as its Arbitrator.	Facts
It was further stated therein that if the respondents intend to agree to appoint Shri H.L. Agrawal as Arbitrator to settle the dispute, it may give its consent thereto forthwith failing which it may also appoint its Arbitrator in terms of Clause 20 of the agreement so that the dispute be settled at the earliest.7.	Facts
Some controversy as regard service of the said notice on the respondent has been raised which would be dealt with a little later.8.	Facts
To complete the narration of facts, we may notice that the said order dated 3.8.1995 was appealed against by the first respondent before the 2nd Additional District Judge, Gaya and by an order dated 13.3.1996, the 2nd Additional District Judge, Gaya in Misc.	Facts
Appeal No. 7 of 1995 (30/95) dismissed the same.	Facts
Aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said judgment and order the first respondent herein filed a revision application before the Patna High Court which was marked as C.R. No. 1020 of 1996.	Facts
The said civil revision application was disposed of by an order dated 6.5.1997 in the following terms Before this Court parties have agreed that the dispute between them may be referred, as per the agreement to Arbitrators chosen by the parties.	Facts
The plaintiff had chosen Shri Uday Sinha, a retired Judge of this Court and Senior Advocate of the Supreme Court, while the defendants have chosen Shri Hari Lal Agrawal, Senior Advocate of the Supreme Court, a former Judge of this Court and Chief Justice of Orissa High Court as Arbitrators.	Facts
The dispute between the parties is referred to Arbitrators.	Facts
I hope that the learned Arbitrators will dispose of the arbitration proceeding within three months of the entering the reference.	Facts
Let a copy of this order be sent to both Shri Hari Lal Agrawal at his address Nageshwar Colony, Boring Road, Patna1 and Shri Uday Sinha at his Patna address 308, Patliputra Colony, Patna.	Facts
It would appear that by reason of the said order merely the constitution of the Arbitral Tribunal had been changed but the dispute sought to be resolved in the arbitration proceeding was not formulated therein.	Facts
The appellant appointed respondent No. 4, Shri Agrawal, whereas the first respondent appointed respondent No. 3, Shri Uday Sinha, as their Arbitrators.	Facts
Respondent No. 2, Shri A.B. Rohtagi was appointed by the learned Arbitrators as the third Arbitrator, which according to the appellant, was without its knowledge and consent.10.	Facts
The appellant having found that the learned Arbitrators were proceeding under the 1996 Act filed an application seeking directions and the clarifications raising a contention that the provisions of the 1940 Act were applicable.	Facts
The matter was heard by the learned Arbitrators and by an order dated 6.4.1996, the majority of the Arbitrators held that the 1996 Act shall apply holding the consent order dated 6.5.1997 is the beginning of the arbitral proceedings.	Facts
Anything said or done before that date is of no consequence.	Facts
Therefore the new Act applies.	Facts
This is our conclusion.	Facts
One of the learned Arbitrators Shri H.L. Agrawal, however, in his dissenting opinion held I do not agree with him that an arbitration commences when the dispute is referred to the Arbitrator and he enters upon the reference.	Facts
Section 37(3) of the old Act categorically lays down that when one party serves on the other, a notice requiring the other to appoint an Arbitrator, an arbitration is deemed to commence.	Facts
It does not mandate the notice only by the claimant.	Facts
The notice may be by either of the parties.	Facts
In my considered opinion the notice dated 14.4.1995 issued by the respondent to the claimant triggered off the commencement of the arbitration proceeding.	Facts
Nothing has been shown that there was any agreement between the parties to the contrary.	Facts
There cannot be one commencement for the limitation purposes and another for an arbitration proceeding.	Facts
Questioning the said order of the learned Arbitrators, an application was filed by the appellant herein purported to be under Section 33 of the 1940 Act in the High Court of Delhi which was marked as O.M.P. No. 94 of 1998.	Facts
A learned Single Judge of the High Court held According to Section 21 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral proceeding commences on the date of which a request for that dispute is referred to arbitration.	Facts
The Act postulates a notice by a claimant to the respondent calling upon him to appoint an Arbitrator for the settlement and it cannot be the other way round.	Facts
No respondent would ask for the appointment of an Arbitrator when he has no dispute to refer (unless the respondent would be a counter claimant).	Facts
In case he has disputes to refer, then the respondent would become the claimant.	Facts
The majority order correctly held that no defendant will save limitation for the claimant or the plaintiff.	Facts
In view of this finding, the notice dated 14.9.1995 cannot be construed as a notice calling upon to initiate the arbitration proceedings.	None
The agreement dated 7th April, 1992 contemplates that such arbitration proceedings shall be in accordance with and subject to the provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1940 or any statutory modification or reenactment.	Facts
In 1992, when the agreement was entered into the parties could not visualise the 1996 Act but in the relevant Clause 20 of the agreement, foundation of any statutory modification or reenactment, has been laid down.	None
When the parties by consent before the High Court agree to refer the dispute to the arbitration in that event parties have to be governed by 1996 Act.	Facts
This conclusion is consistent even with the underlying intention of the parties according to Clause 20 of the agreement.(c)	Facts
Logically, it has to be concluded that the arbitration proceedings begin when the disputes are referred for the arbitration.	Facts
In the instant case, the disputes were referred for arbitration by the order of the High Court only on 6.5.1997.	Facts
The parties have, therefore, to be governed by the provisions of 1996 Act.(d)	Facts
The petitioner was aware of the third arbitration from the very beginning and it has to be assumed that the petitioner by necessary implication gave consent for referring the disputes to the arbitration.	Facts
All this happened after the 1996 Act came in force, therefore, only the 1996 Act has to be made applicable in this case.(e)	Facts
The most vital and important circumstances of this case is that on 6.5.1997, both the parties gave a clear consent to refer this matter to the arbitration before the High Court of Patna.	Facts
The parties by agreement gave a good bye to all other proceedings and on 6.5.1997, agreed for reference of their disputes to the Arbitrator.	Facts
The sanctity of the undertaking given to the Court by the parties has to be maintained.	Facts
No one can be permitted to breach or flout the undertaking in this manner.	Facts
An appeal preferred thereagainst was dismissed by a fiveJudge Bench, as being not maintainable.	None
Submissions Mr. Harish Salve, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, would submit that having regard to the fact that the notice appointing Arbitrator had been served upon the respondent in terms whereof the arbitration proceeding commenced and in that view of the matter the 1940 Act shall be applicable in the instant case.	Arguments of Petitioner
Referring to Sections 21 and 85 of the 1996 Act, Mr. Salve would urge that there are wellknown expressions in the arbitral proceedings, being commencement of the arbitration proceeding, continuance of arbitration proceedings, entering into reference which in different context would carry different meanings.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Parliament, however, in the 1996 Act having chosen to use the expression initiation of the proceedings, the meaning thereof as is understood in common parlance should be applied.	Arguments of Petitioner
Strong reliance in this connection has been placed on a decision of the Queens Bench Division Bench in Charles M. Willie and Co. (Shipping) Ltd. v. Ocean Laser Shipping Ltd., (1999) 1 Lloyds Rep. 225.15.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Salve would submit that there appears to be some conflict in the decision of the twoJudge Benches of this Court as regard construction of the arbitration agreement, as contained in Clause 20 thereof, referred to hereinbefore visavis the applicability of the 1996 Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection, our attention has been drawn to a decision of this Court in N.S. Nayak and Sons etc. v. State of Goa etc., III (2003) SLT 593II (2003) CLT 332 (SC)(2003) 6 SCC 56 , wherein allegedly a different note has been struck from an earlier view expressed in Delhi Transport Corporation Ltd. v. Rose Advertising, III (2003)	Arguments of Petitioner
SLT 214(2003) 6 SCC 36.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. R.K. Jain, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent, on the other hand, would urge that having regard to the purport and object of the 1996 Act, as also in view of the fact that the Arbitrators had already entered into the reference, this Court may not interfere with the impugned judgment in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Respondent
Strong reliance in this behalf has been placed, Chandra Singh and Others v. State of Rajasthan and Another, IV (2003)	Arguments of Respondent
SLT 567(2003) 6 SCC 545.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel would next contend that a proceeding commences in the Court of Law when a plaint is filed and if the said analogy is applied, an arbitration proceeding must be held to be initiated when a claim petition is filed by the claimant before the Arbitrator as before a proceeding is initiated before a Court or Tribunal, the existence thereof would be a condition precedent for initiation of proceeding.17.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel would urge that for the purpose of determining the point of time when an arbitration proceeding commences, the Arbitral Tribunal must be constituted.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance in this connection has been placed on Secretary to the Government of Orissa and Another v. Sarbeswar Rout, (1989) 4 SCC 578.	Arguments of Respondent
18.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel would further submit that an Arbitrator enters into a reference when he applies his mind to the disputes and differences between the parties and not prior thereto.	Arguments of Respondent
Alternatively, it was submitted that the proceeding commences when the Arbitrator enters into reference.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance in this behalf has been placed on Sumitomo Heavy Industries Ltd. v. ONGC Ltd. and Others, I (1998)	Arguments of Respondent
SLT 443I (1998) CLT 18 (SC)(1998) 1 SCC 305.	Arguments of Respondent
19.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued that in any event the starting point for the purpose of commencement of arbitration proceeding would be when the dispute was referred by the High Court i.e. on 6.5.1997 and not prior thereto.20.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Jain would further urge that in any event, as the parties had agreed in terms of Clause 20 of the contract that all such arbitration proceedings shall be in accordance with and subject to the provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1940 or any statutory modification or reenactment thereof, they must be deemed to have agreed that the new Act shall apply.	Arguments of Respondent
Strong reliance has been placed on Thyssen Stahlunion GMBH v. Steel Authority of India Ltd., (1999) 9 SCC 334 Delhi Transport Corporation Ltd. (supra) and N.S. Nayak (supra).21.Mr.	Arguments of Respondent
Jain would also urge that the decision of this Court in N.S. Nayak (supra), cannot be said to have struck a different note from its earlier decision.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 37 of the 1940 Act, the learned Counsel would contend, being for the purpose of commencement of the period of limitation, the same will have no application whatsoever for the purpose of determining the question as to whether the 1940 Act will apply or the 1996 Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Analysis of the relevant statutory provisions Section 37(3) of the 1940 Act provides that the arbitration proceeding commences when one party to the arbitration agreement serves on the other parties thereto a notice requiring the appointment of an Arbitrator.	None
Section 21 of the 1996 Act is as under Commencement of the arbitral proceedings.	None
Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral proceedings in respect of a particular dispute commence on the date on which a request for that dispute to be referred to arbitration is received by the respondent.	None
We may notice that Section 14 of the English Arbitration Act, 1996 deals with commencement of arbitral proceedings.	None
Subsection (1) of Section 14 provides that the parties are free to agree when arbitral proceedings are to be regarded as commenced for the purpose of this Part and for the purposes of the Limitation Act.	None
Section 14(3) provides that in the absence of such agreement, the provisions contained in Subsections (3) to (5) shall apply.	None
Both the 1940 Act and the English Arbitration Act place emphasis on service of the notice by one party on the other party or parties requiring him or them to submit the matter to arbitration rather than receipt of the request by the respondent from the claimant to refer the dispute to arbitration.	None
Commencement of an arbitration proceedings for certain purposes is of significance.	None
Arbitration proceedings under the 1940 Act may be initiated with the intervention of the Court or without its intervention.	None
When arbitration proceeding is initiated without intervention of a Court, Chapter II thereof would apply.	None
When there exists an arbitration agreement the resolution of disputes and differences between the parties are to be made in terms thereof.	None
For the purpose of invocation of the arbitration agreement, a party thereto subject to the provisions of the arbitration agreement may appoint an Arbitrator or request the noticee to appoint an Arbitrator in terms thereof.	None
In the event, an Arbitrator is appointed by a party, which is not opposed by the other side, the Arbitrator may enter into the reference and proceed to resolve the disputes and differences between the parties.	None
However, when despite service of notice, as envisaged in Subsection (1) of Section 8 of the 1940 Act, the appointment is not made within fifteen clear days after service of notice, the Court may, on the application of the party who gave the notice and after giving the other parties an opportunity of being heard, appoint an Arbitrator or Arbitrators or Umpire, as the case may be.	None
By reason of Subsection (2) of Section 8 of the 1940 Act, a legal fiction has been introduced to the effect that such an appointment by the Court shall be treated to be an appointment made by consent of all parties.	None
Section 8, therefore, implies that where an appointment is not made with the intervention of the Court but with the consent of the parties, the initiation of the arbitration proceeding would begin from the service of notice.	None
Section 37 of the 1940 Act provides that all the provisions of the Indian Limitation Act, 1908 shall apply to arbitrations and for the purpose of the said section as also the Indian Limitation Act, 1908, an arbitration shall be deemed to be commenced when one party to the arbitration agreement serves on the other parties thereto a notice requiring the appointment of an Arbitrator or where the agreement provides that the reference shall be to a person named or designated in the agreement, requiring that the difference be submitted to the person so named or designated.	None
Section 37(3) of the Arbitration Act, 1940 is not exhaustive.	None
The expression shall be deemed to be commenced indicates that the Subsection (3) deals with two modes of notional or fictional commencement as distinguished from factual commencement.	None
It is, thus, possible to conceive cases where an arbitration can be said to have commenced under circumstances not contemplated by the subsection.	None
Too much stress also cannot be laid on Rule 3 of the First Schedule of the 1940 Act in interpreting Subsection (3) of Section 37 of the Act.	None
(See Motilal Chamaria v. Lal Chand Dugar, AIR 1960 Calcutta 6.	None
The commencement of an arbitration proceeding for the purpose of applicability of the provisions of the Indian Limitation Act is of great significance.	None
Even Section 43(1) of the 1996 Act provides that the Limitation Act, 1963 shall apply to the arbitration as it applies to proceedings in Court.	None
Subsection (2) thereof provides that for the purpose of the said section and the Limitation Act, 1963, an arbitration shall be deemed to have commenced on the date referred to in Section 21.	None
Article 21 of the Model Law which was modelled on Article 3 of the Uncitral Arbitration Rules had been adopted for the purpose of drafting Section 21 of the 1996 Act.	None
Section 3 of the 1996 Act provides for as to when a request can be said to have been received by the respondent.	None
Thus, whether for the purpose of applying the provisions of Chapter II of the 1940 Act or for the purpose of Section 21 of the 1996 Act, what is necessary is to issue serve a request notice to the respondent indicating that the claimant seeks arbitration of the dispute.	None
Section 3 of the 1940 Act provides that an arbitration agreement, unless a different intention is expressed therein, shall be deemed to include the provisions set out in the First Schedule in so far as they are applicable to the reference.	None
The First Schedule, therefore, contains implied conditions of arbitration agreements which are applicable to the reference and not for any other purpose.	None
Clause (3) of the First Schedule envisages that the Arbitrators shall make their award within four months after entering on the reference or after having called upon act by notice in writing from any party to the arbitration agreement or within such extended time as the Court may allow.	None
A notice upon the Arbitrator so as to enable him to enter into a reference or to make an award within the stipulated period, therefore, has nothing to do with the notice served by a party to an agreement to another invoking the arbitration clause and by appointing an Arbitrator.	None
For the purpose of the Limitation Act an arbitration is deemed to have commenced when one party to the arbitration agreement serves on the other a notice requiring the appointment of an Arbitrator.	None
This indeed is relatable to the other purposes also, as, for example, see Section 29(2) of English Arbitration Act, 1950.	None
The date when arbitration proceeding commences would depend upon various factors and the purposes which it seeks to achieve.	None
It may be for the purpose of attracting the Limitation Act or for the purpose of time bar clauses or for the rules applicable therefor, as for example, the rules of the International Chambers of Commerce.	None
The date of commencement of an arbitration also affects the position under the conflict of laws when the proper law of the contract is one law and the law of the arbitral procedure is another, for then, up to the date of commencement of the arbitration proceeding, the law of the contract must govern, and the law of the procedure will only govern thereafter.	None
(See International Tank and Pipe S.A.K. v. Kuwait Aviation Fuelling Co.	None
K.S.C., (1975) Lloyds Rep. 8.	None
Sections 14(3) and (5) of the English Arbitration Act, 1996 would also show that commencement of arbitral proceeding is not only for the purpose of limitation but also for the purpose of considering a case when the parties by their contract agree that the arbitration must be commenced within a specified time, failing which the right to arbitration, or indeed the claim itself, is apt to be barred.	None
Determination of time elements in an arbitration is provided for in Section 21 of the 1996 Act clearly indicating as to when such arbitration has officially begun.	None
Charles M. Willie and Co. (supra)	None
On November 21, 1990 Willie received a letter from Holman Fenwick and Willan (HFW) Solicitors to Roussos enquiring about an engine stoppage in January, 1988.	None
Correspondence developed in which Roussos alleged that Willie had been in breach of the MOA because at the time of delivery the vessel was suffering from average damage affecting class which led to engine breakdown in May, 1987 and January, 1988 (and again after delivery) and which had not been reported to class.	None
Swinnerton Ashley Claydon (SAC) were involved in that correspondence as Solicitors to Willie.	None
On March 12, 1992 HFW telexed SAC to invite Willie to agree on the appointment of a single Arbitrator but in the event on April 3, 1992 HFW appointed Mr. Kazantzis as Roussos Arbitrator and on April 6, 1992 Mr. Newcomb was appointed as Willies Arbitrator.	None
On May 20, 1992 HFW telexed Mr. Kazantzis with copies to Mr. Newcomb and SAC stating inter alia.	None
We refer to our correspondence appointing you as Arbitrator on behalf of G. Roussos Sons SA We should be grateful ifyou would also accept appointment as Arbitrator again in respect of all disputes arising under theMOA with Charles M. Willie and Co (Shipping) Limited on behalf of Ocean Laser Shipping Ltd.	None
By letter dated May 21, 1992 to Mr. Kazantzis with copies to HFW and Mr. Newcomb, SAC disputed the validity of the appointment on behalf of Ocean Laser and stated inter alia that Willie had no contract and consequently there was no agreement to arbitrate, with Ocean Laser.	None
SACs reaction to the appointment by Ocean Laser of Mr. Kazantzis went answered.	None
On November 5, 1993 Roussos and Ocean Laser served points of claim on Willie.	None
SAC protested in their latter that neither we nor our clients had any idea as to the identity of Ocean Laser and there was no agreement to arbitrate with that company no explanation is offered in the points of claim as to the alleged involvement of Ocean Laser and we can see no basis at all for this party to be included as a claimant HFW responded to that letter by a letter dated November 12, 1993 which stated inter alia The Memorandum of agreement states that G. Roussos Sons SA or company to be nominated hereafter called the Buyer have today bought Motor Vessel CELTIC AMBASSADOR.	None
For this reason we appointed Mr. Kazantzis as our Clients Arbitrator both on behalf of G Roussos Sons SA and on behalf of Ocean Laser Shipping Limited.	None
The points of Claim further provide that the first claimant i.e. G. Roussos Sons SA on its own behalf and or on behalf of Ocean Laser Shipping Limited as Buyers agreed to purchase the vessel Justice Rix following the decision in Nea Agrex S.A. v. Baltic Shipping Co. Ltd., (1976)	None
2 Lloyds Re. 47, and while pointing out the difference between Section 27(3) of the 1939 Act and Section 34(3) of the 1980 Act on the one hand and the Uncitral Model Law and the English Law, on the other as regard difference in approach between them insofar as in terms of the English Law something more must be done than to request that the matter be referred to arbitration, held I shall consider the facts relevant to that submission below.	None
For the moment, I express the view that even a direct an application of the 1980 Act, and a fortiori an application by way of analogy, does not exclude the possibility of showing that arbitration has been commenced by means other than a notice requiring appointment or agreement of an Arbitrator.	None
I asked Mr. Nolan when an arbitration which no one would dispute was under way had been commenced in the absence of such a notice.	None
His answer was to say that arbitration had commenced at latest when the respondent appointed or agreed in the appointment of an Arbitrator, but no because of the Limitation Act, but because the respondent was then estopped from denying that he had submitted the relevant dispute to arbitration or from disputing the Tribunals jurisdiction on the ground of the absence of a Limitation Act notice.	None
For my part, I would prefer a more direct approach and say that a claimant had commenced arbitration, at any rate in a two or three Arbitrator situation, by appointing his own Arbitrator.	None
On the authority of Tradax Eport S.A. v. Volkswagenwerk A.G., (1970) 1 Lloyds Rep. 62 (1970) 1 Q.B. 537, such appointment requires the consent of the Arbitrator to act as such and in addition notification of his appointment to the respondent.	None
In my view such notification can be regarded as an implied request to the respondent to appoint his own Arbitrator, just as Lord Denning had said that I require the difference between us to be submitted to arbitration should be regarded as such a request indeed the hypothesis under consideration appears as an a fortiori case.	None
But whether that be so or not, where the claimant has actually completed the appointment of his own Arbitrator by notifying the respondent party, I do not see why such an appointment should not be regarded as in every sense a commencement of arbitration.	None
Under the 1939 Act the language was shall be deemed to be commenced and under the 1980 Act this phrase had become shall be treated as being commenced.	None
I have suggested above that the alteration appears to be an attempt to get away from a word which had led to a difference of views in Nea Agrex, but that it is difficult to say what the effect of the change was intended to be.	None
I am inclined to think that this language still allows an arbitration to be commenced in other ways.	None
The implication is that the arbitration shall be treated as being commenced, even if it had not in fact been commenced.	None
In ordinary language one would not or at least might not regard the mere request to another party to appoint his Arbitrator as marking the commencement of an arbitration.	None
Hence the need for statutory language making it so.	None
But I do not see why the appointment of a claimants Arbitrator has to be treated as the commencement of an arbitration, when it is, in my judgment, simply that.	None
It seems to me, however, that I do not have to decide the point.	None
But if the view I have just expressed is wrong, when it would to my mind amply demonstrate why it is necessary to permit what Lord Denning and Lord Justice Goff called an implied request a rule for the commencement of arbitration which could not encompass the notification to a respondent that a claimant had appointed his own Arbitrator would seem to me to be lacking in realism.	None
Requirement of the Law Issuance of notice is required to be interpreted broadly not only for the purpose of limitation but also for other purposes (See Allianz Versicherungs AG v. Fortuna Co. Inc., (1999)	None
2	None
All ER 625 and Vosnoc Ltd. v. Transglobal Projects Ltd., (1998) 1 WLR 101.	None
In Bernsteins Handbook of Arbitration and Dispute Resolution Practice, Fourth Edition under the heading When are arbitral proceedings commenced at page 80, it is stated 2196.	None
Party autonomy and the default provisionsIn accordance with the principle of party autonomy, the parties are free to agree on what is to be regarded as commencing arbitral proceedings.	None
If there is no such agreement, then there are specific requirements in the Act.	None
A little more is needed than simply for the claimant to serve a request for arbitration on the respondent.	None
The relevant section of the Act is Section 14.	None
Its effect is as follows Where the Tribunal is named or designated in the arbitration agreement, a written notice by party A to party B requiring the latter to submit to the named or designated person a particular matter or dispute starts arbitral proceedings in connection with that matter or dispute.	None
Where the Tribunal is to be appointed by the parties, the arbitral proceedings in respect of a matter or dispute commence when Party A serves on Party B a written notice requiring the latter to appoint an Arbitrator or agree on the arbitration of an Arbitrator in respect of the matter or dispute.	None
Finally, where the Tribunal is to be appointed by a third party, arbitral proceedings commence in respect of a dispute or matter where Party A or Party B requests the third party to make an appointment in respect of that dispute or matter.	None
The learned author referring to the decision of Nea Agrex v. Baltic Shipping, (1976) 2 Lloyds Rep. 47, states 2200.	None
Well prior to the enacting of the Act, the Court of Appeal heard the case of Nea Agrex v. Baltic Shipping (The Agios Lazaros), (1976) 2 Lloyds Rep. 47.	None
The notice simply stated please advise your proposals in order to settle this matter, or name your Arbitrators.	None
It thus offered arbitration as an option, and as it happened the relevant arbitration clause called for arbitration by a sole Arbitrator and not by a panel of three.	None
By various routes, all three Judges concluded that the notice was a good notice.	None
Effectively, the Court looked at the underlying intention of the party serving the notice.	None
2201.	None
The Agios Lazaros exemplifies the appropriate approach for a Court that is addressing this matter under the Act.	None
It is therefore suggested that it will continue to be referred to, even though it has been said that in construing Section 14 reference should only be made to the cases that precede the Act in situations where the Act does not cover the point, or such reference is otherwise necessary.	None
The author hoped that Section 14 of the English Arbitration Act, 1996 has not introduced a more restrictive regime than that which obtained under the old legislation.	None
In Russel on Arbitration, 22nd edition, page 166, the law is stated in the following terms 5027.	None
Notice of arbitration pursuant to Section 14The notice referred to in Section 14(3) to (5) of the Arbitration Act, 1996 must be in writing and its contents must comply with the requirements for commencing arbitration set out in the subsections.	None
The requirements of Section 14 will be interpreted broadly and flexibly.	None
Prior to the Arbitration Act, 1996 there were a number of cases which addressed the form of notice to be given in order to commence arbitration for the purposes of Section 34(3) of the Limitation Act.	None
This line of authority has been superseded by Section 14.	None
Commencement of an arbitration proceeding and commencement of a proceeding before an Arbitrator are two different expressions and carry different meanings.	None
A notice of arbitration or the commencement of an arbitration may not bear the same meaning, as different dates may be specified for commencement of arbitration for different purposes.	None
What matters is the context in which the expressions are used.	None
A notice of arbitration is the first essential step towards the making of a default appointment in terms of Chapter II of the Arbitration Act, 1940.	None
Although at that point of time, no person or group of persons charged with any authority to determine the matters in dispute, it may not be necessary for us to consider the practical sense of the term as the said expressions has been used for a certain purpose including the purpose of following statutory procedures required therefor.	None
If the provisions of the 1940 Act applies, the procedure for appointment of an Arbitrator would be different than the procedure required to be followed under the 1996 Act.	None
Having regard to the provisions contained in Section 21 of the 1996 Act as also the common parlance meaning is given to the expression commencement of an arbitration which admittedly for certain purpose starts with a notice of arbitration, is required to be interpreted which would be determinative as regard the procedure under one Act or the other is required to be followed.	None
It is only in that limited sense the expression commencement of an arbitration qua a notice of arbitration assumes significance.	None
Section 21 visavis Section 85(2)(a) of 1996 Act The importance of the expression commencement of the arbitration proceeding arises having regard to the Section 85 of the 1996 Act, which reads thus Repeal and saving.(1)	None
The Arbitration (Protocol and Convention) Act, 1937 (6 of 1937), the Arbitration Act, 1940 (10 of 1940) and the Foreign Awards (Recognition and Enforcement) Act, 1961 (45 of 1961) are hereby repealed.	None
Notwithstanding such repeal, (a) the provisions of the said enactments shall apply in relation to arbitral proceedings which commenced before this Act came into force unless otherwise agreed by the parties but this Act shall apply in relation to arbitral proceedings which commenced on or after this Act comes into force (b) all rules made and notifications published, under the said enactments shall, to the extent to which they are not repugnant to this Act, be deemed respectively to have been made or issued under this Act.	None
Subsection (1) of Section 85 of the 1996 Act repealed the 1940 Act (10 of 1940).	None
Subsection (2), however, notwithstanding such repeal makes the 1940 Act applicable in relation to arbitral proceedings which commenced before the said Act came into force.	None
Section 21 of the 1996 Act, as noticed hereinbefore, provides as to when the arbitral proceedings would be deemed to have commenced.	None
Section 21 although may be construed to be laying down a provision for the purpose of the said Act but the same must be given its full effect having regard to the fact that the repeal and saving clause is also contained therein.	None
Section 21 of the Act must, therefore, be construed having regard to Section 85(2)(a) of the 1996 Act.	None
Once it is so construed, indisputably the service of notice and or issuance of request for appointment of an Arbitrator in terms of the arbitration agreement must be held to be determinative of the commencement of the arbitral proceeding.	None
Case laws on the point In Shettys Constructions Co. Pvt. Ltd. v. Konkan Railway Construction and Another, (1998) 5 SCC 599 , it was held A mere look at Subsection (2)(a) of Section 85 shows that despite the repeal of Arbitration Act, 1940, the provisions of the said enactment shall be applicable in relation to arbitration proceedings which have commenced prior to the coming into force of the new Act.	None
The new Act came into force on 26.1.1996.	None
The question, therefore, arises whether on that date the arbitration proceedings in the present four suits had commenced or not.	None
For resolving this controversy we may turn to Section 21 of the new Act which lays down that unless otherwise agreed to between the parties, the arbitration suit in respect of arbitration dispute commenced on the date on which the request for referring the dispute for arbitration is received by the respondents.	None
Therefore, it must be found out whether the requests by the petitioner for referring the disputes for arbitration were moved for consideration of the respondents on and after 26.1.1996 or prior thereto.	None
If such requests were made prior to that date, then on a conjoint reading of Section 21 and Section 85(2)(a) of the new Act, it must be held that these proceedings will be governed by the old Act.	None
As seen from the aforenoted factual matrix, it at once becomes obvious that the demand for referring the disputes for arbitration was made by the petitioners in all these cases months before 26.1.1996, in March and April, 1995 and in fact thereafter all the four arbitration suits were filed on 24.8.1995.	None
These suits were obviously filed prior to 26.1.1996 and hence they had to be decided under the old Act of 1940.	None
This preliminary objection, therefore, is answered by holding that these four suits will be governed by the Arbitration Act, 1940 and that is how the High Court in the impugned judgments has impliedly treated them.	None
In Thyssen Stahlunion GMBH (supra), this Court was concerned with the enforcement of a valid award.	None
Therein it was categorically held It is not necessary that for the right to accrue that legal proceedings must be pending when the new Act comes into force.	None
To have the award enforced when arbitral proceedings commenced under the old Act under that very Act is certainly an accrued right.	None
Consequences for the parties against whom award is given after arbitral proceedings have been held under the old Act though given after the coming into force of the new Act, would be quite grave if it is debarred from challenging the award under the provisions of the old Act.	None
Structure of both the Acts is different.	None
When arbitral proceedings commenced under the old Act it would be in the mind of everybody, i.e., Arbitrators and the parties that the award given should not fall foul of Sections 30 and 32 of the old Act.	None
Nobody at that time could have thought that Section 30 of the old Act could be substituted by Section 34 of the new Act Having said so, this Court in relation to a foreign award made in terms of the Foreign Awards Act and the Arbitration (Protocol and Convention) Act struck a different note, stating When the Foreign Awards Act does not contain any provision for arbitral proceedings it is difficult to agree to the argument that in spite of that the applicability of the Foreign Awards Act is saved by virtue of Section 85(2)(a).	None
As a matter of fact if we examine the provisions of the foreign Awards Act and the new Act there is not much difference for the enforcement of the foreign award.	None
Under the Foreign Awards Act when the Court is satisfied that the foreign award is enforceable under that Act the Court shall order the award to be filed and shall proceed to pronounce judgment accordingly and upon the judgment so pronounced a decree shall follow.	None
Sections 7 and 8 of the Foreign Awards Act respectively prescribe the conditions for enforcement of a foreign award and the evidence to be produced by the party applying for its enforcement.	None
The definition of foreign award is the same in both the enactments.	None
Sections 48 and 47 of the new Act correspond to Sections 7 and 8 respectively of the Foreign Awards Act.	None
While Section 49 of the new Act states that where the Court is satisfied that the foreign award is enforceable under this Chapter (Chapter I, Part II, relating to New York Convention Awards) the award is deemed to be a decree of that Court.	None
The only difference, therefore, appears to be that while under the Foreign Awards Act a decree follows, under the new Act the foreign award is already stamped as the decree.	None
Thus if provisions of the Foreign Awards Act and the new Act relating to enforcement of the foreign award are juxtaposed there would appear to be hardly any difference.	None
Again a bare reading of the Foreign Awards Act and the Arbitration (Protocol and Convention) Act, 1937 would show that these two enactments are concerned only with recognition and enforcement of the foreign awards and do not contain provisions for the conduct of arbitral proceedings which would, of necessity, have taken place in a foreign country.	None
The provisions of Section 85(2)(a) in so far these apply to the Foreign Awards Act and 1937 Act, would appear to be quite super fluous.	None
Literal interpretation would render Section 85(2)(a) unworkable.	None
Section 85(2)(a) provides for a dividing line dependent on commencement of arbitral proceedings which expression would necessarily refer to Section 21 21.	None
Commencement of arbitral proceedings.	None
Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral proceedings in respect of a particular dispute commence on the date on which a request for that dispute to be referred to arbitration is received by the respondent.	None
of the new Act.	None
This Court has relied on this section as to when arbitral proceedings commence in the case of Shettys Construction Co. P. Ltd. v. Konkan Railway Construction, 1998 (5) SCC 599.	None
Section 2(2) 2(2)	None
This Part shall apply where the place of arbitration is in India.	None
read with Section 2(7) 2(7)	None
An arbitral award made under this Part shall be considered as a domestic award.	None
and Section 21 falling in PartI of the new Act make it clear that these provisions would apply when the place of arbitration is in India, i.e., only in domestic proceedings.	None
There is no corresponding provision any where in the new Act with reference to foreign arbitral proceedings to hold as to what is to be treated as date of commencement in those foreign proceedings.	None
We would, therefore, hold that on proper construction of Section 85(2)(a) the provision of this subsection must be confined to the old Act only.	None
Once having held so it could be said that Section 6 of the General Clauses Act would come into play and the foreign award would be enforced under the Foreign Awards Act.	None
But when it is quite apparent that a different intention does appear that there is no right that could be said to have been acquired by a party when arbitral proceedings are held in a place resulting in a foreign award to have that award enforced under the Foreign Awards Act.	None
In Fuerst Day Lawson Ltd. v. Jindal Exports Ltd., IV (2001)	None
SLT 67II (2000) CLT 356 (SC)(2001) 6 SCC 356 , a distinction was again made between enforceability of a foreign award and a domestic arbitration stating Section 85(2)(a) provides for a dividing line dependent on commencement of arbitral proceedings which expression would necessarily refer to Section 21 of the new Act.	None
This Court noticed the decision in Rani Constructions (P) Ltd. v. H.P. SEB, C.A. No. 61 of 1999, wherein it was held Again a bare reading of the Foreign Awards Act and the Arbitration (Protocol and Convention) Act, 1937 would show that these two enactments are concerned only with recognition and enforcement of the foreign awards and do not contain provisions for the conduct of arbitral proceedings which would, of necessity, have taken place in a foreign country.	None
The provisions of Section 85(2)(a) insofar these apply to the Foreign Awards Act and the 1937 Act, would appear to be quite superfluous.	None
A literal interpretation would render Section 85(2)(a) unworkable.	None
Section 85(2)(a) provides for a dividing line dependent on commencement of arbitral proceedings which expression would necessarily refer to Section 21 of the new Act.	None
This Court has relied on this section as to when arbitral proceedings commence in the case of Shettys Constructions Co. (P) Ltd. v. Konkan Rly.	None
Construction, (1998) 5 SCC 599.	None
Section 2(2) read with Section 2(7) and Section 21 falling in Part I of the new Act make it clear that these provisions would apply when the place of arbitration is in India i.e. only in domestic proceedings.	None
There is no correspondent provision anywhere in the new Act with reference to foreign arbitral proceedings to hold as to what is to be treated as date of commencement in those foreign proceedings.	None
We would, therefore, hold that on a proper construction of Section 85(2)(a) the provision of this subsection must be confined to the old Act only.	None
Once having held so it could be said that Section 6 of the General Clauses Act would come into play and the foreign award would be enforced under the Foreign Awards Act.	None
But then it is quite apparent that a different intention does appear that there is no right that could be said to have been acquired by a party when arbitral proceedings are held in a place resulting in a foreign award to have that award enforced under the Foreign Awards Act.	None
Thyssen (supra) is itself an authority for the proposition that where a foreign award is to be executed which is itself a decree, there Section 85(2)(a) will have no application whereas it will have in relation to a domestic arbitration proceedings.	None
The different intention of the Parliament found by the Bench in Thyssen (supra), evidently has no application in the domestic award although it has application in relation to a foreign award.	Reasoning
Thyssen (supra), therefore, itself is an authority for the proposition that in relation to a domestic arbitration proceeding, commencement thereof shall conincide with service of request notice.	Reasoning
It may be true that in Thyssen (supra), this Court held that the parties may consent to the procedure laid down under the 1996 Act even before the same came into force but we intend to deal with this aspect of the matter separately.	None
The question was clearly answered by a Bench of this Court in which two of us were parties in State of West Bengal v. Amritlal Chatterjee, V (2003) SLT 375IV (2003) CLT 46 (SC)JT 2003 (Supp. 1) SC 308  (2003) (10) SCC 572.	None
This Court followed Shetty Construction and held that Thyssen (supra), has no application stating Thyssen Stahlunion GMBH v. Steel Authority of India Ltd., (1999) 9 SCC 334 , which was passionately relied upon by the learned Senior Counsel for the appellant, has, in our view, no application to the facts of the present case.	None
The Bench concluded (SCC p. 368, para 22).	None
The provisions of the old Act (Arbitration Act, 1940) shall apply in relation to arbitral proceedings which have commenced before the coming into force of the new Act (Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996).	None
The phrase in relation to arbitral proceedings cannot be given a narrow meaning to mean only pendency of the arbitration proceedings before the Arbitrator.	None
It would cover not only proceeding pending before the Arbitrator but would also cover the proceedings before the Court and any proceedings which are required to be taken under the old Act for the award becoming a decree under Section 17 thereof and also appeal arising thereunder.	None
There cannot be any doubt that invoking the arbitration clause by a party and appointment of Arbitrator pursuant thereto and in furtherance thereof are proceedings which are required to be taken under the 1940 Act.	None
Such steps are necessary in terms of Chapter II thereof as is evident from the fact that even in terms of Subsection (1) of Section 20 of the Act, an application thereunder would be maintainable by a person who does not intend to proceed under Chapter II praying for filing of arbitration agreement in Court.	None
Noticing that in Thyssen (supra), this Court was concerned with the enforcement of a foreign award and despite noticing paras 41 and 42 thereof that in respect of a foreign award, the purpose of making an award Rule of Court i.e. a decree has been dispensed with, rejecting the contention raised therein that the words in relation to arbitral proceedings which commenced for the purpose of the 1940 Act must be given the same meaning as contained in Rule 3 of the First Schedule appended thereto, it was held The said rule was enacted for a different purpose.	None
The words employed therein are entering on the reference.	None
In Hari Shankar Lal v. Shambhunath Prasad and Others, (1962) 2	None
SCR 720 , whereupon Mr. Ray relied upon, a fourJudge Bench of this Court held that the words entering on the reference occurring in the said rule are not synonymous with the words to act which are more comprehensive and of a wider import.	None
Rule 3 of the First Schedule to the 1940 Act imposes a duty on the Arbitrators to make their award within one or other of the three alternative periods mentioned therein.	None
This Court in Amritlal Chatterjee (supra), categorically held that Rule 3 of the First Schedule gives a cause of action for removal or appointment of a new Arbitrator in terms of Sections 11 and 12 of the 1940 Act stating The words commencement of the arbitrtion proceedings have not been defined in the 1940 Act.	None
They have to be given their ordinary meaning having regard to the provisions contained in Chapter II thereof.	None
Furthermore, Section 85(2)(a) of the new Act may have to be construed keeping in view the provisions contained in Section 21 of the new Act.	None
Keeping in mind the aforementioned principle, we may notice the other decisions of this Court cited at the Bar.	None
In Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited v. M s. Domestic Engineering Installation, AIR 1970 Allahabad 31, the Allahabad High Court was concerned with three different courses open to a Court while passing an order under Section 20(4) of the 1940 Act.	None
The question which precisely arose therein was as to whether the plaintiff could be permitted to contend that the Arbitrator named in the agreement had since then incapacitated himself from acting as an Arbitrator between the parties and that, therefore, the plaintiff had the right to urge that reference be not made to the Arbitrator named in the agreement.	None
On the other hand, when a suit is stayed, the parties are required to refer their disputes in terms of Chapter II of the Act.	None
The procedure, laid down in Chapter III has, thus, no application in such a case.	None
In Sarbeswar Rout (supra), this Court was concerned with award of interest pendente lite which was not permissible, though interest for the period prior to the commencement of arbitration proceeding was permissible where the Interest Act, 1978 applied.	None
Drawing an analogy of commencement of legal provisions visavis applicability of the provisions of the Interest Act, this Court said for the said purpose filing of a plaint would be the date on which the suit would be instituted for the purpose of grant of interest.	None
There is no reason as to why a different approach shall be applied in an arbitration proceeding.	None
It was held that as soon as the Arbitrator indicates his willingness to act as such, the proceeding must be held to have commenced.	None
In Sumitomo Heavy Industries Ltd. (supra), this Court was concerned with a case where the parties to the contract belonged to two different countries.	None
Considering the applicability of the curial law visavis the law of the country governing the arbitration agreement, this Court was called upon to determine the question as to when a proceeding before the Arbitrator commences.	None
This Court answered the same saying that the proceeding before the Arbitrator commences when he enters upon the reference and conclude with making of the award.	None
In Jupitor Chit Fund (P) Ltd. v. Shiv Narain Mehta (Dead) by LRs.	None
and	None
Others, II (2000) SLT 563II (2000) CLT 119 (SC)(2000) 3 SCC 364 , this Court was concerned with the construction of Subsection (5) of Section 37 of the 1940 Act as in that case no notice was issued to the respondent by the appellant.	None
It was held that for the purpose of applicability of Subsection (5) of Section 37 of the Act fictional meaning given to the phrase commencement of an arbitration as contained in Subsection (3) thereof shall have to be applied.	None
As no notice had been served the Court held that the reference to the arbitration itself was not proper and, thus, the period of limitation for filing the suit should not be excluded.	None
Applicability of 1940 Act or 1996 Act Commencement of arbitration proceeding for the purpose of limitation or otherwise is of great significance.	None
If a proceeding commences, the same becomes relevant for many purposes including that of limitation.	None
When the Parliament enacted the 1940 Act, it was not in its contemplation that 46 years later it would reenact the same.	None
The Court, therefore, while taking recourse to the interpretative process must notice the scheme of the concerned legislations for the purpose of finding out the purport of the expression commencement of arbitration proceeding.	None
In terms of Section 37 of the 1940 Act, law of limitation will be applicable to Arbitrators as it applies to proceedings in Court.	None
For the purpose of invoking the doctrine of lis pendens, Section 14 of the Limitation Act, 1963 and for other purposes presentation of plaint would be the date when a legal proceeding starts.	None
So far as the arbitral proceedings is concerned, service of notice in terms of Chapter II of the 1940 Act shall set the ball in motion whereafter only the arbitration proceeding commences.	None
Such commencement of arbitration proceeding although in terms of Section 37 of the Act is for the purpose of limitation but it in effect and substance will also be the purpose for determining as to whether the 1940 Act or the 1996 Act would apply.	None
It is relevant to note that it is not mandatory to approach the Court for appointment of an Arbitrator in terms of Subsection (2) of Section 8 of the 1940 Act.	None
If the other party thereto does not concur to the Arbitrator already appointed or nominate his own Arbitrator in a given case, it is legally permissible for the Arbitrator so nominated by one party to proceed with the reference and make an award in accordance with law.	None
However, in terms of Subsection (2) of Section 8 only a legal fiction has been created in terms whereof an Arbitrator appointed by the Court shall be deemed to have been nominated by both the parties to the arbitration proceedings.	None
Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, 1940 speaks of power to stay legal proceeding where there is an arbitration agreement.	None
Before a suit is stayed in terms of Section 34 of the Act the Court must be satisfied that there is no sufficient reason why the matter should not be referred to arbitration in accordance with the arbitration agreement and that the applicant was at the time when the proceedings commenced were and still remains ready and willing to do so for the proper conduct of the arbitration.	None
The Court, therefore, while passing an order in terms of Section 34 of the Act must satisfy that there exists a dispute between the parties within the meaning of the provisions of arbitration agreement and such dispute should be referred to arbitration in accordance with the arbitration agreement.	None
Although under Section 34 of the 1940 Act, the Court itself does not make a reference to an Arbitrator but the very purposes for which the suit is stayed is that the parties may take recourse to the provisions contained in the arbitration agreement.	None
A reference is made to the Arbitrator in terms of the arbitration agreement to make a reference.	None
(See Bhailal Manilal v. Amratlal Lallubhai Shah, AIR 1963 Guj.	None
141 Dinabandhu v. Durga Prasad Jana, AIR 1919 Cal. 479.	None
Once a suit is stayed by the Court the other provisions of the Arbitration Act may be taken recourse to by the parties.	None
(See State of West Bengal v. A.K. Ghosh, AIR 1975 Cal.	None
227 .	None
The Uncitral Model Rules of Arbitration visavis provision of Section 14 of the English Arbitration Act, 1996 must be construed having regard to the decisions of the English Courts as also this Court which addressed the form of notice to be given in order to commence the arbitration for the purpose of Section 34(3) of the Limitation Act.	None
By reason of Section 14, merely the form of notice and strict adherence thereto has become redundant, as now in terms of Section 14 of the Arbitration Act there is otherwise no specific requirement as to the form of notice subject to any contract operating in the field.	None
(See Paras 5020, 5027 and 5028 of Russel on Arbitration, 22nd Edn.).	None
Section 21 of the 1996 Act must be construed accordingly.	None
It defines the moment of the commencement of arbitral proceedings.	None
In the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 by P. Chandrasekhara Rao, it is stated Section 21 defines the moment of the commencement of arbitral proceedings.	None
It gives freedom to the parties to agree on the date of commencement of arbitral proceedings.	None
For instance, in the case of arbitration administered by an arbitration institution, they may agree to abide by the arbitration rules of that institution for determining the point of time at which the arbitral proceedings can be said to have commenced.	None
Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral proceedings in respect of a particular dispute commence on the date on which a request for that dispute to be referred to arbitration is received by the respondent.	None
Section 3 is relevant on the question as to when a request can be said to have been received by the respondent.	None
The request made to the respondent should clearly indicate that the claimant seeks arbitration of the dispute Section 21 is of direct relevance in connection with the running of periods of limitation under Section 43 and the savings provision in Section 85(2)(a).	None
Section 85 of the 1996 Act repeals the 1940 Act.	None
Subsection (2) of Section 85 provides for a nonobstante clause.	None
Clause (a) of the said subsection provides for saving clause stating that the provisions of the said enactments shall be applied in relation to arbitral proceedings which commenced before the said Act came into force.	None
Thus, those arbitral proceedings which were commenced before coming into force of the 1996 Act are saved and the provisions of the 1996 Act would not apply in relation to arbitral proceedings which commenced on or after the said Act came into force.	None
Even for the said limited purpose, it is necessary to find out as to what is meant by commencement of arbitral proceedings for the purpose of the 1996 Act wherefor also necessity of reference to Section 21 would arise.	None
The Court is to interpret the repeal and savings clauses in such a manner so as to give an pragmatic and purposive meaning thereto.	None
It is one thing to say that commencement of arbitration proceedings is dependent upon the fact of each case as that would be subject to the agreement between the parties.	None
It is also another thing to say that the expression commencement of arbitration proceedings must be understood having regard to the context in which the same is used but it would be a totally different thing to say that the arbitration proceedings commences only for the purpose of limitation upon issuance of a notice and for no other purpose.	None
The statute does not say so.	None
Even the case laws do not suggest the same.	None
On the contrary the decisions of this Court operating in the field beginning from Shetty Construction (supra), are ad idem to the effect that Section 21 must be taken recourse to for the purpose of interpretation of Section 85(2)(a) of the Act.	None
There is no reason, even if two views are possible to make a departure from the decisions of this Court as referred to hereinbefore.	None
While interpreting a judgment this Court must pin point its attention to the ratio thereof.	Reasoning
A Court of law must not lose sight of the doctrine of stare decisis.	None
A view which has been holding the field for a long time should not be disturbed only because another view is possible.74.Keeping in view the fact that in all the decisions, referred to hereinbefore, this Court has applied the meaning given to the expression commencement of the arbitral proceeding as contained in Section 21 of the 1996 Act for the purpose of applicability of the 1940 Act having regard to Section 85(2)(a) thereof, we have no hesitation in holding that in this case also, service of a notice for appointment of an Arbitrator would be the relevant date for the purpose of commencement of the arbitration proceeding.75.	Reasoning
In this case, the learned Munsif by an order dated 7.8.1995 i.e. before the 1996 Act came into force not only stayed further proceedings of the suit but also directed that in the meanwhile the matter be referred to arbitration.	Reasoning
The matter was referred to arbitration as soon as the notice dated 14.9.1995 was issued and served on the other side.76.	Reasoning
It may be true that before the High Court apart from Shri H.L. Agrawal, Shri Uday Sinha also came to be appointed but the change in the constitution of the Arbitral Tribunal is irrelevant for the purpose of determining the question as to when the arbitration proceeding commenced within the meaning of Section 21 of the 1996 Act.	Reasoning
The purported reference of the dispute to the Arbitrator was merely a reference to new Arbitral Tribunal which concept is separate and distinct from that of commencement of arbitration proceeding.	Reasoning
Was it necessary that the appellant must be the claimant The learned Single Judge of the High Court has proceeded on the premises that the appellant was not a claimant.	None
The parties were ad idem that there had been a dispute between them.	None
Only as a result of the dispute and on an apprehension consequent thereupon the suit for injunction was filed.	None
The question is required to be gone into even in the suit as to which of the parties thereto was in breach of the contract.	None
Such a dispute necessarily fell within the purview of the arbitration agreement.	None
The arbitration agreement can be invoked by a party to a dispute and not only by a person who has a claim against the other.	None
The law does not say that only a party who has a monetary claim may invoke the arbitration agreement.	None
The arbitration agreement was invoked by the appellant by filing an application under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act pursuant whereto or in furtherance whereof the proceeding of the suit was stayed and the matter was directed to be referred to the Arbitrator.	Facts
The question as to whether in the facts and circumstances of this case an order for permanent injunction should be granted or not was itself a dispute within the meaning of the arbitration agreement.	None
Evidently the stand of the appellant was that such an injunction should not be granted.	None
The Arbitrator, having regard to the scope and purport of the reference would be entitled to determine the said dispute.	None
It is, therefore, irrelevant as to whether the appellant had any monetary claim against the respondent or not.	None
The Arbitrators and consequently the learned Single Judge, therefore, posed a wrong question into themselves that no defendant will save limitation for the claimant or the plaintiff and, thus, misdirected themselves in law.	None
Subsequent reference to the two Arbitrators nominated by the parties although changed constitution of the Arbitral Tribunal but the same, it will bear repetition to state, would not be indicative of the commencement of the arbitral proceeding which must be construed having regard to Section 21 of the 1996 Act.	None
Furthermore, having regard to Section 21 of the 1996 Act, the meaning to the expression commencement of the arbitration proceeding as contained in Section 21 must be interpreted in the same manner.	None
Service of Notice Mr. Jain had raised a question that the notice dated 14.9.1995 had not been served before the Arbitrators.	None
The appellant in its application for direction clarification before the Arbitrators, inter alia, contended It is submitted that appointment of learned Arbitrators as such is in pursuance of said orders only and, therefore, the disputes referred in August, 1995 as such have come up for adjudication before learned Arbitrators.	None
The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 came into being w.e.f.	None
25th January, 1996, by which date orders referring dispute between the parties already stood passed.	None
It is submitted that in view of the said facts and circumstances, it is the respectful submission of Second Party that while deciding the disputes, the provisions of Indian Arbitration Act, 1940 alone would be applicable and proceedings shall not be governed by the provisions of Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.	None
The present application has been made by the Second Party at the first available opportunity before even submitting reply to the copy of statement of claim, with a view that no prejudice should be caused to any party during the course of arbitration proceedings.	None
The statements made in paras 10 and 11 had been traversed by the respondent thus That the submissions made in para Nos. 10 and 11 of the petition under reply are not tenable and have been made to delay the proceedings.	None
The new Act is applicable as the old one is repealed and only the arbitration proceeding, which commenced before the coming of the new Act was saved.	None
The contention of the appellant to the effect that the appointment of the learned Arbitrators had been made in pursuance of the order of the learned Munsif has, therefore, not been disputed.	None
The majority of the learned Arbitrators held The notice dated 14.9.1995 was served by the respondent.	None
Not by the claimant.	None
Therefore this notice is worthless.	None
It was a nonstarter.	None
The notice contemplated is a notice by a claimant to the respondent calling upon him to appoint Arbitrator for the settlement of the dispute raised in the notice by the claimant.	None
Why should a respondent appoint an Arbitrator unless the Arbitrator calls upon him to do so?	None
No respondent will be anxious to appoint an Arbitrator unless the claimant first appoints the Arbitrator.	None
No defendant will save limitation for a plaintiff by giving notice unless he himself is a counterclaimant.	None
It is always the claimant (a plaintiff) who gives notice for appointment of the Arbitrator because he invokes the arbitration clause and has a dispute, unless the defendant respondent is also a counter claimant.	None
The claimant communicates to the respondent the nature of the dispute he has with him and seeks resolution by arbitration.	None
The notice contemplated in Section 37(3) is a notice of a claim.	None
From the notice it must be clear that a claim is being made by the claimant against the respondent.	None
The claim must be set out in the notice in sufficient detail.	None
So that the respondent knows what is being claimed against him and can prepare his response.	None
Like a plaint in a suit.	None
We must treat cause of arbitration in the same way as a cause of action would be treated if the proceedings were in a Court of Law.	None
In the notice relied upon the respondent has not enumerated any dispute And if he has none why should he appoint an Arbitrator unless the claimant calls upon him to do so.	None
The date on which the request for the dispute to be referred to arbitration is received by the respondent from the claimant is the date on which arbitration commences in respect of that particular dispute for purposes of Section 37(3) (See Section 22 and Section 43(2) of the new Act).	None
The Arbitrators, therefore, have also not held that notice dated 14.9.1995 was not served upon the respondent but merely proceeded on the basis that the same would be relevant for the purpose of determining the question as to when the arbitral proceeding shall commence.	Reasoning
In fact it does not appear that such a question was raised either before the Arbitrators or before the High Court.	Reasoning
The respondent, therefore, cannot be permitted to raise the same before us for the first time.	Reasoning
Arbitration clause  effect of It inter alia reads All such arbitration proceedings shall be in accordance with and subject to the provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1940, or any statutory modification or reenactment.	None
In Thyssen (supra), the Court held that the parties can agree to the applicability of the new Act even before the same came into force.	None
Relevant findings of this Court are In the case of Thyssen Stahlunion GMBH (CA No. 6036 of 1998)	None
the contract for sale and purchase of prime cold rolled mild steel sheets in coils contains arbitration agreement.	None
Relevant clauses are as under Clause 12.	None
Legal Interpretation 12.1.	None
This contract shall be governed and construed in accordance with the Laws of India for the time being in force.	None
12.2 To interpret all commercial terms and abbreviations used herein which have not been otherwise defined, the rules of Incoterms 1990 shall be applied.	None
Clause 13.	None
Settlement of Disputes All disputes or differences whatsoever between the parties hereto arising out of or relating to the construction, meaning or operation or effect of this contract or the breach thereof shall unless amicably settled between the parties hereto be settled by arbitration in accordance with the Rules of Conciliation and Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), Paris, France by a sole Arbitrator appointed by the Chairman of the Arbitral Tribunal of the Court of Arbitration of ICC and the award made in pursuance thereof shall be binding on both the parties.	None
The venue for the arbitration proceedings shall be New Delhi, India.	None
The Court proceeded on the basis that such a change in the procedure before the Arbitrator is permissible if the parties agree that the new Act be applicable to the arbitral proceeding when the same is pending before the Arbitrator.	Reasoning
We are not concerned in the present case with the situation where the parties agree to change in the procedure before the Arbitrator.	Reasoning
In fact, they did not and, as noticed at the first opportunity, the appellant filed an application for a direction or clarification that the proceeding under the 1940 Act would apply.	Reasoning
In Delhi Transport Corporation (supra), factually it was held The conduct of the arbitration proceedings and the participation of the parties therein shows that the parties acted under the 1996 Act.	Reasoning
Even the Arbitrator proceeded on that understanding and gave his award in pursuance of the 1996 Act The Court, thus, proceeded on the basis that such a course was permissible in terms of Subclause (d) of Clause 25 of the agreement which was in the following terms Subject to as aforesaid, the provision of the Arbitration Act, 1940 or any statutory modification or reenactment thereof and the rules made thereunder and for the time being in force shall apply to the arbitration proceedings under this clause.	None
It is one thing to say that the parties agree to take recoruse to the procedure of the 1996 Act relying on or on the basis of tenor of the agreement as regard applicability of the statutory modification or reenactment of the 1940 Act but it is another thing to say, as has been held by the High Court, that the same by itself is a pointer to the fact that the appellant had agreed thereto.	Reasoning
If the arbitral proceedings commenced for the purpose of the applicability of the 1940 Act in September, 1995, the question of adopting a different procedure laid down under the 1996 Act would not arise.89.	Reasoning
It is not a case where like Delhi Transport Corporation (supra) limited, the parties went for arbitration with a clear understanding and belief that the proceedings were being conducted under the 1996 Act.	Reasoning
Therein the appointment of Arbitrator was made under the new Act, the parties participated in the arbitration proceeding with the understanding and belief that the proceedings are governed under the 1996 Act.	Reasoning
In the award itself the Arbitrator noted that both parties submitted claims before me under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and he purported to have made its award in terms thereof.	Reasoning
In that situation Subpara (3) of para 22 of Thyssen (supra), was held to be applicable.	Reasoning
Shah, J. who was a party in Thyssen (supra), as also Delhi Transport Corporation (supra), in N.S. Nayak (supra), however, noticed the distinctive features in Thyssen (supra), and while supplying the requisite emphasis thereon observed Further the part of the arbitration clause which is quoted above also provides that the provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1940 which were for the time being in force were to apply to the arbitral proceedings between the parties.	None
It nowhere provides that once the arbitral proceedings have commenced under the old Act, they should be conducted under the new Act as soon as the new Act comes into operation.	None
Hence, in the proceedings where the award is passed under the old Act, the remedy of filing appeal or petition for setting aside the said award would be as per the provisions of the old Act.	None
It was further observed Conclusion 3 only reiterates what is provided in various sections of the Arbitration Act, which gives option to the parties to opt for the procedure as per their agreement during the arbitral proceedings before the Arbitrator.	None
The phrase unless otherwise agreed by the parties used in various sections, namely, 17, 21, 23(3), 24(1), 25, 26, 29, 31, 85(2)(a) etc. indicates that it is open to the parties to agree otherwise.	None
During the arbitral proceedings, right is given to the parties to decide their own procedure.	None
So if there is an agreement between the parties with regard to the procedure to be followed by the Arbitrator, the Arbitrator is required to follow the said procedure.	None
Reason being, the Arbitrator is appointed on the basis of the contract between the parties and is required to act as per the contract.	None
However, this would not mean that in appeal parties can contend that the appellate procedure should be as per their agreement.	None
The appellate procedure would be governed as per the statutory provisions and parties have no right to change the same.	None
It is also settled law that the right to file an appeal is accrued right that cannot be taken away unless there is specific provision to the contrary.	None
There is no such provision in the new Act.	None
In the present cases, the appeals were pending before the High Court under the provisions of the old Act and, therefore, appeals are required to be decided on the basis of the statutory provisions under the said Act.	None
Hence, there is no substance in the submission made by the learned Counsel for the appellant.	None
Referring to the relevant portion of the discussions in Thyssen (supra), the learned Judge held The aforesaid discussion only deals with the contention that parties could not have agreed to the application of the new Act till they had the knowledge about the provisions thereof and, therefore, the agreement to the effect that to the arbitral proceedings, the provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1940 or any statutory modification or reenactment thereof would be applicable, is not valid.	None
The Court negatived the said contention by interpreting the expression unless otherwise agreed.	None
The Court held that such agreement could be entered into even before coming into force of the new Act.	None
However, it nowhere lays down that in a pending arbitral proceeding, which was being conducted as per the procedure prescribed under the old Act, the parties have option of changing the procedure.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In N.S. Nayak (supra), also having regard to the fact that the Arbitrator was appointed prior to 21.8.1996, the old Act was held to be applicable.	None
Conclusion For the reasons aforementioned, we are of the view that in this case, the 1940 Act shall apply and not the 1996 Act.	None
However, it is accepted at the Bar that the learned Arbitrators had already entered into the reference.	Reasoning
The proceedings before the Arbitrators were not stayed.	Reasoning
Only making of the award was stayed.	Reasoning
In that view of the matter, in the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case, we are of the opinion that although the old Act would apply, the entire arbitral proceedings need not be reopened and the Arbitrators may proceed to give their award.	Reasoning
The award shall be filed in the Court having jurisdiction whereafter the parties may proceed in terms of the old Act.	Reasoning
We hope and trust that the award shall be made and all the legal proceedings shall come to an end at an early date and preferably within a period of four months from the date of the communication of this order.	Reasoning
This order has been passed in the interest of justice and in the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case.93.	Reasoning
We are, however, of the opinion that the High Court of Delhi has rightly held that the letters patent appeal was not maintainable.	Reasoning
Civil Appeal No. 9672 of 2003 is, therefore, allowed and Civil Appeal Nos. 967374 of 2003 are dismissed.	Reasoning
No costs.	Reasoning
Minority view H. Kapadia, J.The question for consideration in the present appeals is as to whether the Arbitration Act, 1940 (hereinafter referred to as the 1940 Act) would apply in the facts and circumstances of the case or whether the case will have to be dealt with under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as the 1996 Act)?	Issue
Briefly, the facts of the case are as follows.	None
The parties hereto entered into an agreement on 7.4.1992 in terms whereof the first respondent herein was to manufacture and pack in its factory a wide range of ice cream for and on behalf of the appellant.	Facts
The agreement was to remain valid for five years.	Facts
Admittedly, the contract contained an arbitration agreement being Clause 20 thereof which is as under In the case of any dispute or any difference arising at any time between the company and the Manufacturer as to the construction, meaning or effect of this agreement or any clause or thing contained therein or the rights and liabilities of the company or the Manufacturer hereunder in relation to the premises, shall be referred to a single Arbitrator, in case the parties can agree upon one, and failing such agreement, to two Arbitrators one to be appointed by either party and in case of disagreement between the two Arbitrators aforesaid and in so far as and to the extent that they disagree to, an Umpire to be appointed by the said two Arbitrators before they enter upon the reference.	None
All such arbitration proceedings shall be in accordance with and subject to the provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1940, or any statutory modification or reenactment.	None
On the strength of this agreement dated 7.4.1992, the respondent herein filed title Suit No. 40 of 1995 on 20.5.1995 for an injunction restraining the appellant herein from disturbing manufacture and supply of ice cream.	None
In the said suit, the appellant applied for stay of suit vide application dated 17.7.1995 under Section 34 of the 1940 Act.	None
By order dated 3.8.1995, the Trial Court stayed the suit.	None
Being aggrieved, the respondent herein filed an application before Additional District Judge, Gaya, which was dismissed on 13.3.1996.	None
Aggrieved the respondent herein carried the matter in revision to the High Court which was disposed of on 6.5.1997 in terms of the following order Before this Court parties have agreed that the dispute between them may be referred as per the agreement to Arbitrators chosen by the parties.	None
The plaintiff has chosen Shri Uday Sinha, a retired Judge of this Court and Senior Advocate of the Supreme Court, while the defence have chosen Shri Hari Lal Agarwal, Senior Advocate of the Supreme Court, a former Judge of this Court and Chief Justice of Orissa High Court as Arbitrators.	Facts
The dispute between the parties is referred to Arbitrators.	Facts
I hope that the learned Arbitrators will dispose of the arbitration proceedings within three months of the entering the reference.	Facts
The above order is a consent order by which application for stay of the suit stood disposed of.	None
Pursuant to the consent order, the Arbitrators nominated by the respective parties in turn appointed an Umpire.	None
On 19.8.1997, the parties were asked to appear.	None
The respondent was called upon to file statement of claim.	None
An issue arose for determination at that stage as to which of the two Acts applied to the arbitration.	None
On behalf of the appellant, it was submitted that application under Section 34 of the 1940 Act constituted a request to refer the matter to the arbitration and consequently the request marked the commencement of the arbitration proceedings.	None
This argument was rejected by the Arbitrators on the ground that a proceeding under Section 34 of the 1940 Act was essentially a defence to the suit and it did not amount to referring a claim to arbitration.	None
It was further held that the arbitration commenced in the present case when the claim was referred to the Arbitrators on 6.5.1997.	None
In this connection, reliance was placed on the provisions of Section 85(2)(a) of the 1996 Act.	None
It was further held that the order dated 6.5.1997 was a consent order and consequently, the arbitration proceedings commenced only after the said order which was passed after the new Act came into force.	None
At this stage, it may be pointed out that in the course of hearing before the Arbitrators and before the decision could be given on the above question, the appellant herein filed an application before the Arbitrators dated 7.3.1998 enclosing notice dated 14.9.1995 served by the appellant on the respondent herein whereby the appellant had appointed Mr. H.L. Aggarwal as their Arbitrator and by which notice the respondent herein was called upon to appoint their own Arbitrator in terms of Clause 20 quoted above.	Facts
In the application dated 7.3.1998, the appellant submitted that in view of the above notice dated 14.9.1995, the arbitration proceedings had commenced under the 1940 Act.	None
By majority decision, the Arbitrators took the view that the said notice dated 14.9.1995 did not make any difference to the question of commencement of the arbitral proceedings in view of the provisions of Section 85(2)(a) of the 1996 Act as there was a clear and explicit agreement between the parties recorded in the consent order dated 6.5.1997.	None
It was held that in relation to arbitration proceedings which commenced before the 1996 Act, parties were free to agree as to when arbitration proceedings are to be regarded as commenced for the purposes of Section 85(2)(a) of the 1996 Act and since there was such an agreement in the consent order dated 6.5.1997, the arbitration proceedings had commenced under the 1996 Act.	None
It was further held that by order dated 6.5.1997 passed by the High Court, the arbitration was set in motion by the parties when they nominated their respective Arbitrators and the Court ordered that the dispute between the parties be referred to the Arbitrators and that the arbitration proceedings be disposed of within three months of entering upon the reference.	None
It was held that arbitration commenced when there was a completely constituted arbitration Tribunal to decide the dispute, which on facts took place only after the 1996 Act commenced.	None
It was further held that the notice dated 14.9.1995 served by the appellant was a nonstarter and that such a notice did not commence arbitral proceedings in terms of Section 85(2) of the 1996 Act.	None
Consequently, by majority decision, it was held that the consent order dated 6.5.1997 marked the commencement of the arbitral proceedings and, therefore, the 1996 Act was applicable.	Facts
One of the learned Arbitrators, Mr. H.L. Aggarwal in his dissenting opinion held that the arbitration proceedings commenced in the present case when the notice dated 14.9.1995 was issued by the appellant to the respondent.	None
In this connection, he placed reliance on Section 37(3) of the 1940 Act.	None
Questioning the majority decision of the Arbitrators, the appellant herein moved an application under Section 33 of the 1940 Act in the High Court.	None
A learned Single Judge of the High Court held that in the present case the disputes were referred to for arbitration only on 6.5.1997 and, therefore, the parties have to be governed by the provisions of the 1996 Act.	None
The letters patent appeal preferred therefrom was also dismissed by the fiveJudge Bench of the High Court as not maintainable.	None
Mr. Harish Salve, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant submitted that having regard to the fact that the notice appointing the Arbitrator had been served by the appellant upon the respondent as far back as 14.9.1995 in terms whereof the arbitration proceedings commenced, the 1940 Act was applicable in the instant case.	Arguments of Petitioner
Referring to Section 21 and Section 85(2)(a) of the 1996 Act, it was urged that there are well known expressions in arbitral proceedings being commencement of the arbitration proceedings, continuance of arbitration proceedings, entering into reference, which in different context could carry different meanings.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Parliament however in the 1996 Act has chosen to use the expression commencement of arbitral proceedings, in Section 21 the meaning thereof as is understood in common parlance should be applied.	None
Strong reliance in this connection was placed on the decision of Queens Bench Division in Charles M. Willie and Co. (Shipping) Ltd. v. Ocean Laser Shipping Ltd., (1999) 1 Lloyds Law Report 225.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Counsel for the appellant further submitted that there was a conflict in the decision of the twoJudge Benches of this Court as regards the construction of the arbitration agreement as contained in Clause 20 thereof visavis the applicability of the 1996 Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection, my attention was drawn to the decision of this Court in the case N.S. Nayak and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. State of Goa (supra), wherein allegedly a different note has been struck from an earlier decision of this Court in Delhi Transport Corporation Ltd. v. Rose Advertising (supra).	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, Mr. R.K. Jain, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent urged that having regard to the object of 1996 Act, as also in view of the fact that the Arbitrator had already entered into the reference pursuant to the consent order dated 6.5.1997, this Court may not interfere with the impugned judgment in exercise of jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
Strong reliance was placed on the judgment of this Court in the case Chandra Singh v. State of Rajasthan (supra).9.	Arguments of Respondent
In was next contended that a commences in the Court of Law when a plaint is filed and by analogy an arbitration proceeding must be held to be initiated when a claim petition is filed by the claimant before the Arbitrator, that before a proceeding is said to be initiated before a Court or Tribunal, the existence of such Tribunal was a condition precedent for initiation of proceedings.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel, therefore, contended that for purposes of determining the point of time when an arbitration proceeding commences, an Arbitral Tribunal must be constituted.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance in this connection was placed on the judgment of this Court in the case of Secy.	Arguments of Respondent
to Government of Orissa v. Sarbeswar Rout, reported in (1989) 4 SCC 578.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted that an Arbitrator enters into a reference when he applies his mind to the differences and disputes between the parties and not prior thereto.	Arguments of Respondent
Alternatively, it was submitted that the proceeding commences when the Arbitrator enters upon the reference.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance was placed on the judgment of this Court in the case of Sumitomo Heavy Industries Ltd. v. ONGC Ltd. (supra).	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted that in any event, the starting point for commencement of the arbitration proceedings would be when the dispute was referred to by the High Court on 6.5.1997 and not prior thereto.10.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Counsel for the respondent contended that in any event as the parties had agreed in terms of Clause 20 of the contract that all such arbitration proceedings shall be in accordance with and subject to the provisions of the 1940 Act or any statutory modifications or reenactment thereof, they must be deemed to have agreed that new Act shall apply.	Arguments of Respondent
Strong reliance has been placed on the judgment of this Court in the case of Thyssen Stahlunion GMBH v. Steel Authority of India Ltd., reported in VIII (1999) SLT 638I (2000)	Arguments of Respondent
CLT 95 (SC)(1999) 9 SCC 334 Delhi Transport Corporation Ltd. (supra), and N.S. Nayak (supra).	Arguments of Respondent
Lastly, it was submitted that Section 37 of the 1940 Act, being for the purposes of commencement of the period of limitation, had no application whatsoever for the purposes of determining the question as to whether the 1940 Act will apply or the 1996 Act will apply.	Arguments of Respondent
I may now notice the provisions of the 1940 Act.	None
Section 2 defines arbitration agreement to mean a written agreement to submit present or future dispute to the arbitration, whether an Arbitrator is named therein or not.	None
Section 2(e) defines reference to mean reference to arbitration.	None
Therefore, the term arbitration agreement is different from the term reference.	None
An agreement to refer and a reference are two separate transactions while an arbitration agreement is only a contract to refer, reference is delegation of authority to a named Arbitrator.	None
Section 8 confers power upon the Court to appoint Arbitrator where the parties concurred in the appointment of an Arbitrator.	None
In such a case, after the Court appointed an Arbitrator, it is the parties who referred the dispute to him.	None
On the other hand, Section 20 enabled a party to apply for filing of the arbitration agreement in the Court and that section empowered the Court to make an order of reference to the Arbitrator appointed by the parties and in the absence of such appointment, the Court was empowered to make an order of reference to the Arbitrator appointed by it.	None
In other words, under Section 20, unlike Section 8, it is the Court which referred the dispute.	None
In the case of Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited v. M s. Domestic Engineering Installation, reported in AIR 1970 Allahabad 31, it has been held that under Section 20(4), three courses were open to the Court.	None
After the arbitration agreement was ordered to be filed, the Court shall proceed to make reference, firstly to the Arbitrator appointed by the parties in the agreement, secondly to the Arbitrator not named in the agreement but with regard to whom the parties agreed otherwise, and thirdly when the parties did not agree upon an Arbitrator, to an Arbitrator appointed by itself.	None
This difference between Sections 8 and 20 was important as under Section 48 of the 1940 Act, it was provided that the Act shall not apply to any reference pending at the commencement of the said Act, to which the law in force immediately prior to the commencement shall continue to apply notwithstanding any repeal effected by the Act.	None
Section 48 was a transitory provision in which the emphasis was on reference.	None
Section 48 of the 1940 Act which corresponded to Section 25 of the English Arbitration Act, 1899 was a subject of debate in larger number of matters as different dates for different stages of arbitration proceedings were provided for.	None
Since transitory provision is to be interpreted in the light of facts and circumstances existing on the date the new Act coming into force, Sections 21 and 85(2) of the 1996 Act are quoted below Commencement of arbitral proceedings.	None
Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral proceedings in respect of a particular dispute commence on the date on which a request for that dispute to be referred to arbitration is received by the respondent.	None
Repeal and savings.(1) Notwithstanding such repeal, (a) the provisions of the said enactments shall apply in relation to arbitral proceedings which commenced before this Act came into force unless otherwise agreed by the parties but this Act shall apply in relation to arbitral proceedings which commenced on or after this Act comes into force (b) all rules made and notifications published, under the said enactments shall, to the extent to which they are not repugnant to this Act, be deemed respectively to have been made or issued under this Act.	None
A bare reading of Section 21 of the 1996 Act indicates that arbitral proceedings in respect of a dispute commences on the date on which request to refer such dispute to arbitration is received by the respondent, unless otherwise agreed by the parties.	None
Section 21 is similar to Section 14 of the English Arbitration Act, 1996 which provides that parties are free to agree as to when an arbitration is to be regarded as commencing both under the Arbitration Act 1996 and for limitation purposes.	None
In the absence of such agreement, Section 14 of that Act applies.	None
Russell on Arbitration (XXII Ed.	None
Page 165) says as follows Commencement for limitation purposes.	None
The parties are free to agree when an arbitration is to be regarded as commencing both under the Arbitration Act, 1996 and for limitation purposes.	None
In the absence of agreement the provisions of Section 14 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 apply.	None
Under that section an arbitration is treated as being commenced when a notice in writing is served on the other party requiring him to agree to the appointment of an Arbitrator or, if the parties are each to make an appointment, requiring him to appoint an Arbitrator.	None
The party giving the notice does not have to have already appointed his own Arbitrator.	None
Where, however, the arbitration agreement specifies the person to be appointed as Arbitrator, the arbitration is treated as being commenced when a notice in writing is served on the other party requiring him to submit the dispute to that person.	None
Finally, if the Arbitrator is to be appointed by someone other than a party to the arbitration proceedings, such as an arbitral institution, the arbitration is treated as being commenced when notice in writing is given to that other person requesting him to make the appointment.	None
It is prudent to send to the respondent a copy of the notice addressed to the person requested to make the appointment as this may avoid arguments about when the notice was given.	None
In the present matter, one is concerned with transitional provision, i.e. Section 85(2)(a) which enacts as to how the statute will operate on the facts and circumstances existing on the date it comes into force and, therefore, the construction of such a provision must depend upon its own terms and not on the basis of Section 21 (See Principles of Statutory Interpretation by G.P. Singh 8th Ed.	None
Page 188).	None
In Thyssens case (supra), Section 48 of the old Act and Section 85(2)(a) of the 1996 Act came for consideration.	None
It has been held by this Court that there is a material difference between Section 48 of the 1940 Act, which emphasized the concept of reference visavis Section 85(2)(a) of the 1996 Act which emphasizes the concept of commencement that there is a material difference in the scheme of two Acts that the expression in relation to appearing in Section 85(2)(a) refers to different stages of arbitration proceedings under the old Act and lastly that Section 85(2)(a) provides for limited appeal repeal of the 1940 Act, therefore, I am of the view that one cannot confine the concept of commencement under Section 85(2)(a) only to Section 21 of the 1996 Act which inter alia provides for commencement of arbitral proceedings from the date on which a request to refer a particular dispute is received by the respondent.	None
In this connection, I may usefully quote commentary on Commercial Arbitration (end Edition page 169) by Mustill and Boyd which reads as under It is common to use expressions such as a notice of arbitration or the commencement of an arbitration as if they had the same meaning for all purposes, in the context of all the various possible types of agreement to Arbitrator.	None
This is misleading, for when enquiring whether sufficient steps have been taken to set an arbitration in train, the answer may depend on the reason why the question is being asked.	None
There are several different reasons why it may matter when the arbitration has begun.	None
Of these, the following are probably the most important.	None
First, the question may be whether, at a given moment, there is any person or group of persons with jurisdiction to make an award, and power to give directions and make rulings in the course of the reference.	None
For this purpose, what is being considered is whether the arbitration has reached the stage where there is a completely constituted Arbitral Tribunal.	None
Second, the problem may relate to the jurisdiction of the Arbitrator.	None
Thus, if there is a general reference of disputes the scope of the reference will be determined by the state of the disputes at the moment when the arbitration was begun.	None
Disputes arising thereafter must be the subject of a separate arbitration, unless brought within the existing reference by consent.	None
Third, the purpose of the inquiry may be to ascertain whether the claimant has taken such steps as may be prescribed by statute or contract for the purpose of preventing his claim from being time barred.	None
Finally, it may be necessary to consider whether one party has taken sufficient steps towards setting the arbitration in motion to give him certain procedural advantages in the appointment of the Tribunal, either as a preliminary to appointing his own nominee as sole Arbitrator, or at least by way of preventing the other party from exercising his statutory right to make, or procure, a nomination in default.	None
It is plain that expressions such as the commencement of the arbitration must have different meanings in these various contexts.	None
For example, the giving of a notice to concur in the appointment of a sole Arbitrator is sufficient to prevent time from running under the Limitation Act, 1980 and it is also an essential first step towards the making of a default appointment under Section 10(a) of the Arbitration Act.	None
But the arbitration has not at this stage commenced in any practical sense, since there is no person or group of persons charged with any authority to determine the matters in dispute.	None
Therefore, the position in law is that before the English Arbitration Act, 1996, the expression commencement of arbitration proceedings depended upon the facts of each case.	None
There was no single conclusive test to determine commencement.	None
In a case, where it was necessary to consider whether one party had taken sufficient steps for setting arbitration in motion, the Court has to consider the date of setting up of Arbitral Tribunal.	None
In the matter involving the scope of reference the test of the state of dispute was relevant.	None
Therefore, the expression commencement of arbitration proceedings had different meanings in various contexts.	None
The learned authors have further observed that although notice to concur is an essential step, arbitration proceedings cannot be said to have commenced in practical sense till Tribunal charged with authority stood duly constituted.	None
It is for this reason that English Arbitration Act, 1996 now provides under Section 14 that commencement will take place from the date when notice to concur is served.	None
This view is supported by the judgment of the Division Bench of this Court in Delhi Transport Corporation Ltd. (supra), in which a similar question was raised.	None
In that matter, the parties had entered into an agreement on 15.1.1993 for display of advertisement on DTC buses in Delhi.	None
The agreement was for a period of three years commencing from 15.1.1993.	None
The agreement contained an arbitration clause.	None
Disputes arose between the parties.	None
A request was made by the contractor on 9.1.1995 for appointment of Arbitrator to settle the dispute.	None
This was followed by another letter dated 26.11.1995 containing a similar request.	None
On 16.1.1996, he filed a petition under Section 20 of the 1940 Act.	None
The Counsel appearing for DTC made a statement in the Court on 19.7.1996 that an Arbitrator had been appointed on 4.7.1996 as per the agreement.	None
The petition became infructuous in view of that statement.	None
The Arbitrator conducted the proceedings and made an award on 6.10.1998.	None
To enforce the award, the contractor filed an application under 1996 Act.	None
The DTC contested that application on the ground that the 1996 Act was not applicable and, therefore, the execution petition was not maintainable.	None
The contention of the DTC before the High Court was that the proceedings had commenced under the old Act.	None
This objection was upheld by the learned Single Judge based on the view that the arbitration proceedings had commenced on the date when request for appointment of Arbitrator was made which was prior to 16.8.1996 when the new Act came into force.	None
The contractor went in appeal.	None
The Division Bench of the High Court found on facts that the parties went for arbitration with clear understanding that the proceedings would be conducted under the new Act, particularly when the appointment of Arbitrator was made after the new Act had come into force and particularly when the parties had participated in the arbitration proceedings with the understanding that the proceedings would be governed by the new Act.	None
Hence, the High Court decided the matter in favour of the contractor.	None
Aggrieved, the DTC came in appeal to this Court.	None
This Court found on facts that the arbitration clause, which is identical to the clause in the present case, showed that the parties had agreed to be governed by the law in force at the relevant time and such arbitration clauses were recognised under the new Act.	None
This Court further found from the conduct of the arbitration proceedings and the participation of the parties therein that the parties had agreed to proceed under the 1996 Act and, accordingly, this Court upheld the judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court.	None
In my view the said judgment applies to the present case.	None
The point to be noted is that while construing Section 85(2) of the 1996 Act, which is a transitional provision, the terms of the arbitration clause and the conduct of the parties were taken into account.	None
Therefore, interpretation of Section 85(2)(a) cannot be confined to Section 21 of the 1996 Act.	None
However, in cases where the new Act is applicable one has to go by Section 21 and in which case arbitration proceedings will commence from the date when request is received by the respondent for referring the dispute to arbitration, unless the parties have agreed to the contrary.	None
In the case of N.S. Nayak (supra), this Court held that even in cases of pending arbitration proceedings the parties had an option of changing the procedure so as to be governed by the provisions of the 1996 Act.	None
In the case of Charles M. Willie and Co. (Shipping) Ltd. (supra), the facts were as follow.	None
By a memorandum of agreement dated April 1, 1990, Charles M. Willie and Co. (Shipping) Ltd. sold their vessel to Ocean Laser Shipping Ltd.	None
The MOA provided for an arbitration clause, which inter alia stated that if any dispute arises in connection with the contract, the same shall be decided by a single Arbitrator and if the parties did not agree on the appointment of a single Arbitrator, the dispute shall be settled by three Arbitrators, each party appointing one Arbitrator, the third to be appointed by London Maritime Arbitrators Association.	None
On 21.11.1990, Willie received a letter from Solicitor of Ocean Laser Shipping Ltd. enquiring about an engine stoppage in January, 1988.	None
Consequently, the dispute started.	None
On 12.3.1992, Ocean Laser Shipping Ltd. through their solicitor invited Willie and Co. to agree on the appointment of a single Arbitrator and further stated that in the event of Willie and Cos failure to nominate its Arbitrator by 3.4.1992, Ocean Laser Shipping Ltd. appointed one Mr. Kazantzis as an Arbitrator.	None
On 5.11.1993, Ocean Laser submitted their claim before the Arbitrator.	None
On 18.2.1994, points of defence were filed.	None
One of the points which arose for determination was as to when the arbitration could be said to have commenced.	None
Taking a clue from Section 34(3) of the Limitation Act, 1980 which provided that an arbitration should be treated as having been commenced when one party served on the other party a notice requiring him to agree to the appointment of an Arbitrator, it was held by Queens Bench that commencement took place from receipt of such notice.	None
This judgment has no application to the facts of the present case.	None
The present case involves interpretation of transitional provisions, which was not in issue in the said judgment.	None
Further, the judgment of Queens Bench was based on provisions of Limitation Act, by analogy.	None
Further, the judgment of Queens Bench was delivered under the Arbitration Act, 1996 under which the parties are free to agree when arbitration is to be regarded as having commenced both under the said Act and for limitation purposes and that in the absence of the agreement, the provisions of Section 14 of the English Arbitration Act, 1996 were to apply.	None
To sum up, in this case, the question concerns interpretation of transitional provisions that Section 85(2)(a) emphasizes the concept of commencement whereas Section 48 of the 1940 Act emphasized the concept of reference, that Section 85(2)(a) provides for implied repeal that the scheme of 1940 Act is different from the 1996 Act that the word reference in Section 48 of the old Act had different meanings in different contexts and for the said reasons, I am of the view that while interpreting Section 85(2)(a) in the context of the question raised in this appeal, one cannot only rely on Section 21 of 1996 Act.	None
In the light of what is stated above, I now refer to the facts of the present case.	None
The parties entered into an agreement on 7.4.1992 which contained an Arbitration Clause 20, which inter alia stated that in the case of dispute between the parties arising in relation to the contract, the dispute shall be referred to a single Arbitrator, in case both sides agree upon one such Arbitrator and failing such agreement, the dispute shall stand referred to two Arbitrators, one to be appointed by the either party, and in case of disagreement, between the two Arbitrators, the dispute was to be referred to an Umpire to be appointed by the two Arbitrators.	None
Before entering upon the reference under Clause 20 quoted above, all such arbitration proceedings were to be governed by the provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1940 or under any statutory reenactment.	None
This clause is similar to the one considered by this Court in the case of Delhi Transport Corporation Ltd. (supra).	None
On the strength of the agreement dated 7.4.1992, the respondent herein filed title Suit No. 40 of 1995 for injunction and in the said suit, the appellant herein applied for stay under Section 34 of the 1940 Act.	None
Suffice it to state that on 6.5.1997, when the matter came up before the High Court, the parties agreed that all disputes between them may be referred to Arbitrators chosen by the parties as per the agreement.	None
A consent order was accordingly passed on that day by the High Court referring the dispute to the Arbitrators.	None
Therefore, for all practical purposes, the arbitration commenced on 6.5.1997, by which time the 1996 Act had come into force.	None
In the circumstances, I am in agreement with the majority decision of the Arbitrators that the proceedings in the present case would be governed by the provisions of the 1996 Act.	None
For above reasons, I respectfully dissent from the opinion of Sinha, J. Consequently I am of the view that this civil appeal ought to fail and be dismissed with no order as to costs.	None
Civil Appeal Nos. 96739674 of 2003 Now coming to the Civil Appeal Nos. 96739674 of 2003, the facts briefly are as follows.	None
On 6.4.1998, the learned Arbitrators by majority decision took the view that in the present case the arbitration proceedings had commenced on 6.5.1997 when a consent order was passed by the Patna High Court and, therefore, the proceedings were governed by the 1996 Act.	None
Aggrieved, the appellant herein had moved the Single Judge of Delhi High Court.	None
By order dated 13.10.1998, the learned Single Judge of the High Court was pleased to uphold the majority decision dated 6.4.1998.	None
Being aggrieved, the appellant carried the matter in letters patent appeal which was dismissed as not maintainable.	None
Having regard to the provisions of Section 39 of the 1940 Act as interpreted by this Court in the case of Union of India v. Mohindra Supply Company, reported in AIR 1962 SC 256 , second appeal, which included letters patent appeal under Section 39(2), was not maintainable.	None
Accordingly, the Civil Appeal Nos. 96739674 of 2003 fail and are dismissed.	Reasoning
There shall be no order as to costs in all the appeals.	None
ORDER In view of the majority judgment, Civil Appeal No. 9672/2003 is allowed.24.	Decision
Civil Appeal Nos. 96739674/2003 are dismissed.	Reasoning
No costs.	Reasoning
