 P. Misra, J. Leave granted.	None
The question raised in this appeal is drawing attention of this Court since very inception when Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 was enacted and even after the passage of more than 50 years, issue remains in the fertile field of it yielding fresh crops time and again because of wide vaporous definition of the word industry under the said Act.	Issue
We shall be referring about some of these cases in the later part of our judgment.	Facts
This wide definition has given an opportunity to both employer and employee for raising issues, one trying to pull out of this definition, to be out of the clutches of the said Act, other bringing within it, to receive benefit under it.	Facts
Because of width of the periphery of the word industry there is tug of war repeatedly between the two, in spite of various decisions of this Court.	Facts
This situation has led this Court, in Bangalore WaterSupply and Sewerage Board, etc. v. R. Rajappa and others, 1978(3)	Facts
SCR 207 to record with anxiety and suggesting Legislature for bringing a comprehensive Bill to clear the fog.	Facts
It records In view of the difficulty experienced by all of us in defining the true denotation of the term industry and divergence of opinion in regard thereto  as has been the case with this bench also  we think, it is high time that the Legislature steps in with a comprehensive bill to clear up the fog and remove the doubts and set at rest once for all the controversy which crops up from time to time in relation to the meaning of the aforesaid term rendering it necessary for larger Benches of this Court to be constituted which are driven to the necessity of evolving a working formula to cover particular cases.	Facts
This led the Legislature to amend the definition of the word industry in Section 2(j) of the aforesaid Act, through amending Act in 1982 but left the said amendment to be given effect from the date to be notified by the Government.	Facts
Since thereafter with the passage of 18 years in spite of observations of this Court in some cases during this inter magnum, (interregnum ?)	Facts
the said amendment has not seen the light of the day leaving the situation in doldrum for the Courts to continue to give its shape.	Facts
Interlinked with it is also the word sovereign which is equally fluid as the word industry.	Facts
The word sovereign changes its complexion with the type of sovereignty a country is structured also with the change of political structure in view of changing sociocultural heritage of any country.	Facts
So defining what is sovereign, the Courts not only of this country but other countries as well have been battling to comprehend it since 19th century.	Facts
This has gained importance in the industrial law as what constitute to be a sovereign function excludes within its ambit industry hence industrial law would have no application over it.	Facts
The question raised in this Appeal is Whether the appellant, an Agricultural Produce Market Committee (hereinafter referred to as the Market Committee), established under the Karnataka Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act, 1966 (hereinafter referred to as the State Act) is an industry as contemplated under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as the Central Act) ?	Issue
If yes, will not employee under the State Act would be governed by the Central Act ?(b) Will not the State Act override the Central Act for the reason, the State Act received the assent of the President of India, hence the Central Act would be inapplicable to the employees governed by the State Act ?	Issue
To properly appreciate the controversy, it is necessary to give short essential matrix of facts.	None
The appellant is an Agricultural Produce Market Committee established under the State Act.	None
It regulates the marketing of agricultural produce for the benefit of the agriculturist.	None
This market committee is not intended to make any profit and the whole object is only to regulate the agricultural produce both for protecting the interest of agriculturist and interest of public at large.	None
The submission for the appellant is, this committee is not an industry as contemplated under the Central Act.	None
It exercises sovereign function under the Act.	None
It is a body corporate which has perpetual succession and a common seal.	None
The committee has no power either to appoint or regularise the services of its employees which vests with the State Government.	None
Its employees are civil servants and provisions of the Karnataka Civil Service (Conduct) Rules, 1966 and the Karnataka Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957 are applicable.	None
This committee is established under Section 9 of the Act and is subject to the restrictions imposed under it and is competent to contract, to acquire, hold, lease, sell or otherwise transfer any property and do all other things necessary for the purpose for which it is established.	None
Section 58 confers power to appoint Secretary and technical staff to the market committee.	None
It stipulates, every such committee shall have a Government servant as the Secretary and also an Additional Secretary or Assistant Secretary who will also be a Government servant.	None
Under subsection (1) of Section 59 the officers and servants of market committee holding the classes of posts specified in subsections (1), (2) and (3) of Section 58, on the date immediately prior to the date of commencement of that Act, shall, with effect from the date of such commencement become officers and servants of the State Government.	None
Subsection (1A) provides, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the time being in force, officers and servants of the market committee holding such classes of posts on such dates as may be specified by the State Government become officers and servants of the State Government with effect from the date so notified.	None
Subsection (2) confers right on the officers and servants of the market committee after becoming servants of the State Government under subsection (1) or subsection (1A) to have the same tenure, the same remuneration, same terms and conditions of service, with the same rights and privileges as to pension, gratuity, provident fund etc.	None
as they would have received the same under the market committee concerned and shall continue to receive so until their remuneration, terms and conditions of service including the privileges are altered by rules or other provisions made under Article 309 of the Constitution.	None
Subsection (3) starts with nonobstante clause, notwithstanding anything contained in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 or in any other law for the time being in force or in any contract, in case of transfer of any officer or servant of a market committee by virtue of subsection (1) and (1A) shall not entitle any such officer or such servant to any compensation or payment under that Act or other law or contract.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant strongly relies on this subsection to interpret that the Central Act is excluded from the purview of employees under the State Act.	None
Section 59 of the State Act is reproduced below Absorption of staff of market committees in Government service  (1) Officers and servants of market committees (by whatever came called) holding the classes of posts specified in subsections (1), (2) and (3) of Section 58 on the date immediately prior to the date of commencement of that Act, shall, with effect from the date of such commencement become officers and servants of the State Government.	None
Explanation  The State Government shall determine the designations of the officers and servants of the market committees who shall become officers and servants of the State Government under this subsection.(1A)	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the time being in force, officers and servants of market committees holding such classes of posts on such dates as may be specified by the State Government shall, with effect from such date become officers and servants of the State Government and they shall draw their salary and allowances from the Consolidated Fund of the State.(2)	None
The officers and servants of market committees who become officers and servants of the State Government under subsection (1) or subsection (1A) shall hold their office by the same tenure, at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions of service and with the same rights and privileges as to pension, gratuity, provident fund and such matters as they would have held the same under the market committee concerned and shall continue to do so until their remuneration, terms and conditions of service including the privileges as to pension, provident fund and gratuity are altered by rules or other provisions made under the Karnataka State Civil Services Act, 1978, and any such alteration shall have effect, notwithstanding anything contained in any contract or law for the time being in force.(3)	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Central Act 14 of 1947), or in any other law for the time being in force or in any contract the transfer of the services of any officer or servant of a market committee by virtue of subsection (1) or subsection (1A) shall not entitle any such officer or servant to any compensation or payment under that Act or other law or contract, and no such claim shall be entertained by any Court, tribunal or other authority.	None
Section 61 refers to the appointment of other staff, other than those who falls under Section 58.	None
Section 62 refers to the Karnataka State Marketing Service.	None
The State Government is empowered to constitute any class of officers or servants to bring it into marketing service to be designated as the Karnataka State Marketing Service through issue of notification.	None
Under its proviso, the State Government could carve out and constitute the officers and servants falling under subsection (1A) of Section 59 into a separate service for the State to be designated as Karnataka State Market Committee Services.	None
Under subsection (2) the State Government could amalgamate both the Karnataka State Marketing Service and the Karnataka State Market Committee Services into one single service.8.	None
The submission for the appellant is that market committee is not conferred with the power of appointment, though under Section 61(3) it could create temporary posts and appoint temporary employees for not more than 180 days with the prior approval of the Director of Agricultural Marketing.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the appellants, Mr. Chandrasekhar has taken us to the various provisions of the Act, namely, Sections 9(3), 58, 59, 63, 65, 66, 67, 72, 73 and 83 of the State Act to show that the scheme of the Act is to provide for the better regulation of marketing of agricultural produce and establishment and control of market for agricultural produce within the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
He emphasises, these provisions indicate that the function of the market committee is sovereign in nature hence it could not constitute to be an industry to make its employees as workmen under the Central Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 9(3) confers status on every market committee to be a local authority.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 61 deals with appointments from among the officers and servants of the Karnataka State Market Committee Service or Karnataka State Market Service other officers, servants of a market committee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 63 deals with the powers and duties of the market committee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 65 authorises the market committee to levy market fees.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 66 empowers any officers or servant of the State Government to require any person carrying on business of agricultural produce to produce before him the accounts, other documents, furnish any information relating to the stock of such agricultural produce, or purchases, sales, deliveries of such produce and is also empowered to seize the accounts, register or documents.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 67 authorises such authorities to stop any vehicle, vessel or other conveyance which is shown to be taking out of the market committee or moving in the market area for examining the contents in the vehicle, vessel or other conveyance.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 69 confers power to acquire the land and hold it.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 71 confers right on the market committee to issue licence for the regulation of trading under Section 72 and Section 73 confers right on such authority to cancel or suspend such licence.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 83 deals with the production of account books etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
The question raised is that these functions are sovereign in nature.	Arguments of Petitioner
Seven persons serving under the market committee raised dispute, following termination of their services before the Labour Court.	None
First is Shri A.G. Harakuni, who was appointed as an Assistant Engineer on 3rd March, 1987 on daily wage for looking after the construction work and he worked as such till 16th May, 1989 when his services were terminated.	None
Next is Shri G. Nagaraj, who was appointed on 27th April, 1978 as a market fee collector on temporary basis and his services were terminated on 31st March, 1982.	None
Third is Shri Shivakumar, who was appointed as maistry on 25th November, 1981 on daily wages though he was paid salary once in a month and his services were terminated on 31st October, 1986.	None
Next is Shri Nirvanappa.	None
He was appointed as a peon on 18th March, 1964 whose appointment was approved on 26th March, 1969.	None
His service was terminated on 3rd August, 1971.	None
Next is Umesh Hegde.	None
He was appointed as work inspector on daily wages vide appointment order dated 28th December, 1984 and his service was terminated on 3rd April, 1987.	None
Next is Siddappa Rudrappa Chickamani who was appointed as watchman on 8th April, 1982 and his service was terminated on 13th September, 1989 and finally Shri M.M. Satyannavar.	None
He was appointed as an Assistant Engineer on 25th May, 1984 on daily wage basis for looking after development work and his service was terminated on 15th May, 1989.	None
Each of these seven persons are respondents in this case.	None
The Labour Court allowed their applications by setting aside their order of termination and directed their reinstatement.	None
The appellant aggrieved filed writ petition challenging these orders, among other grounds, one is challenge to the jurisdiction of the Labour Court to try the cases of these seven respondents as the appellant is not an industry within the meaning of the Central Act, hence the Labour Courts have no jurisdiction to try their claims.	None
Learned single Judge of the High Court dismissed the writ petition, holding that the appellantmarket committee is an industry and hence Labour Courts, have the jurisdiction to decide their cases.	None
Feeling aggrieved the appellants preferred writ appeal and the Division Bench similarly dismissed the same upholding that appellantcommittee is an industry within the meaning of the Central Act.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant challenges these concurrent findings by submitting that functions of the appellant committee being sovereign in nature and inalienable in character cannot be construed an industry.	None
The power of appointment of the various employees under the Act is only with the State Government, only limited power vests on the appellatecommittee, to appoint person temporarily for a period not exceeding 180 days.	None
Under Section 61(3) such person cannot get any lien over any post.	None
He has no right to seek regularisation.	None
Once a person is appointed under the State Act his services would not be governed by the Central Act.	None
The claimants being appointed under the State Act which received assent of the President of India on 19th August, 1966 it will prevail over the Central Act.	None
The functions of market committee are for the regulation of trade in notified agricultural produces in order to safeguard the interest of the agriculturist and public at large.	None
This was to ensure legitimate price of the agricultural produce to be sold in the market area.	None
This committee is not constituted for making any profit but only to serve the cause of the agriculturist so that they may receive fair price of their produce.	None
The submission is, persons appointed to work under this market committee are government servants, and they are appointed in accordance with the cadre and their wages are paid out of the consolidated fund.	None
The temporary employees appointed by the market committee are paid salaries out of the fund known as market fund.	None
Hence there is no relationship of employer and employee of those serving under it.	None
It may be stated here, in the present case the subject matter relates only of those employees who were temporarily appointed and have yet not become government servant.	None
Another submission is that the High Court erred in not bringing the market committee within the exception clause referred in the decision of Bangalore WaterSupply case (supra).	None
7?3 11.	None
On the other hand, learned counsel Shri Ravindra Bhat appearing on behalf of the respondents, submits that in view of the decisions of this Court, especially with reference to Bangalore WaterSupply case (supra), the market committed is an industry within the meaning of the Central Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The submission is, only strictly sovereign functions as held in Bangalore WaterSupply case (supra) which is explained in Chief Conservator of Forests and another v. Jagannath Maruti Kondhare and others, 1996(2) SCC 293 1996(2) SCT 165(SC), could be exempted from the provisions of the Central Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, neither all governmental functions could be construed to be sovereign nor all statutory services could either be termed as sovereign or to exclude it from the purview of the Central Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The main thrust of submission for either side is, one trying to bring the functions of the appellantcommittee within sovereign functions and the other stretching it out of it.	None
The submission for the appellant is the power of the government and functions of the committee, namely, notifying the intention of the government to regulate the marketing of specified agricultural produce within specified area under Section 3, declaration of market area under Section 4, establishment of market under Section 7, payment of Secretary and technical staff under Section 58, absorption of staff of market committee in government services under Section 59, appointment of other staff under Section 61, levy of market fees under Section 65, grant of licence under Section 72, denotification of market area under Section 143, and amalgamation of market committees under Section 144 are all sovereign in nature and hence it could not be construed to be an industry.	Issue
On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent submits sovereign functions are restricted to legislative, maintenance of law and order, administration of law and legal system.	None
Hence, other functions, to which the appellant case falls, cannot be construed to be a sovereign function.	None
We now proceed to consider as to what would be the test to find an enterprise to be an industry.	None
As we have said, the matter has been under consideration by various Courts in various parts of this country, including this Court.	None
Some of which we are proceeding to refer hereunder.	None
In The Corporation of the City of Nagpur v. Its Employees, 1960(2)	None
SCR 942 the question raised was, whether and to what extent the municipal activities of the Corporation of Nagpur City fell within the term industry as defined by Section 2(14) of the C.P. and Berar Industrial Disputes Settlement Act, 1947.	None
Applying the decision of this Court in D.N. Banerji v. P.R. Mukherjee and others, 1953 SCR 302 , this Court held It is not necessary that an activity of the Corporation must share the common characteristics of an industry before it can come within the Section.	None
The words of Section 2(14) of the Act are clear and unambiguous and the maxim noscitur a socii can have no application.	None
The history of industrial disputes and the legislation, however, recognises the basic concept that the activity must be an organised one and not one that pertains to private or personal employment.	None
With reference to State of Bombay and others v. The Hospital Mazdoor Sabha and others, 1960(2)	None
SCR 866, this Court held But the definition, however wide, cannot include the regal primary and inalienable functions of the State, though statutory delegated to a Corporation and the ambit of such functions cannot be extended so as to include the activities of a modern State and must be confined to legislative power, administration of law and judicial power.	None
This case further records Before considering the positive aspects of the definition, what is not an industry may be considered.	None
However wide the definition of industry may be, it cannot the regal or sovereign functions of State.	None
This is the agreed basis of the arguments at the Bar, though the learned counsel differed on the ambit of such functions.	None
While the learned counsel for the Corporation would like to enlarge the scope of these functions so as to comprehend all the welfare activities of a modern State, the learned counsel for the respondents would seek to confine them to what are aptly termed the primary and inalienable functions of a constitutional governmentLord Watson, in Coomber v. Justices of Berks, describes the functions such as administration of justice, maintenance of order and repression of crime, as among the primary and inalienable functions of a constitutional Government.	None
Isaacs, J. in his dissenting judgment in The Federated State School Teachers Association of Australia v. The State of Victoria, concisely states thus at P. 585 Regal functions are inescapable and inalienable.	None
Such are the legislative power, the administration of laws, the exercise of the judicial power.	None
Nonregal functions may be assumed by means of the legislative power.	None
But when they are assumed the State acts simply as a huge corporation, with its legislation as the charter.	None
Its action under the legislation, so far as it is not regal execution of the law is merely analogous to what of a private company similarly authorised.	None
Supreme Court of America in Verisimo Vasquez Vilas v. City of Manila expounded the dual character of a municipal corporation thus They exercise powers which are governmental and powers which are of a private or business character.	None
In the one character a municipal corporation is a governmental subdivision, and for that purpose exercises by delegation a part of the sovereignty of the State.	None
In the other character it is a mere legal entity or juristic person.	None
In the latter character it stands for the community in the administration of local affairs wholly beyond the sphere of the public purposes for which its governmental powers are conferred.	None
Isaacs and Rich, JJ., in The Federated Municipal and Shire Council Employees Union of Australia v. Melbourne Corporation in the context of the dual functions of State say much to the same effect at P. 530 Here we have the discrimen of Crown exemption.	None
If a municipality either (1) is legally empowered to perform and does perform any function whatever for the Crown, or (2) is lawfully empowered to perform and does perform any functions which constitutionally is inalienable a Crown function  as, for instance, the administration of justice  the municipality is in law presumed to represent the Crown, and the exemption applies.	None
Otherwise, it is outside that exemption, and, if impliedly exempted at all, some other principle must be resorted to.	None
The making and maintenance of streets in the municipality is not within either proposition.	None
A corporation may, therefore, discharge a dual function it may be statutorily entrusted with regal functions strictly socalled, such as making of laws, disposal of certain cases judicially etc., and also with other welfare activities.	None
The former, being delegated regal functions, must be excluded from the ambit of the definition of industry.	None
Finally the definition of industry is summarised The result of the discussion may be summarised thus (1) The definition of industry in the Act is very comprehensive.	None
It is in two parts one part defines it from the standpoint of the employer and the other from the standpoint of the employee.	None
If an activity falls under either part of the definition, it will be an industry within the meaning of the Act.	None
(2) The history of industrial disputes and the legislation recognizes the basic concept that the activity shall be an organized one and not that which pertains to private or personal employment.	None
(3) The regal functions described as primary and inalienable functions of State though statutorily delegated to a corporation are necessarily excluded from the purview of the definition.	None
Such regal functions shall be confined to legislative power, administration of law and judicial power.	None
(4) If a service rendered by an individual or a private person would be an industry, it would equally be an industry in the hands of a corporation.	None
(5) If a service rendered by a corporation is an industry, the employees in the departments connected with that service, whether financial, administrative or executive, would be entitled to the benefits of the Act.	None
(6) If a department of a municipality discharges many functions, some pertaining to industry as defined in the Act and other nonindustrial activities, the predominant functions of the department shall be the criterion for the purposes of the Act.	None
Within this premises this Court considered various departments of the corporation as to whether employees of such department would be covered by the Central Act.	None
This Court holds various departments of the corporation including tax department, assessment department, marketing department to be an industry.	None
This Court in Bangalore WaterSupply and Sewerage Board etc. v. R. Rajappa and others, 1978(3)	Facts
SCR 207 (Constitution Bench), considered the definition of industry as defined under Section 2(j) of the Central Act.	None
This Court held Although we are not concerned in this case with those categories of employees who particularly come under departments charged with the responsibility for essential constitutional functions of government, it is appropriate to state that if there are industrial units severable from the essential functions and possess an entity of their own it may be plausible to hold that the employees of those units are workmen and those undertakings are industries.	None
A blanket exclusion of every one of the host of employees engaged by government in departments falling under general rubrics like, justice, defence, taxation, legislature, may not necessarily be thrown out of the umbrella of the Act.	None
We say no more except to observe that closer exploration, not summary rejection, is necessary.	None
This decision also records Corporation of Nagpur City case (supra) as to how in that case various departments of the corporation were held to be an industry.	None
This Court considered the submission, as in the present case that functions of the various department are only out of statutory sanction and no private individual can discharge those statutory functions.	None
Corporation of Nagpur City case (supra) considered this aspect and records to the following effect It is said that the functions of this department are statutory and no private individual can discharge those statutory functions.	None
The question is not whether the discharge of certain functions by Corporation have statutory backing, but whether those functions can equally be performed by private individuals.	None
Strong reliance is placed by learned counsel for the appellant to the following observations of this Court in Bangalore WaterSupply case (supra) which is an exception which excludes it from the operation of the Central Act In any case, it is open to Parliament to make law which governs the States relations with its employees.	None
Articles 309 to 311 of the Constitution of India, the enactments dealing with the Defence Forces and other legislation dealing with the employment under statutory bodies may, expressly or by necessary implication, exclude the operation of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.	None
The submission is, this observation excludes implicitly services under the statutory bodies from the operation of the Industrial Disputes Act.	None
This submission is misconceived.	None
This observation merely records what Parliament can make law in relation to the employees of statutory bodies etc.	None
In other words, if it so desires may exclude the employees of any statutory bodies expressly or by necessary implication from the purview of Industrial Disputes Act.	None
This decision doesnt carve out any exception to exclude employees of all the statutory bodies.	None
It merely indicates power of the Parliament, to place any class of employees outside the purview of the Central Act.	None
The question is, whether there is any such provision under the State Act or the Central Act, which excludes these employees from the operation of the Central Act.	None
In fact, Section 2(a) of the Central Act itself reveals large number of statutory corporations falling within the rubric of industry.	None
In relation to what are sovereign and what are nonsovereign functions, this Court in Chief Conservator of Forests and another v. Jagannath Maruti Kondhare and others, 1996(2) SCC 293, holds We may not go by the labels.	None
Let us reach the hub.	None
And the same is that the dichotomy of sovereign and nonsovereign functions doesnt really exist  it would all depend on the nature of the power and manner of its exercise, as observed in para 23 of Nagendra Rao case.	None
As per the decision in this case, one of the tests to determine whether the executive function is sovereign in nature is to find out whether the State is answerable for such action in Courts of law.	None
It was stated by Sahai, J. that acts like defence of the country, raising armed forces and maintaining it, making peace or war, foreign affairs, power to acquire and retain territory, are functions which are indicative of external sovereignty and are political in nature.	None
They are, therefore, not amenable to the jurisdiction of ordinary civil Court inasmuch as the State is immune from being sued in such matters.	None
But then, according to this decision the immunity ends there.	None
It was then observed that in a welfare State, functions of the State are not only the defence of the country or administration of justice or maintaining law and order but extend to regulating and controlling the activities of people in almost every sphere, educational, commercial, social, economic, political and even martial.	None
Because of this the demarcating line between sovereign and nonsovereign powers has largely disappeared.	None
The aforesaid shows that if we were to extend the concept of sovereign function to include all welfare activities as contended on behalf of the appellants, the ratio in Bangalore Water Supply case would get eroded, and substantially.	None
We would demur to do so on the face of what was stated in the aforesaid case according to which except the strictly understood sovereign function, welfare activities of the State would come within the purview of the definition of industry and not only this, even within the wider circle of sovereign function, there may be an inner circle encompassing some units which could be considered as industry if substantially severable.	None
In other words, it all depends on the nature of power and the manner of its exercise.	Reasoning
What is approved to be Sovereign is defence of the country, raising armed forces, making peace or war, foreign affairs, power to acquire and retain territory.	Reasoning
These are not amenable to the jurisdiction of ordinary civil Courts.	Reasoning
The other functions of the State including welfare activity of State could not be construed as sovereign exercise of power.	Reasoning
Hence, every governmental function need not be sovereign.	Reasoning
State activities are multifarious.	Reasoning
From the primal sovereign power, which exclusively inalienably could be exercised by the Sovereign alone, which is not subject to challenge in any civil Court to all the welfare activities, which would be undertaken by any private person.	Reasoning
So merely one is employee of statutory bodies would not take it outside the Central Act.	Reasoning
If that be then Section 2(a) of the Central Act read with Schedule I gives large number of statutory bodies should have been excluded, which is not.	Reasoning
Even if a statute confers on any statutory body, any function which would be construed to be sovereign in nature would not mean every other functions under the same statute to be also sovereign.	Reasoning
The Court should examine the statute to severe (sever ?)	Reasoning
one from the other by comprehensively examining various provisions of that statute.	Reasoning
In interpreting any statute to find it is industry or not we have to find its pith and substance.	Reasoning
The Central Act is enacted to maintain harmony between employer and employee which brings peace and amity in its functioning.	Reasoning
This peace and amity should be the objective in the functioning of all enterprises.	Reasoning
This is to the benefit of both, employer and employee.	Reasoning
Misuse of rights and obligations by either or stretching it beyond permissible limits have to be dealt with within the framework of the law but endeavour should not be in all circumstances to exclude any enterprise from its ambit.	Reasoning
That is why Courts have been defining industry in the widest permissible limits and sovereign functioning within its limited orbit.	Reasoning
In N. Negendra Rao and Co. v. State of A.P., 1994(6) SCC 205, the question raised was about the liability of the State to pay compensation for the negligence or misfeasance on the part of its officers in discharge of their public duties under a statute, which are incidental or ancillary and not primary or inalienable function of the State.	None
This decision holds that the State is immuned only in cases where its officers perform primary or inalienable functions such as defence of the country, administration of justice, maintenance of law and order.	None
This Court held A search or seizure effected under such law could be taken to be an exercise of power which may be in domain of inalienable function.	None
Whether the authority to whom this power is delegated is liable for negligence in discharge of duties while performing such functions is a different matter.	None
But when similar powers are conferred under other statute as incidental or ancillary power to carry out the purpose and objective of the Act, then it being an exercise of such State function which is not primary or inalienable, an officer acting negligently is liable personally and the State vicariously.	None
In the modern sense the distinction between sovereign or nonsovereign power thus does not exist.	None
It all depends on the nature of power and manner of its exerciseOne of the tests to determine if the legislative or executive function is sovereign in nature is whether the State is answerable for such actions in Courts of law.	None
For instance, acts such as defence of the country, raising armed forces and maintaining it, making peace or war, foreign affairs, power to acquire and retain territory, are functions which are indicative of external sovereignty and are political in nature.	None
Therefore, they are not amenable to jurisdiction of ordinary civil Court.	Reasoning
With reference to irrigation department of the State of Punjab this Court considered the question whether it is an industry within the meaning of Section 2(j) of the Central Act.	None
The function of this department is for the development of agriculture.	None
It undertakes harness of the surface and ground water resources of the State, the equitable distribution.	None
It involves construction of major, medium and minor irrigation projects, maintenance of network of channels, regulation of canal supplies, enforcement of water laws etc.	None
It is also responsible to provide protection to the valuable irrigated lands and public property from flooding, river action and waterlogging.	None
This requires construction of flood protection, river training, drainage and antiwaterlogging works and their maintenance.	None
Its functions includes plan for irrigation development in the State.	None
Each of these functions overall are inherently of the State.	None
With reference to this irrigation department in Des Raj and others v. State of Punjab and others, 1988(2) SCC 537 this Court held  With regard to the activities of the irrigation department and as also the tests laid down in various decisions of this Court particularly applying the Dominant Nature test in Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board case (supra), it was held to be an industry.	None
In this background we may proceed to examine the present State Act.	None
The preamble of this Act records An Act to provide for the better regulation of marketing and agricultural produce and the establishment and administration of markets for agricultural produce in the State of Karnataka.	None
We may also usefully produce the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the State Act STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS Among other things, provision is made in this Bill for  defining agricultural produce to include all produce of agriculture, animal husbandry, apiculture, horticulture, forest produce and any other produce, livestock and poultry(ii) notifying the intention of Government to regulate the purchase and sale of agricultural produce in specified area and declaration of market area and of market yard(iii)	None
Establishment of market committees for trading in specified kinds of agricultural produce and also separate market committees within the same market area for trading in any particular kind of agricultural produce(iv) representation on the market committee to purchasers of agricultural produce	None
, representatives of the purchasers cooperative societies, representatives of cooperative marketing and processing societies, municipalities, taluk boards and the Central Warehousing Corporation or State Warehousing Corporation(v) levy and collection of market fees by the market committee(vi) constitution of market committee funds and Central Market Fund(vii) conferring borrowing powers on market committee(viii) appointment of Government servants as Secretaries, Assistant Secretaries, Technical Accounts and Audit Staff of market committees to ensure efficient administration and control of markets(ix) inquiry or inspection by the Chief Marketing Officer(x) supersession of market committee for failure to perform duties.	None
The aforesaid preamble and Statement of Objects and Reasons clearly disclose the sphere of this Act to be for the regulation of marketing of agricultural produce, establishment of market committee for controlling, trading in specified kind of agricultural produce.	None
It provides for levying of market fees by the market committee.	None
It confers power on the market committee to borrow money.	None
The appointment of Government servants as Secretaries, Assistant Secretaries, Technical Accounts and Audit Staff is to ensure efficient administration and control of markets.	None
In order to strengthen the said objectives Chapter II deals with the establishment of markets, Chapter III with constitution of market committees including provisions for election of its members.	None
The constitution of the committee under Section 11 consists of 11 members out of which one has to be a woman, two persons belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes elected by the agriculturists in the market area, one member to be person other than retail traders, one member to be a representative of cooperative marketing society carrying on business in notified agricultural produce, one member to be representative of agricultural cooperative processing society, one to be an officer not below the rank of Secretary of the concerned market committee nominated by the Director of Agricultural Marketing who has no right to vote and three members to be nominated by the State Government who have right to vote.	None
Chapter IV deals with conduct of business of the market committee, Chapter V refers to staff of the market committee, Chapter VI deals with the powers and duties of market committee.	None
It indicates it is for regulating the trading of agriculture produce within the market area, Chapter VII directly deals with regulation of trading which includes grant of licences, power to cancel and suspend it, Chapter VIII pertains to market fund, Chapter IX refers to special commodities market, Chapter X deals with Mandal Panchayats as agents of market committee, Chapter XI deals with establishment of independent markets and market committees for special commodities.	None
Chapter XII is about penalties, Chapter XIII controls the functioning of the various officers and members including that of market committee and Chapter XIV is miscellaneous which includes provisions for recovering of sums due to the market committee or board etc.	None
After scanning the whole Act and perusing the preamble and Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Act, it reveals that this Act deals with various facets of regulating activities within the market area with respect to the trading in agricultural produce.	None
It includes establishment of various committees including charging of fees for service rendered to the traders of agricultural producers.	None
Any enactment, scheme or project which sponsors helps in the trading activity is one of the States essential functions towards welfare activities for the benefit of its subject.	None
Such activities can be undertaken even by any nongovernmental organisation or a private person, corporate or company.	None
In fact, prior to the abolition of Zamindari, the Hats and Bazars (Markets) held on Zamindars (Landowner) land, the Zamindar used to charge fees for rendering service for holding such market, by providing land and facilities to the participants of such market.	None
By this it helped producers, sellers and public at large through such trading.	None
This is similar, in a nature and form to what is being done now under the State Act through statutory functionaries.	None
Thus none of these functions could be construed to be sovereign in nature or inalienable in character.	None
It is true various functionaries under this Act are creature of statute.	None
But creation as such, by itself, cannot confer on it the status of performing inalienable functions of the State.	None
The main controlling functions and power is conferred on the market committee whose constitution itself reveals, except one or two rest are all are elected members representing some on other class from the public.	None
In fact, all governmental functions cannot be construed either primary or inalienable sovereign function.	None
Hence even if some of the functionaries under the State Act could be said to be performing sovereign functions of the State Government that by itself would not make the dominant objects to be sovereign in nature or take the aforesaid Act out of the purview of the Central Act.	None
Thus merely an enterprise being statutory corporation, creature under a statute, would not take it outside the ambit of industry as defined under the Central Act.	Reasoning
We do not find the present case falling under any exception laid down in the Bangalore Sewerage Board case (supra).	Reasoning
The mere fact that some employees of the appellant are government servants would make no difference as the true test to find  has to be gathered from the dominant object for which functionaries are working.	Reasoning
It cannot be doubted that the appellant is an undertaking performing its duties in a systematic and organised manner, regulating the marketing and trading of agricultural produce, rendering services to the community.	Reasoning
In the present case, as we have recorded earlier, we are concerned only with those employees who are not government servants.	Reasoning
Testing the dominant object as laid down in Bangalore Sewerage Board case (supra), we reach to inescapable conclusion that none of the activities of the Agriculture Produce Market Committee could be construed to be sovereign in nature.	Reasoning
Hence we have no hesitation to hold that this corporation falls within the definition of industry under Section 2(j) of the Central Act.29.	Reasoning
Section 2(a) of the Central Act defines Appropriate Government in relation to any industrial disputes concerning any industry carried on by or under the authority of Central Government, or railway company etc. and refers to large number of corporations and corporate bodies which falls in the category of industry.	Reasoning
This indicates even Legislatures intends a very large arms of industry, to include large number of enterprises to be industry to confer benefit to the employees working under it.	Reasoning
In fact, several corporations conferred with statutory powers also curtails individual rights like, through levy of demurrages, detention charges in the warehousing corporation under the Warehouse Corporation Act Regulation of entry into airport, ATC, levy and regulation of taxes and fees by the international airport authority.	Reasoning
Assessment and levy of damages as well as penalties by authorities under the Employees State Insurance Act and Employees Provident Fund Act.	Reasoning
Though each of the aforesaid corporations and statutory bodies are industry.	Reasoning
So one of the feeble submissions that curtailment of right of an individual could only be by the exercise of sovereign power has also no merit.	Reasoning
From the aforesaid catena of authorities, inalienability is one of the basic character of sovereignty.	None
The Encyclopedia of the American Constitution with reference to sovereignty attempts to define sovereignty.	None
It records Within the American regime the ultimate power and authority to alter or abolish the constitutions of government of State and Union resides only and inalienably with the people.	None
If it be necessary or useful to use the term sovereignty in the sense of ultimate political power, then there is no sovereign in America but the people.	None
Dennis J. Mahoney 7?3 Words and Phrases, Permanent Edition, Volume 39A with reference to sovereign power records The sovereign powers of a Government include all the powers necessary to accomplish its legitimate ends and purposes.	None
Such powers must exist in all practical governments.	None
They are the incidents of sovereignty, of which a State cannot devest itself.	None
Boggs v. Meree Min. Co., 14 Cal. 279, 309In all governments of constitutional limitations sovereign power manifests itself in but three ways.	None
By exercising the right of taxation by the right of eminent domain and through its police power.	None
United States v. DouglasWillan Sartoris Co., 22 p. 92, 96, 3 Wyo. 287.	None
So, sovereign function in the new sense may have very wide ramification but essentially sovereign functions are primary inalienable functions which only State could exercise.	Reasoning
Thus, various functions of the State, may be ramifications of sovereignty but they all cannot be construed as primary inalienable functions.	Reasoning
Broadly it is taxation, eminent domain and police power which covers its field.	Reasoning
It may cover its legislative functions, administration of law, eminent domain, maintenance of law and order, internal and external security, grant of pardon.	Reasoning
So, the dichotomy between sovereign and nonsovereign function could be found by finding which of the functions of the State could be undertaken by any private person or body.	Reasoning
The one which could be undertaken cannot be sovereign function.	Reasoning
In a given case even in subject on which the State has the monopoly may also be nonsovereign in nature.	Reasoning
Mere dealing in subject of monopoly of the State would not make any such enterprise sovereign in nature.	Reasoning
Absence of profit making or mere quid pro would also make such enterprise to be outside the ambit of industry as also in State of Bombay and others case (supra).33.	Reasoning
The last submission for the appellant is with reference to subsection (3) of Section 59 of the said Act.	Reasoning
The submission is, this excludes the application of the Central Act to the employees under the State Act.	Reasoning
The reliance is placed on the following opening words of this subsection (3) namely Notwithstanding anything contained in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.	None
On the contrary this indicates that exclusion of the Central Act is limited to the sphere as specified under this subsection, namely, payment of compensation to the officers or servants of the transferred employees.	Decision
Thus by necessary implication, other field under the Central Act is made applicable.	Decision
Hence this submission has no merit.	None
In view of the aforesaid settled legal principle the width of industry being of widest amplitude and testing it in the present case, in view of the preamble, Objects and Reasons and the scheme of the Act, the predominant object clearly being regulation and control of trading of agricultural produce, thus appellantcommittee including its functionaries cannot be said to be performing functions which are sovereign in character.	Reasoning
Most of its functions could be undertaken even by private persons.	Reasoning
Thus the appellant would fall within the definition of industry under Section 2(j) of the Central Act.	Reasoning
In view of this, we uphold that respondent employees are workman under the Central Act as held by the Labour Court and confirmed by the High Court.	Reasoning
The Labour Court has dealt with each individual case and came to the conclusion in favour of respondentemployees which has also been confirmed by learned Single Judge and Division Bench of the High Court, which does not call for any interference.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the present appeals have no merit and are dismissed.	None
Costs on the parties.	None
Appeals dismised.	None
