 Appointment of an Arbitrator under the Joint Venture Agreement dated 26th December, 2011 (for short the JVA) by and between the parties has been sought by means of the present application.	Issue
There is no dispute between the parties with regard to the existence of the JVA and or with regard to the fact that disputes and differences over the respective rights and liabilities of the parties under the JVA have surfaced.	Facts
The Arbitration clause under the JVA is in the following terms ARTICLE 30 30.1If any dispute arises between any of the Parties hereto during the subsistence or thereafter, in connection with the validity, interpretation, implementation or alleged material breach of any provision of this JVA or regarding any question, including the question as to whether the termination of this JVA by any Party hereto has been legitimate, the Parties hereto shall endeavour to settle such dispute amicably.	Facts
The attempt to bring about an amicable settlement is considered to have failed as soon as one of the Parties hereto, after reasonable attempts which attempt shall continue for not less than sixty (60) days, given fifteen (15) days notice thereof to the other Party in writing.	Facts
30.2In case of such failure, the dispute shall be referred to sole arbitrator to be mutually agreed upon by the Parties.	None
In case the Parties are not able to arrive at such an arbitrator, the arbitrator shall be appointed in accordance with the rules of arbitration of the Singapore Chamber of Commerce.	Facts
30.3The arbitration proceedings shall be held at Singapore.	Arguments of Petitioner
The arbitration proceeding s shall be in English language.	Facts
The award shall be substantiated in writing.	Facts
The court of arbitration shall also decide on the costs of the arbitration proceedings.	Facts
The award shall be binding on the disputing Parties subject to applicable laws and the award shall be enforceable in any competent court of law.	Facts
The provisions of this clause shall survive the termination of this JVA for any reason whatsoever.	None
30.4Each of the Parties agree and acknowledge that damages would be inadequate to compensate for the breach of this JVA by either Party, and each Party shall be entitled to equitable relief by way of interim injunction or specific performance by recourse to courts judicial forum with appropriate jurisdiction.	Facts
ARTICLE 31 GOVERNING LAW 31.1This JVA shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of India.	None
There are certain facts and events which have occurred during the pendency of the present proceeding which must immediately be taken note of.	None
The parties are not in dispute that the Singapore Chamber of Commerce mentioned in clause 30.2 of the JVA is not an Arbitration Institution having any Rules for appointment of Arbitrators.	Facts
However, construing the said reference to the Singapore Chamber of Commerce to be one to the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC for short), the first respondent, invoking the arbitration clause, had moved the said Authority i.e. SIAC for appointment of an Arbitrator.	Facts
This was so done on 5th September, 2014.	Facts
A copy of the said notice intimation was received by the petitioner on 11th September, 2014.	Facts
Thereafter, the petitioner had instituted the present proceeding on 15th September, 2014.	Facts
In the meantime, the SIAC, exercising its powers under Section 8(2) read with Section 8(3) of the Singapore International Arbitration Act (Cap. 143A) (for short the IAA), had appointed one Mr. Steven Y.H. Lim as the sole Arbitrator.	Facts
In a preliminary meeting between the parties and the learned sole Arbitrator held on 30th October, 2014, it was indicated by the petitioner that it would be challenging the jurisdiction of the sole Arbitrator appointed by the SIAC.	Facts
Accordingly, on directions of the learned sole Arbitrator, there has been an exchange of written submissions on the issue of jurisdiction.	Facts
A hearing on the question of jurisdiction was also held in Singapore on 18th November, 2014.	Facts
Thereafter, by a partial award, dated 27th November, 2014, the sole Arbitrator had ruled that the appointment made by the SIAC under the IAA is valid as the parties have expressly agreed that Singapore would be the seat of Arbitration.	Facts
5.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the petitioner, it is contended that under clause 31.1, the rights of the parties under the JVA is to be governed by the laws of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, in the absence of any contrary intention, even the arbitration agreement will be governed by Indian Law i.e. the Act of 1996.	Arguments of Petitioner
Clause 30.3 by which the parties had agreed that arbitration proceedings shall be held at Singapore has to be consequently construed to mean that the seat of Arbitration continues to be India and Singapore is only the venue of the hearings to be conducted in the Arbitration proceedings.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the said basis, it is contended that the present application under Section 11(6) of the Act would justify appropriate orders from the Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also argued that the parties to the JVA have not excluded the application of Part I of the Act of 1996.	Arguments of Petitioner
The JVA has been signed earlier to the decision of this Court in Bharat Aluminium Company vs. Kaiser Aluminium Technical Services Inc. (2012) 9 SCC 552 .	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the procedural law governing the conduct of the arbitration would be the law prevailing in India.	Arguments of Petitioner
6.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is alternatively submitted that even assuming that the seat of Arbitration is Singapore, as the rights of the parties are to be governed by the Indian Law, it is only the curial law of Singapore that would apply to regulate the proceedings after the appointment of the Arbitrator is made and till the passing of the Award.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference in this regard is made to Sumitomo Heavy Industries Ltd. vs. ONGC Ltd. and others (1998) 1 SCC 305 On the aforesaid basis, it is claimed that the appointment of the sole Arbitrator by the SIAC is without jurisdiction and this Court ought to proceed to exercise its powers under Section 11(6) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
In reply, the respondents submit that clause 30.3 of the JVA makes it, ex facie, clear that the parties have agreed that the seat of Arbitration would be Singapore.	Arguments of Respondent
Though the substantive Law that would govern the rights of the parties under the JVA would be the Indian Law so far as the appointment of Arbitrator is concerned, it is the agreed terms (clause 30.2) which will prevail.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that on a reasonable understanding of clause 30.2, the request of the respondents to the SIAC for appointment of a sole Arbitrator and the appointment made does not suffer from any infirmity.	Arguments of Respondent
It is claimed that the Singapore Chamber of Commerce, not being an Arbitration Institution, the real intention of the parties in clause 30.2 was to approach the SIAC for appointment of an Arbitrator in the event of the failure of a mutual agreement on this score.	Arguments of Respondent
This has been so done by the respondents.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the respondents has also taken the Court to the past history of the dispute between the parties commencing with the grant of interim measures by the Civil Court at Coimbatore under Section 9 of the Act and the failure on the part of the petitioner to agree to the appointment of a retired judge of the Supreme Court of India as the sole Arbitrator.	Arguments of Respondent
The said facts have been pointed out in support of the contention that the petitioner has dragged its feet in the matter so as to gain maximum advantage of the interim order granted in its favour by the Civil Court at Coimbatore.	Arguments of Respondent
Lastly, it is submitted that the Arbitrator having been appointed by the SIAC in accordance with the relevant Arbitration clause in the JVA and the petitioner having submitted to the jurisdiction of the Arbitrator and, in fact, a partial award having been passed by the sole Arbitrator on the issue of jurisdiction, the present is not a fit case for invoking the powers of this Court under Section 11(6) of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
On a consideration of the respective submissions made by the parties and the several precedents cited at the bar, this Court is inclined to hold that clause 30.2, on a reasonable and meaningful construction thereof, would mean that in case the parties are not able to name a sole Arbitrator by mutual agreement, the Arbitrator is to be appointed by the SIAC inasmuch as the entity contemplated in clause 30.2 i.e. Singapore Chamber of Commerce is admittedly not an Arbitration Institution having its own Rules for appointment of Arbitrators.	Reasoning
Given the circumstance, the most reasonable construction of the said clause would be to understand the reference to Singapore Chamber of Commerce as to the SIAC.	Reasoning
From the relevant facts of the case, it is also clear that the respondents at one time had suggested the name of a retired judge of the Supreme Court of India as the sole Arbitrator, which was not agreed to by the petitioner, who in turn, was inclined to nominate another learned judge.	Reasoning
Be that as it may, in such a situation, the respondents by invoking Arbitration clause 30.2 had approached SIAC for appointment of an Arbitrator.	Reasoning
This was on 5th September, 2014 i.e. before the present proceeding was instituted by the petitioner.	Reasoning
Though the notice of the said request was served on the petitioner on 11th September, 2014, no steps were taken by the petitioner to pre empt the appointment of a sole Arbitrator by SIAC.	Reasoning
Mr. Steven Y.H. Lim came to be appointed as the sole Arbitrator by the SIAC on 29th September, 2014.	Reasoning
The petitioner has submitted to the jurisdiction of Mr. Steven Y.H. Lim.	Reasoning
Even if it is held that such participation, being under protest, would not operate as an estoppel, what must be acknowledged is that the appointment of the sole Arbitrator made by SIAC and the partial award on the issue of jurisdiction cannot be questioned and examined in a proceeding under Section 11(6) of the Act which empowers the Chief Justice or his nominee only to appoint an Arbitrator in case the parties fail to do so in accordance with the terms agreed upon by them.	Reasoning
To exercise the said power, in the facts and events that has taken place, would really amount to sitting in appeal over the decision of SIAC in appointing Mr. Lim as well as the partial award dated 27th November, 2014 passed by him acting as the sole Arbitrator.	Reasoning
Such an exercise would be wholly inappropriate in the context of the jurisdiction under Section 11(6) of the Act, a view already expressed by this Court in a recent decision in Antrix Corp. Ltd. vs.	Reasoning
Devas Multimedia P. Ltd. Arbitration Petition NO.20 of 2011 decided on May 10, 2013, reported in (2013) 6 SCR 453.	Reasoning
For the aforesaid reasons, this application under Section 11(6) of the Act has to fail.	Decision
It is, accordingly, dismissed, however, leaving it open to the petitioner to avail of such remedies as may be available to it in law.	Decision
