 Ray, J.1.	None
This is an appeal by special leave against the judgment dated 29 March, 1967 of the High Court of Kerala confirming the decree of the lower appellate Court declaring that the sum of Rs. 1000/ is due to defendants Nos. 10 to 17 as legal representatives of defendant No. 2 on the mortgage mentioned in the plaint and that the plaintiffs having deposited the said sum of Rs. 1000/ on the file of the Court of the Munsif, Cannanore, the defendants Nos. 10 to 17 do surrender quiet and peaceable possession of the property described in the plaint to the plaintiff No. 7 with all documents relating to the property in their possession and further that the defendants Nos.10 to 17 do pay to the plaintiff No. 7 half of the mesne profits from 22 December, 1953 till the date of surrender of possession.2.	Issue
The relevant documents are Ex.	Facts
B6 and Ex. A1.	Facts
Ex.	Facts
B6 is a kanamkuzhikanam.	Facts
Ex.	Facts
A1 is its counterpart.	Facts
They are both dated 1 December, 1941.	Facts
The transaction thereunder is a composite one, a kanam in respect of taks 1 to 3 of item 1 which constitute properties in suit and a kanam kuzhikanam in respect of tak 4 of item 1 and item 2 which are not the subjectmatter of this suit.	Facts
The kanamdars are defendants Nos. 1 and 2.	Facts
In partition under Ex. 3 the rights under Ex.	Facts
B6 have been divided equally between the defendants Nos. 1 and 2 but the properties as such, are not divided.	Facts
The appellants being the legal representatives of defendant No. 2 had thus an undivided moiety in the properties in suit.	Facts
The original plaintiff was an assignee of the jenmi (the land owner) who granted Ex. B6.	Facts
On the death of the original plaintiff, her interest devolved on plaintiffs Nos. 2 to 6 who assigned the same to plaintiff No. 7.	Facts
The suit is for redemption of the kanam on the properties in suit.	Facts
Subsequent to the institution of the suit defendants Nos. 3 to 9 being the legal representatives of defendant No. 1 and being respondents Nos. 7 to 13 in this appeal surrendered their moiety in the suit kanam to plaintiffs Nos. 2 to 6 and thereafter the suit proceeded in regard to the moiety of the kanam that belonged to defendant No. 2 and his legal representatives, namely, the appellants.3.	Facts
The only question in this appeal is whether the appellants are protected against eviction by reason of their contention that Ex.	Issue
B6 created a tenancy or whether the respondents were entitled to possession of the properties, by reason of their rival contention that Ex. B6 was a mortgage transaction and the respondents were entitled to redeem the mortgage on the expiry of the stipulated period.4.	Issue
The Malabar Tenancy Act, 1929 was in force at the time of the institution of the suit but it is common ground that rights and liabilities of the parties are to be judged under the Kerala Land Reforms Act, 1964 by reason of the provisions contained in Section 132 (1) (a) thereof.	None
The relevant provisions of Section 2 (22) of the Kerala Act of 1964 which defines kanam are as follows(22) kanam means the transfer for consideration, in money or in kind or in both, by a landlord of an interest in specific immovable property to another person for the latters enjoyment, whether described in the document evidencing the transaction as kanam or kanapattam, the incidents of which transfer include(a) (b) (c) payment of michavaram or customary dues, or renewal on the expiry of any specified period 5.	None
It is indisputable that a kanam within the above definition involves payment of michavaram or customary dues or renewal on the expiry of any specified period.	None
In Ex.	None
B6 there is no provision for renewal or for payment of customary dues.	None
The preeminent question is whether there is a provision for payment of michavaram.	None
Broadly stated, Ex.	None
B6 executed by defendants Nos. 1 and 2 stipulated that they would pay the kanam amount of Rs. 1400/ charged on taks 1 to 3 of item No. 1 in the Schedule to Exs.	None
B6 to 7 persons Narayani and others and their representatives and redeem the same and hold the said taks 1 to 3 of item No. 1 as kanam and tak 4 and item No. 2 as kanamkuzhikanam, paying the land revenue for the properties and enjoy them for interest on the kanam, and after the term of 12 years when the kanam of Rs. 2000/ charged on taks 1 to 3 of item No. 1 was offered the defendants shall receive and surrender the properties with basic documents by a registered release at their costs.	None
No rent is stipulated for the property in consideration of advance of Rs. 2000/ whereof	None
Rs. 1400/ was to be paid to the prior mortgagees on taks 1 to 3 of item No. 1.	None
The suit properties in Ex.	None
B6 were to be enjoyed by defendants Nos. 1 and 2 for interest on their advance after payment of the land tax to the State.6.	None
It therefore falls for consideration as to whether the provision in Ex.	Issue
B6 for payment of land revenue for the properties by the appellants amounts in law to a stipulation as rent or michavaram to the land owner.	Issue
Counsel on behalf of the appellants relied on the decision of the Kerala High Court in Parameswaran Embranthiri v. Narasimha Nambudiri, 1962 Ker LT 404 and the earlier Bench decision of the Madras High Court in Sankunni Variar v. Neelakandhan Nambudripad, ILR (1944)	Arguments of Petitioner
Mad 254 (AIR 1943 Mad 627 ) in support of the proposition that payment of land revenue would amount to payment of rent.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the Madras Bench decision in Sankunnis case, ILR 1944 Mad 254 (AIR 1943 Mad 627 ) (supra) the kanam deed was for 36 years and the deed provided that the jenmi should receive inter alia an annual rental of 411 paras, 4 idangalis and one nazhi of paddy and gingelly oil to the value of six rupees.	None
The kanamdars were required by the deed in Sankunnis case, ILR (1944)	None
Mad 254 (AIR 1943 Mad 627 ) (supra) to pay out of the gross rent to the Government what became due by way of land revenue.	Arguments of Petitioner
The actual words in the kanam deed were that the pattam (gross rent) of the property demised was 2507 paras of paddy and the kanamdars were to hold the properties in their possession and enjoyment and pay to jenmi a pattam (rent) of 411 paras, 4 idangalis, 1 nazhi of paddy.	None
of the money value of Rs. 138/ inclusive of paras vasi (allowance for difference of measurement) duly dried, winnowed, cleaned, conveyed to the jenmis residence and measured out by their 40 nazhis para, after deduction of the interest due on the mortgage amount and the assessment on the properties due to the Government from the said rent together with sundry payment of one para, two idangalis of gingelly oil of the value of Rs. 6, within the 30th of Makaram (10 th February) of each year commencing with the year 1069 M. E. (189394) and duly take receipt therefor.8.	None
In Sankunnis case, ILR (1944) Mad 254 (AIR 1943 Mad 627 ) (supra) the land revenue was increased as a result of resettlement.	None
The question was whether the burden of the increased revenue fell upon the jenmi.	None
It was contended in Sankunnis case, ILR (1944)	None
Mad 254 (AIR 1943 Mad 627 ) (supra) that inasmuch as there was reference in the deed to gross yield of the land and the jenmi was to receive his rent after deduction of the interest due on the mortgage and the Government revenue, the intention was to fix the kanamdars liability on the basis of the revenue payable to the Government on the date of the kanam.	None
If the revenue payable was to be increased it was said in that case that the jenmi was to be responsible for the payment of the additional amount.9.	None
The entire ratio in Sankunnis case, ILR (1944) Mad 254 (AIR 1943 Mad 627 ) (supra) was first that the liability of the jenmi was for the revenue and secondly, the kanamdar was to deduct from the rent the interest on the mortgage amount and the assessment on the properties due to the Government.10.	None
The decision of the learned Single Judge of the Kerala High Court in Parameswarans case, 1962 Ker LT 404 (supra) was that recital in the deed that the defendant was to be in possession of the properties and was to pay the revenue out of the income and appropriate the balance towards interest on the amount of the advance amounted to a stipulation for payment of revenue as michavaram or rent.	None
In Sankunnis case, ILR (1944) Mad 254 (AIR 1943 Mad 627 ) (supra) the direction to pay revenue out of the rent of the property which was due to the landlord was justifiably held to be a payment on behalf of the landlord because it was apart of the michavaram.	None
That reasoning could not apply to Parameswarans case, 1962 Ker LT 404 (supra) because in that case there was neither any fixation of rent nor any stipulation for payment of rent or michavaram to the landlord.11.	None
This Court in Cherumanalil Lakshmi v. Mulivil Kunninamkandy Narayani.	None
(1967) 1	None
SCR 314 (AIR 1967 SC 876 ) considered as to when a transaction would be kanamkuzhikanam and when a usufructuary mortgage.	None
In each case it manifestly depends entirely on the terms of the transaction.	None
In Lakshmis case, (1967) 1	None
SCR 314 (AIR 1967 SC 876 ) (supra),there was a demise of land with fruit bearing trees for 24 years.	None
The transfer was for the enjoyment of land with trees.	None
The kanam amount was Rs. 5000/ in one case and Rs. 600 in the other.	None
The transferees were entitled to appropriate the income of the land in lieu of interest on the kanam amount and to hold the land even after the expiry of 24 years until the payment of the kanam amount and the value of the trees planted by them.	None
It was therefore found that all the ingredients of kanamkuzhikanam were satisfied.	None
The test to be applied is whether the purpose of the transaction is enjoyment of the property by the transferee or whether it is intended to secure the repayment of debt, by transfer of interest in the property.12.	None
The mere description of the deed as kanam kuzhikanam will not be decisive of the essence of the transaction.	Reasoning
The description of deed by itself isolated from the terms and provisions may be misleading or a misnomer.13.	Reasoning
Counsel for the respondents relied on the Bench decision of the Kerala High Court in Kunhiparan v. V. Naicken, 1967 Ker LT 646 (AIR 1968 Ker, 38) in support of the proposition that payment of perquisite would indicate that the relationship was that of landlord and tenant and the name of the document would not be sufficient to displace the real terms.	Arguments of Respondent
In Kunhiparans case, 1967 Ker LT 646 (AIR 1968 Kerala 38) (supra) the transaction was described as a kudiyiruppu to have the favour of a mortgage but the Court found the transaction by the terms provisions and intention of the parties to be a lease and not a mortgage.14.	None
The circumstances and the conduct of the parties are always a very useful guide in ascertaining the true character and content of the transaction.	None
Counsel for the respondents relied on the Full Bench decision of the Kerala High Court in Kunhirama Nambiar v. Pairu Kurup, 1969 Ker LT 62 (AIR 1970 Ker 16 ) (FB) where the document was a kanayadharam and in spite of its nomenclature it was held to be a mortgage and not a kanam.15.	Arguments of Respondent
The elements which are usually considered relevant to find out the intention of the parties, are first the proportion of the amount advanced to the value of the security secondly, the rate of interest payable on the sum advanced thirdly, the absence of a provision for making improvements and the proportion of the rent or purapad to the income reserved for appropriation towards interest and fourthly, the surrounding circumstances at the time of the transaction, namely that the tarwad was at the time of the execution of the document in dire need of money to discharge debts to indicate that the transaction was intended to be a mortgage and not a lease.	Reasoning
It will always be a significant feature in a document as to whether the jenmom right of the tarwad in the properties has been secured for the kanartham by way of mortgage.16.	Reasoning
The first and foremost element to be found for a lease is whether there is the intrinsic intention in the written document for enjoyment of the property by the transferee in lieu of rent or perquisites.	Reasoning
Secondly, the term of renewal of the enjoyment would indicate the feature of a lease.	Reasoning
Thirdly, it has to be found out whether there is any provision for payment of customary dues.	Reasoning
The learned Single Judge in the decision of the Kerala High Court in Hussain Thangal v. Ali 1961 Ker LT 1033 rightly said that the use of words like pattam meaning profits would be a strong indication of the transaction to be a lease and not a mortgage.17.	Reasoning
The dominant features of a mortgage transaction on the other hand would be the ascertainment of the ratio of the value of land to the amount advanced.	Reasoning
If the ratio of the amount advanced bears a substantial proportion to the value of the property transferred it would be a strong piece of intention and circumstance to indicate loan and a mortgage.	Reasoning
A provision entitling the transferee to ask for a return of money by sale of the property would be a very important feature to indicate that the transaction is a loan and a mortgage and not a lease.	Reasoning
The absence of such a provision, however, would not totally repel the transaction to be a mortgage.	Reasoning
The execution of counterpart is sometimes a common feature in the case of possessory mortgage though the existence of a counterpart by itself will not be conclusive of the question.18.	Reasoning
The deed understood in the light of the surrounding circumstances will provide the answer in the facts and circumstances of each case.	Reasoning
In the present case, emphasis was placed by counsel for the appellants on the payment of Government revenue by the transferee.	Reasoning
This Court in Patel Bhuder Mavji v. Jat Mamdaji Kalaji (deceased) through L. Rs.	Reasoning
Jat Saheb Khan Mamdaji, (1969) 3	Reasoning
SCR 690 AIR 1969 SC 1196 ) said that payment of revenue and other dues to the State would not clothe the occupants with the right of the tenants.	Reasoning
Ordinarily, mortgagees under Section 76 (c) of the Transfer of Property Act in the absence of a contract to the contrary pay out of the income of the property the Government revenue and all other charges of a public nature during their possession of such land.	Reasoning
The High Court in the present case correctly said that stipulation in the deed of payment of Government revenue by the transferee was that by virtue of the grant the liability to pay revenue is transferred to the grantee and the grantee who had accepted the grant and the liability, when he pays the revenue, pays it on his own behalf.	Reasoning
The High Court also correctly held that a mere direction to pay the revenue of the property by the grantee, particularly when no payment is stipulated to be made to the grantor or when the payment is not directed to be made out of anything which is due or payable to the grantor, cannot be construed as a payment or rent or michavaram to the grantor.19.	Reasoning
The proportion between the amount advanced and the value of the property is one of the important tests to be taken into consideration in deciding the nature of the transaction.	Reasoning
Where the amount advanced bears substantial proportion to the value of the property it is an important element indicating that the intention was the creation of a mortgage and not a tenancy.	Reasoning
In the present case, the amount for which the properties included in Ex. B6 were sold to the first plaintiff under Ex.	Reasoning
A2 was Rs. 5000/ out of which Rs. 2500/ was to go in discharge of the amount under Ex.	Reasoning
B6.	Reasoning
The advance, therefore, bore a substantial proportion to the value of the property.	Reasoning
This feature when considered along with the fact that the document did not provide payment of any annual purapped to the jenmi and that the annual amount which was directed to be paid as revenue of the property which came to Rs. 1040, a paltry recurring annual liability, would be an additional reason to support the intention of the parties that the transaction was a mortgage and not a tenancy.20.	Reasoning
It is significant that after the execution of Ex.	Reasoning
B6 defendants Nos. 1 and 2 entered into a partition agreement evidenced by Ex.	Reasoning
A3	Reasoning
The partition deed included transactions called kanam other than the disputed one forming the subjectmatter of the suit.	Reasoning
In almost all the properties held under kanam there was division by metes and bounds, but with regard to Ex B6 and the amount of Rs. 2000/ there was no division by metes and bounds.	Reasoning
This would also point to the conclusion that the defendants Nos. 1 and 2 never treated Ex.	Reasoning
B6 as creating a tenancy.21.	Reasoning
In the present case the features which favour the construction of the transaction to be a mortgage and not a lease are first that there is no provision for renewal secondly, there is no provision for payment of customary dues thirdly, the property was to be enjoyed by the defendants by way of interest on their advance after payment of land tax to the State fourthly, the payment of land tax is not a deduction from rent or perquisites fifthly, there is a provision for surrendering the property with a registered release at the cost of the transferees on the receipt of the consideration of kanam and the balance amount sixthly, when the consideration is paid back the counter pattam deeds and prior deeds would be returned and finally, there is liability to pay interest on the advance and possession and enjoyment of profits of the property is in lieu of interest.22.	Reasoning
For these reasons we are of opinion that the High Court was correct in its conclusion as to the nature of the transaction being a mortgage and not a lease.	Decision
The appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.23.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
