 Hegde, J.1.	None
These are appeals by certificate.	Issue
They are by the same appellant and they raise common questions of law.	Issue
Hence they are considered together.2.	Issue
Two questions of law were urged on behalf of the appellant in support of the appeals.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first contention urged was that Sec. 3D (1) of the U.P. Sales Tax Act. 1948 (to be hereinafter referred to as the Act) is ultra vires the Constitution, firstly because that section excessive power had been delegated to the State Government and secondly on the ground that it discriminates between the registered dealers who made their purchases through licensed dealers and the registered dealers who made their purchases through dealers who are not licensed.	Arguments of Petitioner
The second contention taken was that notification No. ST7122/X900 (16) 64 dated October 1, 1964 issued under sec.	Arguments of Petitioner
3D (1) of the Act imposing purchase tax on oil seeds is invalid as it contravenes sec.	Arguments of Petitioner
3AA of the Act.3.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have considered the first ground of attack in Civil Appeals Nos. 362 and 1969 (M s. Sita Ram Bishambhar Dayal etc. vs. State of U.P.) in which we have delivered judgment just now.	Reasoning
For the reasons mentioned therein, the contention that sec.	None
3D (1) is ultra vires the Constitution fails.4.	None
The only surviving question is whether the notification referred to earlier is violative of sec.	Issue
3AA of the Act.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
Before examining that contention, it is necessary to set out the relevant facts.6.	None
The appellant is a partnership firm.	Facts
It carries on business as dealers in groundnuts, oil seeds and Arhar.	Facts
For the assessment years 196566, 196667 the Sales Tax Officer, Rampur assessed the appellant to sales tax on the turnover of the groundnuts oil manufactured by the appellant and to purchase tax on the turnover of the oil seeds and food grains.	Facts
The appellant unsuccessfully appealed against the assessment orders.	Facts
Thereafter it took up the matter in revision before the revising authority.	Facts
There again it substantially failed.	Facts
Aggrieved by that decision, he moved the High Court of Allahabad for a writ of certiorari quashing the levy of purchase tax imposed on him in respect of his purchase of oil seeds.	Facts
The High Court rejected those petitions.	Facts
Hence these appeals.7.	None
We shall now extract the impugned notification to the extent it is material for the purpose of this appeal.	None
It reads thus Not.	None
No. ST7122/X99 (16) 64 dated October 1, 1964.In exercise of the powers under subsection (1) of section 3D of the Uttar Pradesh Sales Tax Act, 1948 (U.P. Act No. XV of 1948), the Governor of Uttar Pradesh is pleased to notify that with effect from October 1, 1964, the turnover of first purchases in respect of goods mentioned below shall be liable to tax under Section 3D of the said Act.	None
Sl.	None
No. Name of goods.	None
Rate of tax.1.	None
Foodgrains including 1.5 paisa per rupeecereals and pulses.2.	None
Gur 3 paisa per rupee3.	None
Oilseeds 2 x x x x x8.	None
As per this notification a purchase tax of 2 paise per rupee on the turnover of the first purchase of oil seeds is leviable.	None
It is contended that this notification violates sec.	None
3AA of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 3AA says Notwithstanding anything contained in section 3 or 3A, the turnover in respect of the following goods shall not be liable to tax except at the point of sale by a dealer to the consumer, and the rate of tax shall be such, not exceeding the maximum rate for the time being specified in section 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, as may be declared by the State Government by notification in the Official Gazette (i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v) (vi) Oil seeds, that is to say, seeds yielding nonviolatile oils used for human consumptions, or in industry, or in the manufacture of varnishes, soap and the like, or in lubrication, and volatile oils used chiefly in medicines, perfumes, cosmetics and the like.2.	None
Unless the dealer proves otherwise every sale by a dealer shall, for the purposes of subsection (1) be presumed to be to a consumer.	None
Explanation  A sale of any of the goods specified in subs.	None
(1) to a registered dealer who does not purchase them pro resale in the same condition in which he has purchased them, or sold to an unregistered dealer shall, for purposes of this section be deemed to be a sale to the consumer.9.	None
This section was incorporated into the Act on April 1, 1956.	None
Under this section, on the goods specified therein, sales tax not exceeding the maximum rate for the time being specified in s. 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 can be levied by the State Government on the turnover in respect of sales by dealers to the consumers.	None
From an analysis of this provision, we get the following 1.	None
that tax to be levied is a sales tax2.	None
levy in question is a single point levy3.	None
the point of levy is the sale by the dealer to the consumer and4.	None
the rate to be fixed by the State Government is not to exceed the maximum rate for the time being specified in sec.	None
15 of the Central Sales Tax Act. 1956.10.	None
If we hold that provisions contained in s. 3AA continue to be in force in respect of dealing in oil seeds than the appellants contention that the impugned levy is an invalid levy succeeds.	Reasoning
But the question is whether that contention is correct.11.	None
This takes us to s. 3D.	None
That section reads 1.	None
Except as provided in subsection (2), there shall be levied and paid, for each assessment year or part thereof, a tax on the turnover, to be determined in such manner as may be prescribed, of first purchases made by a dealer or through a dealer, acting as a purchasing agent in respect of such goods or class of goods, and at such rates, not exceeding two paisa per rupee in the case of foodgrains, including cereals and pulses, and five paisa per rupee in the case of other goods and with effect from such date, as may, from time to time, be notified by the State Government in this behalf.	None
Explanation  	None
In the case of a purchase made by a registered dealer through the agency of a licensed dealer, the registered dealer shall be deemed to be the first purchaser, and in every other case of a first purchase, made through the agency of a dealer, the dealer who is the agent shall be deemed to be the first purchaser.2.	None
x x x3.	None
x x x4.	None
On the issue of a notification under this section no tax shall be levied under any other section in respect of the goods so notified.5.	Reasoning
The provision of the second and third proviso to Section 3 and of Section 18, shall mutatis mutandis apply in relation to the tax payable under this Section.6.	None
x x x7.	None
Unless the dealer proves otherwise to the satisfaction of the assessing authority, every purchase by or through a dealer shall, for the purposes of subsection (1), be presumed to be the first purchase by such dealer and every sale through a dealer shall, for the purposes of subsection (2), be presumed to be sale to a first purchaser.12.	None
For our present purpose, it is not necessary to refer to the second and third provisos to s. 3 and s. 18.	None
It may be noted that s. 3D was incorporated into the Act on August 1, 1958.13.	Reasoning
The contention on behalf of the appellant was that s. 3 AA is a special provision regarding certain specified class of goods including oil seeds whereas S. 3D is a general provision.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence dealings in respect of oil seeds must be held to be governed exclusively by s. 3AA.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his contention the learned for the appellant called into aid the rule of construction that a special provision excludes the application of a general provision.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, it was contended on behalf of the Revenue that power was conferred on the State Government to levy purchase tax in place of sales tax in respect of any goods that may be notified under s. 3D (1) subject only to the conditions mentioned therein.	Arguments of Respondent
According to Dr. Singhvi, learned Counsel for the Revenue, the legislature left the questions whether in respect of a class of goods, the appropriate levy is sales tax or purchase tax as well as what is the appropriate point of levy, to the State Government because a decision on that question has to be taken on an assessment of various factors, some of which are not constant.	None
According to him in view of the language employed in subs.	None
(4) of s. 3D, it is not possible to apply the rule of construction that special legislation in respect of any particular topic should exclude the application of general legislation.14.	None
It may be noted that s. 3D was incorporated into the Act much later than s. 3AA.	Reasoning
As seen earlier s. 3AA was incorporated into the Act on April 1, 1956 whereas s. 3D was added on August 1, 1958.	Reasoning
At the time the legislature incorporated into the Act sec.	Reasoning
3D. it must have been aware of the existence of sec.	Reasoning
3AA but yet in subs.	Reasoning
(4) of s. 3D, it declared that on the issue of a notification under that section, no tax shall be levied under any other section in respect of the goods so notified.	Reasoning
The ambit of this provision is very wide and it clearly takes in goods mentioned in sec.	Reasoning
3AA.15.	Reasoning
Now turning to s. 3AA, it is important to note that it begins by saying notwithstanding anything contained in section 3 or 3A.	Reasoning
The nonobstents clause does not take in s. 3D.	Reasoning
If the legislature intended to exclude the operation of s. 3D, in respect of matters covered by s. 3AA, nothing would have been easier than to say so.	Reasoning
It could have said notwithstanding anything contained in s. 3, 3A and s. 3D.	Reasoning
But it did not choose to do that.	Reasoning
Therefore there are no grounds to cut down the applitude of the power conferred on the State Government under subsec.	Reasoning
(4) of Sec.	Reasoning
3D.16.	Reasoning
The High Court of Allahabad has consistently taken the view that it is open to the State Government to levy purchase tax in exercise of its powers under sec.	Reasoning
3D even in respect of goods covered by sec.	Reasoning
3AA.	Reasoning
We are in agreement with that view.17.	None
In the result these appeals fail and they are dismissed with costs.	Decision
