 Dr. B.S. CHAUHAN, J. This appeal has been preferred against the impugned judgment and order dated 18.6.2009 passed by the High Court of Bombay in Writ Petition No. 4665 of 2009 by which the High Court has affirmed and upheld the judgment of the Honble Chief Minister of Maharashtra declaring that the conduct of the appellant was unbecoming of the President of Uran Municipal Council and declared him to be disqualified for remaining tenure of municipal councilorship under Section 55B of the Maharashtra Municipal Councils, Nagar Panchayats and Industrial Townships Act, 1965 (hereinafter called as the Act 1965) and further declared him disqualified for a period of six years from the date of the order i.e. 21.3.2009.	Issue
Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are That the appellant was elected as member of Uran Municipal Council and, subsequently, elected as a President of the Municipal Council.	Facts
The appellant was served with a show cause notice dated 3.12.2008 by the State of Maharashtra calling upon him to explain why action under Section 55B of the Act 1965 be not taken against him.	Facts
The chargesheet contained the following six chargesCharge No.1Uran Charitable Medical Trust has built up unauthorized construction on Survey Nos. 8 9 10 11 situated at Mouje Mhatawali to the extent of 1140 square meters for their hospital and you are the Trustee of the said Trust.	Facts
Municipal Council had issued notice dated 17.10.2006 for demolishing the said unauthorized construction on its own.	Facts
Shri Dosu Ardesar Bhiwandiwala had filed Regular Civil Suit No.95/07 against the said notice in the court of Civil Judge, Junior Division, Uran and the same was decided on 19.12.2007 in which plaintiffs application was rejected.	Facts
Junior Engineer of Uran Municipal Council lodged a complaint with Uran police Station under Sections 53 and 54 of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966 against the said unauthorized construction on 24.7.2007.	Facts
Shri Jayant Gosal and three others filed Public Interest Litigation No. 57 of 2008 concerning the said unauthorized construction of the said Trust in the Bombay High Court and the same is presently subjudice.	Facts
You are the Trustee of the said Trust and as President of the Municipal Council, you are duty bound to oppose the unauthorized construction.	Facts
However, you did not take any action to oppose the same and it appears that you have supported the unauthorized construction.	Facts
You have, therefore, violated Sections 44, 45, 52 and 53 of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966.Charge No.2The Municipal Council had called the General Body Meeting on 22.3.2007 by way of Resolution No. 2 Survey Nos. 8 9 10 11 at Mouje Mhatawali area admeasuring about 4000 square meters was proposed for reservation of garden.	Facts
However, instead of that, the resolution was passed for reserving the same for hospital, nursing home and medical college.	Facts
At that time, you were presiding over the meeting.	Facts
By this illegal Act, you have violated Sections 44( 1 )(e) and 42(1), (2) and (3) of Maharashtra Municipal Councils, Panchayat Samiti and Industrial Township Act, 1965.Charge No.3After you were elected as the President on 20.12.2006, a General Body Meeting was held on 9.1.2007.	Facts
Although it is required under Section 80(1) of the Maharashtra Municipal Councils, Panchayat Samiti and Industrial Township Act, 1965 to hold the General Body Meeting once in two months, no such meeting was held for a period of three months between 28.2.2007 and 28.5.2007.	Facts
By the said act, you have violated Section 81 (1) of the Maharashtra Municipal Councils, Panchayat Samiti and Industrial Township Act, 1965.Charge No.4In the meeting held on 9.1.2007, the suggestion to the Agenda No.4 made by Members Shri Chintaman Gharat and Shri Shekhar Mhatre that a rented car be provided for the use of the President was rejected by you.	Facts
Similarly, the Members Shri Chintaman Gharat and Shri Shekhar Mhatrehad made suggestion to the Agenda No.ll of the same meeting that new Nalla be constructed near Ughadi at Bhavara Phanaswadi.	Facts
The said suggestion was rejected after being read over.	Facts
Similarly, Members Shri Chintaman Gharat and Shri Shekhar Mhatre had made suggestion to the Agenda No.20 in the same meeting that new Nalla be constructed in front of the house of Shri Kailash Patail at Bhavara Phanaswadi.	Facts
The said suggestion was rejected.	Facts
Similarly, suggestion was made by Shri Chintaman Gharat and Shri Shekhar Mhatre to Agenda No.23 that the Standing Committee be authorized to open the tender approvals and give sanctions for diverse works of the Municipal Council.	Facts
The said suggestion was rejected.	Facts
Similarly, suggestion was made by Shri Chintaman Gharat and Shri Shekhar Mhatre to Agenda No. 27 of the same meeting regarding allotment of contract for spraying insecticides in Ward Nos. 1 to 17 of the Municipal Council.	Facts
It appears from the minutes of the meeting dated 9.1.2007 that even said suggestion was rejected.	Facts
You have, therefore, violated rules 30, 32(1) and (2) of the Maharashtra Municipal Councils (Conduct of Business) Rules, 1966 by frequently rejecting the suggestions of the Members of the Municipal Council.	Facts
Charge No.5Tenders were invited on 5.10.2006 for installing CI Pipeline of 300 mm. diameter for outlet and inlet of GSR Tank at Sarvodayawadi within Uran Municipal Council by the construction department of Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran, Panvel by its Outward No.MJPBV MC MS Uran /311/3/06 dated 7.12.2006 at the Town Hall of the Uran Municipal Council.	Facts
Pursuant to the same three tenders were invited, details whereof are as follows Name Address of the ContractorTender Amount1.M s ShaileshConstructionUlhasnagar9,11,351.502.M s PadmavatiEnterprise,Ambernath8,92,375.003.M s Kiran B. Jadhav,Ulhasnagar8.47,462.98Out of the aforesaid three tenders, the lowest tender of M s Kiran B. Jadhav, Ulhasnagar was accepted as per Clause 171 of the Maharashtra Accounts Code, 1971.	Facts
However, the estimate was prepared as per the DSR of 20052006.	Facts
As a result when the tenders were invited, there was a difference of more than 10 in the tender amount.	Facts
Therefore, by citing Item No.44 of the Standing Order No.36 of the Commissioner and Director, Directorate of Municipal Administration, the Municipal Council called for the current market rates from the concerned commercial dealers.	Facts
M s Nazmi Electrical Hardware Limited, Kalyan and M s Sanjay Steel Tube Corporation Limited on 5.1.2007 to compare the difference in the rates of the tenderers contractors and the market rates and decided that the rates of the tenderers were less than the market rates on the basis of the comparison and sanctioned the tenders and the bills of the tenderers were paid thereby you have violated paragraphs Nos. 44 to 47 of Standing Order No.36 regarding inviting tenders and approvals dated 29.12.2005 bearing	Facts
No. NPS Inviting Tenders/2005/Case No.151/05and Rule No.171 of the Maharashtra Accounts Code, 1971.Charge No.6Tenders were invited on 5.10.2006 for installing CI Pipeline of 300 mm. diameter for outlet and inlet of GSR Tank at Sarvodayawadi within Uran Municipal Council by the construction department of Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran, Panvel by its Outward No.MJPBV MC MS Uran /311/3/06 dated 7.12.2006 at the Town Hall of the Uran Municipal Council.	Facts
Pursuant to the same three tenders were invited, details whereof are as followsName Address of the ContractorTender Amount1.M s ShaileshConstructionUlhasnagar4,21,165.002.M s	Facts
PadmavatiEnterprise,AmbernathM s Kiran B.4,18,889.283,78,507.783.Jadhav,UlhasnagarOut of the aforesaid three tenders, the lowest tender of M s Kiran B. Jadhav, Ulhasnagar was accepted as per Clause 171 of the Maharashtra Accounts Code, 1971.	Facts
However, the estimate was prepared as per the DSR of 20052006.	Facts
As a result when the tenders were invited, there was a difference of more than 10 in the tender amount.	Facts
Therefore, by citing Item No.44 of the Standing Order No.36 of the Commissioner and Director, Directorate of Municipal Administration, the Municipal Council called for the current market rates from the concerned commercial dealers.	Facts
M s Nazmi Electrical Hardware Limited, Kalyan and M s Sanjay Steel Tube Corporation Limited on 5.1.2007 to compare the difference in the rates of the tenderers contractors and the market rates and decided that the rates of the tenderers were less than the market rates on the basis of the comparison and sanctioned the tenders and the bills of the tenderers were paid thereby you have violated paragraphs Nos. 44 to 47 of Standing Order No.36 regarding inviting tenders and approvals dated 29.12.2005 bearing	Facts
No.	Facts
NPS lnviting Tenders/2005/Case No.151/05 and Rule No.171 of the Maharashtra Accounts Code, 1971.B. The appellant submitted his explanation dated 18.12.2008 in writing.	Facts
After considering the same, the appellant was issued a notice for hearing on 23.1.2009.	Facts
The appellant remained present alongwith his advocate before the competent authority i.e. Honble Chief Minister holding the portfolio of Department.	Facts
However, vide impugned order dated 21.3.2009, the appellant was declared disqualified for his remaining tenure and further declaring him disqualified for a period of six years even as member of the Council.	Facts
C. Being aggrieved, the appellant filed the writ petition challenging the order dated 21.3.2009.	Facts
The writ petition stood dismissed vide impugned judgment and order dated 18.6.2009.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.3.	None
Shri Vinay Navare, learned counsel appearing for the appellant, has submitted that only three charges i.e. charge nos.3, 5 and 6 have been held proved against the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
One charge is that the appellant did not call for a meeting for a period of three months i.e. from 28.2.2007 to 28.5.2007 as required under Section 81(1) of the Act 1965, for which the appellant had furnished explanation which was worth acceptance.	Arguments of Petitioner
The officer concerned of the municipal council did not inform the appellant, nor the members asked to hold such meeting as required under Section 81(1) of the Act 1965, so it was merely an inadvertent act and could not be intentional.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the question of committing any misconduct could not arise.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
Other charges which stood proved are regarding the acceptance of fresh tenders at high rates for incomplete work of laying down 300 mm.	Arguments of Petitioner
CI pipeline for water supply.	Arguments of Petitioner
The tender for lower estimated cost was not accepted rather there was a difference of more than 10 per cent in tender amount.	Arguments of Petitioner
The explanation was furnished by the appellant that there was a resolution by the council itself accepting the said tenders and, therefore, the appellant exclusively could not be held responsible for acceptance of tenders on the high rate of CI pipes.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even the rate of C.I. pipe purchased by Maharashtra Jivan Pradhikaran were also considered and after considering all these factors, the lowest bid was accepted by the Uran Municipal Council.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Chief Officer, the Junior Engineer has also considered the technical aspect, and, then the recommendation was forwarded under the signature of President, Chief Officer and Jr. Engineer and thereafter, the Municipal Council passed resolution and accepted the said tender.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, it cannot be said that by doing this the appellant has breached any of the statutory provisions.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that at the time of hearing on 21.3.2009, the complainant wanted to rely upon some new grounds, and, therefore, the appellant raised the objection.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Honble Chief Minister directed the Secretary to fix up a date of hearing, however, no date of hearing was fixed and impugned order dated 21.3.2009 had been passed without affording any opportunity of hearing to the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the said order was passed in utter disregard of the principles of natural justice and cannot be sustained in the eyes of law.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Competent Statutory authority has not recorded reasons for conclusions arrived, by which, at least the three charges stood proved against the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
The expression misconduct has not been understood in correct perspective.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even if the three charges stood proved, the punishment imposed is totally disproportionate, more so, was not warranted in the facts and circumstances of the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court erred in not appreciating the facts in correct perspective, therefore, the impugned judgment and order is liable to be set aside.	None
Shri Mike Prakash Desai and Shri Sudhansu Choudhary, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, have vehemently opposed the appeal contending that charges proved against the appellant constituted grave misconduct on his part and was liable to be removed and has rightly been declared disqualified for further period of six years.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellant had been given full opportunity to defend himself.	Arguments of Respondent
The period of disqualification has lapsed, thus this Court is dealing with an academic issue.	Arguments of Respondent
The impugned order does not warrant any interference in the facts and circumstances of the case.	Arguments of Respondent
The appeal lacks merit and, accordingly, is liable to be dismissed.7.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions made by the learned counsel of the parties and perused the record.	None
Before considering the case on merits, it is pertinent to deal with certain legal issues.	None
MISCONDUCT Misconduct has been defined in Blacks Law Dictionary, Sixth Edition as A transgression of some established and definite rule of action, a forbidden act, a dereliction from duty, unlawful behavior, wilful in character, improper or wrong behavior, its synonyms are misdemeanor, misdeed, misbehavior, delinquency,impropriety,mismanagement offense, but not negligence or carelessness.	None
Misconduct in office has been defined as Any unlawful behavior by a public officer in relation to the duties of his office, wilful in character.	None
Term embraces acts which the office holder had no right to perform, acts performed improperly, and failure to act in the face of an affirmative duty to act.	None
Ramanatha Aiyars Law Lexicon, Reprint Edition 1987 at page 821 defines misconduct thus The term misconduct implies a wrongful intention, and not a mere error of judgment.	None
Misconduct is not necessarily the same thing as conduct involving moral turpitude.	None
The word misconduct is a relative term, and has to be construed with reference to the subject matter and the context wherein the term occurs, having regard to the scope of the Act or statute which is being construed.	None
Misconduct literally means wrong conduct or improper conduct.	None
In usual parlance, misconduct means a transgression of some established and definite rule of action, where no discretion is left, except what necessity may demand and carelessness, negligence and unskilfulness are transgressions of some established, but indefinite, rule of action, where some discretion is necessarily left to the actor.	None
Misconduct is a violation of definite law carelessness or abuse of discretion under an indefinite law.	None
Misconduct is a forbidden act carelessness, a forbidden quality of an act, and is necessarily indefinite.	None
Misconduct in office may be defined as unlawful behaviour or neglect by a public officer, by which the rights of a party have been affected.	None
Thus it could be seen that the word misconduct though not capable of precise definition, on reflection receives its connotation from the context, the delinquency in its performance and its effect on the discipline and the nature of the duty.	None
It may involve moral turpitude, it must be improper or wrong behaviour unlawful behaviour, wilful in character forbidden act, a transgression of established and definite rule of action or code of conduct but not mere error of judgment, carelessness or negligence in performance of the duty the act complained of bears forbidden quality or character.	None
Its ambit has to be construed with reference to the subject matter and the context wherein the term occurs, regard being had to the scope of the statute and the public purpose it seeks to serve (See also State of Punjab Ors.	None
v. Ram Singh Ex.	None
Constable, AIR 1992 SC 2188 ).	None
Mere error of judgment resulting in doing of negligent act does not amount to misconduct.	None
However, in exceptional circumstances, not working diligently may be a misconduct.	None
An action which is detrimental to the prestige of the institution may also amount to misconduct.	None
Acting beyond authority may be a misconduct.	None
When the office bearer is expected to act with absolute integrity and honesty in handling the work, any misappropriation, even temporary, of the funds etc. constitutes a serious misconduct, inviting severe punishment.	None
(Vide Disciplinary AuthoritycumRegional Manager Ors.	None
v. Nikunja Bihari Patnaik, (1996) 9 SCC 69 Government of Tamil Nadu v. K.N. Ramamurthy, AIR 1997 SC 3571 Inspector Prem Chand v. Govt.	None
of NCT of Delhi Ors., (2007) 4 SCC 566 and State Bank of India Ors.	None
v. S.N. Goyal, AIR 2008 SC 2594 ).	None
In Government of A.P. v. P. Posetty, (2000) 2 SCC 220 , this Court held that since acting in derogation to the prestige of the institution body and placing his present position in any kind of embarrassment may amount to misconduct, for the reason, that such conduct may ultimately lead that the delinquent had behaved in a manner which is unbecoming of an incumbent of the post. 12	None
In M.M. Malhotra v. Union of India Ors., AIR 2006 SC 80 , this Court explained as under It has, therefore, to be noted that the word misconduct is not capable of precise definition.	None
But at the same time though incapable of precise definition, the word misconduct on reflection receives its connotation from the context, the delinquency in performance and its effect on the discipline and the nature of the duty.	None
The act complained of must bear a forbidden quality or character and its ambit has to be construed with reference to the subjectmatter and the context wherein the terms occurs, having regard to the scope of the statute and the public purpose it seeks to serve.	None
A similar view has been reiterated in Baldev Singh Gandhi v. State of Punjab Ors., AIR 2002 SC 1124 .	None
Conclusions about the absence or lack of personal qualities in the incumbent do not amount to misconduct holding the person concerned liable for punishment.	None
(See Union of India Ors. v. J. Ahmed, AIR 1979 SC 1022 ).	None
It is also a settled legal proposition that misconduct must necessarily be measured in terms of the nature of the misconduct and the court must examine as to whether misconduct has been detrimental to the public interest.	None
(Vide General Manager, Appellate Authority, Bank of India Anr.	None
v. Mohd.	None
Nizamuddin AIR 2006 SC 3290 ).	None
The expression misconduct has to be understood as a transgression of some established and definite rule of action, a forbidden act, unlawful behaviour, wilful in character.	None
It may be synonymous as misdemeanour in propriety and mismanagement.	None
In a particular case, negligence or carelessness may also be a misconduct for example, when a watchman leaves his duty and goes to watch cinema, though there may be no theft or loss to the institution but leaving the place of duty itself amounts to misconduct.	None
It may be more serious in case of disciplinary forces.	None
Further, the expression misconduct has to be construed and understood in reference to the subject matter and context wherein the term occurs taking into consideration the scope and object of the statute which is being construed.	None
Misconduct is to be measured in the terms of the nature of misconduct and it should be viewed with the consequences of misconduct as to whether it has been detrimental to the public interest.	None
DISGRACEFUL CONDUCT	None
The expression disgraceful conduct is not defined in the statute.	None
Therefore, the same has to be understood in given dictionary meaning.	None
The term disgrace signifies loss of honor, respect, or reputation, shame or bring disfavour or discredit.	None
Disgraceful means giving offence to moral sensibilities and injurious to reputation or conduct or character deserving or bringing disgrace or shame.	None
Disgraceful conduct is also to be examined from the context in which the term has been employed under the statute.	None
Disgraceful conduct need not necessarily be connected with the official of the office bearer.	None
Therefore, it may be outside the ambit of discharge of his official duty.	None
REMOVAL OF AN ELECTED OFFICE BEARER	None
The municipalities have been conferred Constitutional status by amending the Constitution vide 74th Amendment Act, 1992 w.e.f. 1.6.1993.	None
The municipalities have also been conferred various powers under Article 243B of the Constitution.	None
Amendment in the Constitution by adding Parts IX and IX A confers upon the local self Government a complete autonomy on the basic democratic unit unshackled from official control.	None
Thus, exercise of any power having effect of destroying the Constitutional Institution besides being outrageous is dangerous to the democratic setup of this country.	None
Therefore, an elected official cannot be permitted to be removed unceremoniously without following the procedure prescribed by law, in violation of the provisions of Article 21 of the Constitution, by the State by adopting a casual approach and resorting to manipulations to achieve ulterior purpose.	None
The Court being the custodian of law cannot tolerate any attempt to thwart the Institution.	None
The democratic setup of the country has always been recognized as a basic feature of the Constitution, like other features e.g. Supremacy of the Constitution, Rule of law, Principle of separation of powers, Power of judicial review under Articles 32, 226 and 227 of the Constitution etc.	None
(Vide His Holiness Keshwananda Bharti Sripadagalvaru Ors.	None
v. State of Kerala Anr.,	None
AIR 1973 SC 1461 Minerva Mills Ltd.	None
Ors.	None
v. Union of India Ors., AIR 1980 SC 1789 Union of India v. Association for Democratic Reforms Anr., AIR 2002 SC 2112 Special Reference No. 1 of 2002 (Gujarat Assembly Election Matter), AIR 2003 SC 87 and Kuldip Nayar v. Union of India Ors., AIR 2006 SC 3127 ).	None
It is not permissible to destroy any of the basic features of the Constitution even by any form of amendment, and therefore, it is beyond imagination that it can be eroded by the executive on its whims without any reason.	None
The Constitution accords full faith and credit to the act done by the executive in exercise of its statutory powers, but they have a primary responsibility to serve the nation and enlighten the citizens to further strengthen a democratic State.	None
Public administration is responsible for the effective implication of the rule of law and constitutional commands which effectuate fairly the objective standard set for adjudicating good administrative decisions.	None
However, wherever the executive fails, the Courts come forward to strike down an order passed by them passionately and to remove arbitrariness and unreasonableness, for the reason, that the State by its illegal action becomes liable for forfeiting the full faith and credit trusted with it.	None
(Vide Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes officers Welfare Council v. State of U.P. Ors., AIR 1997 SC 1451 and State of Punjab Ors.	None
v. G.S. Gill Anr., AIR 1997 SC 2324 ).	None
Basic means the basis of a thing on which it stands, and on the failure of which it falls.	None
In democracy all citizens have equal political rights.	None
Democracy means actual, active and effective exercise of power by the people in this regard.	None
It means political participation of the people in running the administration of the Government.	None
It conveys the State of affair in which each citizen is assured of the right of equal participation in the polity.	None
(See R.C. Poudyal v. Union of India Ors., AIR 1993 SC 1804 ).	None
In Peoples Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) Anr.	None
v. Union of India Anr., AIR 2003 SC 2363 , this Court held as under The trite saying that democracy is for the people, of the people and by the people has to be remembered for ever.	None
In a democratic republic, it is the will of the people that is paramount and becomes the basis of the authority of the Government.	None
The will is expressed in periodic elections based on universal adult suffrage held by means of secret ballot.	None
It is through the ballot that the voter expresses his choice or preference for a candidate Voting is formal expression of will or opinion by the person entitled to exercise the right on the subject or issue, as observed by the Court in Lily Thomas v. Speaker, Lok Sabha, (1993) 4 SCC 234 quoting from Blacks Law Dictionary.	None
The citizens of the country are enabled to take part in the Government through their chosen representatives.	None
In a parliamentary democracy like ours, the Government of the day is responsible to the people through their elected representatives.	None
The elected representative acts or is supposed to act as a live link between the people and the Government.	None
The peoples representatives fill the role of lawmakers and custodians of the Government.	None
People look to them for ventilation and redressal of their grievances.	None
In State of Punjab v. Baldev Singh etc. etc., AIR 1999 SC 2378 , this Court considered the issue of removal of an elected office bearer and held that where the statutory provision has a very serious repercussions, it implicitly makes it imperative and obligatory on the part of the authority to have strict adherence to the statutory provisions.	None
All the safeguards and protections provided under the statute have to be kept in mind while exercising such a power.	None
The Court considering its earlier judgments in Mohinder Kumar v. State, Panaji, Goa (1998) 8 SCC 655 and Ali Mustafa Abdul Rehman Moosa v. State of Kerala, AIR 1995 SC 244 , held as under It must be borne in mind that severer the punishment, greater has to be the care taken to see that all the safeguards provided in a statute are scrupulously followed.	None
The Constitution Bench of this Court in G. Sadanandan v. State of Kerala Anr., AIR 1966 SC 1925 , held that if all the safeguards provided under the Statute are not observed, an order having serious consequences is passed without proper application of mind, having a casual approach to the matter, the same can be characterised as having been passed mala fide, and thus, is liable to be quashed.	None
There can also be no quarrel with the settled legal proposition that removal of a duly elected Member on the basis of proved misconduct is a quasijudicial proceeding in nature.	None
(Vide Indian National Congress (I) v. Institute of Social Welfare Ors., AIR 2002 SC 2158 ).	None
This view stands further fortified by the Constitution Bench judgments of this Court in Bachhitar Singh v. State of Punjab Anr., AIR 1963 SC 395 and Union of India v. H.C. Goel, AIR 1964 SC 364 .	None
Therefore, the principles of natural justice are required to be given full play and strict compliance should be ensured, even in the absence of any provision providing for the same.	None
Principles of natural justice require a fair opportunity of defence to such an elected office bearer.	None
Undoubtedly, any elected official in local selfgovernment has to be put on a higher pedestal as against a government servant.	None
If a temporary government employee cannot be removed on the ground of misconduct without holding a full fledged inquiry, it is difficult to imagine how an elected office bearer can be removed without holding a full fledged inquiry.	None
In service jurisprudence, minor punishment is permissible to be imposed while holding the inquiry as per the procedure prescribed for it but for removal, termination or reduction in rank, a full fledged inquiry is required otherwise it will be violative of the provisions of Article 311 of the Constitution of India.	None
The case is to be understood in an entirely different context as compared to the government employees, for the reason, that for the removal of the elected officials, a more stringent procedure and standard of proof is required.	None
This Court examined the provisions of the Punjab Municipal Act, 1911, providing for the procedure of removal of the President of the Municipal Council on similar grounds in Tarlochan Dev Sharma v. State of Punjab Ors., AIR 2001 SC 2524 and observed that removal of an elected office bearer is a serious matter.	None
The elected office bearer must not be removed unless a clearcut case is made out, for the reason that holding and enjoying an office, discharging related duties is a valuable statutory right of not only the elected member but also of his constituency or electoral college.	None
His removal may curtail the term of the office bearer and also cast stigma upon him.	None
Therefore, the procedure prescribed under a statute for removal must be strictly adhered to and unless a clear case is made out, there can be no justification for his removal.	None
While taking the decision, the authority should not be guided by any other extraneous consideration or should not come under any political pressure.	None
In a democratic institution, like ours, the incumbent is entitled to hold the office for the term for which he has been elected unless his election is set aside by a prescribed procedure known to law or he is removed by the procedure established under law.	None
The proceedings for removal must satisfy the requirement of natural justice and the decision must show that the authority has applied its mind to the allegations made and the explanation furnished by the elected office bearer sought to be removed.	None
The elected official is accountable to its electorate because he is being elected by a large number of voters.	None
His removal has serious repercussions as he is removed from the post and declared disqualified to contest the elections for a further stipulated period, but it also takes away the right of the people of his constituency to be represented by him.	None
Undoubtedly, the right to hold such a post is statutory and no person can claim any absolute or vested right to the post, but he cannot be removed without strictly adhering to the provisions provided by the legislature for his removal (Vide Jyoti Basu Ors.	None
v. Debi Ghosal Ors.,	None
AIR 1982 SC 983 Mohan Lal Tripathi v. District Magistrate, Rai Barelly Ors., AIR 1993 SC 2042 and Ram Beti etc. etc. v. District Panchayat Rajadhikari Ors., AIR 1998 SC 1222 ).	None
In view of the above, the law on the issue stands crystallized to the effect that an elected member can be removed in exceptional circumstances giving strict adherence to the statutory provisions and holding the enquiry, meeting the requirement of principles of natural justice and giving an incumbent an opportunity to defend himself, for the reason that removal of an elected person casts stigma upon him and takes away his valuable statutory right.	None
Not only the elected office bearer but his constituency electoral college is also deprived of representation by the person of his choice.	None
A duly elected person is entitled to hold office for the term for which he has been elected and he can be removed only on a proved misconduct or any other procedure established under law like No Confidence Motion etc.	None
The elected official is accountable to its electorate as he has been elected by a large number of voters and it would have serious repercussions when he is removed from the office and further declared disqualified to contest the election for a further stipulated period.	None
RECORD I NG OF REASONS It is a settled proposition of law that even in administrative matters, the reasons should be recorded as it is incumbent upon the authorities to pass a speaking and reasoned order.	None
In Kumari Shrilekha Vidyarthi etc. etc. v. State of U.P. Ors., AIR 1991 SC 537 , this Court has observed as under Every such action may be informed by reason and if follows that an act uninformed by reason is arbitrary, the rule of law contemplates governance by law and not by humour, whim or caprice of the men to whom the governance is entrusted for the time being.	None
It is the trite law that be you ever so high, the laws are above you.	None
This is what a man in power must remember always.	None
In L.I.C. of India Anr.	None
v. Consumer Education and Research Centre Ors., AIR 1995 SC 1811 , this Court observed that the State or its instrumentality must not take any irrelevant or irrational factor into consideration or appear arbitrary in its decision.	None
Duty to act fairly is part of fair procedure envisaged under Articles 14 and 21.	None
Every activity of the public authority or those under public duty must be received and guided by the public interest.	None
A similar view has been reiterated by this Court in Union of India v. M.L. Capoor Ors., AIR 1974 SC 87 and Mahesh Chandra v. Regional Manager, U.P. Financial Corporation Ors., AIR 1993 SC 935 .	None
In State of West Bengal v. Atul Krishna Shaw Anr., AIR 1990 SC 2205 , this Court observed that giving of reasons is an essential element of administration of justice.	None
A right to reason is, therefore, an indispensable part of sound system of judicial review.	None
In S.N. Mukherjee v. Union of India, AIR 1990 SC 1984 , it has been held that the object underlying the rules of natural justice is to prevent miscarriage of justice and secure fair play in action.	None
The expanding horizon of the principles of natural justice provides for requirement to record reasons as it is now regarded as one of the principles of natural justice, and it was held in the above case that except in cases where the requirement to record reasons is expressly or by necessary implication dispensed with, the authority must record reasons for its decision.	None
In Krishna Swami v. Union of India Ors., AIR 1993 SC 1407 , this Court observed that the rule of law requires that any action or decision of a statutory or public authority must be founded on the reason stated in the order or borneout from the record.	None
The Court further observed Reasons are the links between the material, the foundation for their erection and the actual conclusions.	None
They would also demonstrate how the mind of the maker was activated and actuated and their rational nexus and synthesis with the facts considered and the conclusions reached.	None
Lest it would be arbitrary, unfair and unjust, violating Article 14 or unfair procedure offending Article 21.	None
This Court while deciding the issue in Sant Lal Gupta Ors. v. Modern Cooperative Group Housing Society Ltd.	None
Ors., (2010) 13 SCC 336 , placing reliance on its various earlier judgments held as under It is a settled legal proposition that not only administrative but also judicial order must be supported by reasons, recorded in it.	None
Thus, while deciding an issue, the Court is bound to give reasons for its conclusion.	None
It is the duty and obligation on the part of the Court to record reasons while disposing of the case.	None
The hallmark of order and exercise of judicial power by a judicial forum is for the forum to disclose its reasons by itself and giving of reasons has always been insisted upon as one of the fundamentals of sound administration of the justice  delivery system, to make it known that there had been proper and due application of mind to the issue before the Court and also as an essential requisite of the principles of natural justice.	None
The giving of reasons for a decision is an essential attribute of judicial and judicious disposal of a matter before Courts, and which is the only indication to know about the manner and quality of exercise undertaken, as also the fact that the Court concerned had really applied its mind.	None
The reason is the heartbeat of every conclusion.	None
It introduces clarity in an order and without the same, the order becomes lifeless.	None
Reasons substitute subjectivity with objectivity.	None
The absence of reasons renders an order indefensible unsustainable particularly when the order is subject to further challenge before a higher forum.	None
Recording of reasons is principle of natural justice and every judicial order must be supported by reasons recorded in writing.	None
It ensures transparency and fairness in decision making.	None
The person who is adversely affected must know why his application has been rejected.	None
In Institute of Chartered Accountants of India v. L.K. Ratna Ors., AIR 1987 SC 71 , this Court held that on charge of misconduct the authority holding the inquiry must record reasons for reaching its conclusion and record clear findings.	None
The Court further held In fairness and justice, the member is entitled to know why he has been found guilty.	None
The case can be so serious that it can attract the harsh penalties provided by the Act.	None
Moreover, the member has been given a right of appeal to the High Court under S. 22 A of the Act.	None
The exercise his right of appeal effectively he must know the basis on which the Council has found him guilty.	None
We have already pointed out that a finding by the Council is the first determinative finding on the guilt of the member.	None
It is a finding by a Tribunal of first instance.	None
The conclusion of the Disciplinary Committee does not enjoy the status of a finding.	None
Moreover, the reasons contained in the report by the Disciplinary Committee for its conclusion may or may not constitute the basis of the finding rendered by the Council.	None
The Council must, therefore, state the reasons for its finding.	None
The emphasis on recording reason is that if the decision reveals the inscrutable face of the sphinx, it can be its silence, render it virtually impossible for the courts to perform their appellate function or exercise the power of judicial review in adjudging the validity of the decision.	None
Right to reason is an indispensable part of a sound judicial system, reasons at least sufficient to indicate an application of mind of the authority before the court.	None
Another rationale is that the affected party can know why the decision has gone against him.	None
One of the salutary requirements of natural justice is spelling out reasons for the order made.	None
In other words, a speaking out, the inscrutable face of the sphinx is ordinarily incongruous with a judicial or quasijudicial performance.	None
MALICE IN LAW	None
This Court has consistently held that the State is under an obligation to act fairly without ill will or malice in fact or in law.	None
Where malice is attributed to the State, it can never be a case of personal illwill or spite on the part of the State.	None
Legal malice or malice in law means something done without lawful excuse.	None
It is a deliberate act in disregard to the rights of others.	None
It is an act which is taken with an oblique or indirect object.	None
It is an act done wrongfully and wilfully without reasonable or probable cause, and not necessarily an act done from ill feeling and spite.	None
Mala fide exercise of power does not imply any moral turpitude.	None
It means exercise of statutory power for purposes foreign to those for which it is in law intended.	None
It means conscious violation of the law to the prejudice of another, a depraved inclination on the part of the authority to disregard the rights of others, where intent is manifested by its injurious acts.	None
Passing an order for unauthorized purpose constitutes malice in law.	None
(See Addl.	None
Distt.	None
Magistrate, Jabalpur v. Shivakant Shukla, AIR 1976 SC 1207 Union of India thr.	None
Govt.	None
of Pondicherry Anr.	None
v. V. Ramakrishnan Ors., (2005) 8 SCC 394 and Kalabharati Advertising v. Hemant Vimalnath Narichania	None
Ors., AIR 2010 SC 3745 ).	None
Section 55 of the Act 1965 provides for removal of the President of the Council by No Confidence Motion.	None
Sections 55A and 55B provide a mode of removal of duly elected President on proved misconduct or negligence etc., which read as under Section 55A. Removal of President and VicePresident by Government Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 551A and 55, a President or a VicePresident may be removed from office by the State Government for misconduct in the discharge of his duties, or for neglect of or incapacity to perform, his duties or for being guilty of any disgraceful conduct, and the President or VicePresident so removed shall not be eligible for reelection or reappointment as President or VicePresident as the case may be, during the remainder of the term of office of the Councillors Provided that, no such President or Vice President shall be removed from office, unless he has been given a reasonable opportunity to furnish an explanation.	None
55B. Disqualification for continuing as Councillor or becoming Councillor on removal as President or Vice President Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 55A, if a Councillor or a person is found to be guilty of misconduct in the discharge of his official duties or being guilty of any disgraceful conduct while holding or while he was holding the office of the President or VicePresident, as the case may be, the State Government may, (a) disqualify such Councillor to continue as a Councillor for the remainder of his term of office as a Councillor and also for being elected as a Councillor, till the period of six years has elapsed from the order of such disqualification Disqualify such person for being elected as a Councillor till the period of six years has elapsed from the order of such disqualification.	None
It is also pertinent to refer to the provisions of Section 81 of the Act 1965 which reads as under Section 81 Provisions in regard to meetings of Council The following provisions shall be observed with respect to the meetings of a Council For the disposal of general business, which shall be restricted to matters relating to the powers, duties and functions of the Council as specified in this Act or any other law for the time being in force, and any welcome address to a distinguished visitor, proposal for giving Manpatra to a distinguished person or resolution of condolence (where all or any of these are duly proposed), an ordinary meeting shall be held once in two months.	None
The first such meeting, shall be held within two months, from the date on which the meeting of the Council under Section 51 is held, and each succeeding ordinary meeting shall be held within two months from the date on which the last preceding ordinary meeting is held.	None
The President may also call additional ordinary meetings as he deems necessary.	None
It shall be the duty of the President to fix the dates for all ordinary meetings and, to call such meetings in time.	None
(1A)	None
If the President fails to call an ordinary meeting within the period specified in clause (1), the Chief Officer shall forthwith report such failure to the Collector.	None
The Collector shall, within seven days from receipt of the Chief Officers report or may, suo motu, call the ordinary meeting.	None
The agenda for such meeting shall be drawn up by the Collector, in consultation with the Chief Officer The President may, whenever he thinks fit, and shall upon the written request of not less than onefourth of the total number of Councillors and on a date not later than fifteen days after the receipt of such request by the President, call a special meeting.	None
The business to be transacted at any such meeting shall also be restricted to matters specified in clause (1).	None
If the President fails to call a meeting within the period specified in clause (2), the Councillors who had made a request for the special meeting being called, may request the Collector to call a special meeting.	None
On receipt of such request, the Collector, or any officer whom he may designate in this behalf, shall call the special meeting on a date within fifteen days from the date of receipt of such request by the Collector.	None
Such meeting shall be presided over by the Collector or the Officer designated, but he shall have no right to vote.	None
The instant case requires to be examined in the light of aforesaid settled legal propositions and the statutory provisions.	None
The case has initially originated because of the complaint filed by Shri Chintaman Raghunath Gharat, ExPresident and the then sitting Municipal Councillor, Uran Municipal Council (Respondent No.5) dated 3.5.2007 regarding the misconduct of the appellant.	None
The preliminary inquiry was conducted through Collector, Raigad.	None
The Collector, Raigad made an inquiry through Deputy Collector and submitted the inquiry report dated 25.8.2008 and as no action was taken by the Statutory Authority against the appellant, Shri Gharat filed a Writ Petition No. 2309 of 2008 before the High Court which was disposed of vide order dated 3.4.2008 directing the respondent no. 2 (Honble Minister of State, Urban Development, the then Honble Chief Minister) to take a decision on the application complaint submitted by Shri Gharat within a period of 8 weeks.	None
As the decision could not be taken within that stipulated time, Shri Gharat filed Contempt Petition No. 379 of 2008 which was disposed of by the High Court directing the statutory authority to take up the decision expeditiously.	None
It was, in fact, in view of the High Courts order, the chargesheet showcause notice dated 3.12.2008 containing 6 charges was served upon the appellant.	None
In response to the said chargesheet dated 3.12.2008, the appellant furnished explanation dated 18.12.2008 denying all the charges framed against him and furnished a detailed explanation.	None
In this respect, hearing was held on 23.1.2009 wherein the appellant as well as the complainant appeared alongwith their advocates and made their submissions before the Honble Minister.	None
The impugned order was passed on 21.3.2009 holding the appellant guilty of three charges imposing the punishment as referred to hereinabove.	None
The impugned order dated 21.3.2009 runs from pages 28 to 52 of the appeal paperbook.	None
The facts and the charges run from pages 28 to 36.	None
Explanation furnished by the appellant runs from pages 36 to 47.	None
The order of the Honble Minister runs only to 5 pages.	None
It is evident from the said order that the Honble Minister did not make any reference to the pleadings taken by the appellant either in his reply to show cause or during the course of hearing.	None
The order simply reveals that the Honble Minister noticed certain things.	None
Two paragraphs at page 48 are not relevant at all for our consideration.	None
The admission of the appellant that meeting was not held for a period of 3 months between 28.2.2007 to 28.5.2007 has been relied upon.	None
In other paragraphs reference has been made to Standing Order 36 issued by the Director and Commissioner, Directorate of Municipal Administration, providing for the procedure for inviting tenders and then straightaway without giving any reason, finding is recorded as under Out of the 3 tenders received for installation of 300 mm diameter pipeline for outlet and inlet of GSR tank at Sarvodayawadi and Town Hall of Uran Municipal Council, lowest tender is accepted as per clause 171 of the Maharashtra Municipal Council Accounts Code, 1971.	None
However, the tenders were invited as per the DSR rates for the year 20052006.	None
The lowest tender received at that time and was more than 10 of the rates of the estimate (approximately 31 and 37).	None
Despite this, the said tender was accepted.	None
Then, a very cryptic order of punishment has been passed.	None
The explanation furnished by the appellant for not holding the meeting and acceptance of tender by the council itself and not by the appellant, has not been considered at all.	None
No reasoning has been given by the Statutory Authority for reaching the conclusions.	None
We fail to understand as on what basis such a cryptic order imposing such a severe punishment can be sustained in the eyes of law.	None
The High Court has also erred in not dealing with any of the issues raised by the appellant while furnishing his explanation rather relied upon the findings recorded by the Honble Minister.	None
There is nothing in the judgment of the High Court wherein the grievance of the appellant has been considered or any reasoning has been given to uphold the findings recorded by the Statutory Authority imposing such a severe punishment.	None
Shri Chintaman Raghunath Gharat, ExPresident was the complainant, thus, at the most, he could lead the evidence as a witness.	None
He could not claim the status of an adversial litigant.	None
The complainant cannot be the party to the lis.	None
A legal right is an averment of entitlement arising out of law.	None
In fact, it is a benefit conferred upon a person by the rule of law.	None
Thus, a person who suffers from legal injury can only challenge the act or omission.	None
There may be some harm or loss that may not be wrongful in the eyes of law because it may not result in injury to a legal right or legally protected interest of the complainant but juridically harm of this description is called damnum sine injuria.	None
The complainant has to establish that he has been deprived of or denied of a legal right and he has sustained injury to any legally protected interest.	None
In case he has no legal peg for a justiciable claim to hang on, he cannot be heard as a party in a lis.	None
A fanciful or sentimental grievance may not be sufficient to confer a locus standi to sue upon the individual.	None
There must be injuria or a legal grievance which can be appreciated and not a stat pro ratione valuntas reasons i.e. a claim devoid of reasons.	None
Under the garb of being necessary party, a person cannot be permitted to make a case as that of general public interest.	None
A person having a remote interest cannot be permitted to become a party in the lis, as the person wants to become a party in a case, has to establish that he has a proprietary right which has been or is threatened to be violated, for the reason that a legal injury creates a remedial right in the injured person.	None
A person cannot be heard as a party unless he answers the description of aggrieved party.	None
(Vide Adi Pherozshah Gandhi v. H.M. Seervai, Advocate General of Maharashtra, AIR 1971 SC 385 Jasbhai Motibhai Desai v. Roshan Kumar, Haji Bashir Ahmed Ors., AIR 1976 SC 578 Maharaj Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh Ors., AIR 1976 SC 2602 Ghulam Qadir v. Special Tribunal Ors., (2002) 1 SCC 33 and Kabushiki Kaisha Toshiba v. Tosiba Appliances Company Ors., (2008) 10 SCC 766 ).	None
The High Court failed to appreciate that it was a case of political rivalry.	None
The case of the appellant has not been considered in correct perspective at all.	None
In such a factsituation, the complaint filed by the respondent No. 5 could at the most be pressed into service as a material exhibit in order to collect the evidence to find out the truth.	None
In the instant case, as all the charges proved against the appellant have been dealt with exclusively on the basis of documentary evidence, there is nothing on record by which the complainant could show that the General Body meeting was not called, as statutorily required, by the appellant intentionally.	None
Not calling the meeting of the General Body of the House may be merely a technical misconduct committed inadvertently in ignorance of statutory requirements.	None
It is nobodys case that the appellant had done it intentionally purposely in order to avoid some unpleasant resolution demand of the council.	None
No finding of fact has been recorded either by the competent authority or by the High Court that some urgent important work could not be carried out for want of General Body meeting of the council.	None
Merely not to conduct oneself according to the procedure prescribed or omission to conduct a meeting without any corresponding loss to the corporate body, would not be an automatic misconduct by inference, unless some positive intentional misconduct is shown.	None
It was an admitted fact that the meeting had not been called.	None
However, in the absence of any imputation of motive, not calling the meeting by the appellant could not in itself, be enough to prove the charge.	None
Section 81 of the Act 1965 requires that for the disposal of the general business, the President should call the meeting of the Council within a period of two months from the date on which the last preceding ordinary meeting was held.	None
The statutory provisions further provided that in case the President fails to call the ordinary meeting within the said stipulated period, the Chief Officer may report such failure to the Collector and the Collector can call the ordinary meeting of the Council following the procedure prescribed therein.	None
The President can also call the meeting on the request of the members not less than onefourth of the total number of councils.	None
Therefore, the cogent reading of all the provisions makes it clear that in case the President fails to call the meeting, there are other modes of calling the meeting and in such an eventuality where reasonable explanation has been furnished by the appellant to the show cause notice on this count, the competent authority could not have passed such a harsh order.	None
So far as the other charges regarding laying down the pipelines at a much higher rate are concerned, it has been a positive case of the appellant that as earlier contractor had abandoned the work in between and there was a scarcity of water in the city, the Chief Officer, the Junior Engineer considered the technical aspect and then recommendations were forwarded under the signatures of the appellant, the Chief Officer and Junior Engineer to the council, which ultimately passed the resolution accepting the said tenders.	None
In such a factsituation, it was a collective consensus decision of the house after due deliberations.	None
Admittedly, it was not even the ratification of contract awarded by the appellant himself.	None
Thus, even by any stretch of imagination it cannot be held to be an individual decision of the appellant and the competent authority failed to appreciate that the tenders were accepted by the Council itself and not by the appellant alone.	None
Therefore, he could not be held responsible for acceptance of tenders.	None
We have gone through the counter affidavit filed by respondent No.5, complainant before this court and he has not stated anywhere that the tenders were not accepted by the council, rather allegations have been made that the tenders had been accepted at a higher rate so that the contractor could get the financial gain.	None
Similarly, technical issue has been raised for not calling the meeting, committing serious irregularities sufficiently warranting disqualification of the appellant on his omission to call the meeting, but it is not his case that he did it intentionally.	None
The counter affidavit filed by the State does not reveal anything in relation to the issues involved herein and it appears that the deponent officer has merely completed the formalities without any purpose.	None
To conclude, we are of the considered opinion and that too after appreciation of the entire evidence on record that the first charge proved against the appellant for not calling the meeting of Council, did not warrant the order of removal and the explanation furnished by appellant could have been accepted.	Reasoning
Other charges could not be proved against the appellant, in view of the fact, that the tenders at a higher rate were accepted by the Council itself and the appellant could not be held exclusively responsible for it.	Reasoning
The Respondent no. 5, being a political rival, could not have been entertained as a party to the lis.	Reasoning
The charge of not calling the meeting of the Council had been admitted by the appellant himself, thus, no further evidence was required, for the reason, that the admission is the best evidence.	Reasoning
The competent authority could have considered his explanation alone and proceeded to take a final decision.	Reasoning
So far as the other charges are concerned, as has been observed hereinabove, it had been a consensus collective decision of the Council to accept the tender at higher rate and the appellant could not have been held guilty of the said charges.	Reasoning
Thus, the instant case has been a crystal clear cut case of legal malice and therefore, the impugned orders are liable to be quashed.	Reasoning
The duly elected member chairman of the council could not have been removed in such a casual and cavalier manner without giving strict adherence to the safeguards provided under the statute which had to be scrupulously followed.	Reasoning
The appellant has raised a question of fact before the High Court as well as before this Court submitting that at the time of hearing before the Honble Chief Minister, respondent No.5 has raised new grounds and the appellant raised serious objections as he had no opportunity to meet the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, in order to give the appellant an opportunity to rebut the same the competent authority had adjourned the case and directed the Secretary to fix a date so that the appellant may meet those new objections grounds.	None
However, the order impugned removing the appellant from the post and declaring him further disqualified for a period of six years had been passed.	None
It is not evident from the order impugned as what could be those new grounds which had not been disclosed to the appellant.	Reasoning
Thus, to ascertain as to whether in order to give an opportunity to the appellant to meet the alleged new grounds, the competent authority had adjourned the case, this Court while reserving the judgment vide order dated 13.2.2012 asked the learned Standing Counsel for the State Shri Mike Prakash Desai to produce the original record before this Court within a period of two weeks.	Reasoning
For the reasons best known to the State Authorities neither the record has been produced before us, nor any application has been filed to extend the time to produce the same.	Reasoning
In fact, this Court has been deprived of seeing the original record and to examine the grievance of the appellant.	Reasoning
We express our grave concern and shock the way the State Authorities has treated the highest court of the land.	Reasoning
In such a factsituation, the court has no option except to draw the adverse inference against the State.50.	Reasoning
In view of the above, the appeal succeeds and is allowed.	Decision
The judgment and order of the High Court dated 18.6.2009 as well as the order passed by the Honble Chief Minister dated 21.3.2009 are hereby set aside.	Decision
This Court while entertaining the petition had granted interim protection to the appellant vide order dated 17.7.2009, which was extended till further orders vide order dated 13.8.2009 and, thus, the orders impugned remained inoperative.	Decision
Thus, it will be deemed as no order had ever been passed against the appellant.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of the case, there will be no order as to costs.	None
A copy of the order be sent directly to the Chief Secretary, State of Maharashtra, Bombay, who may conduct an enquiry and send his personal affidavit as under what circumstances the State Authorities could decide not to ensure compliance of the order of this Court dated 13.2.2012, within a period of four week from the date of receipt of this order, to the Registrar General of this Court who may place it alongwith the file before the Bench.	Decision
