Dr. B.S. Chauhan, J. These appeals have been preferred against the impugned judgment and order dated 13.8.2001, passed by the High Court of Delhi at New Delhi in Writ Petition Nos.349, 28122814 and 2822 of 1989 by way of which, the High Court dismissed the said writ petitions challenging the notice dated 25.5.1987, issued by the Divisional Railway Manager, Northern Railway, calling upon the appellants to pay the licence fee for the railway property in their use, at the enhanced rate, and also letter dated 29.7.1987, terminating licences to operate the shops in question and to vacate the premises for failing to deposit outstanding dues on account of nonpayment of licence fee.	Issue
Facts and circumstances giving rise to these appeals are that Each of the appellants is a licensee of the shops in dispute admeasuring 4.22 sq	None
. yards upto 100 sq. yards situated at Qutub Road, Sadar Bazar, Delhi which have been in their occupation since preindependence.	None
As per the appellants, there has been previous litigation in respect of this very land and the same became evacuee property under the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 and was taken over by the Custodian.	Facts
The appellants, being licensees of the shops, have regularly been paying the license fee to the Railways, at rates which were mutually agreed upon and have also been increased in the past.	Facts
In 1977, the said licence fee was increased to Rs.21 per sq. yards per annum, while earlier, it was fixed at only Rs.18 per sq. yards per annum.	Facts
The appellants received a notice dated 7.8.1980 from the respondentsRailways Authorities, about increase in the licence fee from Rs.21 per sq. yards to Rs.270 per sq. yards per annum.	Facts
Representations made by the appellants association were considered by the Honble Railway Minister and order dated 26.9.1980 was passed, staying the auction thereof, with a further direction to examine their grievances.	Facts
The Honble Railway Minister further considered the representation of the appellants Association and observed that the auction of the said shops was not reasonable.	Facts
He also stated that the revision in license fee was excessive and expressed his opinion with respect to reconsidering the whole case and increasing the license fee by 5 to 10.	Facts
The Railway Administration, after considering the case of the appellants, again passed an order dated 25.5.1987 to enhance the license fee Rs.270 per sq. yards with retrospective effect from 1.11.1980.	Facts
The appellants Association had been making representations since receiving the aforementioned notice for enhancement dated 25.5.1987, and ultimately filed writ petitions before the High Court which have been dismissed.	Facts
Hence, these appeals.	Facts
Shri Altaf Ahmed, learned Senior counsel appearing for the appellants has submitted that once the enhanced license fee had been disapproved by the Honble Railway Minister and the matter was reconsidered in light of the observation made by the Honble Minister stating that the said enhancement was excessive and that the license fee could be enhanced by 5 to 10, the notice impugned was unreasonable and arbitrary.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Ministry of Urban Development issued guidelines dated 14.1.1992 as how the license fee could periodically be revised.	None
Therein, it was provided that the standard license fee should be determined as per the provisions of the Rent Control Act applicable to a State.	None
In the instant case, the Delhi Rent Control Act is applicable, and therefore, the standard license fee as provided therein ought to have been calculated.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Delhi Rent Control Act was amended in 1963, making it applicable to the premises belonging to the Government as well.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents have filed an affidavit before this Court on 5.9.2002, giving a particular mode of calculation and even if the same is applied, the enhanced license fee would not be enhanced to this extent, and the High Court has erred in not deciding any issue raised by the appellants and in dismissing the writ petitions in a cursory manner.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, the said appeals deserve to be allowed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Being a welfare state, it is the duty of the State to provide shops at nominal license fee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, Shri Chandra Bhushan Prasad, learned counsel appearing for the respondents, has submitted that the appellants have been enjoying the said property at nominal license fee.	Arguments of Respondent
The property is situated in a very busy market of old Delhi.	Arguments of Respondent
The area of the shops varies from 4.22 sq. yards to 100 sq. yards.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, considering the geographical situation of the shops, alongwith the other facilities provided to the appellants, such enhanced license fee is, in fact, nominal.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court has rightly dismissed their writ petitions and no interference is called for.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
The High Court has taken judicial notice of the facts and surrounding circumstances, considered the geographical situation of the suit properties and held as under For a similarly situated shop if it was owned by a private persons, the rental licence fee would have been much more.	None
The mere fact that the Railway is a State Enterprise does not mean that .	None
on the premises in occupation of the petitioner and other persons.	None
State enterprise must not look elsewhere for funds.	None
It must generate funds through the activities which are undertaken by it for providing services to the public at large.	None
It cannot be expected to run in deficit Since the action of the first respondent is reasonable, we decline to interfere with the aforesaid enhancement.	None
We are of the considered opinion that no fault can be found with the aforesaid observations and no interference is required.	Reasoning
The enhanced license fee cannot be held to be unreasonable or arbitrary, and as warranting any interference by a court of equity.	None
Undoubtedly, the enhanced license fee being 13 times, the earlier license fee amount seems excessive, and such an observation was also made by the Honble Railway Minister in order dated 11.4.1981, but the enhanced license fee would be illusory if the same is compared with the prevailing license fee in the said market as applicable to private shops.	Reasoning
A welfare state must serve larger public interest.	Reasoning
Salus Populi Suprema lex, means that the welfare of the people is the supreme law.	None
A state instrumentality must serve the society as a whole, and must not grant unwarranted favour(s) to a particular class of people without any justification, at the cost of others.	Reasoning
However, in order to serve larger public interest, the State instrumentality must be able to generate its own resources, as it cannot serve such higher purpose while in deficit.	Reasoning
Merely because the appellants have been occupying the suit premises for a prolonged period of time, they cannot claim any special privilege.	Reasoning
In the absence of any proof of violation of their rights, such concession cannot be granted to them.	None
Welfare State means A welfare state denotes a concept of government, in which the State plays a key role in the protection and promotion of the economic and social wellbeing of all of its citizens, which may include equitable distribution of wealth and equal opportunities and public responsibilities for all those, who are unable to avail for themselves, minimal provisions for a decent life.	None
It refers to Greatest good of greatest number and the benefit of all and the happiness of all.	None
It is important that public weal be the commitment of the State, where the state is a welfare state.	None
A welfare state is under an obligation to prepare plans and devise beneficial schemes for the good of the common people.	None
Thus, the fundamental feature of a Welfare state is social insurance.	None
Antipoverty programmes and a system of personal taxation are examples of certain aspects of a Welfare state.	None
A Welfare state provides State sponsored aid for individuals from the cradle to the grave.	None
However, a welfare state faces basic problems as regards what should be the desirable level of provision of such welfare services by the state, for the reason that equitable provision of resources to finance services over and above the contributions of direct beneficiaries would cause difficulties.	None
A welfare state is one, which seeks to ensure maximum happiness of maximum number of people living within its territory.	None
A welfare state must attempt to provide all facilities for decent living, particularly to the poor, the weak, the old and the disabled i.e. to all those, who admittedly belong to the weaker sections of society.	None
Articles 38 and 39 of the Constitution of India provide that the State must strive to promote the welfare of the people of the state by protecting all their economic, social and political rights.	None
These rights may cover, means of livelihood, health and the general wellbeing of all sections of people in society, specially those of the young, the old, the women and the relatively weaker sections of the society.	None
These groups generally require special protection measures in almost every set up.	None
The happiness of the people is the ultimate aim of a welfare state, and a welfare state would not qualify as one, unless it strives to achieve the same.	None
(See also Dantuluri Ram Raja Ors.	None
v. State of Andhra Pradesh Anr., AIR 1972 SC 828 N. Nagendra Rao Company v. State of Andhra Pradesh, AIR 1994 SC 2663 and N.D. Jayal Anr.	None
Union of India Ors., AIR 2004 SC 867).	None
The High Court has observed that the letter notice dated 7.8.1980, enhancing the rate of license fee remains unchallenged, and therefore, the application of notice dated 25.5.1987, with retrospective effect is justified.	None
This finding is not factually correct.	None
Notice dated 7.8.1980, enhancing the license fee was received by the appellants, and representations were filed by them through their Association, raising all their grievances to the effect that during a period of 30 years, the license fee paid by them had been enhanced about 15 to 20 times, without any justification and hence, they demanded justice.	Reasoning
The same were considered by the then Railway Minister, and orders dated 26.9.1980 and 11.4.1981 were passed by him, observing that the license fee may be revised after every 5 years on the basis of justice and equity.	Reasoning
Certain interim relief was also granted.	Reasoning
Thus, in view of the above, we are of the opinion that the aforesaid demands should not have been made to apply with retrospective effect from the year 781980.	Reasoning
In view of the above, the appeals succeed and are allowed partly, to the extent that notice dated 25.5.1987 must not be applied retrospectively, i.e., w.e.f. 781980.	Decision
However, the enhanced license fee may be recovered from the appellants from the said date in accordance with law.	None
With these observations, the appeals stand disposed of.	None
Interim order passed earlier stands vacated.	Decision
CA Nos.268279, 263266 248262 of 2003 The abovesaid Civil Appeals stand disposed of in terms of the judgment passed in Civil Appeal Nos.243247 of 2003.	Decision
