 F. Nariman, J. Leave granted.	None
The present case involves the right of a secured creditor to file a winding up petition after such secured creditor has obtained a decree from the Debts Recovery Tribunal DRT and a recovery certificate based thereon.	Issue
Several appeals were taken up together for hearing by the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court.	Facts
The brief facts necessary to decide the present appeals are as followsThe respondent, Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited, advanced various loans to the companies in question.	Facts
The outstanding amount against these companies as on date, together with interest, is stated to be in the region of INR 48 crores.	Facts
The respondent approached the Debts Recovery Tribunal, Mumbai by filing three separate original applications to recover the debt owed to them.	Facts
The Debts Recovery Tribunal delivered three separate judgments on 16.01.2015 allowing the applications filed by the respondent bank.	Facts
Apparently, the said orders are final as no appeals have been preferred to the Debts Recovery Appellate Tribunal DRAT, Mumbai.	Facts
Recovery certificates dated 12.08.2015 for the said amounts were then issued by the Recovery Officer under Section 19(19) of the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 Recovery of Debts Act.	None
We have been informed that various attempts were made to auction the properties that were security for the loans granted, but each of these attempts has yielded no results.	None
In the meanwhile, the respondent issued statutory notices dated 15.04.2015 under Sections 433 and 434 of the Companies Act, 1956.	Facts
As no payments were forthcoming, a company petition was filed before the Bombay High Court on 03.07.2015.	Facts
By an order dated 26.07.2017, the said petition was admitted as the companies in question were said to be commercially insolvent.	Facts
In the appeals that were filed to the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court, the main point argued was that once a secured creditor has obtained an order from the DRT, and a recovery certificate has been issued thereupon, such secured creditor cannot file a winding up petition as the Recovery of Debts Act is a special Act which vests exclusive jurisdiction in the DRT.	Facts
Also, a secured creditor can file a winding up petition only on giving up its security, which has not been done in the present case.	Facts
These contentions did not find favour with the Division Bench who then dismissed the appeals in question.	Facts
Shri K. Parameshwar, learned advocate, appearing on behalf of the appellants, has urged a number of points before us.	Arguments of Petitioner
He first argued that this Court has held that the Recovery of Debts Act is a special statute qua the general statute of the Companies Act, 1956, and that this Court has further held that exclusive jurisdiction is vested in the DRT under the Recovery of Debts Act to the exclusion of the Company Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
As this is so, once the DRT has been approached, the necessary corollary is that a winding up petition to realize the same debt would be expressly barred on a conjoint reading of Sections 17 and 18 of the Recovery of Debts Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further argued that in any case, the secured creditor is put to an election where it must either relinquish its security and stand in line in the winding up proceeding or realize its security outside the winding up proceeding.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the facts of the present case, it has filed a successful action to realize its security outside the winding up proceeding, as a result of which, the winding up proceeding filed by it, without giving up the mortgaged security, would not be maintainable.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further argued that, in any event, Section 434(1)(b) of the Companies Act, 1956 would be attracted, and not Section 434(1)(a), and that since the security has not yet been realized, the winding up petition dressed up under Section 434(1)(a), but really under Section 434(1)(b), would not be maintainable.	Arguments of Petitioner
Also, reliance on certain High Court judgments by the impugned judgment is completely misplaced for the reason that the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 would show that the secured creditor has to relinquish its security when it files a winding up petition, and not thereafter, as has been held in these judgments.	Arguments of Petitioner
In answer to these contentions, Shri Shyam Divan, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the respondent, has argued, relying upon Section 439 of the Companies Act, 1956 in particular, that a secured creditor can maintain a winding up petition in the fact situation as obtains in the present case.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, the judgment relied upon by the appellant, namely, Allahabad Bank v. Canara Bank, (2000) 4 SCC 406 , is distinguishable in that the context of that judgment was whether leave had to be obtained from the Company Court when a winding up proceeding is either pending, or a winding up order is made, in order to pursue a debt recovery proceeding under the Recovery of Debts Act.	Arguments of Respondent
He also argued before us that the election that is to take place with the secured creditor giving up its security is at the stage of proof of claims, which is only after a winding up order has been passed, and which stage has not yet arrived on the facts of the present case.	Arguments of Respondent
Also, according to him, the petition has been filed only on the ground of inability to pay debts, and once the statutory presumption is raised under Section 434(1)(a) of the Companies Act, 1956, it is clear that winding up must follow in the absence of payment of outstanding amounts of debts owed.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned Senior Advocate, his client has gone from pillar to post in an attempt to recover the loans made to the appellants and has not yet succeeded in any endeavour to do so.	Arguments of Respondent
Also, nothing has been repaid so far and the debt owed by these companies, which is mounting, amounts to a staggering figure of INR 48 crores.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned counsel, therefore, the High Court was right in dismissing the appeal filed by the appellants.	Arguments of Respondent
After hearing learned counsel for both sides, it is important to first set out the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and the Recovery of Debts Act, 1993.	None
Section 434(1) of the Companies Act, 1956 reads as follows Company when deemed unable to pay its debts.	None
A company shall be deemed to be unable to pay its debts (a) if a creditor, by assignment or otherwise, to whom the company is indebted in a sum exceeding one lakh rupees then due, has served on the company, by causing it to be delivered at its registered office, by registered post or otherwise, a demand under his hand requiring the company to pay the sum so due and the company has for three weeks thereafter neglected to pay the sum, or to secure or compound for it to the reasonable satisfaction of the creditor (b) if execution or other process issued on a decree or order of any Court or Tribunal in favour of a creditor of the company is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part or (c) if it is proved to the satisfaction of the Tribunal that the company is unable to pay its debts, and, in determining whether a company is unable to pay its debts, the Tribunal shall take into account the contingent and prospective liabilities of the company.	None
xxx xxx xxx Section 439(1)(b) and Section 439(2) of the Companies Act, 1956 read as follows Provisions as to applications for winding up.	None
An application to the Tribunal for the winding up of a company shall be by petition presented, subject to the provisions of this section	None
xxx xxx xxx (b) by any creditor or creditors, including any contingent or prospective creditor or creditors or xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
A secured creditor, the holder of any debentures (including debenture stock), whether or not any trustee or trustees have been appointed in respect of such and other like debentures, and the trustee for the holders of debentures, shall be deemed to be creditors within the meaning of clause (b) of subsection (1).	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx Section 441, which deals with commencement of winding up, reads as follows Commencement of winding up by Tribunal.	None
Where, before the presentation of a petition for the winding up of a company by the Tribunal, a resolution has been passed by the company for voluntary winding up, the winding up of the company shall be deemed to have commenced at the time of the passing of the resolution, and unless the Tribunal, on proof of fraud or mistake, thinks fit to direct otherwise, all proceedings taken in the voluntary winding up shall be deemed to have been validly taken.	None
In any other case, the winding up of a company by the Tribunal shall be deemed to commence at the time of the presentation of the petition for the winding up.	None
Section 529(1) of the Companies Act reads as follows Application of insolvency rules in winding up of insolvent companies.(1)	None
In the winding up of an insolvent company, the same rules shall prevail and be observed with regard to (a) debts provable (b) the valuation of annuities and future and contingent liabilities and (c) the respective rights of secured and unsecured creditors as are in force for the time being under the law of insolvency with respect to the estates of persons adjudged insolvent	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
The reference made in Section 529 of the Companies Act, 1956 is to Section 47 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 which reads as follows Secured creditors.	None
Where a secured creditor realises his security, he may prove for the balance due to him, after deducting the net amount realised.	None
Where a secured creditor relinquishes his security for the general benefit of the creditors, he may prove for his whole debt.	None
Where a secured creditor does not either realise or relinquish his security, he shall, before being entitled to have his debt entered in the schedule, state in his proof the particulars of his security, and the value at which he assesses it, and shall be entitled to receive a dividend only in respect of the balance due to him after deducting the value so assessed.	None
Where a security is so valued, the Court may at any time before realisation redeem it on payment to the creditor of the assessed value.	None
Where a creditor, after having valued his security, subsequently realises it, the net amount realised shall be substituted for the amount of any valuation previously made by the creditor, and shall be treated in all respects as an amended valuation made by the creditor.	None
Where a secured creditor does not comply with the provisions of this section, he shall be excluded from all share in any dividend.	None
The relevant provisions of the Recovery of Debts Act, 1993, read as follows Jurisdiction, powers and authority of Tribunals.	None
(1) A Tribunal shall exercise, on and from the appointed day, the jurisdiction, powers and authority to entertain and decide applications from the banks and financial institutions for recovery of debts due to such banks and financial institutions.(1A) Without prejudice to subsection (1),(a) the Tribunal shall exercise, on and from the date to be appointed by the Central Government, the jurisdiction, powers and authority to entertain and decide applications under Part III of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016(b)	None
the Tribunal shall have circuit sittings in all district headquarters.(2) An Appellate Tribunal shall exercise, on and from the appointed day, the jurisdiction, powers and authority to entertain appeals against any order made, or deemed to have been made, by a Tribunal under this Act.(2A) Without prejudice to subsection (2), the Appellate Tribunal shall exercise, on and from the date to be appointed by the Central Government, the jurisdiction, powers and authority to entertain appeals against the order made by the Adjudicating Authority under Part III of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.	None
Bar of jurisdiction.	None
On and from the appointed day, no court or other authority shall have, or be entitled to exercise, any jurisdiction, powers or authority (except the Supreme Court, and a High Court exercising jurisdiction under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution) in relation to the matters specified in Section 17Provided that any proceedings in relation to the recovery of debts due to any multiState cooperative bank pending before the date of commencement of the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws (Amendment) Act, 2012 under the MultiState Co operative Societies Act, 2002 ((39 of 2002) shall be continued and nothing contained in this section shall, after such commencement, apply to such proceedings.	None
Application to the Tribunal.xxx xxx xxx(19) Where a certificate of recovery is issued against a company as defined under the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) and such company is under liquidation, the Tribunal may by an order direct that the sale proceeds of secured assets of such company be distributed in the same manner as provided in Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013 or under any other law for the time being in force.xxx xxx xxx Act to have overriding effect.(1)	None
Save as provided under subsection (2), the provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act.xxx xxx xxx	None
In Allahabad Bank v. Canara Bank (supra), this Court dealt with whether the secured creditor, namely, Allahabad Bank in that case, was obliged to seek the leave of the Company Court under the Companies Act, 1956, and whether the Company Court can stay recovery proceedings which had been initiated under the Recovery of Debts Act in the event of a winding up order being passed under the Companies Act, 1956.	None
In this context, this Court held, adverting to Sections 17 and 18 of the Recovery of Debts Act, that the jurisdiction of the Tribunal in regard to adjudication of applications for recovery of debts under Section 17 is exclusive.	None
No dual jurisdiction is contemplated, particularly having regard to Section 34 of the said Act, which has overriding effect over other statutes including the Companies Act, 1956 see paragraphs 21 to 23.	None
The said judgment further goes on to state The provisions of Section 34(1) clearly state that the RDB Act overrides other laws to the extent of inconsistency.	None
In our opinion, the prescription of an exclusive Tribunal both for adjudication and execution is a procedure clearly inconsistent with realisation of these debts in any other manner.xxx xxx xxx25.	None
Thus, the adjudication of liability and the recovery of the amount by execution of the certificate are respectively within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Tribunal and the Recovery Officer and no other court or authority much less the civil court or the Company Court can go into the said questions relating to the liability and the recovery except as provided in the Act.	None
Point 1 is decided accordingly.	None
(emphasis in original)	None
In answering whether the Recovery of Debts Act overrides the provisions of Sections 442 and 537 and 446 of the Companies Act, 1956, this Court held that the Recovery of Debts Act is a special statute which would necessarily override the aforesaid provisions of the more general statute, namely, the Companies Act, 1956.	None
Even otherwise, if both are treated as special laws, since the Recovery of Debts Act is later in point of time, together with a nonobstante clause contained in Section 34, the said Act will prevail to the extent set out in the Recovery of Debts Act.	None
This Court then concluded For the aforesaid reasons, we hold that at the stage of adjudication under Section 17 and execution of the certificate under Section 25 etc.	None
the provisions of the RDB Act, 1993 confer exclusive jurisdiction on the Tribunal and the Recovery Officer in respect of debts payable to banks and financial institutions and there can be no interference by the Company Court under Section 442 read with Section 537 or under Section 446 of the Companies Act, 1956.	None
In respect of the monies realised under the RDB Act, the question of priorities among the banks and financial institutions and other creditors can be decided only by the Tribunal under the RDB Act and in accordance with Section 19(19) read with Section 529	None
A of the Companies Act and in no other manner.	None
The provisions of the RDB Act, 1993 are to the above extent inconsistent with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and the latter Act has to yield to the provisions of the former.	None
This position holds good during the pendency of the windingup petition against the debtor Company and also after a windingup order is passed.	None
No leave of the Company Court is necessary for initiating or continuing the proceedings under the RDB Act, 1993.	None
Points 2 and 3 are decided accordingly in favour of the appellant and against the respondents.	None
It is important to note that the aforesaid statement of the law was made in the context of nonrequirement of leave of the Company Court to initiate, continue with, and execute orders passed under the Recovery of Debts Act.	None
What is important to note is that the Companies Act, 1956 is overridden to the extent of the inconsistency between the Companies Act, 1956 and the Recovery of Debts Act only qua recovery of debts due to banks and financial institutions.	None
It is settled law that a winding up proceeding initiated under Section 433(e) and 434 of the Companies Act, 1956 is not a means of seeking to enforce payment of a debt.	None
This Court, in Amalgamated Commercial Traders (P.) Ltd. v. A.C.K. Krishnaswami and Ors., (1965) 35 Comp Cas 456 (SC) Amalgamated Commercial Traders, has held It is wellsettled that a winding up petition is not a legitimate means of seeking to enforce payment of the debt which is bona fide disputed by the company.	None
A petition presented ostensibly for a winding up order but really to exercise pressure will be dismissed, and under circumstances may be stigmatized as a scandalous abuse of the process of the court.	None
This statement of the law has subsequently been followed in several judgments, one of which is M s IBA Health (India) Pvt.	None
Ltd. v. M s InfoDrive Systems Sdn.	None
Bhd., (2010) 10 SCC 553 ( at paragraph 21).	None
However, it was pointed out that a subsequent judgment of this Court, of the selfsame strength of three learned Judges, in Harinagar Sugar Mills Co. Ltd. v. M.W. Pradhan, (1966) 3	None
SCR 948 Harinagar Sugar Mills, has held as follows Can it be said that the petition filed by the Receiver for winding up of the Company is not a mode of realisation of the debt due to the joint family from the Company?	None
In Palmers Company Precedents, Part II, 1960 Edn., at p. 25, the following passage appearsA winding up petition is a perfectly proper remedy for enforcing payment of a just debt.	None
It is the mode of execution which the Court gives to a creditor against a company unable to pay its debts.	None
This view is supported by the decisions in Bowes v. Hope Life Insurance and Guarantee Co. (1865) II HLC 388, Re General Company for Promotion of Land Credit (1870)	None
LR 5 Ch D 380 and Re National Permanent Building Society (1869)	None
LR 5 Ch D 309.	None
It is true that a winding up order is not a normal alternative in the case of a company to the ordinary procedure for the realisation of the debts due to it but nonetheless it is a form of equitable execution It is true that this Court has stated that a winding up petition is a form of equitable execution of a debt, but this is qualified by stating that a winding up order is not a normal alternative to the ordinary procedure for realization of debts due to a creditor.	Reasoning
We are of the view that both the judgments contained in Amalgamated Commercial Traders (supra) as well as in Harinagar Sugar Mills (supra), recognize the fact that a winding up proceeding is not a proceeding that can be referred to as a proceeding for realization of debts and would, therefore, not be covered by the language of Section 17 read with Section 18 of the Recovery of Debts Act.	Reasoning
When it comes to a winding up proceeding under the Companies Act, 1956, since such a proceeding is not for recovery of debts due to banks, the bar contained in Section 18 read with Section 34 of the Recovery of Debts Act would not apply to winding up proceedings under the Companies Act, 1956.14.	Reasoning
In point of fact, a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Viral Filaments Ltd. v. Indusind Bank Ltd., (2001) 3 Mah LJ 552 reached this very conclusion after closely examining the judgment in Allahabad Bank v. Canara Bank (supra) of this Court.	Reasoning
We approve of the reasoning contained in the aforesaid Bombay High Court judgment.	None
However, Shri K. Parameshwar, appearing on behalf of the appellants, also relied upon Rajasthan State Financial Corporation v. Official Liquidator, (2005) 8 SCC 190 , and paragraph 18 of the aforesaid judgment, in particular.	None
Paragraph 18 reads as follows In the light of the discussion as above, we think it proper to sum up the legal position thus A Debts Recovery Tribunal acting under the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 would be entitled to order the sale and to sell the properties of the debtor, even if a companyinliquidation, through its Recovery Officer but only after notice to the Official Liquidator or the Liquidator appointed by the Company Court and after hearing him.	Reasoning
A District Court entertaining an application under Section 31 of the SFC Act will have the power to order sale of the assets of a borrower companyinliquidation, but only after notice to the Official Liquidator or the Liquidator appointed by the Company Court and after hearing him.	None
If a financial corporation acting under Section 29 of the SFC Act seeks to sell or otherwise transfer the assets of a debtor companyinliquidation, the said power could be exercised by it only after obtaining the appropriate permission from the Company Court and acting in terms of the directions issued by that court as regards associating the Official Liquidator with the sale, the fixing of the upset price or the reserve price, confirmation of the sale, holding of the sale proceeds and the distribution thereof among the creditors in terms of Section 529A and Section 529 of the Companies Act.	None
In a case where proceedings under the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 or the SFC Act are not set in motion, the creditor concerned is to approach the Company Court for appropriate directions regarding the realisation of its securities consistent with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act regarding distribution of the assets of the companyinliquidation.	None
As a matter of fact, subparagraphs (i) and (iv) of paragraph 18 would show that proceedings before the DRT, and winding up proceedings under the Companies Act, 1956, can carry on in parallel streams.	Reasoning
That is why paragraph 18(i) states that a Debts Recovery Tribunal, acting under the Recovery of Debts Act, would be entitled to order sale, and sell the properties of the debtor, even of a company in liquidation, but only after giving notice to the Official Liquidator, or to the Liquidator appointed by the Company Court, and after hearing him.	Reasoning
To similar effect is the judgment of this Court in Official Liquidator v. Allahabad Bank, (2013) 4 SCC 381 , where this Court held as follows From the aforesaid authorities, it clearly emerges that the sale has to be conducted by DRT with the association of the Official Liquidator.	None
We may hasten to clarify that as the present controversy only relates to the sale, we are not going to say anything with regard to the distribution.	None
However, it is noticeable that under Section 19(19) of the RDB Act, the legislature has clearly stated that distribution has to be done in accordance with Section 529A of the 1956 Act.	None
The purpose of stating so is that it is a complete code in itself and the Tribunal has the exclusive jurisdiction for the purpose of sale of the properties for realisation of the dues of the banks and financial institutions.xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
The aforesaid analysis makes it luculent that DRT has exclusive jurisdiction to sell the properties in a proceeding instituted by the banks or financial institutions, but at the time of auction and sale, it is required to associate the Official Liquidator.	None
The said principle has also been reiterated in Pravin Gada v. Central Bank of India (2013) 2 SCC 101 (2013) 1 SCC (Civ) 988.32.	None
Once the Official Liquidator is associated, needless to say, he has a role to see that there is no irregularity in conducting the auction and appropriate price is obtained by holding an auction in a fair, transparent and non arbitrary manner in consonance with the Rules framed under the RDB Act.	None
The second important point raised by learned counsel for the appellant is that a conjoint reading of the Companies Act, 1956 and the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920, would make it clear that the secured creditor must, at the time of filing the petition for winding up, state that it has given up his security, or else, such winding up petition would not be maintainable.	Reasoning
In Hegde Golay Limited v. State Bank of India, ILR 1987 KAR 2673, a learned single Judge of the Karnataka High Court, Venkatachaliah, J. (as he then was), dealt with this point as follows Re Point (a)The contention is that the Bank which is a secured creditor cannot maintain a windingup petition without making an election either to giveup the security or value it as required by Section 9(2) of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920.	None
It is urged that by Section 529(1) of the Act, the Rules of Insolvency in Section 9(2) are attracted.	None
Section 9(2) of the Provincial Insolvency Act readsIf the petitioning creditor, is a secured creditor, he shall in his Petition either state that he is willing to relinquish his security for the benefit of the creditors in the event of the debtor being adjudged insolvent or given an estimate of the value of the security.	None
In the latter case, he may be admitted as a petitioningcreditor to the extent of the balance of the debt due to him after deducting the value so estimated in the same way as if he were an unsecured creditor.(emphasis in original)	None
The contention is that a securedcreditor may stand outside insolvency but if he bringsup a creditors windingup petition he must, in his petition, state that he is either willing to relinquish the security for the benefit of the body of creditors or give an estimate of the value of the security.	None
Learned CompanyJudge has taken the view, if we may say so with respect, quite rightly, that this rule of Insolvency Law is not attracted to the presentation of a windingup petition.14.	None
Sri Shetty says that both in bankruptcy and winding up the law is the same and the petitioningcreditor, if he is a secured creditor, must conform to the rule in Section 9(2).	None
He relied upon M.K. Ranganathan v. Government of Madras AIR 1955	None
SC 604 and Hansraj v. Official Liquidators, Dehradun Mussorie Electric Trading Company Limited AIR 1929 Allahabad 353.	None
The observation in Ranganathans case AIR 1955 SC 604 relied upon is thisSection 229 recognises the position of the secured creditor generally as outside the winding up but enables him in the event of his desiring to take the benefit of the winding up proceedings to prove his debt, to value the same and share in the distribution pro rata of the assets of the company just in the same way as he would be able to do in the case of insolvency under the Presidency Towns Insolvency Act or the Provincial Insolvency Act.	None
In Hansrajs case AIR 1929 Allahabad 353 it was observed I am, therefore, of opinion that the rules contained in any Section of the Provincial Insolvency Act, the rules, if any, made under the Act and any appropriate established rules of practice in insolvency proceedings are imported into the Companies Act, unless there is something in the Companies Act itself already providing for the matter in question, or in conflict with the rule which it is proposed to import.	None
These observations, in our opinion, do not advance the contention of Sri Shetty any further.	None
Section 529(1) of the Act attracts the rules of insolvency to windingup in relation to the respective rights of secured and unsecured creditors and confines these Rules so attracted to matters that arise between these two classes of creditors.	None
Sections 528 and 529 of the Act are in the chapter Proof and Ranking of Claims and deal with the question of proof of debts and the rights of secured and unsecured creditors.	None
Section 529(2) itself, in so far it expressly envisages, and provides for, the contingency that if a securedcreditor proceeds to realise his security he should pay the expenses incurred by the Liquidator, by implication, rules out the construction contended for by Sri Shetty.	None
The words in windingup of insolvent company in Section 529(1) of the Act has obvious reference to a post windingup stage.	None
The point to note is that this rule of insolvency is attracted to windingup in the matter of proof of debts.	None
That is after the stage of the windingup order.	None
A secured creditor is, under Section 439(2) of the Act as much a creditor entitled to present a winding up petition as any other.	None
The law in regard to the right of a Secured Creditor to present a petition for adjudication under the Insolvency law is different from the right of a secured creditor to present a windingup petition Shri Parameshwar took exception to this statement of the law, and referred to Section 441 of the Companies Act, 1956, in particular, sub section (2) thereof, to state that this judgment has missed the fact that the winding up of a company shall be deemed to commence at the time of presentation of the petition for winding up, and that, if this is so, the stage at which a secured creditor has to give up his security is at the stage of the filing of the winding up petition itself.	None
We are afraid that we cannot agree.	None
First and foremost, it is important to notice that under Section 439 of the Companies Act, 1956, a secured creditors petition for winding up is maintainable without any requirement of it having to give up or relinquish its security.	None
This is in contrast to Section 9(2) of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920, which reads as follows Conditions on which creditor may petition.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
If the petitioning creditor is a secured creditor, he shall in his petition either state that he is willing to relinquish his security for the benefit of the creditors in the event of the debtor being adjudged insolvent, or give an estimate of the value of the security.	None
In the latter case, he may be admitted as a petitioning creditor to the extent of the balance of the debt due to him after deducting the value so estimated in the same way as if he were an unsecured creditor.	None
What is conspicuous by its absence is a provision akin to Section 9(2) of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 in Section 439 of the Companies Act, 1956.	None
In point of fact, Section 47 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 occurs only at the stage where an adjudication order has already been passed, which is the stage referred to by Section 529 of the Companies Act, 1956.	None
In fact, Section 529(1)(c) of the Companies Act, 1956 specifically refers to the right of a secured creditor under the law of insolvency with respect to the estates of persons adjudged insolvent.	None
The express language of Section 529(1)(c) of the Companies Act, 1956 makes it clear that it is Section 47 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 alone that is attracted, and not Section 9(2), as was contended by learned counsel for the appellants before us.	None
We may also add that reliance on Section 441(2) of the Companies Act, 1956 is misplaced for yet another reason.	None
Section 441(2) has to be read with Section 441(1), and so read, makes it clear that it became necessary to enact subsection (2), because a petition for voluntary winding up of a company presented before the Tribunal would be said to commence at an anterior point of time, namely, at the time of the passing of the resolution whereby the company resolves to voluntarily wind itself up.	None
In contrast, therefore, Section 441(2) says in any other case, i.e., in cases other than those falling under subsection (1) of Section 441 of the Companies Act, 1956, the winding up of a company by the Tribunal shall be deemed to commence at the time of presentation of the petition for winding up.	None
The context of the provision, therefore, makes it clear that it cannot be read so as to introduce Section 9(2) of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 by the back door, as it were, when no such provision is contained in Section 439 of the Companies Act, 1956 itself.	None
The absence, therefore, of any provision akin to Section 9(2) of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 in Section 439 of the Companies Act, 1956 the language of Section 529(1)(c) of the Companies Act, 1956, which expressly refers only to Section 47 and not to Section 9(2) of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 and the context in which Section 441(2) of the Companies Act, 1956 appears, namely, to contrast winding up petitions that have been filed under the Act with voluntary winding up petitions, all lead to the conclusion that there is no need to revisit the correct statement of the law by the learned single Judge of the Karnataka High Court.	None
Indeed, this statement of the law has been followed subsequently by a Division Bench of the Bombay High court in Asian Power Controls Ltd. v. Bubbles Goyal, (2013) 3 Mah LJ 811 as follows Section 529(1) of the Companies Act, 1956, provides that in the winding up of an insolvent company, the same rules shall prevail and be observed with regard to (a) debts provable (b) the valuation of annuities and future and contingent liabilities and (c) the respective rights of secured and unsecured creditors as are in force for the time being under the law of insolvency with respect to the estates of persons adjudged insolvent.	None
Under subsection (2) of section 529, all persons who in any such case would be entitled to prove, for and receive dividends out of the assets of the company, may come in under the winding up, and make such claims against the company as they respectively are entitled to make by virtue of the section.	None
Section 529A provides an overriding preferential priority to the dues of the workmen and to the debts due to secured creditors to the extent to which such debts rank pari passu under clause (c) of the proviso to subsection (1) of section 529 with such dues.	None
The rules of insolvency which are attracted to proceedings of winding up are inter alia those pertaining to the proof of debts.	None
This is after the stage of the winding up order.	None
This principle has been enunciated in a judgment of Mr. Justice M.N. Venkatachaliah (as the learned Chief Justice then was) speaking for a Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court in Hegde and Golay Limited v. State Bank of India, ILR 1987 KAR 2673.	None
The judgment of the Company Judge of this Court in Canfin Homes Ltd. (supra) has also followed the principle that the scheme of the provisions relating to winding up, particularly those in sections 528 and 529 would indicate that the stage of proving a claim of a debt arises after an order of winding up is passed.	None
In Canffin Homes Ltd., this Court held as follows15.	None
The secured creditor who seeks to prove the whole of his debt in the course of the proceedings of winding up must before he can prove his debt relinquish his security for the benefit of the general body of the creditors.	None
If he surrenders his security for the benefit of the general body of creditors, he may prove the whole of his debt.	None
If the secured creditor has realised his security, he may prove for the balance due to him after deducting the net amount that has been realised.	None
The stage for relinquishing security arises when a secured creditor seeks to prove the whole of his debt in the course of winding up.	None
If, he elects to prove in the course of winding up the whole of the debt due and owing to him, he has to necessarily surrender his security for the benefit of the general body creditors.	None
(emphasis in original)	None
Having regard to the position in law as consistently followed in the judgments of the Madras, Calcutta and Karnataka High Courts and as reiterated in the judgment of the Company Court in Canfin Homes Ltd., it is not possible to accept the submission which was urged on behalf of the appellant.	None
The law does not impose an unreasonable condition of requiring a secured creditor to forsake his security before he asserts a right to urge that a company which is unable to pay its debts should be wound up.	None
The respondent has stated before the learned Company Judge, when the petition for winding up came up for hearing that it was not possible for the respondent to recover her dues by the sale of the land in respect of which a security has been created in favour of the respondent.	None
The claim of the respondent is still to be proved in the course of the winding up proceedings.	None
A secured creditor who has a mortgage, charge or lien on the property of the company as security for her debt may either (a) enforce the security and prove in the winding up for the balance of the debt after deducting the amount realised or (b) surrender the security to the Liquidator and prove for the whole of the debt as an unsecured creditor or (c) estimate the value of the property subject to her security, and prove for the balance of the debt after deducting the estimated value or (d) rely on the security and not prove in the winding up proceedings.	None
Penningtons Company Law (Fourth edition, page 762).	None
A secured creditor has the option of relinquishing his security and or proving the entirety of his debt in the course of winding up.	None
If the secured creditor does so in the course of winding up proceedings, the security will enure for the benefit of the body of creditors.	None
On the other hand, it is open to a secured creditor to prove in the course of winding up proceedings to the extent of debt which has not been realised outside the proceedings for winding up by either accounting for the amount that has been so realised or by estimating the value of the property subject to security so as to enable him to prove in respect of the balance of the debt.	None
On either view of the matter, that stage is still to arrive.	None
In fact, even in Jitendra Nath Singh v. Official Liquidator, (2013) 1 SCC 462 , this Court, after referring to Section 47 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 and Section 529 of the Companies Act, 1956, held as follows 16.1.	None
A secured creditor has only a charge over a particular property or asset of the company.	None
The secured creditor has the option to either realise his security or relinquish his security.	None
If the secured creditor relinquishes his security, like any other unsecured creditor, he is entitled to prove the debt due to him and receive dividends out of the assets of the company in the windingup proceedings.	None
If the secured creditor opts to realise his security, he is entitled to realise his security in a proceeding other than the windingup proceeding but has to pay to the liquidator the costs of preservation of the security till he realises the security.	None
(emphasis supplied)xxx xxx xxx17.	None
In support of our aforesaid conclusions, we may now cite some authorities.	None
In Allahabad Bank v. Canara Bank (2000) 4 SCC 406 , a twoJudge Bench of this Court speaking through M. Jagannadha Rao, J. discussed these rights of the secured creditors in paras 62, 63, 64 and 65 of the judgment as reported in SCC, which are extracted hereinbelow (SCC pp. 43536)	None
Secured creditors fall under two categories.	None
Those who desire to go before the Company Court and those who like to stand outside the winding up.63.	None
The first category of secured creditors mentioned above are those who go before the Company Court for dividend by relinquishing their security in accordance with the insolvency rules mentioned in Section 529.	None
The insolvency rules are those contained in Sections 45 to 50 of the Provincial Insolvency Act.	None
Section 47(2) of that Act states that a secured creditor who wishes to come before the Official Liquidator has to prove his debt and he can prove his debt only if he relinquishes his security for the benefit of the general body of creditors.	None
In that event, he will rank with the unsecured creditors and has to take his dividend as provided in Section 529(2).	None
Till today, Canara Bank has not made it clear whether it wants to come under this category.xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
We now come to the argument based on Section 434(1)(b) of the Companies Act, 1956.	Reasoning
It is obvious that Section 434(1)(b) is attracted only if execution or other process is issued in respect of an order of a Tribunal in favour of a creditor of the company is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part.	Reasoning
This is only one of three instances in which a company shall be deemed to be unable to pay its debts.	Reasoning
If the fact situation fits subclause (b) of Section 434(1), then a company may be said to be deemed to be unable to pay its debts.	Reasoning
However, this does not mean that each one of the subclauses of Section 434(1) are mutually exclusive in the sense that once Section 434(1)(b) applies, Section 434(1)(a) ceases to be applicable.	Reasoning
Also, on the facts of this case, we may state that the company petition was filed only on 03.07.2015, pursuant to a notice under Section 433 of the Companies Act, 1956 dated 15.04.2015.	Reasoning
This petition was filed under Section 433(e) read with Section 434(1)(a) of the Companies Act, 1956.	Reasoning
At the stage at which the petition was filed, it could not possibly have been filed under Section 434(1)(b) of the Companies Act, 1956, as execution or other process in the form of a recovery certificate had not been issued by the Recovery Officer till 12.08.2015, i.e., till after the company petition was filed.	Reasoning
For this reason also, it is clear that this contention of the learned counsel appearing for the appellant must be rejected.20.	Decision
We may only end by saying that cases like the present one have to be decided by balancing the interest of creditors to whom money is owing, with a debtor company which will now go in the red since a winding up petition is admitted against it.	Decision
It is not open for persons like the appellant to resist a winding up petition which is otherwise maintainable without there being any bona fide defence to the same.	Decision
We may also hasten to add that the respondent cannot be said to be blowing hot and cold in pursuing a remedy under the Recovery of Debts Act and a winding up proceeding under the Companies Act, 1956 simultaneously.	Decision
Here, it is important to refer to the judgment of Lord Atkin in Lissenden v. C.A.V. Bosch, Ltd., 1940 1	Decision
All E.R. 425, at 436437, which says The doctrine of election could have no place in the present case.	None
The applicant is not faced with alternative rights.	Decision
It is the same right that he claims, but in larger degree.	Decision
In Mills v. Duckworth, 1938 1	Decision
All E.R. 318, a plaintiff who had been awarded damages for negligence had taken the judgment sum out of a larger sum paid into Court and had then appealed against the quantum of damages, and was met by a similar objection to his appeal.	Decision
Greer, L.J., in overruling the objection, pointedly said, at p. 321	Decision
He the plaintiff said I am not going to blow hot and cold.	Decision
I am going to blow hotter.	None
Here the applicant is not faced with a choice between alternative rights.	Decision
He has exercised an undisputed right to compensation, and claims to have a right to more.	Decision
One has not lost ones right to a second helping because one has taken the first.	None
When secured creditors like the respondent are driven from pillar to post to recover what is legitimately due to them, in attempting to avail of more than one remedy at the same time, they do not blow hot and cold, but they blow hot and hotter.	None
The appeals are accordingly dismissed with no order as to costs.	Decision
