 Ray, J. 1.	None
These three appeals are by certificate against the judgment dated 7 August, 1962 of the High Court at Patna.	Issue
The High Court allowed in part the appeals filed by the appellant by decreeing in part the suit filed by the appellant for redemption of mortgages.	Issue
The High Court dismissed the appellants prayer for mesne profits.	Facts
2.	None
The appellant filed three suits for redemption.	Facts
Title Suit No. 54 of 1950 filed by the appellant was with respect to Ijara bond dated 2141920 in favour of Ram Baran Singh for Rs.	Facts
2,300/. Title Suit No. 55 of 1950 was filed by the appellant with respect to another Ijara bond dated 21 April, 1920 in favour of Inder Singh for Rs. 1293120.	Facts
The third Title Suit No. 56 of 1950 was filed by the appellant with respect to the third Ijara bond dated 21 April, 1920 in favour of Raj Kumar Mahto for Rs.	Facts
1,150/.	Facts
The bond was subsequently assigned to one Sheo Sharan Singh whose sons were defendants in that suit.	Facts
These bonds were executed by Malik Nizammuddin.	Facts
These three bonds were mortgage bonds in respect of certain Milkiyat share in village Keoran Mauzume Makhdumpur in the District of Patna.	Facts
3.	None
The appellant was the purchaser of the Milkiyat share of Nizammuddin from his heirs by a deed dated 22 May, 1946.	Facts
The appellant alleged as follows.	Facts
There are bakasht lands within the said Milkiyat share covered by the Ijara bonds.	Facts
These bakasht lands were the subject matter of the mortgage.	Facts
After the purchase the appellant tendered the Ijara money to the respondents who were ijaradars or mortgagees.	Facts
The respondents refused to accept the money.	Facts
The appellant thereupon deposited the mortgage money.	Facts
The appellant served notice of the deposit on the respondents.	Facts
The respondents did not withdraw the ijara money.	Facts
They did not deliver possession of the Milkiyat share and the bakasht lands to the appellants.	Facts
The appellant therefore filed suits for redemption and for possession.	Facts
The appellant also claimed mesne profits.	Facts
4.	None
The respondents in the written statements denied that there was any bakasht land.	Facts
It was also denied that there was any mortgage of bakasht land.	Facts
It was alleged that the lands were raiyati lands in possession of several tenants and therefore those lands could not be redeemed.	Facts
The further defence was that the Ijara bonds were really sale deeds and therefore the appellant had no right of redemption in respect of the milkiyat interest.	Facts
The respondents denied that the appellant tendered the mortgage money.	Facts
5.	None
The trial Court held that the appellant was entitled to a decree for redemption but not for mesne profits.	Facts
The reason given was that the appellant did not deposit in court under Sec.	Facts
83 of the Transfer for Property Act the money due on mortgage.	Facts
The mortgagees had from time to time paid the Government revenue and cess in respect of the mortgage property.	Facts
The Government revenue and cess should have been paid by the mortgagor.	Facts
The amounts representing the Government revenue and cess should have been added up in the mortgage money.	Facts
The deposits in court did not cover those amounts.	Facts
6.	None
The appellant preferred appeals to the High Court.	Facts
The High Court upheld the finding of the trial Court that certain lands were bakasht lands.	Facts
The High Court set aside the findings of the trial Court as to other lands which were found by the trial Court not to be bakasht lands.	Facts
The High Court upheld the finding and conclusion of the trial Court that there was no valid deposit in court of money due on mortgage.	Facts
The appellant was therefore not entitled to mesne profits.	Facts
The High Court found that the amount of revenue and cess was never less than the amount of haqajri (meaning thereby annual reserve rent) payable to the mortgagor.	Facts
The result was that the amount of revenue and cess paid by the mortgagees was always higher than the haqajri and therefore there was no case of accounting.	Facts
7. Counsel for the appellant contended that the appellant was entitled to mesne profits from the dates of deposit of mortgage money in court under section 83 of the Transfer of Property Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The amounts were deposited in Court of First Munsif, Patna on 28 May, 1947.	Arguments of Petitioner
Notice under S. 83 of the Transfer of Property Act was served on the respondents on 30 May, 1947 in the two cases and on 3 June, 1947 in the third case.	Arguments of Petitioner
The suits were filed for redemption of mortgage and mesne profits in the month of June, 1950.	Arguments of Petitioner
8.	None
The relevant terms of the ijara bond (mortgage bond) in favour of Ram Baran Singh were theseIt is desired that the said Mustajir should enter into possession and occupation of the ijara property, himself cultivate the land, appropriate the produce thereof in lieu of interest on the peshgi money.	Facts
I, the executant, or my heirs and representatives, neither have nor shall have any claim for excess produce and mesne profits etc.	Facts
against the said Mustajir or his heirs and representatives, except to get a sum of Rs. 12/ (rupees twelve) in kings coins, as annual reserve rent till this deed remain intact.	Facts
Expenses over dispute regarding the milkiyat property and boundary limit and payment of Government revenue and road cess and Public works cess etc. are entirely the concern of me, the executant.	Facts
The said Mustajir neither has nor shall have any connection and concern therewith.	Facts
The terms of the other two ijara deeds were identical.	Facts
The only difference was that in the case of the ijara bond in favour of Inder Singh the annual reserve rent (haqajri) was Rs.	Facts
6/12/ and in the case of Raj Kumar Mahto the annual reserve rent (haqajri) was Rs.	Facts
6/. 9.	None
Broadly stated, these terms indicate three features.	Facts
First, the mortgagee shall have possession and occupation of the mortgaged property and appropriate the produce thereof in lieu of interest on the mortgage money and the mortgagor had no claim to any excess produce or mesne profits against the mortgage.	Facts
Secondly, the mortgagee was to pay to the mortgagor the amounts mentioned in each ijara bond the annual reserve rent or haqajri.	Facts
Thirdly, the mortgagor was liable for payment of the Government revenue or cess.	Facts
10.	None
The High Court found that the mortgagees paid the revenue and cess out of haqajri.	Facts
In Title Suit No. 54 of 1950 the High Court held that the total amount of revenue and cess came to Rs. 1593.	Facts
The haqajri in that suit was Rs.	Facts
12/. It therefore followed that every year the mortgage paid Rs. 390 in excess of the amount of haqajri.	Facts
The mortgagor was liable to the mortgagee for the excess payment.	Facts
Similarly, in Title Suit No. 55 of 1950 the mortgagee paid revenue and cess amounting to Rs. 9133.	Facts
The haqajri under the ijara bond in that suit was Rs. 6120.	Facts
The result was that every year the mortgagee paid Rs. 313 in excess.	Facts
The mortgagor was liable to the mortgagee to pay that excess amount.	Facts
Again, in Title Suit No. 56 of 1950 the High Court found that the mortgagee paid every year revenue and cess amounting to Rupees 7120.	Facts
The haqajri there was Rupees 6/. The mortgagee therefore paid annually Rs. 1120 in excess of haqajri.	Facts
The mortgagor was liable to pay the excess amount to the mortgagee.	Facts
11.	None
In the present appeals, the mortgagor had undertaken the liability to pay the revenue and cess.	Facts
The mortgagor failed to pay the same.	Facts
The mortgagees paid the revenue and cess on behalf of the mortgagor.	Facts
The mortgagees were entitled to the excess payment of the amount of revenue and cess, because the mortgagor was liable to pay the same.	Facts
12.	None
The mortgage bonds in the present case provided that as long as the mortgagee was in possession of the property the receipts from the mortgaged property shall be taken in lieu of interest on the principal money.	Reasoning
That amount to a stipulation that the receipts from the mortgaged property will be taken in lieu of the interest on the principal money.	Reasoning
That is S. 77 of the Transfer of Property Act.	Reasoning
The provisions as to accounts contained in Section 76 (g) of the Transfer of Property Act are excluded in cases where Section 77 of the Transfer of Property Act applies.	Reasoning
Section 77 of the Transfer of Property Act applies to the present appeals.	Reasoning
Further, the mortgagees had to pay to the mortgagor a fixed amount, namely, the haqajri.	Reasoning
There was nothing to account on the part of the mortgagees in relation to payment of haqajri.	Reasoning
On the contrary, the mortgagor was liable for the payment of Government revenue and cess.	Reasoning
13.	None
Under Section 76 (c) of the Transfer of Property Act the mortgagee in possession, in the absence of a contract to the contrary, must pay the Government revenue and other charges of a public nature and arrears of rent in default of payment of which the property may be summarily sold.	Reasoning
In the present case, the mortgagor was liable for payment of both revenue and cess.	Reasoning
Therefore, the mortgagees were entitled to add to the mortgage money the amount for which the mortgagor under the terms of the mortgage was liable.	None
Section 4 of the Cess Act, 1880 defines annual value of land to mean the total rent which is payable or, if no rent is actually payable, would, on a reasonable assessment, be payable, during the year by all the cultivating raiyats of such land in the actual use and occupation thereof.	Reasoning
Section 5 of the Cess Act, 1880 states that all immovable property to which the Act applies shall be liable to the payment of a local cess.	Reasoning
Section 6 of the Cess Act, 1880 provides as to how the cess is to be assessed.	Reasoning
Section 38 of the Cess Act, 1880 provides as to how rate of local cess on the annual value of land is to be fixed.	Reasoning
Section 98 of the Cess Act, 1880 enacts that the amount which may become due under the provisions of the Cess Act in respect of arrears of cess shall be deemed to be a public demand.	Reasoning
Section 99 provides that the Collector may recover dues out of rent and the Collectors claim to have priority.	Reasoning
These provisions show that cess is linked with rent.	Reasoning
Cess is payable on annual value of land.	Reasoning
Annual value is linked with rent.	Reasoning
Cess is deemed to be a public demand.	Reasoning
The mortgagees were entitled to add the amounts paid by them towards revenue and cess on the mortgage money.	Reasoning
14.	None
The High Court was correct in refusing the mesne profits.	Reasoning
15.	None
On behalf of the respondents it was mentioned in their statement of case that the appellant after having deposited the further amount after the decree of the High Court had taken possession of the land.	Arguments of Respondent
This statement was not challenged and denied by the appellant.	Arguments of Respondent
This indicates that the appeals have now become academic.	Arguments of Respondent
16.	None
The appeals therefore fail and are dismissed.	Decision
The respondents will be entitled to one set of costs in this Court.	Decision
17.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
