 C. Lahoti, J. Leave granted in SLP(C) Nos. 97359738/2000.	None
Validity of retrenchment of project scheme employees as also the precise procedure to be followed so as to amount to retrenchment as per law, are the issues arising for decision in these appeals.	Issue
A brief resume of uncontroverted and such other facts as cannot at this stage be disputed.	None
In the State of Bihar a large number of workers were engaged on daily wage basis, instead of making regular appointments, in the Government departments by the Authorities.	None
The practice was viewed with concern by the State Government and it was decided to discourage the same.	None
However, the authorities continued with making such illegal appointments contrary to the directions issued by the State Government.	None
A stage reached when the State Government had to take a decision of terminating all appointments made on daily wage basis or on muster roll.	None
The employment of a good number of such employees whose employment on daily wage basis or on muster roll came to an end, or was likely to come to an end, in view of the State Governments policy decision, was converted into employment on regular basis by regularizing their services as far as that was practicable and could be done by filling up the vacancies available.	None
So far as the appellants are concerned they are project scheme employees engaged on daily wage basis and who could not be absorbed in regular vacancies as neither vacancies nor work nor funds were available.	None
On 30.6.1995 Office of the Executive Engineer, Ganga Pump Canal Division, District Munger, served notices on 55 employees engaged on daily wage basis informing them that they were appointed for the timely implementation of the projects of the State Government on daily wage basis as per necessity.	Facts
On account of the cut in running the project and resource crunch in the finance etc.	Facts
there was a reduction in the workload and there was no necessity of continuing the work on daily wage basis.	Facts
Therefore, the daily wagers were informed  your services are terminated with effect from 1.8.1995 and the provisions of Section 25F of Industrial Disputes Act would be complied with that this letter be treated as notice in accordance with Section 25F of Industrial Disputes Act.	Facts
On 1.7.1995 another notice was issued to the daily wage employees supplemental to the earlier notice, giving each on them opportunity to show cause against the proposed termination of their employment, consistently with Section 25F of the ID Act, on or before 17.7.1995.	Facts
The appellants laid challenge to the validity of the notice by post haste filing civil writ petitions in the High Court.	Facts
By order dated 28.7.1995 the High Court directed status quo to be maintained meaning thereby that the employment of the appellants was not to be discontinued.5.	Facts
During the period 1979 to 1981 there were several employees engaged as daily wagers.	Facts
So far as Ganga Pump project nos.	Facts
1 2 are concerned there were 55 such workers.	Facts
On 28.7.1995 another notice was issued whereby the daily wage employees were informed that their employment was being terminated in view of the high level decision, taken discontinuing the new schemes, financial crunch and consequent reduction in employment opportunities and hence need for employment of daily wagers no surviving any more.	Facts
It was also stated that the employment of the daily wagers was being terminated with effect from 1.8.1995 under Section 25F of ID Act.	Facts
The daily wagers were informed that the amount due and payable to each on of them calculated as per Section 25F of ID Act was available to be delivered to them by way of bankers cheques and each of them should positively collect the amount on 31.7.1995 from the Divisional Office.	Facts
It is categorically stated on the affidavit of the Executive Engineer, Ganga Pump Canal, Division No.1, Government of Bihar that the bankers cheques were available for being delivered to the employees concerned, but they did not turn up to collect the same.	Facts
This statement on oath is not controverted in the rejoinder filed on behalf of the appellants.	Facts
The reasons for termination of the employment of the daily wagers are also mentioned in the affidavit of the Executive Engineer which goes on to say that the project scheme in which the appellants were engaged has been discontinued.	Facts
The appellants do not dispute the correctness of these averments.	Facts
It is not their case that the project scheme in which they were engaged is still continuing or that anyone else has been appointed in their place after their retrenchment.	Facts
The High Court has also recorded a finding of fact in its impugned judgment that the amount payable to the daily wagers under Section 25F of the ID Act was available at the Divisional Office in the form of bankers cheques and the workers were asked to personally appear and receive the payment from the Cashier at the Divisional Office but they did not do so.6.	Facts
Section 25F and 2(oo) of the Act read as under Conditions precedent to retrenchment of workmen.25F. No workman employed in any industry who has been in continuous service for not less than one year under an employer shall be retrenched by that employer until (a) the workman has been given one month notice in writing indicating the reasons for retrenchment and the period of notice has expire, or the workman has been paid in lieu of such notice, wages for the period of the notice.(b) the workman has been paid, at the time of retrenchment compensation which shall be equivalent to fifteen days average pay (for ever completed year of continuous service) or any par thereof in excess of six months and(c) notice in the prescribed manner is served or the appropriate government (or such authority as may be specified by the appropriate Government by notification in the Official Gazette).2.	None
(oo) retrenchment means the teremination by the employer of the service of a workman for any reason whatsoever, otherwise than as a punishment inflicted by way of disciplinary action, but does not include (a) voluntary retirement of the workman or(b) retirement of the workman on reaching the age of superannuation if the contract of employment between the employer and the workman concerned, contains a stipulation in that behalf or(bb) termination of the service of the workman as a result of the nonrenewal of the contract of employment between the employer and the workman concerned on its expiry or of such contract being terminated under a stipulation in that behalf contained therein or)(c) termination of the service of a workman on the ground of continued illhealth)	None
On behalf of the State of Bihar it is not disputed for the purpose of this case that the project wherein the appellants were engaged falls within the definition of industry and that each one of the appellants had served continuous for not less than one year within the meaning of Section 25F, and therefore, the employment could not have been terminated except on compliance with the provisions of Section 25F of the Act.	None
The core of controversy centers around the question whether it can be said that the mandatory requirements of Section 25F were complied with or not.	None
A bare reading of Section 25F of the Act shows that retrenchment within the meaning of the Section 2(oo) of the Act must satisfy the following requirements that the workman has been given one months notice (a) in writing, and (b) indicating the reasons for retrenchment(ii) that the retrenchment must take effect after the expiry of the period of notice i.e. one month or else the workman should be paid in lieu of such notice, wages for the period of the notice(iii) that at the time of retrenchment the worker has been paid compensation equivalent to 15 days average pay for every completed year of continuous service or any part thereof in excess of six months, and(iv) that the notice in the prescribed manner in served on the appropriate government or on the specified authority as notified.	None
Shri P.S. Mishra, the learned senior counsel for the appellants submitted that the amount of compensation as contemplated by clause (b) of Sec. 25F, (and the wages for the period of notice where one months notice is not given) must accompany the notice under clause (a), and if that is not done the notice shall be invalid, as is the present case.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned senior counsel submitted that the retrenchment of the appellants suffers from two serious infirmities firstly, the notice is not accompanied by the amount of requisite compensation, and secondly, the amount of compensation has not been paid or tendered to the workmen asking the workmen to come to the Divisional Office for collecting the amount of compensation cannot be said to be compliance of clause (b).	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was placed on a recent decision of this Court in Sain Steel Products vs. Naipal Singh and others,  AIR 2001 SC 2401.	None
Shri B.B. Singh, the learned counsel for the State Government submitted, on the other hand, that the communications made on behalf of the State of Bihar and the steps taken by it fully and strictly satisfy the requirements of Section 25F and no fault can be found therewith.	None
We have given our anxious consideration to submission and countersubmission made before us in the light of the pleadings and undisputed documents available on record.	None
We are of the opinion that the appeals are devoid of any merit and liable to be dismissed.	Decision
The underlying object of Section 25F is twofold.	None
Firstly, a retrenched employee must have one months time available at his disposal to search for alternate employment, and so, either he should be given one months notice of the proposed termination or he should be paid wages for the notice period.	None
Secondly, the workman must be paid retrenchment compensation at the time of retrenchment, or before so, that once having been retrenched there should be no need for him to go to his employer demanding retrenchment compensation and the compensation so paid is not only a reward earned for his previous services rendered to the employer but is also a sustenance to the worked for the period which may be spent in searching for another employment.	None
Section 25F nowhere speaks of the retrenchment compensation being paid or tendered to the worker along with one months notice on the contrary clause (b) expressly provides for the payment of compensation being made at the time of retrenchment and by implication it would be permissible to pay the same before retrenchment.	None
Payment of tender of compensation after the time when the retrenchment has taken effect would vitiate the retrenchment and noncompliance with the mandatory provision which has a beneficial purpose and a public policy behind would result in nullifying the retrenchment.	None
Compliance with clause (a) and (b) of Section 25F strictly as per the requirement of the provision is mandatory.	None
However, compliance with clause (c) is directory, as held in Gurmail Singh and others vs. State of Punjab and others  (1991) 1 SCC 189 and a substantial compliance would be enough.	None
Gammon India Limited vs. Niranjan Dass  (1984) 1 SCC 509 , relied on by Shri Mishra, the learned senior counsel for the appellants, has no application to the facts of the present case.	None
There the notice under Section 25F (a) stated the reason for retrenchment as due to the reduction of the valume of work of company as a result of the recession.	None
However, the real reason was closure of companys Delhi office	None
and there was not even a whisper in the notice of this real reason and the same was sought to be disclosed by leading evidence before the Industrial Tribunal which was not countenanced by this Court.	None
In Gurmail Singhs case (supra) a threejudge Bench of this Court examined the question of compliance of Section 25F(b).	None
It was contended on behalf of the workers that the State had not furnished the details of the amounts of compensation determined in the case of each employee and that the State had not taken steps to deliver the amount in respect of each employee at his doorsteps by the relevant date.	None
It was urged that the tender of compensation under Section 25F, in order to be valid, should be of the precise amount and should be made simultaneously with termination of the service.	None
It was found that the bank drafts in respect of individual employees were dispatched in time so as to reach Divisional SubDivisional Offices of the employer well in advance of the date of expiry of the notice period and the date on which the retrenchment was to be effective.	None
The amounts were not actually paid or tendered to the workers directly but a method for disbursement of compensation was evolved in the interest of workers convenience.	None
Instead of the workers, spread out all over the State, being asked to come to the Head Office to collect the amount of compensation and the difficulty of the employer in making available the compensation at the doorstep of each employee, an arrangement was made whereby the workers could go to the nearest Divisional SubDivisional Office and collect the amount of compensation due to them.	None
None of the workers ascertained whether the amounts sent by the Head Office to the Divisional SubDivisional Offices were the correct amounts.	None
No instance was pointed out to show that the bank drafts were not for the correct amounts.	None
The High Court felt satisfied that the individual compensation drafts were sent to the various subordinate offices ready for disbursement to the concerned workers on or before the relevant date.	None
It was held that there was sufficient compliance with the provisions of clause (b) of Section 25F. This Court agreed with the view of the High Court.	None
In The Management of Delhi Transport Undertaking vs. The Industrial Tribunal, Delhi and Anr.	None
(1965) 1	None
SCR 998 pari materia provision as to payment of compensation equivalent to one months wages to workmen contained in proviso to subsection (2) of Section 33 of ID Act came up for the consideration of this Court.	None
It was held that the proviso did not mean that the wages for one month have to be actually paid the employer is expected to tender the amount before the dismissal but cannot force the employee to receive the payment before dismissal becomes effective.	None
The making of the tender of the amount, before the order of dismissal becomes effective, would be sufficient compliance.	None
In Sain Steel Products (supra), which is a twoJudge Bench decision of this Court, the worker was informed to collect what is due to him without spelling out whether or not it included the amount as contemplated under Section 25F.	None
It was in such peculiar facts and circumstances of the case that this Court refused to accept the offer in the terms in which it was made and quoted hereinabove as amounting to making an office in terms of Section 25F of the Act.	None
Both the Labour Court and the High Court had recorded a finding of fact that Section 25f(b) was not complied with.	None
Sain Steel Products case (supra) is clearly distinguishable and has no application to the facts of the present case.	None
In the case before us the workmen have been given one months notice in writing.	None
The reasons for retrechment have been indicated.	Reasoning
An opportunity of hearing against the proposed termination was also afforded though not required by Section 25F. Retrenchment was to take effect on expiry of one months from the date of the notice.	Reasoning
Compensation as required by Section 25F was available in the form of bankers cheques for payment to the workers simultaneously with the time of retrenchment and they were given an intimation in advance in that regard.	Reasoning
The workers had already approached the High Court and secured an interim order protecting their employment and status quo being maintained.	Reasoning
They were obviously not interested in receiving the retrenchment compensation which if done may have had the effect of frustrating the interim order.	Reasoning
In these facts and circumstances, the retrenchment of any of the appellants cannot be found fault with on any of the grounds raised by the appellants by reference to clauses (a) and (b) of Section 25F.17.	Reasoning
Faced with this situation, a last effort was made by the learned senior counsel for the appellants urging for relief being allowed on the ground of noncompliance with the provisions of Section 25N of the Act.	None
Section 25N is placed in Chapter VB of the Act which according to Section 25K has an application only to industrial establishment in which not less than 100 workmen were employed on an average per working day for the preceding 12 months.	None
The plea was not raised before the High Court.	None
It is not even taken in the special leave petitions.	None
It was sought to be taken only at the time of hearing.	None
The plea need not detain us any longer.	None
The infirmity in retrenchment by reference to Section 25N cannot be ventured to be found out without laying factual foundation attracting applicability of the provision.	None
It is basically a question of fact.	None
In the absence of requisite pleadings having been raised and documents having been brought on record, we are not persuaded to entertain the plea.	None
On the contrary, Shri B.B. Singh, the learned counsel for the State has pointed out that the controversy in this case is confined only to 55 workers and therefore the submission based on Section 25N of the Act is totally irrelevant and devoid of any merit.	None
We find substance in the opposition so offered.	None
In Hindustan Steel Works Construction Ltd. and others vs. Hindustan Steel Works Construction Ltd. Employees Union, Hyderabad and Anr.  	None
(1995) 3 SCC 474	None
(vide para 18), this Court refused to entertain a plea raised on behalf of the workers by reference to Chapters VA and VB of the Act as the contention was not urged before the High Court.	None
For all the foregoing reasons we find the appeals devoid of any merit and liable to be dismissed.	Decision
They are dismissed accordingly.	Decision
The workers are free to collect the amount of retrenchment compensation as was offered to them.	Decision
For the convenience of the appellants we direct the respondents to have the bankers renewed or fresh bankers cheques drawn up in lieu of the earlier bankers cheques for the amount due and payable to the workers under Section 25F of the Act and inform the workers to collect the same at an appointed time and place.	Decision
Subject to the said observation the appeals are dismissed though without any order as to costs.	Decision
