 L. Kapur, J. 1.	None
This is an appeal by special leave against the decision o the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad passed in revision under S. 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Facts
The landlord who was the plaintiff in the trial court is the appellant before us and the tenant who was the defendant is the respondent.	Facts
2.	None
The facts of this appeal are that in 1938 the respondent took on rent the accommodation in dispute which is termed a tal on a monthly agreed rent of Rs. 214 as.	Facts
and was using the same for the purpose of stacking timber.	Facts
A portion of it was a covered godown which had three walls and a kucha roof.	Facts
On January 28, 1950, the appellant made an application to the House Allotment Officer under S. 3A of the U. P Temporary Control of Rent and Eviction Act (U. P. III of 1947) (hereinafter termed the Act) for the fixation of reasonable annual rent of the accommodation in dispute.	Facts
He therein alleged that in January 1949 he had constructed anew a big godown 80 x 25 x 11 feet according to the instructions of the respondent and expended a fairly large sum of money on it and was therefore entitled to a monthly rent of Rs. 165.	Facts
The House Allotment Officer fixed on February 18, 1950, the rent at Rs. 35 per mensem which on review was raised on May 25, 1950, to Rs. 40 per mensem.	Facts
He held that the accommodation was not a newly constructed accommodation as the respondent had been a tenant from 1938.	Facts
He determined the increase of rent on the basis of the building that was added by the new construction.	Facts
He also held that The cost of land, the floor area of godown and rent of other similar premises would be irrelevant as all of these existed before new construction and were included in rent before new construction.	Facts
3.	Facts
The appellant thereupon instituted a suit on the ground of inadequacy of the reasonable annual rent under S. 5 (4) of the Act alleging that he had constructed the portion of the accommodation anew and put up ferroconcrete roof 80 x 25 feet and that the construction was undertaken at the request of the respondent who had agreed to pay enhanced rent but had refused to do so that although the House Allotment Officer, Mathura had fixed the rent of the accommodation at Rs. 35 which was subsequently raised to Rs. 40 per mensem, the proper rent should not be less than Rs. 115 per mensem and therefore prayed for the enhancement of reasonable annual rent.	Facts
The defence was that there was no construction at the request of the respondent but it had been undertaken in order to put up another storey on the top of the old building that as far as the accommodation in possession of the respondent was concerned there was no new construction of accommodation after June 30, 1946 that the ferroconcrete roof had in no way benefited him, on the other hand the space at his disposal had diminished because of the number of pillars constructed and the lowering of the roof.	Facts
He also pleaded that the suit was not maintainable under the Act and that no suit could be filed after the order of the House Allotment Officer.	Facts
The relevant issues raised were (1) Whether the suit is not maintainable in view of any provisions of the Act No. 3 of 1947 ?	Facts
(2) Whether the suit after the fixation of rent by the House Allotment Officer is not maintainable?	Issue
(5) What should be the reasonable and proper rent of the accommodation in suit ?	None
4.	Facts
The learned Additional Civil Judge found that the suit was not barred because of the Act that the suit against the order of the House Allotment Officer was maintainable that newly constructed accommodation on the whole was bigger and more spacious than the old kacha hall and that the accommodation had increased and after taking into consideration the amount spent on the construction he increased the reasonable adequate rent to Rs. 5580.	Facts
5.	None
Against this decree of the learned Judge the respondent took a revision to the High Court under S. 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
The High Court was of the opinion that if the accommodation was a new construction erected after June 30, 1946, the suit was maintainable and the High Court could not interfere with the finding of the Civil Judge as to the amount of rent.	None
If on the other hand, the construction was an old one, the suit did not lie and the agreed rent would continue to be payable.	None
It also held that the construction on the upper storey was a new construction but as far as the accommodation in the occupation of the respondent was concerned the construction could not be called new construction and therefore S. 3A was not applicable and as no suit lay at the instance of the landlord to have the agreed rent enhanced, the tenant was only liable to pay the agreed rent and no more.	None
The revision petition was therefore allowed and the suit of the appellant was dismissed.	None
6.	None
The main controversy raised between the parties was whether the High Court could, in revision under S. 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure, interfere with this decision of the trial court.	None
The respective contentions were these The appellant contended that it was within the jurisdiction of the Additional Civil Judge to decide the question of the date of construction of the accommodation and in doing so he could decide rightly or wrongly as the matter was within his jurisdiction and therefore the High Court had no power to interfere merely because in its opinion the decision was erroneous.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, this question was merely one of the facts in issue between the parties unconnected with jurisdiction.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also contended that the House Allotment Officer having decided in his favour the question of the date of construction which S. 3A of the Act authorises him to decide, his right to bring the suit was established and therefore the High Court could not in revision under S. 115, Civil Procedure Code go into the correctness of that decision.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents counsel on the other hand submitted that the decision of the Court as to the date of construction was in this ease a jurisdictional fact i.e., a fact which went to the root of the jurisdiction of the Court because unless the accommdoation was held to have been a new construction made after 3061946, the appellant would be bound by.	Arguments of Respondent
the agreed rent and would have no right of suit under S. 5 (4) and the Court would have no jurisdiction to entertain the suit.	Arguments of Respondent
In order to decide the question at issue, it is necessary at this stage to refer to the scheme of the Act.	None
The object of the Act was to control letting and the rents of residential and nonresidential accommodations.	None
7. Accommodation was defined in S. 2 (a) as follows 2 (a) accommodation means residential and nonresidential accommodation in any building or part of the building and includes. . . . . . .	None
.	Facts
8.	None
Reasonable annual rent is defined in S. 2 (f) 2. (f) Reasonable annual rent in the case of accommodation constructed before 171946 means (1) If it is separately assessed to municipal assessment its municipal assessment plus 25 per cent.	None
thereon (2) If it is a part only of the accommodation so assessed, the proportionate amount of the municipal assessment of such accommodation plus 25 per cent thereon (3) If it is not assessed to municipa1 assessment (i) but was held by a tenant on rent between 141942 and 3061946, fifteen times the rent of one month nearest to and after 1 41942 and (ii) if it was not so held on rent, the amount determined under S. 3A and in the case of accommodation constructed on or after 171916, means the rent determined in accordance with S. 3A. 9.	None
As to how reasonable annual rent of a building was to be determined was provided for in S. 3A Section 3A (1) In the case of any accomnodation constructed after 3061946, or falling under subcl.	None
(ii) of cl.	None
(3) of subs.	None
(f) of S. 2, the District Magistrate may, on the application of the landlord or the tenant, determine the reasonable annual rent thereof.	None
(2) In determining the reasonable annual rent under subs (1) the District Magistrate shall lake into account (a) If the accommodation was constructed after 3061946 the cost of construction and of maintenance and repairs of the accommodation, its situation and any other matter, which in the opinion of the District Magistrate, is material and (b) if it is accommodation (i)falling under cl.	None
(2) or subcl (i) of cl.	None
(3) of subs.	None
(f) of S. 2, the principles therein set forth, and (ii) falling under subcl.	None
(i) of cl.	None
(3) of subs.	None
(f) aforesaid, the principles set forth in cl.	None
(a) of subs.	Reasoning
(1) of S. 6.	None
(3) Subject to the result of any suit filed under subs.	None
(4) of S. 5, the rent fixed by the District Magistrate under this section shall be the annual reasonable rent of the accommodation.	None
10.	None
Agreed rent was defined in S. 5 (1) of the Act to be . . . . . .	None
the rent payable for any accommodation to which this Act applies shall be such as may be agreed upon between the landlord and the tenant.	None
11.	None
Section 5 (4) of the Act provided If the landlord or the tenant, as the case may be claims that the annual reasonable rent of any accommodation to which the Act applies is inadequate or excessive, or if the tenant claims that the agreed rent is higher than the annual reasonable rent, he may institute a suit for fixation of rent in the Court of the Munsif having territorial jurisdiction, it the annual rent claimed or payable is Rs. 500 or less and in the Court of the Civil Judge having territorial jurisdiction if it exceeds Rs 500.	None
provided that the Court shall not vary the agreed rent unless it is satisfie that the transaction was unfair, and in the case of lease for a fixed term made before 141942 that the term has expired.	None
l2.	None
Section 6 provided for the procedure as follows (1) In determining the amount of annual or monthly rent in any suit under S. 5 the Court shall take into account (a) in the case of accommodation constructed before 171946, the prewar rent, the reasonable annual or monthly rent, the prevailing rent on the date of the suit for similar accommodation in the locality, the cost of maintenance and repairs of such accommodation and any material circumstances proved by the plaintiff or the defendant, (b) in the case of accommodation constructed on or after 171946 the cost of construction and of maintenance and repairs of accommodation, its situation and any other circumstances which the Court may consider material.	None
(2) No appeal shall lie from any decree or order of the Munsiff of the Civil Judge in a suit brought under (subs.	None
(4) of S. 5).	None
provided that (except as regards the rate of rent but no further) the decree or order so passed shall not operate as res Judicata between the parties or their representatives in interest in any suit or proceedings under any other law.	None
It is not necessary to refer to other sections of the Act.	None
13.	None
The Act therefore in the preamble sets out the objects of the Act.	None
In S. 2 (a) it defined the meaning of the word accommodation to mean residential and nonresidential accommodation in any building or part of the building and in S. 2 (f) it laid down in three parts what the reasonable annual rent was, one part dealing with accommodation constructed before 171946 and assessed to municipal assessment, the second part with accommodation so constructed and not assessed to municipal assessment but held by a tenant between 141942 and 3061946 and the third part with accommodation constructed on or after 171946 and these last two were to be determined in accordance with the provisions of S. 3A which empowered the District Magistrate to do so.	None
Subs.	None
(1) of this section gave power to the District Megistrate to determine the reasonable annual rent in the case of accommodation constructed after 3061946 or falling under cl.	None
(ii) of subs.	None
3 of S. 2 (f) i. e. if it was not assessed to municipal assessment though constructed before 171946 and was not held by a tenant between 141942 and 3061946.	None
Subs. 2 of S. 3A laid down the factors to be taken into consideration in determining the reasonable annual rent and under subs.	None
3 the rent so fixed was to be the annual reasonable rent of the accommodation but this was subject to the result of a suit filed under S. 5 (4).	None
Therefore under S. 3A the District Magistrate was entitled to determine the amount of reasonable annual rent when either of the two facts on which his power depended was shown to exist i. e.	None
(1) the accommodation was constructed after 3061946 or (2) although it existed previously it was not assessed to municipal assessment and had not been held by a tenant on rent between 141942 and 3061946.	None
The District Magistrates power to determine the rent under S. 3A therefore was not confined to accommodation constructed after 306l946 alone.	None
The rent determined by the District Magistrate under S. 3A was the reasonable annual rent under the Act subject to the result of any suit filed under subs.	None
(4) of S. 5.	None
A wrong decision by the District Magistrate under S. 3A or an order made by him in excess of his powers under that section could be rectified by a suit under S. 5 (4).	None
14.	None
This provision of the Act i. e. S. 5 (4) provided for three classes of suits, one by a landlord that the reasonable annual rent was inadequate and (2) by the tenant that the annual rent was excessive and (3) also by the tenant that the agreed rent was higher than the reasonable annual rent.	None
Hence under this section the appellant landlords right of suit was restricted to challenging the inadequacy of the reasonable annual rent but he could not sue for varying the agreed rent.	None
The appellant in the present case brought his suit on the ground of inadequacy of the reasonable rent as determined under S. 3A and consequently its maintainability depended on the determination of the jurisdictional fact i. e. date of its construction, whether it was before or after 30th June 1946, on the decision of which would depend his right to bring the suit because if there was no new construction, the agreed rent would be operative and the appellant would have no right of suit under S. 5(4) of the Act.	None
15.	None
Consequently, by wrongly deciding this question the Court would be entertaining a suit by the landlord for enhancement of the agreed rent and thereby assuming jurisdiction it did not possess and the landlord would be circumventing the restriction on his right to sue for enhancement of agreed rent which the law did not allow.	None
16.	None
As the issues raised show the learned Additional Civil Judge was alive to the fact that the maintainability of the suit depended on the determination of this question.	None
The appellant had specifically alleged that the accommodation had been constructed after 30th June 1946, a fact which was denied by the respondent.	None
That gave rise to the first two issues and the learned Civil Judge held I am therefore of the opinion that that portion of the building in suit which has been newly replaced must be treated as a new accommodation, and hence this Court can determine its rent under the provisions of S. 5(4).	None
In View of the fact that it is a new accommodation no question of agreed rent arises and the landlord can bring a suit for fixation of rent.	None
Two facts therefore stand out clearly in the judgment of the trial Court (1) that it was the existence of a newly constructed accommodation which gave jurisdiction to the Court to determine its reasonable annual rent and (2) that as it was a newly constructed accommodation, the question of agreed rent did not arise.	None
17.	None
The High Court, in our view, approached the question quite correctly when it stated that the question for determination was whether the accommodation had been constructed before or after 30th June 1946, and that it was constructed before that date the suit was incompetent and it after, the suit would lie.	Reasoning
The contention raised by the appellant in this Court was that the decision of the trial Court as to whether the accommodation was constructed before or after 1st July 1946, cannot be challenged in revision in the High Court and he relied on the following observation of Lord Esher M. R., in the Queen v. Commissioner for Special Purposes of the Incometax,(1888) 21 Q B D 313, 319	Reasoning
When an inferior Court or tribunal or body, which has to exercise the power of deciding facts is first established by Act of Parliament, the legislature has to consider what powers it will give that tribunal or body.	None
It may in effect say that, if a certain state of facts exists and is shown to such tribunal or body before it proceeds to do certain things, it shall have jurisdiction to do such things, but not otherwise.	Reasoning
There it is not for them conclusively to decide whether that state of facts exists, and, if they exercise the Jurisdiction without its existence, what they do may be questioned, and it will be held that they have acted without jurisdiction.	Reasoning
But there is another state of things which may exist.	Reasoning
The legislature may intrust the tribunal or body with a jurisdiction, which includes the jurisdiction to determine whether the preliminary state of facts exists as well as the jurisdiction on finding that a does exist, to proceed further or do something more.	Reasoning
When the legislature are establishing such a tribunal or body with limited jurisdiction they give them, whether there shall be any appeal from their decision, for there will be none.	Reasoning
In the second of two cases I have mentioned it is an erroneous application of the formula to say that the tribunal cannot give themselves jurisdiction by wrongly deciding certain facts to exist, because the legislature gave them jurisdiction to determine all the facts, including the existence of the preliminary facts on which the further exercise of their jurisdiction depends and if they were given jurisdiction so to decide, without any appeal being given, there is no appeal from such exercise of their jurisdiction.	Reasoning
These observations which relate to inferior Courts or tribunals with limited jurisdiction show that there are two classes of cases dealing with the power of such a tribunal (1) where the legislature entrusts a tribunal with the jurisdiction including the jurisdiction to determine whether the preliminary state of facts on which the exercise of its jurisdiction depends exists and (2) where the legislature confers jurisdiction on such tribunals to proceed in a case where a certain state of facts exists or is shown to exist.	Reasoning
The difference is that in the former case the tribunal has power to determine the facts giving it jurisdiction and in the latter case it has only to see that a certain state of facts exists.	Reasoning
In the present case the appellant asked for a determination of reasonable annual rent under S. 3A on the ground that the accommodation was constructed after 30th June 1946, and the House Allotment Officer therefore had power to determine the reasonable annual rent.	Reasoning
18.	None
In order to give jurisdiction to the civil Court there had to be in existence a reasonable annual rent as defined under S. 2(f) whether it fell within its first two clauses or was determined under S. 3A. The reasonable annual rent could be varied at the instance of the landlord or the tenant on the ground of its inadequacy or excess but the landlord could not bring a suit to vary the agreed rent nor could the Court entertain such a suit although it was open to the tenant to do so and the Court could at his instance entertain such a suit.	Reasoning
The proceedings before the civil Court are not by way of an appeal from any order under S. 3A made by the District Magistrate.	Reasoning
19. Section 115, Civil P. C., empowers the High Court, in cases where no appeal lies, to satisfy itself on three matters (a) that the order made by the subordinate Court is within its jurisdiction (b) that the case is one in which the Court ought to exercise its jurisdiction (c) that in exercising the jurisdiction the Court has not acted illegally, that is, in breach of some provision of law or with material irregularity that is by committing some error of procedure in the course of the trial which is material in that it may have affected the ultimate decision.	Reasoning
Per Sir John Beaumont in Venkatagiri Ayyangar v. Hindu Religious Endowment Board, Madras, 76 Ind App 67 at p. 73(AIR	Reasoning
1949 P C 156 at p. 158).Therefore	Reasoning
if an erroneous decision of a subordinate Court resulted in its exercising jurisdiction not vested in it by law or failing to exercise the jurisdiction so vested or acting with material irregularity or illegality in the exercise of its jurisdiction the case for the exercise of powers of revision by the High Court is made out.	Reasoning
In Joy Chand Lal Babu v. Kamalaksha Chaudhury, 76 Ind App 131 (A I R 1949 P C 239) the subordinate Court gave an erroneous decision that the loan was a commercial loan and therefore refused to exercise jurisdiction vested in it by law and the Privy Council held that it was open to the High Court to interfere in revision under S. 115.	Reasoning
Sir John Beaumont said at p. 142 ( of Ind App)(at p. 242 of AIR) There have been a very large number of decisions of Indian High Courts on S. 115 to many of which their Lordships have been referred.	Reasoning
Some of such decisions prompt the observation that High Courts have not always appreciated that although error in a decision of a subordinate Court does not by itself involve that the subordinate Court has acted illegally or with material irregularity so as to justify interference in revision under subs.	Reasoning
(c), nevertheless, if the erroneous decision results in the subordinate Court exercising a jurisdiction not vested in it by law or failing to exercise a jurisdiction so vested a case for revision arises under subs.	Reasoning
(a) or subs.	Reasoning
(b) and subs.	Reasoning
(c) can be ignored.	Reasoning
The cases of Babu Ram v. Munnalal, 49 All 454 (A I R 1927 All 358) and Hari Bhikaji v. Naro Vishvanath, ILR 9	Reasoning
Bom 432 may be mentioned as cases in which a subordinate Court by its own erroneous decision (erroneous that is, in view of the High Court).	Reasoning
In the one case on a point of limitation and in the other on a question of resjudicata, invested itself with a jurisdiction which in law it did not possess and the High Court held, wrongly their Lordships think, that it had no power to interfere in revision to prevent such a result, in the present case their Lordships are of the opinion that the High Court, on the view which it took that the loan was not a commercial loan had power to interfere in revision under subs.	Reasoning
(b) of 5, 115.	None
In Keshardeo Chamria v.Radha Kissen, 1953 S C R 136 (A I R 1953 S C 23), both these judgments of the Privy Council as also the previous judgments in Amir Hassan Khan v. Sheo Baksh Singh, 11 Ind App 237 (P C), and Balakrishna Udayar v. Vasudeva Aiyar, 44 Ind App 261 (A I R 1917 P C 71), were reviewed and it was held that S. 115, Civil P. C., applies to matters of jurisdiction alone, the irregular exercise or nonexercise of it or the illegal assumption of it.	Reasoning
Thus if a subordinate court had jurisdiction to make the order it made and has not acted in breach of any provision of law or committed any error of procedure which is material and may have affected the ultimate decision, then the High Court has no power to interfere.	Reasoning
But it on the other hand it decides a jurisdictional fact erroneously and thereby assumes jurisdiction not vested in it or deprives itself of jurisdiction so vested then the power of interference under S. 115, Civil P. C., becomes operative.	Reasoning
20.	None
The appellant also relied on Brij Raj Krishna v. S. K. Show and Bros., 1951 S C R 145 (A I R 1951 S C 115), where this Court quoted with approval the observations of Lord Esher in 188821Q BD 313, (supra) and Colonial Bank of Australia v. Willan, (1874) 5 P C 417, 443, where Sir James Colville said Accordingly the authorities,establish that an adjudication by a Judge having jurisdiction over the subject matter is, it no defect appears on the face of it, to be taken as conclusive of the facts stated therein and that the Court of Queens Bench will not on certiorari quash such an adjudication on the ground that any such fact, however essential has been erroneously found.	Reasoning
But these observations can have no application to the judgment of the Additional Civil Judge whose jurisdiction in the present case is to be determined by the provisions of S. 5 (4) of the Act.	None
And the power of the High Court to correct questions of jurisdiction is to be found within the four corners of S. 115, Civil P. C. If there is an error which falls within this section the High Court will have the power to interfere, not otherwise.	Reasoning
21.	None
The only question to be decided in the instant case is as to whether the High Court had correctly interfered under S. 115, Civil P. C., with the order of the Civil Judge.	None
As we have held above, at the instance of the landlord the suit was only maintainable if it was based on the inadequacy of the reasonable annual rent and for that purpose the necessary jurisdictional fact to be found was the date of the construction of the accommodation and if the Court wrongly decided that fact and thereby conferred jurisdiction upon itself which it did not possess, it exercised jurisdiction not vested in it and the matter fell within the rule laid down by the Privy Council in 76 Ind App 131 (A I R 1949 PC 239), ( supra).The High Court had the power to interfere and once it had the power it could determine whether the question of the date of construction was rightly or wrongly decided.	None
The High Court held that the Civil Judge had wrongly decided that the construction was of a date after June 30, 1946 and therefore fell within S. 3A. 22.	None
In these circumstances the appeal must fail and is dismissed with costs throughout. ?	Decision
23.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
