 B. Sinha, J. As all the cases involve similar questions of fact and law, they were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.	None
We may, however notice the fact of the matter involved in Civil Appeal Nos.62286229 of 2002.	None
Appellant is a Government of India Undertaking (NTPC).	Facts
It is engaged in the business of generation of electricity.	Facts
It, for the purpose of setting up of a Thermal Power Station at Village Sarna in the District of Ghaziabad in the State of Uttar Pradesh, submitted a proposal to the State of Uttar Pradesh for acquisition of lands situated in Village Dadri, Tehsil Ghaziabad, District Ghaziabad.	Facts
Pursuant or in furtherance of the said request, a Notification was issued in terms of Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (for short the Act) notifying the intention of State to acquire 105 Bighas 2 Biswas and 16 Biswanis (equivalent to 65.7125 acres) of lands situated at the aforementioned village.	Facts
It was published in the Official Gazette on 8th September, 1984.	Facts
On the premise that generation of electricity was extremely urgent and National Capital Region faced acute shortage of electricity, the emergency provisions contained in Sections 17(1) and 17(4) of the Act were invoked.	Facts
A declaration in terms of Section 6 of the Act was issued on 26th September, 1984.	Facts
As the provisions of subsection (4) of Section 17 of the Act were applied, notices were issued on 27th October, 1984 under Section 9 of the Act to the claimants for payment of compensation in respect of the acquired land.	Facts
However, admittedly prior to taking over possession of land under the emergency powers, the Collector disbursed 80 of the amount of compensation determined in terms of Section 17(3A) of the Act.	Facts
A possession certificate was issued by the Collector on 16th January, 1984, which reads as under POSSESSION CERTIFICATE LAND PERMANENT REQUIRED FOR THE PLANNED Industrial Construction of NTPC Plant, District Ghaziabad through the NTPC Ltd., Ghaziabad Certified that I on behalf of the Collector, Ghaziabad have on this day the 16.11.1984 taken over the possession of the land detailed below comprising an area 105 B  2Bs16B or 6751.3 acres and (not legible (name not ligible) of D.L.A.Os Office to hand over the possession of the same land to the NTPC Ltd., Ghaziabad.	Facts
Through Sri. D.V. (not ligible), village Sarna, Muradnagar, Pargana Jalalabad, District, Ghaziabad.	None
Sd  (District Land Acquisition Officer, Ghaziabad) Notification u s. 6  7574/P3842326 Land P8426484 published on 29.9.84.	None
Certified that I on behalf of the Manager, NTPC Ltd., Ghaziabad have to take over possession of the abovementioned land through today.	None
Khasra numbers and area of the plots, possession whereof had been taken, were specified therein.	None
Despite the same, the appellant contended that it had obtained the requisitioned physical possession of land admeasuring 10.215 acres only and the rest of the land continued to remain in possession of the land owners.	None
It is stated that the Ministry of Environment made recommendations that the choice of place for setting up a Thermal Power Station, having regard to its proximity to the National Capital being incorrect, the site thereof should be shifted.	None
Pursuant thereto or in furtherance thereof, the site of the plant was shifted from Sarna, Murad Nagar to Dadri Tehsil.	Facts
However, the Land Acquisition Officer despite the same proceeded to determine the amount of compensation payable for the acquisition of land.	Facts
An Award was made on 24th September, 1986.	None
A reference in terms of Section 18 of the Act was made which was answered by the learned Additional District Judge, Ghaziabad by a order dated 22nd October, 1993 determining the amount of compensation Rs.155/ per sq. yards and Rs.115/ per sq. yds.	Facts
in respect of two references made separately before it. .	Facts
First appeals were preferred thereagainst in February, 1984 by NTPC before the High Court.	Facts
Inter alia on the premise that possession of the entire land of 65.713 acres had not been obtained, the District Magistrate was approached for issuance of a notification denotifying the acquisition of the balance area i.e. for withdrawal of acquisition of land admeasuring 55.498 acres.	Facts
By its letter dated 24th February, 1986, NTPC submitted a proposal as regards denotification of the land, which reads as under Kindly refer to our letter No.08/GM/13 dated January 8, 1986, on the above subject, addressed to District Land Acquisition Officer and copy endorsed to you (copy enclosed for ready reference).	Facts
In continuation of para 2 of that letter this is to inform you that there are five cases in which delivery of possession is shown to have been given.	Facts
These are of villages Sarna, Khurrampur, Sultanpur, Jalalpur and Mohiuddinpur.	Facts
In Sarna, advance compensation has been paid to most of the persons affected while in Khurrampur only a few persons have been paid the advance compensation.	Facts
In cases of Sultanpur, Jalalpur and Khurrampur villages  we did not get physical possession and the land owners continue to be in possession their lands even now.	Facts
In many cases, their crops are standing on the land in question.	Facts
Further, it may be added that the Land Acquisition Amendment Act 1984 came into force w.e.f. 24.9.1984.	Facts
As per subsection (3A) to Section 17 of the Land Acquisition Act it is made obligatory that before taking possession of any land the Collector shall pay 80 of the compensation to the interested persons.	Facts
This mandatory provision not having been complied with, the delivery of possession on paper has no legal force and that is why land owners did not allow NTPC to take possession of these lands.	Facts
Any possession without such 80 compensation are likely to be vitiated even if the land is proposed to be acquired.	Facts
Similarly, in the village of Mohiuddinpur Hissali, no compensation has been paid.	None
It is understood that some mutations in respect of lands of these villages in favour of NTPC have been made in the revenue records.	None
Obviously there appears to be some discrepancy.	Facts
Since no legally valid possession has been given to NTPC nor land owners have allowed NTPC to take possession of these lands, mutations in revenue records made need to be set right by necessary correction proceedings.	Facts
It is, therefore, requested that the possession certificates of these villages may please be cancelled and original entries in the revenue records may be ordered to be restored The said proposal was forwarded to the Commissioner and Director (Land Acquisition), Directorate, Board of Revenue by the District Magistrate by his letter dated 11th August, 1994.	Facts
NTPC issued a clarification to the Commissioner and Director, Board of Revenue, by its letter dated 13th August, 2004.	None
On or about 18th August, 1994 an inspection was carried by the Land Acquisition Amin, Naib Tehsildar together with the representatives of NTPC and as per the report submitted pursuant thereto, the appellant is said to have been found in possession of only 10.215 acres of land.	Facts
On 11th November, 1994 the State of U.P. issued a Notification in terms of Section 48 of the Act.	None
Aggrieved, respondents filed a writ application before the High Court on or about 29th August, 1995 and a Division Bench of the High Court stayed the consequential effect of the Notification dated 11th November, 1994.	None
On or about 9th September, 1997 the appellant filed an application for vacating the stay which having been refused, a Special Leave Petition was filed before this Court, which was dismissed by an order dated 14th October, 1997.	Facts
By reason of a judgment and order dated 21st July, 1998 the said writ petition was allowed.	None
Indisputably on the same day, the same Bench passed judgment in the First Appeals preferred by appellant (NTPC) against the order of the Reference Court dated 22nd October, 1993.	None
We shall deal with the said matter separately.	None
Mr. Raju Ramachandran, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the NTPC would contend that although in the event possession had been taken by the Collector from the land owners, Section 48 of the Act will have no application but in view of the fact that possession of 55.498 acres of land had not been delivered in favour of NTPC and merely a symbolic possession had been delivered, the High Court must be held to have committed a serious error in passing the impugned judgment.	Arguments of Petitioner
14.	None
Mr. Ranjit Kumar, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, on the other hand, would contend Having regard to the provisions contained in Section 17(1) of the Act, as the vesting of the acquired land takes place immediately, the impugned Notification dated 11th November, 1994 has rightly been held to be illegal and without jurisdiction.	None
Having regard to the certificate of possession issued by the Collector on 16th November, 1984 under the provisions of the Act, stating possession of entire land had been taken and the details thereof having been mentioned in the said certificate itself, it is too late in the day for the appellant NTPC to contend that possession of a major portion of the land had was not taken over.	Arguments of Respondent
The fact that the possession of the entire land had been taken over not only would appear from the materials brought on record during the land acquisition proceedings culminating in passing of the Award but also from the award of the Reference Court as also the judgment of the High Court in the First Appeals and in that view of the matter, it would not be correct to contend that the High Court could not have entered into such disputed questions of fact, particularly when the validity or otherwise of the proceedings is not in question.	Arguments of Respondent
A Notification under Section 4 of the Act was issued.	None
Emergency provisions contained in Section 17 of the Act were resorted to.	None
Subsections (1), (3A) and 4 of the Act read as under Special powers in cases of urgency.	None
In cases of urgency, whenever the Appropriate Government so directs, the Collector, though no such award has been made, may, on the expiration of fifteen days from the publication of the notice mentioned in section 9, subsection (1), 1 take possession of any waste or arable land needed for a public purpose.	None
Such land shall thereupon vest absolutely in the Government, free from all encumbrances.	None
(2) (3) (3A) Before taking possession of any land under subsection (1) or subsection (2), the Collector shall, without prejudice to the provisions of sub section (3), (a) tender payment of eighty per centum of the compensation for such land as estimated by him to the persons interested entitled thereto, and (b) pay it to them, unless prevented by some one or more of the contingencies mentioned in section 31, subsection (2), and where the Collector is so prevented, the provisions of section 31, subsection (2), (except the second proviso thereto), shall apply as they apply to the payment of compensation under that section.	None
In the case of any land to which, in the opinion of the appropriate Government, the provisions of subsection (1) or subsection (2) are applicable, the appropriate Government may direct that the provisions of section 5A shall not apply, and, if it does not so direct, a declaration may be made under section 6 in respect of the land at any time 4 after the date of the publication of the notification under section 4, subsection (1).	None
Indisputably the said provisions were been taken recourse to and, thus, the lands under acquisition vested absolutely in the Government.	None
Concedingly, a declaration in terms of Section 6 of the Act was issued whereafter notices to persons interested under Section 9 thereof had also been issued.	None
Award had also been published.	None
Section 16 of the Act providing for taking over possession of the land after making the Award would not be applicable in this case as possession is said to have already been taken over in terms of subsection (1) of Section 17 thereof.	None
It is in the aforementioned backdrop of factual matrix, the power of the State to withdraw the Notification of acquisition as envisaged under Section 48 of the Act falls for our consideration.	None
The said provision is as under Section 48  Completion of acquisition not compulsory, but compensation to be awarded when not completed Except in the case provided for in section 36, the Government shall be at liberty to withdraw from the acquisition of any land of which possession has not been taken.	None
Whenever the government withdraws from any such acquisition, the Collector shall determine the amount of compensation due for the damage suffered by the owner in consequence of the notice or of any proceedings thereunder, and shall pay such amount to the person interested, together with all costs reasonably incurred by him in the prosecution of the proceedings under this Act relating to the said land.	None
The provisions of Part III of this Act shall apply, so far as may be, to the determination of the compensation payable under this section.	None
It is a well settled proposition of law that in the event possession of the land, in respect whereof a Notification had been issued, had been taken over, the State would be denuded of its power to withdraw from the acquisition in terms of Section 48 of the Act.	None
Whether actual or symbolic possession had been taken over from the land owners is essentially a question of fact.	None
Taking over of possession in terms of the provisions of the Act would, however, mean actual possession and not symbolic possession.	None
The question, however, is as to whether the finding of fact arrived at by the High Court that physical possession, indeed, had been taken over by the Collector is correct or not.	Issue
We have noticed hereinbefore the background facts.	None
The emergency provisions were resorted to.	None
Even 80 of the compensation had been paid way back in 1984.	None
Had possession of the vacant land been not taken, the question of payment of 80 of compensation would not have arisen.	None
All other legal requirements to invoke the said provision have been complied with.	None
Mr. Raju Ramachandran, however, would draw our attention to a letter dated 24.2.1986 issued by the appellant to the District Magistrate to contend that even payment of 80 of the compensation had not made and, thus, the purported delivery of possession was merely a paper transaction.	None
Our attention had further been drawn to the written statement filed on behalf of the appellant before the reference court, which reads as under That out of the total acquired area in question the respondent utilized only a portion of the land by construction of their Satellite building while remaining area could not be put into use by the respondent, since the land is in actual physical possession of the land owners and they are deriving all the benefits from the land thereof and the respondent is having only a symbolic possession over the same.	None
We, however, have not been able to persuade ourselves to agree with the aforementioned submissions.	None
The Officers of the appellant themselves were parties in regard to the process of actual physical possession obtained on its behalf by the Collector.	None
Even in the award made by the Special Land Acquisition Collector, the invocation of the provisions of Section 17 of the Act as also obtaining of possession of the land in question had clearly been found.	None
We may notice some of the statements recorded therein Whether Sec.17 is in force Yes Date of the right 16.11.84	None
XXX XXX XXX Amount of Interest 9 payable from 16.11.84 i.e. from the date of acquisition 15 further from that date payable to and owner.	None
We may quote hereinbelow the relevant portions from the said award 4. 12 additional from 8.9.84 i.e. from the date of notification till date of possession i.e. on 16.11.84 Rs.1,46,531.69 From a perusal of the award, therefore, it is evident that not only the provisions of Section 17 of the Act were found to have been implemented but even interest had been granted from the date of acquisition, namely, from the date of taking over of possession.	None
Interest had also been granted in terms of Section 23A of the Act from the date of notification till the date of actual taking over of possession.	None
The Reference Court also, in its judgment, held The petitioners will get 12 per annum as additional amount on the above market value for the period commencing from the date of publication of the notification u s. 4(1) dated 6.9.84 to the date of possession dated 16.11.84.	None
In the memo of appeal preferred by the appellant before the High Court a statement was made that the possession of the land was taken by invoking Section 17 of the Act on 16.11.1984 and, thus, interest at the rate of 15 per annum on the excess amount under the provisions of Section 28 of the Act would be payble only in the case where such excess payment had not been made before the expiry of one year period from the date on which the possession has been taken and as determined by the Court.	None
In view of the stand taken by the appellant before the Land Acquisition Authorities as also the reference court and the High Court, in our opinion, it is estopped and precluded from raising a plea contra.	None
The Reference Court, in paragraph 4 of its judgment, also noticed that the possession of the land has been taken over on 16.11.1984.	None
No objection was taken before the Reference Court that possession had not been taken and, thus, interest was not payable.	None
No issue was also framed in that regard.	None
Even before us, the only ground taken was that the land could not be put to use which is a nonissue.	None
Strong reliance has been placed upon a decision of this Court in Balwant Narayan Bhagde v. M.D. Bhagwat, AIR 1975 SC 1967 (1976) 1 SCC 70 , wherein it has been held We think it is enough to state that when the Government proceeds to take possession of the land acquired by it under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, it must take actual possession of the land, since all interests in the land are sought to be acquired by it.	None
There can be no question of taking symbolical possession in the sense understood by judicial decisions under the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
Nor would possession merely on paper be enough.	None
What the Act contemplates as a necessary condition of vesting of the land in the Government is the taking of actual possession of the land.	None
How such possession may be taken would depend on the nature of the land.	None
Such possession would have to be taken as the nature of the land admits of.	None
There can be no hard and fast rule laying down what act would be sufficient to constitute taking of possession of land.	None
We should not, therefore, be taken as laying down an absolute and inviolable rule that merely going on the spot and making a declaration by beat of drum or otherwise would be sufficient to constitute taking of possession of land in every case.	None
But here, in our opinion, since the land was lying fallow and there was no crop on it at the material time, the act of the Tehsildar in going on the spot and inspecting the land for the purpose of determining what part was waste and arable and should, therefore, be taken possession of and determining its extent, was sufficient to constitute taking of possession.	None
It appears that the appellant was not present when this was done by the Tehsildar, but the presence of the owner or the occupant of the land is not necessary to effectuate the taking of possession.	None
It is also not strictly necessary as a matter of legal requirement that notice should be given to the owner or the occupant of the land that possession would be taken at a particular time, though it may be desirable where possible, to give such notice before possession is taken by the authorities, as that would eliminate the possibility of any fraudulent or collusive transaction of taking of mere paper possession, without the occupant or the owner ever coming to know of it.	None
This decision, therefore, itself is an authority for the proposition that no absolute rule in this behalf can be laid down.	None
In Larsen Toubro Ltd. v. State of Gujarat Ors.	None
(1998) 4 SCC 387 and P.K. Kalburqui v. State of Karnataka Ors.	None
(2005) 12 SCC 489, the same view has been reiterated.	None
These decisions, as noticed hereinbefore, do not lay down an absolute rule.	Issue
The question as to whether actual physical possession had been taken in compliance of the provisions of Section 17 of the Act or not would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.	Issue
When possession is to be taken over in respect of the fallow or Patit land, a mere intention to do so may not be enough.	None
It is, however, the positive stand by the appellant that the lands in question are agricultural land and crops used to be grown therein.	None
If the lands in question are agricultural lands, not only actual physical possession had to be taken but also they were required to be properly demarcated.	None
If the land had standing crops, as has been contended by Mr. Raju Ramachandran, steps in relation thereto were required to be taken by the Collector.	None
Even in the said certificate of possession, it had not been stated that there were standing crops on the land on the date on which possession was taken.	None
We may notice that delivery of possession in respect of immoveable property should be taken in the manner laid down in Order XXI Rule 35 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
It is beyond any comprehension that when possession is purported to have been taken of the entire acquired lands, actual possession would be taken only of a portion thereof.	None
The certificate of possession was either correct or incorrect.	None
It cannot be partially correct or partially incorrect.	None
Either the possession had actually been delivered or had not been delivered.	None
It cannot be accepted that possession had been delivered in respect of about 10 acres of land and the possession could not be taken in respect of the rest 55 acres of land.	None
When the provisions of Section 17 are taken recourse to, vesting of the land takes effect immediately.	None
Another striking feature of the case is that all the actions had been taken in a comprehensive manner.	None
The Collector in his certificate of possession dated 16th November, 1984 stated that the possession had been taken over in respect of the entire land the details of the land and the area thereof had also been mentioned in the certificate of possession even NTPC in its letter dated 24th February, 1986 stated that possession had not been delivered only in respect of land situated in four villages mentioned therein.	None
Indisputably NTPC got possession over 10.215 acres of land.	None
It raised constructions thereover.	None
It is difficult to comprehend that if the NTPC had paid 80 of the total compensation as provided for under subsection (3A) of Section 17 of the Act, out of 65.713 acres of land it had obtained possession only in respect of about 10.215 acres of land and still for such a long time it kept mum.	None
Exfacie, therefore, it is difficult to accept that merely symbolic possession had been taken.	None
In Lt. Governor of Himachal Pradesh Anr.	None
v. Sri Avinash Sharma (1970 (2) SCC 149 , this Court has stated the law, thus	None
But these observations do not assist the case of the appellant.	None
It is clearly implicit in the observations that after possession has been taken pursuant to a notification under Section 17(1) the land is vested in the Government, and the notification cannot be cancelled under Section 21 of the General Clauses Act, nor can the notification be withdrawn in exercise of the powers under Section 48 of the Land Acquisition Act.	None
Any other view would enable the State Government to circumvent the specific provision by relying upon a general power.	None
When possession of the land is taken under Section 17(1), the land vests in the Government.	None
There is no provision by which land statutorily vested in the Government reverts to the original owner by mere cancellation of the notification.	None
The said view was affirmed in Satendra Prasad Jain Ors.	None
v. State of U.P. Ors.	None
(1993) 4 SCC 369 , in the context of applicablility of Section 11A of the Act, it was stated When Section 17(1) is applied by reason of urgency, Government takes possession of the land prior to the making of the award under Section 11 and thereupon the owner is divested of the title to the land which is vested in the Government.	None
Section 17(1) states so in unmistakable terms.	None
Clearly, Section 11A can have no application to cases of acquisitions under Section 17 because the lands have already vested in the Government and there is no provision in the said Act by which land statutorily vested in the Government can revert to the owner.	None
In Pratap Anr.	None
v. State of Rajasthan Ors.	None
(1996) 3 SCC 1 , a Three Judge Bench of this Court opined as under The provisions of subsection (4) of Section 52 are somewhat similar to Section 17 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894.	None
Just as publication of a notification under Section 52(1) vests the land in the State, free from all encumbrances, as provided by Section 52(4), similarly when possession of land is taken under Section 17(1) the land vests absolutely in the Government free from all encumbrances.	None
A question arose before this Court that if there is a noncompliance with the provisions of Section 5A and an award is not made in respect to the land so acquired, would the acquisition proceedings lapse.	None
In Satendra Prasad Jain v. State of U.P. this Court held that once possession had been taken under Section 17(1) and the land vested in the Government then the Government could not withdraw from acquisition under Section 48 and the provisions of Section 11A were not attracted and, therefore, the acquisition proceedings would not lapse on failure to make an award within the period prescribed therein.	None
It was further held that noncompliance of Section 17(3A), regarding part payment of compensation before taking possession, would also not render the possession illegal and entitle the Government to withdraw from acquisition.	None
The aforesaid principle has been reiterated by this Court in P. Chinnanna v. State of A.P. and Awadh Bihari Yadav v. State of Bihar.	None
In view of the aforesaid ratio it follows that the provisions of Section 11A are not attracted in the present case and even if it be assumed that the award has not been passed within the stipulated period, the acquisition of land does not come to an end.	None
In Sanjeevnagar Medical Health Employees Cooperative Housing Society v. Mohd.	None
Abdul Wahab Ors.	None
(1996) 3 SCC 600 , it was held In Satendra Prasad Jain v. State of U.P.6, the question arose whether notification under Section 4(1) and the declaration under Section 6 get lapsed if the award is not made within two years as envisaged under Section 11A?	None
A Bench of three Judges had held that once possession was taken and the land vested in the Government, title to the land so vested in the State is subject only to determination of compensation and to pay the same to the owner.	None
Divesting the title to the land statutorily vested in the Government and reverting the same to the owner is not contemplated under the Act.	None
Only Section 48(1) gives power to withdraw from acquisition that too before possession is taken.	None
That question did not arise in this case.	None
The property under acquisition having been vested in the appellants, in the absence of any power under the Act to have the title of the appellants divested except by exercise of the power under Section 48(1), valid title cannot be defeated.	None
The exercise of the power to quash the notification under Section 4(1) and the declaration under Section 6 would lead to incongruity.	None
Yet again, in Tamil Nadu Housing Board v. A. Viswam(Dead) by Lrs.	None
(1996) 8 SCC 259 , this Court has categorically laid down that when the accepted mode of taking possession of the acquired land is resorted to, that would constitute taking possession of the land.	None
The said principle has been reiterated in Bangalore Development Authority Ors. v. R. Hanumaiah Ors.	None
(2005) 12 SCC 508 , in the following terms In our considered view, the Division Bench has erred in holding that the State Government could release the lands in exercise of its power under Section 48 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 from the acquisition.	None
It has further been held The possession of the land in question was taken in the year 1966 after the passing of the award by the Land Acquisition Officer.	None
Thereafter, the land vested in the Government which was then transferred to CITB, predecessorininterest of the appellant.	None
After the vesting of the land and taking possession thereof, the notification for acquiring the land could not be withdrawn or cancelled in exercise of powers under Section 48 of the Land Acquisition Act.	None
Power under Section 21 of the General Clauses Act cannot be exercised after vesting of the land statutorily in the State Government.	None
See also State of Kerala Ors.	None
v. V.P. Kurien Ors.	None
(2005) 11 SCC 493.	None
The High Court, therefore, in our opinion, was correct in its view.	Reasoning
We may now consider the question as to whether the issue as to whether possession of the acquired land had actually been taken over or not being a disputed question of fact could not have gone into by the High Court.	Issue
It is not a case where oral evidence was required to be taken.	Issue
There is no law that the High Court is denied or debarred from entering into a disputed question of fact.	Issue
The issue will have to be determined keeping in view the fact situation obtaining in each case.	Issue
If a disputed question can be determined on the basis of the documents and or affidavit, the High Court may not ordinarily refuse to do so.	Issue
In a given case, it may also examine witnesses.	Issue
In Smt.	None
Gunwant Kaur Ors.	None
v. Municipal Committee, Bhatinda Ors.	None
(1969) 3 SCC 769 , it was held The High Court observed that they will not determine disputed question of fact in a writ petition.	None
But what facts were in dispute and what were admitted could only be determined after an affidavit in reply was filed by the State.	None
The High Court, however, proceeded to dismiss the petition in limine.	None
The High Court is not deprived of its jurisdiction to entertain a petition under Article 226 merely because in considering the petitioners right to relief questions of fact may fall to be determined.	None
In a petition under Article 226 the High Court has jurisdiction to try issues both of fact and law.	None
Exercise of the jurisdiction is, it is true, discretionary, but the discretion must be exercised on sound judicial principles.	None
When the petition raises questions of fact of a complex nature, which may for their determination require oral evidence to be taken, and on that account the High Court is of the view that the dispute may not appropriately be tried in a writ petition, the High Court may decline to try a petition.	None
Rejection of a petition in limine will normally be justified, where the High Court is of the view that the petition is frivolous or because of the nature of the claim made dispute sought to be agitated, or that the petition against the party against whom relief is claimed is not maintainable or that the dispute raised thereby is such that it would be in appropriate to try it in the writ jurisdiction, or for anologous reasons.	None
From the averments made in the petition filed by the appellants it is clear that in proof of a large number of allegations the appellants relied upon documentary evidence and the only matter in respect of which conflict of facts may possibly arise related to the due publication of the notification under Section 4 by the Collector.	None
In the present case, in our judgment, the High Court was not justified in dismissing the petition on the ground that it will not determine disputed question of fact.	None
The High Court has jurisdiction to determine questions of fact, even if they are in dispute and the present, in our judgment, is a case in which in the interests of both the parties the High Court should have entertained the petition and called for an affidavit in reply from the respondents, and should have proceeded to try the petition instead of relegating the appellants to a separate suit.	None
Such a direction has been issued, as noticed hereinbefore, even in a land acquisition matter.	None
Yet again, in Babubhai Muljibhai Patel v. Nandlal Khodidas Barot (1974) 2 SCC 706 , this Court has held It is not necessary for this case to express an opinion on the point as whether the various provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure apply to petitions under Article 226 of the Constitution.	None
Section 141 of the Code, to which reference has been made, makes it clear that the provisions of the Code in regard to suits shall be followed in all proceedings in any court of civil jurisdiction as far as it can be made applicable.	None
The words as far as it can be made applicable make it clear that, in applying the various provisions of the Code to proceedings other than those of a suit, the court must take into account the nature of those proceedings and the relief sought.	None
The object of Article 226 is to provide a quick and inexpensive remedy to aggrieved parties.	None
Power has consequently been vested in the High Courts to issue to any person or authority, including in appropriate cases any government, within the jurisdiction of the High Court, orders or writs, including writs in the nature of habeas corpus, mandamus, prohibition, quo warranto and certiorari.	None
It is plain that if the procedure of a suit had also to be adhered to in the case of writ petitions, the entire purpose of having a quick and inexpensive remedy would be defeated.	None
A writ petition under Article 226, it needs to be emphasised, is essentially different from a suit and it would be incorrect to assimilate and incorporate the procedure of a suit into the proceedings of a petition under Article 226.	None
The High Court is not deprived of its jurisdiction to entertain a petition under Article 226 merely because in considering the petitioners right of relief, questions of fact may fall to be determined.	None
In a petition under Article 226 the High Court has jurisdiction to try issues both of fact and law.	None
Exercise of the jurisdiction is no doubt discretionary, but the discretion must be exercised on sound judicial principles.	None
When the petition raises complex questions of fact, which may for their determination require oral evidence to be taken, and on that account the High Court is of the view that the dispute should not appropriately be tried in a writ petition, the High Court may decline to try a petition (see Gunwant Kaur v. Bhatinda Municipality).	None
If, however, on consideration of the nature of the controversy, the High Court decides, as in the present case, that it should go into a disputed question of fact and the discretion exercised by the High Court appears to be sound and in conformity with judicial principles, this Court would not interfere in appeal with the order made by the High Court in this respect.	None
In Balmokand Khatri (supra), it has been observed It is seen that the entire gamut of the acquisition proceedings stood completed by 1741976 by which date possession of the land had been taken.	None
No doubt, Shri Parekh has contended that the appellant still retained their possession.	None
It is now wellsettled legal position that it is difficult to take physical possession of the land under compulsory acquisition.	None
The normal mode of taking possession is drafting the panchnama in the presence of panchas and taking possession and giving delivery to the beneficiaries is the accepted mode of taking possession of the land.	None
Subsequent thereto, the retention of possession would tantamount only to illegal or unlawful possession.	None
Recently the question came up for consideration before a Division Bench of this Court in T.N. Housing Board v. Keeravani Ammal, (2007) 9 SCC 255 , wherein it was held On the facts pleaded it is doubtful whether the Government can withdraw from the acquisition, since the case of the State and the Housing Board is that possession has been taken and plans finalised to fulfil the purpose for which the acquisition was made.	None
There is no plea in the writ petition that a request for reconveyance was made in terms of Section 48B of the Act as amended in the State of Tamil Nadu.	None
It was furthermore held We may also notice that once a piece of land has been duly acquired under the Land Acquisition Act, the land becomes the property of the State.	None
The State can dispose of the property thereafter or convey it to anyone, if the land is not needed for the purpose for which it was acquired, only for the market value that may be fetched for the property as on the date of conveyance.	None
The doctrine of public trust would disable the State from giving back the property for anything less than the market value.	None
In State of Kerala v. M. Bhaskaran Pillai2 in a similar situation, this Court observed The question emerges whether the Government can assign the land to the erstwhile owners?	None
It is settled law that if the land is acquired for a public purpose, after the public purpose was achieved, the rest of the land could be used for any other public purpose.	None
In case there is no other public purpose for which the land is needed, then instead of disposal by way of sale to the erstwhile owner, the land should be put to public auction and the amount fetched in the public auction can be better utilised for the public purpose envisaged in the Directive Principles of the Constitution.	None
In the present case, what we find is that the executive order is not in consonance with the provision of the Act and is, therefore, invalid.	None
Under these circumstances, the Division Bench is well justified in declaring the executive order as invalid.	None
Whatever assignment is made, should be for a public purpose.	None
Otherwise, the land of the Government should be sold only through the public auctions so that the public also gets benefited by getting a higher value.	None
Furthermore the Collector under the Act was acting as a statutory authority.	Reasoning
When possession has been shown to have been taken over not only in terms of subsection (1) of Section 17 of the Act but also by grant of the certificate and other documents, illustration (e) of Section 114 of the Evidence Act 1872, must be held to be applicable.	Reasoning
Once such a presumption is drawn the burden would be on the State to prove the contra.	Reasoning
The burden of proof could be discharged only by adducing clear and cogent evidence.	None
Not only the aforementioned documents but even the judicial records clearly show that the possession had in fact been taken.	None
Mr. Raju Ramachandran, however, made an alternative submission before us that this Court, in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 142 of Constitution of India, may issue necessary directions so as to put a quietus to the entire matter.	Reasoning
This Court cannot foresee all the eventualities.	Reasoning
However, before us Mr. Ranjit Kumar, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, when questioned, categorically stated that in view of the statement made in the counter affidavit, the positive case of the respondents is that they had not been in possession.	Reasoning
If the aforementioned statement made by the respondents is found to be incorrect, legal steps as is permissible in law may be taken.	None
Furthermore, if the respondents and or any other person are found to be in possession of the lands which were the subject matter of acquisition in terms of the notification under Section 4 of the Act, appropriate steps for eviction therefor can be initiated.	Reasoning
It goes without saying that the authorities of the State of Uttar Pradesh shall render all cooperation to the appellant in this behalf.	Reasoning
It is furthermore neither in doubt nor in dispute that the initiation of the acquisition proceedings at the instance of the appellant was for setting up of a thermal power station.	Reasoning
It had to be shifted to another site only because the Central Government asked it to do so keeping in view the ecological perspective in mind.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, permissible for the appellant to put the land in question which has vested in it for another purpose which would come within the purview of any public purpose as has been noticed by this Court in Khatri (supra) and for any other purpose as has been noticed by this Court in Keerwani Ammal (Supra)	Reasoning
Yet again in Kasturi Ors. v. State of Haryana (2003) 1 SCC 335 , this Court has held If the land was not used for the purpose for which it was acquired, it was open to the State Government to take action but that did not confer any right on the respondents to ask for restitution of the land.	Reasoning
As already noticed, the State Government in this regard has already initiated proceedings for resumption of the land.	Reasoning
In our view, there arises no question of any unjust enrichment to the appellant Company.	Reasoning
In Ravi Khullar Anr.	None
v. Union of India Ors.	Reasoning
(2007) 5 SCC 231 , it was contended The learned Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the respondents submitted that having regard to the authorities on the subject the question is no longer res integra.	Reasoning
It is not as if lands acquired for a particular public purpose cannot be utilised for another public purpose.	Reasoning
He contended that as long as the acquisition is not held to be mala fide, the acquisition cannot be invalidated merely because the lands which at one time were proposed to be utilised for a particular public purpose, were later either in whole or in part, utilised for some other purpose, though a public purpose.	Reasoning
He, therefore, submitted that some change of user of the land, as long as it has a public purpose, would not invalidate the acquisition proceeding which is otherwise valid and legal.	Reasoning
It was held Referring to the facts of the instant case, it cannot be disputed that the planned development of Delhi for which purpose the land was acquired under Section 4 of the Act is wide enough to include the development and expansion of an airport within the city of Delhi.	Reasoning
Thus it cannot be said that the land is actually being utilised for any purpose other than that for which it was acquired.	Reasoning
The only difference is that whereas initially the development work would have been undertaken by DDA or any other agency employed by it, after the constitution of IAAI, the said development work had to be undertaken by the newly constituted authority.	Reasoning
Thus there has been no change of purpose of the acquisition.	Reasoning
All that has happened is that the development work is undertaken by another agency since constituted, which is entrusted with the special task of maintenance of airports.	Reasoning
Since the said authority was constituted several years after the issuance of the notification under Section 4, the acquisition cannot be invalidated only on the ground that the public purpose is sought to be achieved through another agency.	Reasoning
This, as we have noticed earlier, was necessitated by change of circumstances in view of the creation of the authority i.e. IAAI.	Reasoning
Moreover, since there is no change of public purpose for which the acquired land is being utilised, the acquisition cannot be invalidated on that ground.	Reasoning
The purpose for which the lands are being utilized by a governmental agency is also a public purpose and as we have noticed earlier, would come within the ambit of the public purpose declared in Section 4 notification.	Reasoning
Therefore, the acquisition cannot be challenged on the ground that the acquired lands are not being utilised for the declared public purpose.	Reasoning
Having regard to the facts of the case it cannot be contended, nor has it been contended, that the notification under Section 4 of the Act was issued mala fide.	Reasoning
For the reasons aforementioned, the appeals, being devoid of any merit, are dismissed subject to the observations made hereinbefore with costs.	Decision
Counsel fee assessed at Rs.50,000/ in each of these appeals.	Decision
