 Hegde, J.1.	None
In these appeals by certificate, the only question arising for decision is whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the assessee continued to be the owner of the property for the purposes of computation of income under Section 9 of the Incometax Act, 1922 (to be hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Issue
A Full Bench of the Delhi High Court speaking through S.K. Kapur J. answered that question in the negative.	Issue
Being dissatisfied with that decision the assessee has brought these appeals.2.	Issue
Now turning to the facts of the case, the concerned assessment years are 195253, 195556 and 195657, the relevant accounting periods being financial years ending March 31, 1952, March 31, 1955 and March 31, 1956.	Facts
The assessee is a registered firm deriving income from interest on securities, property, business and other sources.	Facts
Sometime in the year 1946 it purchased the Nedous Hotel in Lahore for a sum of Rs. 46 lakhs.	Facts
For that purpose it raised a loan of Rs. 30 lakhs from M s. Bharat Bank Ltd., Lahore and a loan of Rs. 18 lakhs from the Raja of Jubbal.	Facts
The loan taken from the bank was partly repaid but as regards the loan taken from the Raja, the assessee came to an agreement with the Raja under which the Raja accepted a half share in the said property in lieu of the loan advanced and also 1/3rd of the outstanding liability of the bank.	Facts
This arrangement came into effect on November 1, 1951.	Facts
After the creation of Pakistan, Lahore became a part of Pakistan.	Facts
The Nedous Hotel was declared an evacuee property and consequently vested in the Custodian in the Pakistan.3.	Facts
In its return for the relevant assessment years, the assessee claimed losses of Rs. 1,00,723/, Rs. 1,16,599/ and Rs. 1,16,599/ respectively but showed the gross annual letting value from the said property at Nil.	Facts
The loss claimed was stated to be on account of interest payable to be on account of interest payable to the bank.	Facts
Since the property in question had vested in the Custodian of Evacuee Property, in Pakistan, the Incometax Officer held that no income or loss from that property can be considered in the assessees case.	Facts
He accordingly disallowed the assessees claim in respect of the interest paid to the bank.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner confirmed the order of the Incometax Officer.	Facts
In second appeal the Tribunal came to the conclusion that the assessee still continued to be the owner of the property for the purpose of computation of loss.	Facts
The Tribunal held that the interest paid is a deductible allowance under Section 9 (1) (iv) of the Act.	Facts
In arriving at that conclusion, the Tribunal relied on its earlier decision in the case of the assessee in respect of the assessment year 195152.	Facts
Thereafter at the instance of the assessee, the Tribunal submitted the question set out earlier.	Facts
The High Court on an analysis of the various provisions of the Pakistan (Administration of Evacuee Property) Ordinance, 1949 (XV of 1949) (to be hereinafter referred to as the Ordinance) came to the conclusion that for the purpose of Section 9 of the Act, the assessee cannot be considered as the owner of that property.4.	Facts
It was urged by Mr. V. C. Mahajan, learned Counsel for the assessee that the High Court erred in opining that the assessee was not the owner of the property, for the purpose of Section 9 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him the property vested in the Custodian only for the purpose of administration and the assessee still continued to be its owner.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended that the expression owner means the person having the ultimate right to the property.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further contended that so long as the assessee had a right to that property in whatever manner that right might have been hedged in or restricted, he still continued to be the owner.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, it was contended on behalf of the Revenue that the Incometax is concerned with income, gains and profits.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore for the purpose of that Act, the owner is that person who is entitled to the income.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the Revenue the word owner in Section 9 refers to the legal ownership and not to any beneficial interest in the property.5.	Arguments of Respondent
For deciding the question whether the assessee was the owner of the property for the purpose of Section 9 of the Act during the relevant accounting years, we have to look to the provisions of the Ordinance.	Issue
Let us first take a survey of the relevant provisions of the Ordinance and thereafter analyse the effect of those provisions.6.	Issue
The long title of the Ordinance says that it is an Ordinance to provide for the administration of the evacuee property in Pakistan and for certain matters incidental thereto.	None
The preamble says that where as an emergency has been arisen which renders it necessary to provide for the administration of evacuee property in Pakistan and for certain matters incidental thereto.	None
Section 6 (1) provides that all evacuee property shall vest and shall be deemed always to have vested in the Custodian with effect from the 1st day of March 1947.	None
Section 9 gives power to the Custodian to take possession of the evacuee property.	None
Section 11 provides that any amount due to an evacuee or payable in respect of any evacuee property, shall be paid to the Custodian by the person liable to pay the same and the payment to the Custodian discharges the debtors liability to the extent of the payment made.	None
Section 12 prescribes that the property which has vested in or of which possession has been taken by the custodian shall be exempt from all legal process, including seizure, distress, ejectment, attachment or sale by any officer of a Court or any other authority and no injunction or other order of whatever kind in respect of such property shall be granted or made by any Court or any other authority.	None
Section 14 (1) permits the Rehabilitation Authority to allot evacuee property to the refugees.	None
Section 16 (1) says that no creation or transfer of any right or interest in or encumbrance upon any property made in any manner whatsoever on or after the first day of March, 1947 by or on behalf of a person who has or may become an evacuee after the date of such creation or transfer, shall be effective so as to confer any right or remedy on any party thereto or on any person claiming under any such party, unless it is confirmed by the Custodian.	None
Section 19 empowers the Custodian to restore the evacuee property to the lawful owner subject to such conditions as he may be pleased to impose.	None
Section 20 (1) stipulates that the Custodian may take such measures as he considers necessary or expedient for the purpose of administering, preserving and managing any evacuee property which has vested in him and may for any such purpose as aforesaid, do all acts and incur all expenses necessary or incidental thereto.	None
Subsection (2) of that section provides thatwithout prejudice to the generality of the provisions contained in subsection (1), the Custodian may(m) sell any evacuee property, notwithstanding anything contained in any law or agreement to the contrary relating thereto,Provided that the Custodian shall not under this clause or the next succeeding clause sell any immovable evacuee property or any business or undertaking which is evacuee property, except with the previous approval of the Central Government.7.	None
Clause (n) of that subsection empowers the Custodian to demolish or dismantle any evacuee property which in his opinion cannot be repaired, or, sell the site of such property and the materials thereof.	None
The Custodian can recoup all the expenses incurred by him in the administration of the evacuee property from out of the receipts in his hand in respect of that property.	None
Section 22 (1) requires the Custodian to maintain separate account of the property of each evacuee of which he has taken possession and shall cause to be made therein entries of all receipts and expenditure in respect thereof.8.	None
The Ordinance starts by saying that it is an Ordinance to provide for the administration of evacuee property and not management of evacuee property.	None
The expression administration in relation to an estate, in law means management and settling of that estate.	None
It is a power to deal with the estate.	None
The evacuee could not take possession of his property.	None
He could not lease that property.	None
He could not sell that property without the consent of the Custodian.	None
He could not mortgage that property.	None
He could not realise the income of the property on the other hand the Custodian could take possession of that property.	None
He could realise its income.	None
He could alienate the property and he could under certain circumstances demolish the property.	None
All the rights that the evacuee had in the property he left in Pakistan were exercisable by the Custodian excepting that he could not appropriate the proceeds for his own use.	None
The evacuee could not exercise any rights in that property except with the consent of the Custodian.	None
He merely had some beneficial interest in that property.	None
No doubt that residual interest in a sense is ownership.	None
The property having vested in the Custodian, who had all the powers to the owner, he was the legal owner of the property.	None
In the eye of the law the Custodian was the owner of that property.	None
The position of the Custodian was no less than that of a Trustee.	None
Section 9(1)	None
saysThe tax shall be payable by an assessee under the head Income from Property in respect of the bona fide annual value of property consisting of any buildings or lands appurtenant thereto of which he is the owner, other than such portions of such property as he may occupy for the purposes of any business, profession or vocation carried on by him the profits of which are assessable to tax subject to the following allowances namelyx x x x x x x9.	None
The question is who is the owner referred to in this Section?	None
Is it the person in whom the property vests or is it he who is entitled to some beneficial interest in the property?	None
It must be remembered that Section 9 brings to tax the income from property and not the interest of a person in the property.	Reasoning
A property cannot be owned by two persons, each one having independent and exclusive right over it.	Reasoning
Hence for the purpose of Section 9, the owner must be that person who can exercise the rights of the owner, not on behalf of the owner but in his own right.10.	None
For the minute, let us look at things from the practical point of view.	Reasoning
If the thousands of evacuees who left practically all their properties as well as businesses in Pakistan had been considered as the owners of those properties and businesses as long as the Ordinance was in force then those unfortunate persons would have had to pay Incometax on the basis of the annual letting value of their properties and on the income, gains and profits of the businesses left by them in Pakistan though they did not get a paisa out of those properties and businesses.	Reasoning
Fortunately no one in the past interpreted the law in the manner Mr. Mahajan wants us to interpret.	Reasoning
It is true that equitable consideration are irrelevant in interpreting tax laws.	Reasoning
But those laws, like all other laws have to be interpreted reasonably and in consonance with justice.11.	Reasoning
The question as to who is the owner of a house property under Section 9 of the Act in circumstances similar to those before us came up for consideration before the Calcutta High Court in the matter of the Official Assignee for Bengal (Estate of Jnanendra Nath Pramanik), (1937) 5 ITR 233 (Cal) .	Reasoning
In that case on the adjudication of a person as insolvent under the Presidency Towns Insolvency Act, 1909, certain house property of the insolvent vested in the Official Assignee.	Reasoning
The question arose whether the Official Assignee could be taxed in respect of the income of the property under Section 9.	Reasoning
The High Court held that the property did not by reason of the adjudication of the debtor cease to be a subject fit for taxation and in view of the provisions of Section 17 of the Presidency Towns Insolvency Act, the Official Assignee was the owner of the property and he could rightly be assessed in respect of the income from that property under Section 9.	Reasoning
Section 17 of the Presidency Towns Insolvency Act, readsOn the making of an order of adjudication, the property of the insolvent wherever situate shall vest in the official assignee and shall become divisible among his creditors, and thereafter, except as directed by this Act, no creditor to whom the insolvent is indebted in respect of any debt provable in insolvency shall, during the pendency of the insolvency proceedings, have any remedy against the property of the insolvent in respect of the debt or shall commence any suit or other legal proceedings except with the leave of the Court and on such terms as the Court may imposeProvided that this section shall not affect the power of any secured creditor to realize or otherwise deal with his security in the same manner, as he would have been entitled to realize or deal with it if this section had not been passed.12.	Reasoning
We may note that the powers of the Custodian are no less than that of the Official Assignee under the Presidency Towns Insolvency Act, 1909.	Reasoning
Delivering the judgment of the Court in the Official Assignees case, (1937) 5 ITR 233 (Cal) (supra), Costello, J. observedWith regard to the first point, Mr. Page argued that although by Section 17 of the Presidency Towns Insolvency Act these properties vested in the Official Assignee he did not thereby or thereupon become the owner of those properties within the meaning properly ascribable to that word for the purposes of the applicability of Section 9.	Reasoning
What Mr. Page really invited us to do was to restrict the meaning of the word by putting before it the qualifying adjective beneficial.	Reasoning
What was argued by Mr.Page was that the Official Assignee had no legal interest in the properties themselves, they were merely vested in him for the purposes of the administration of them in the interest of the creditors of the insolvent.	Reasoning
I am unable to accept Mr. Pages contention.	Reasoning
In this country there is no difference between legal estate and equitable estate.	Reasoning
In this connection the case of Sir Currimbhoy Ebrahim Baronetcy Trust v. Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay, 61 Ind App 209 (AIR 1934 PC 116 ) is of assistance.	Reasoning
At page 217 (of Ind App) (at p. 118 of AIR)	Reasoning
Sir Sydney Rowlatt when giving the judgment of the Privy Council made this observation In their Lordships opinion the effect of the Act creating these trusts is not to give the baronet for the time being any right to any part of the interest or property specifically or any right which, even granting that the legal title is not the only thing that can ever be looked at, would make it true to say that any proportion of the interest is not receivable or any proportion of the property is not owned by the incorporated trustees.13.	Reasoning
The learned Judges of the Calcutta High Court in reaching that conclusion relied on the decision in Commissioner of Inland Revenue v. Fleming, (1928) 14 Tax Cas 78.	None
That appeal related to a claim for repayment of Incometax to which the respondent claimed to be entitled in respect of personal allowance introduced into the Incometax system by Section 18 of the Finance Act, 1920.	None
The claim arose in the following circumstances14.	None
The respondent was declared insolvent in 1921.	None
He was then the owner of heritable properties.	None
His insolvency lasted till May 10, 1926 when he received his discharge on payment of compensation and was reinvested in his estate.	None
At that time his estate consisted of (1) Two of the original heritable properties which had not been realised by the trustee in the insolvency and (2) a balance in cash of ?	None
253 odd.	None
During the insolvency, the trustee paid Incometax on the full annual value of the to properties in question.	None
The contention of the respondent was that the radical right to these properties was in him all the time and that in paying the tax, the trustee was really paying it one his behalf  that is on his income  and that consequently there arose in each of the years in which the payment was made a right to deduct his personal allowance from the annual value of the properties.	None
The right two this abatement is said to have passed to the Respondent himself in virtue of the reinvestment in his estate which occurred upon his discharge on composition.	None
Rejecting this contention Lord President observedIt is obvious that, unless during the years in question the annual value of the properties as income of the Respondent, he cannot have any claim to abatement of it for Incometax purposes and accordingly everything depends upon the soundness of the proposition that the income consisting in the annual value of these properties was truly income of the Respondent.	None
I do not see how it can possibly be so described.	None
It was part of the income arising from the sequestrated estates vested in the trustee for the Respondents creditors.	None
Any income that did arise from those estates was income of the trustee as such, and he (and he alone) had the right to put it into his pocket as income.	None
It was not income that went or could go into the pocked of the Respondent as income in any of the years in question.	None
How then can it be said to have reached his pocket as income on his subsequent reinvestiture.15.	None
For determining the person liable to pay tax, the test laid down by the Court was to find out the person entitled to that income.	Arguments of Petitioner
An attempt was made by Mr. Mahajan to distinguish this case on the ground that under the corresponding English statute the liability to tax in respect of income from property is not laid on the owner of the property.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is true that Section 82 of the English Incometax Act.	None
1952 is worded differently.	None
But the principles underlying the two statutes are identical.	None
This is clear from the various provisions in that Act.16.	Reasoning
The conclusion reached by Castello, J. in Official Assignees case, (1937) 5 ITR 233 (supra) receives support from the decision of the Privy Council in (1934) 2 ITR 148 (AIR 1934 PC 116 ).	Reasoning
The Counsel for the appellant was unable to point out to us any decision which has taken a view contrary to that taken in Official Assignees case, (1937) 5 ITR 233 (Cal) (supra).17.	Reasoning
The learned Judges of the High Court in reaching their conclusion that the assessee was not the owner of the property in the relevant assessment years, took assistance from the decisions of English Courts dealing with the question of levy of Incometax on the income from enemy properties taken possession of by the Custodian during war.	Reasoning
In those cases the English Judges have enunciated the theory of suspended ownership.	Reasoning
We do not think that we need call assistance from those decisions.18.	Reasoning
Mr. Mahajan contended that despite the fact that evacuee property was taken over by the Custodian and that he had been conferred with large powers to deal with it, an evacuee from Pakistan who owned that property before he migrated to India still continued to be the owner of the property.	Arguments of Petitioner
For this contention of his he placed reliance on some of the observations of this Court in Amar Singh v. Custodian Evacuee Property, Punjab, 1957 SCR 801 (AIR 1957 SC 599 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
Therein, delivering judgment of the Court Jagannadhadas, J. observed (at p. 815 of the report SCR) (at p. 605 of AIR)Stopping here it will be seen that the position, in its general aspect, is that all evacuee property is vested in the Custodian.	None
But the evacuee has not lost his ownership in it.	None
The law recognised his ultimate ownership subject to certain limitations.	None
The evacuee may come back and obtain return of his property, as also an account of the management thereof by Custodian.19.	None
Those observations have to be understood in the context in which they were made.	Reasoning
Therein, their Lordships were considering whether the right of an evacuee in respect of the property left by him in the country from which he migrated was property right for the purpose of Article 19 (1) (f) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
No one denies that an evacuee from Pakistan has a residual right in the property that he left in Pakistan.	Reasoning
But the real question is, can that right be considered as ownership within the meaning of Section 9 of the Act.	Reasoning
As mentioned earlier that section seeks to bring to tax income of the property in the hands of the owner.	Reasoning
Hence the focus of that section is on the receipt of the income.	Reasoning
The word owner has different meanings in different contexts.	Reasoning
Under certain circumstances a lessee may be considered as the owner of the property leased to him.	Reasoning
In Strouds Judicial Dictionary (3rd Edn.), various meanings of the word owner are given.	Reasoning
It is not necessary for our present purpose to examine what the word owner means in different contexts.	Reasoning
The meaning that we give to the word owner in Section 9 must not be such as to make that provision capable of being made an instrument of oppression.	Reasoning
It must be in consonance with the principles underlying the Act.20.	Reasoning
Mr. Mahajan next invited our attention to the observations in Pollock on Jurisprudence (6th Edn. 1929) 17880 Ownership may be described as the entirety of the powers of use and disposal allowed by law The owner of a thing is not necessarily the person who at a given time has the whole power of use and disposal very often there is no such person.	Arguments of Petitioner
We must look for the person having the residue of all such power when we have accounted for every detached and limited portion of it and he will be the owner even if the immediate power of control and use is elsewhere.21.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not necessary to consider whether those observations hold good even now because of the various legislative measures enacted during the last about forty years after those observations were made.	Reasoning
Suffice it to say that those observations are inapplicable to the case of the owner under Section 9 of the Act.22.	Reasoning
Mr. Mahajan in support of his contention next placed reliance on the decision of the Patna High Court in Raja P. C. Lal Chowdhary v. Commissioner of Incometax, (1948) 16 ITR 123 (AIR 1949 Pat 126 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
Therein the question was whether the receiver of a property appointed by court was the owner of the property for the purpose of Section 9 of the Act.	None
The Court came to the conclusion that he was not the owner as the property did not vest in him.	None
In fact in the course of the judgment, the Court made a distinction between a receiver and a trustee and an official assignee.	None
In our opinion this decision instead of supporting the case of the appellant may lend some support to the contention of the Revenue.23.	None
Reliance was next placed on the decision of the Calcutta High Court in Nawab Bahadur of Murshidabad v. Commissioner of Incometax, West Bengal, (1955) 28 ITR 510 (AIR 1956 Cal 242 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
The facts of that case were Properties which belonged to the ancestors of the Nawab of Murshidabad as Rulers, were some time after the territories had been conquered by the British, settled by the Secretary of State for India in the year 1891 on the then Nawab of Murshidabad under a deed of settlement which provided that such properties shall henceforth and for ever be held and enjoyed by the said Nawab Bahadur and such one among his lineal male heirs as may be successively entitled to hold the said title in perpetuity, with and subject to the incidents, powers, limitations and conditions as to the inalienability and otherwise hereinafter contained.	None
One of the conditions was that he was not entitled to sell or alienate the properties except with the approval of the Governor of Bengal.	None
The Settlement deed was confirmed by Act XV of 1891.	None
The question arose whether Nawab of Murshidabad was liable to pay tax in respect of the income of those properties under Section 9 of the Act.	None
The Court held that whatever might have been the original nature of the State properties, after the deed of settlement and the Act of 1891, as the dual status of the Nawab as the holder of the State and as an individual ceased, it could not be said that the Nawab for the time being was not the owner of such properties for the purposes of Section 9 of the Act and the Nawab was therefore liable to be assessed to incometax on the income of such properties.	None
The Court further held that the word owner in Section 9 of the Act applies to owners of the whole income, even though they are under certain restrictions with regard to the alienation of the properties.	None
We are unable to see how this decision gives any support to the contentions advanced on behalf of the assessee.24.	None
After giving our careful consideration to the question of law under consideration, we have come to the conclusion that the assessee was not the owner of Neadous Hotel during the relevant assessment years for the purpose of Section 9 of the Act.	Decision
Hence these appeals fail and they are dismissed.	Decision
In the circumstances of the case we make no order as to costs in these appeals.25.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
