 Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, J. This judgment has been divided into sections to facilitate analysis.	None
They are The appeal Previous orders of this Court	None
The history of the forest land The construction of the Bus Stand Complex Proceedings before the first respondent Proceedings before the NGT Report of the District and Sessions Judge, Kangra Submissions of counsel Analysis I.1 Environmental rule of law I.2 Role of courts in ensuring environmental protection I.3 Illegal activities on forest land I.4 Jurisdiction of NGT Conclusion The appeal The civil appeals in the present case arise under Section 22 of the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010 (NGT Act).	None
The correctness of a judgment and order dated 4 May 2016 of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) is in issue.	Issue
The NGT dealt with an original application filed by the second respondent, who is also the appellant in companion Civil Appeal Nos. 52295230 of 2016, to challenge a report dated 18 September 2008 of the Central Empowered Committee (CEC), the first respondent.	Facts
In its report, the CEC concluded, inter alia, that a part of the Bus Stand Complex constructed by the second respondent and the appellant at McLeod Ganj in Himachal Pradesh violates the provisions of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 (Forest Act).	Facts
The CEC recommended the demolition of the illegal portions.	Facts
The NGT accepted the findings of the CEC, observing that the Bus Stand Complex seriously disturbs the ecology of the area in which it has been constructed.	Facts
The NGT directed, inter alia, that The structure of the HotelcumRestaurant in the Bus Stand Complex be demolished by the second respondent The second respondent shall pay a compensation of Rs. 15 lacs in terms of Sections 15 and 17 of the NGT Act The appellant shall pay a compensation of Rs. 10 lacs, while the State of Himachal Pradesh and its Department of Tourism shall pay a compensation of Rs. 5 lacs each and The Chief Secretary of the State of Himachal Pradesh shall conduct an enquiry against the erring officers of the appellant, in order to fasten the responsibility for the illegal project.	None
Previous orders of this Court By an order dated 16 May 2016, this Court admitted the present appeals and framed the following substantial questions of law, as provided in Section 22 of the NGT Act Whether the Tribunal has failed to appreciate that the land which is subject matter of the appeal had already been diverted for non  forest use under Section 2 of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980?	Facts
Whether the Tribunal failed to consider properly the effect of Section 14 of the Himachal Pradesh Bus Stand Management and Development Authority Act, 1999 which empowers the authority to establish and maintain hotels and restaurants at or near bus stands?	Facts
Whether the Tribunal exceeded its jurisdiction in holding that alleged violations of the Himachal Pradesh Town and Country Planning Act, 1977 are made out even though the said enactment is absent in the Schedule	Facts
I of enactments attached to the National Green Tribunal Act?	None
This Court also granted a stay against the operative portion of the NGTs judgment directing (i) the demolition of the HotelcumRestaurant structure in the Bus Stand Complex and (ii) an enquiry to be conducted against the appellants officers.	None
The above order was modified on 9 September 2016, by lifting the stay against the enquiry to be conducted against the appellants officers.	Facts
However, this Court directed that an enquiry shall be conducted by the District and Sessions Judge, Kangra within whose jurisdiction the Bus Stand Complex is located.	Facts
The District and Sessions Judge was directed to place a report before this Court.	Facts
Parties to the present appeals were permitted to associate themselves with the enquiry being conducted by the District and Sessions Judge.	Facts
The history of the forest land The genesis of the present case originates in an order dated 12 November 1997 of the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests (the fourth respondent, MOEF), on a proposal made by the State of Himachal Pradesh, permitting the diversion of 0.093 hectares of forest land for the construction of a parking space at McLeod Ganj, in accordance with Section 2 of the Forest Act.	Facts
The order is extracted below After careful consideration of the proposal of the State Government, the competent authority hereby conveys approval under Section 2 of Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, for diversion of 0.093 hectares of forest land for the construction of parking place at McLeod Ganj, forest division Dharamsala, District Kangra, HP, subject to following conditions Legal status of the forest land will remain unchanged.	Facts
The forest land will be restored to forest Department as and when it is no more required.	Facts
Compensatory afforestation will be carried out, by planting at least 250 plants of deodar and ornamental species around McLeod Ganj town as proposed, at a cost of Rs.11500/  which is reported to have been deposited by user agency vide TC No.3 dt. 02.09.97.	Facts
The Forest land will be used only for the purpose as mentioned in the proposal.	Facts
The user agency will abide by any condition that may be imposed by the State Forest Department in the interest of afforestation and protection of the forest.	Facts
This approval is subject to the clearance of the proposal under other relevant Acts Rules Courts Ruling Instructions etc.	Facts
as applicable to this proposal.	Facts
State Government will ensure fulfilment of these conditions.	Facts
MOEF issued a further order dated 1 March 2001, diverting another 0.48 hectares of forest land for the construction of a bus stand at McLeod Ganj.	Facts
The contents of the order read thus After careful consideration of the proposal of the State Government, the competent authority hereby conveys approval for diversion of 0.48 hectares of forest land for construction of above mentioned project at Dharmsala, forest division Dharamsala and district Kangra, H.P., subject to following conditions.	Facts
Legal status of the forest land will remain unchanged.	Facts
Minimum no. of trees as are unavailable may be felled which should not exceed 17 (seventeen) as proposed.	Facts
Compensatory afforestation will be carried out, on 0.098 forest land at P46K Dharamsala C.B. Govt.	Facts
Forest of Dharamsala forest division at a cost of Rs.14,900/ (Rs. Fourteen thousand nine hundred) which is reported to have been deposited by user agency vide cheque No.055710 dated 19.10.2000.	Facts
Forest Guard hut as proposed in the proposal, will also be constructed at a cost of Rs.2.25 lacs which is reported to have been deposited by user agency.	Facts
The user agency will abide by any condition that may be imposed by the State Forest Department In the interest of afforestation and protection of the forest.	Facts
This forest land will not be used for any other purpose than that mentioned in the proposal.	Facts
This approval is subject to the clearance of the proposal under other relevant Acts Rules Courts Ruling Instructions etc.	Facts
as applicable to this proposal.	Facts
The Ministry may revoke suspend the clearance if implementation of any of the above conditions is not satisfactory.	Facts
State Government through state forest department will ensure fulfillment of these conditions.	Facts
Of the above land, an area admeasuring 0.093 hectares is above the main DharamshalaMcLeod Ganj road while an area admeasuring 0.48 hectares is below the main road.	Facts
Both these pieces of land face each other and are a part of Banoi Reserve Forest.	Facts
The user agencies responsible for the construction of the parking space and the bus stand were the S.D.O. Dharamshala and Himachal Pradesh Tourism Department.	Facts
The cost of these projects was estimated at Rs. 10 lacs and Rs. 9095 lacs.	Facts
In April 2000, the appellant was constituted for the construction of bus stands in the State of Himachal Pradesh following the enactment of the Himachal Pradesh Bus Stands Management and Development Authority Act, 1999 (HP Bust Stands Act).	Facts
In January February of 2006, the land diverted for non forest use under the above orders dated 12 November 1997 and 1 March 2001 was transferred on a 99 year lease to the appellant.	Facts
The construction of the Bus Stand Complex	None
The land transferred to the appellant was to be utilised for the construction of a parking facility in McLeod Ganj.	Facts
Given the nature of the costs that would be incurred for the creation of a modern complex, the Board of Directors of the appellant in their meeting held on 7 November 2003 decided to construct a Bus StandcumParking Complex on a BuildOperateTransfer basis.	Facts
In furtherance of this, the appellant invited offers on 19 November 2003.	Facts
The appellant received only one offer, which was considered financially unviable since it envisaged a concession period of 75 years.	Facts
The appellant decided to alter the nature of the Bus Stand Complex in order to make it financially viable for private entities by issuing a new Request for Proposal on 13 July 2004 for the construction of the modified Bus Stand Complex.	Facts
Apart from the construction of the bus stand itself on the lower level, the appellant envisaged further construction in the complex of a multilevel commercial complex with shops at the road level a dormitory and a budget hotel at the first, second and third levels a dining facility restaurant food plaza at the top level and a parking provision for fifty cars at the road level.	Facts
The area of the multilevel commercial complex was to be 2779 M2 of the road level parking, 1100 M2 and of the bus stand at the lower level, 2580 M2 (which included 359 M2 of area for shops kiosks).	Facts
On 13 October 2004, the Board of the appellant approved the lowest bid submitted by the second respondent for the construction of the Bus Stand Complex.	Facts
The second respondent was awarded construction rights through a notice of award dated 18 November 2004.	Facts
The appellant and the second respondent entered into a Concession Agreement on 23 December 2004 under which the concession period commenced from 15 December 2005, and was to be for 16 years, 7 months and 15 days.	Facts
The second respondent started the construction of the Bus Stand Complex in December 2005 without awaiting the permission of the Town and Country Planning Department (TCP Department), approving the plans and drawings.	Facts
On 4 March 2006, the TCP Department received an application seeking approval of the drawings of the Bus Stand Complex.	Facts
It pointed out shortcomings in the proposed drawings on 10 March 2006.	Facts
Through further letters between 28 July 2006 to 19 February 2007, it directed the appellant to provide further information and to rectify the shortcomings in the proposed construction.	Facts
During the midst of this process, the second respondent continued with the construction of the Bus Stand Complex.	Facts
Finally, through notices dated 5 October 2006, 8 March 2007 and 5 June 2008, the TCP Department called upon the appellant to halt the construction of the Bus Stand Complex.	Facts
The second respondent nonetheless continued with the construction.	Facts
On 8 May 2007, the State of Himachal Pradesh sent a proposal to MOEF requesting, inter alia, that The use of the entire land (measuring 0.573 hectares) which was permitted to be diverted for non forest use under orders dated 12 November 1997 and 1 March 2001 be changed to the construction of the Bus Stand Complex and The user agency be changed to the appellant.	Facts
Through its order dated 12 June 2007, MOEF rejected the proposal of the State of Himachal Pradesh.	Facts
The order was in the following terms Please refer to your letter	Facts
No.	None
FFEBF(2)87/97 dated 8th May, 2007 on the above mentioned subject seeking approval of Government of India for changing of land use from construction of parking on 0.093 hectare of forest land and Bus Stand Complex and Hotel on entire 0.573 hectare of forest land for nonforestry propose under Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 and change in the name of user agency from SDO(Civil) and HP Tourism Department to HP Bus Stand Management and Development Authority.	Facts
The request of the State Government has been examined and the competent authority conveys its inability to consider the same and it is therefore, rejected.	Facts
As explained in greater detail below, when proceedings were initiated before it, CEC directed a halt in construction.	Facts
The second respondent approached this Court by filing an interim application.	Facts
By an order dated 7 September 2007, this Court directed that the second respondent can proceed with the construction of the bus stand, observing thus In this application, the applicant is seeking a direction for construction of a bus stand.	Facts
It is alleged that the C.E.C. has prevented the applicant from constructing some parking area near the bus stand.	Facts
We are told that the C.E.C. is proposing to inspect the site and shall give a report.	Facts
We think that before giving any direction to the applicant, the C.E.C. may hear the applicant and file a report and meanwhile the work relating to the construction of bus stand may continue but no other construction shall be carried out.	Facts
The construction of the Bus Stand Complex was then completed by the second respondent on 7 July 2008.	Facts
Proceedings before the first respondent During the construction by the second respondent, the sixth and the seventh respondents approached the CEC by filing an application on 20 April 2007, alleging that the construction of the Bus Stand Complex was in violation of the Forest Act.	Facts
As stated above, the CEC directed that the construction of the Bus Stand Complex be halted.	Facts
The second respondent filed an interim application, in which this Court passed an order dated 7 September 2007, which has been extracted above.	Facts
The second respondent was impleaded in the proceedings before the CEC.	Facts
The members of the CEC visited the site of the Bus Stand Complex on 27 September 2007.	Facts
The CEC heard the parties before it on multiple dates.	Facts
It also had before it a report dated 18 August 2008 of the Chief Secretary of Himachal Pradesh.	Facts
The CEC submitted its report dated 18 September 2008 to this Court.	Facts
The salient findings were that The construction of the HotelcumRestaurant structure within the Bus Stand Complex was not permitted, by MOEFs orders dated 12 November 1997 and 1 March 2001.	Facts
Hence, the construction is in violation of the Forest Act The post facto permission sought by the State of Himachal Pradesh from MOEF for changing the use of the diverted forest land was rejected on 12 June 2007	None
The RFP issued by the appellant on 13 July 2004 indicated that a multi level commercial complex was to be of an area admeasuring 2779 M2, while the combined area of the road level parking and the bus stand at the lower level was to be 3680 M2.	Facts
However, the actual area of the multilevel commercial complex constructed by the second respondent is 3324.89 M2, which is 545.89 M2 in excess.	Facts
Similarly, the actual area of the road level parking and the bus stand constructed is 9945.65 M2, which is 6265.65 M2 in excess.	Facts
This additional construction had been tacitly approved by the Board of the appellant While the RFP issued by the appellant indicated that only two lower levels would be constructed for the bus stand, the second respondent had constructed four additional levels.	Facts
This had also been tacitly approved by the Board of the appellant The above factors establish connivance between the officers of the appellant and the second respondent, in order to benefit the second respondent The construction of the Bus Stand Complex by the second respondent has been done without the prior approval of the TCP Department.	None
The notices issued by the Department to halt construction were ignored Due to the nature of the construction of the bus stand at the lower levels, additional forest area will be required since there was no area for the buses to turn in and No car parking is available for the residents of the hotel in the commercial complex, who would either have to park on the roads or use the road level parking in the complex.	Facts
This would create traffic congestion and will not increase the net parking available in the area.	Facts
Based on its conclusions, the CEC issued the following recommendations The above clearly highlights that there has been absolute anarchy in the matter of construction of the parking place and Bus Stand.	None
At the same time there is a very real need at McLeod Ganj for both the Parking place and the Bus Stand Complex on the two pieces of forest land.	Facts
With a view to finding a way out of this terrible muddle created by the deep vested interests and at the same time ensuring that those who have connived in the serious lapse are not allowed to go scot free the following is recommended a) the hotel complex structure should be pulled down immediately and the 0.093 ha. of forest land should be cleared of debris.	Facts
This should be done within three months.	Facts
Thereafter a Parking place may be constructed as was originally visualized when the project was approved under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980.	Facts
Prior to that approval of the Town and Country Planning Department may be taken as required under the law.	Facts
This will send a clear signal to the building mafia and their supporters that such brazen acts of illegal and unauthorized construction will not be tolerated b) the serious shortcomings noted in the construction of Bus Stand Complex would need to be with the approval of the Town and Country Planning Department.	Facts
Towards this end it is proposed that the State Government may constitute a Committee with the Chief Secretary as Chairman with the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, senior most Engineer in the State PWD and a representative of MoEF as Members.	Facts
The Director, Town and Country Planning Department, Himachal Pradesh, could be the Member Secretary.	Facts
The Committee may immediately go into the entire matter and may in a time bound manner within two months propose to this Honble Court how best the Bus Stand Complex can be salvaged from the present mess so that the State Government is able to i) ensure best and most efficient use of the Bus Stand so that the maximum number of buses are able to ply from there.	Facts
While providing for commercial, shops, public toilets, restaurants, telephone booths and the like at the Bus Stand the only consideration should be the actual requirements of the travelling public and ii) ensure maximum parking place for vehicles c) there has been a collective failure and serious lapses on the part of the officials and others of the State Government connected with the unauthorized and illegal construction of the twin project on the two pieces of forest land and reflects on the pathetic state of affairs in the matter of governance.	Facts
In this background the State Government of Himachal Pradesh has to take the blame and may be directed to deposit an amount of Rupees one crore, in a special fund for the conservation and protection of the forest and wildlife d) the State Government may also be directed to simultaneously identify and initiate stringent and deterrent action in a time bound manner against all the concerned persons and officials for complete abdication of their responsibility and accountability in the matter of governance and who are responsible for blatantly allowing the unauthorized and illegal building structures to come up on the two pieces of forest land in flagrant violation of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, the HP Town and Country Planning Act, 1977 and other relevant local laws and e) the services of M S Prashanti Surya Construction Company should be dispensed with and M s Prashanti Surya should be blacklisted and should also be penalized suitably for the grave illegalities and irregularities knowingly committed to promote his private interests.	Facts
The second respondent then filed another application before this Court for setting aside the report issued by the CEC.	Facts
The second respondent argued that they had not been provided a fair hearing, and had the right to file a detailed reply.	Facts
By an order dated 5 October 2015, this Court transferred the proceedings to the NGT.	Facts
Proceedings before the NGT	None
In its impugned judgment, the NGT noted that the following facts were indisputable At no point of time there was any permission, sanction or approval granted by the Competent Authority in the State Government and or Central Government under the Act of 1980 and even (under) other relevant laws for the hotel and shopping complex.	Facts
Right from the initial stages, the hotel and shopping complex were never a part of the project for which the Government departments and or the project proponent even submitted applications for grant of approval sanction from the Competent Authority.	Facts
MoEFCC vide its letter dated 12th June, 2007 had specifically declined the permission for conversion of the forest land for any other non forest activity.	Facts
Once such permission for hotel and shopping complex was declined, the project proponent could not have been taken up and commenced any activity.	Facts
The project proponent not only started the construction without obtaining appropriate approval and sanction from the concerned State and the Central Government, but had also worked in collusion with some of the authorities who consented to the commencement of construction temporarily which was entirely uncalled for and in fact was illegal.	Facts
The NGT further noted that the approval accorded by the MOEF on 12 November 1997 was only for construction of a parking place at McLeod Ganj.	Facts
Further, on 1 March 2001, approval was accorded only for construction of a bus stand at McLeod Ganj.	Facts
The State of Himachal Pradesh had no power to authorize the construction of the HotelcumRestaurant structure and, therefore, the construction was entirely illegal.	Facts
It further endorsed the findings by the CEC and observed It is clear from the above report of the CEC that there are serious violations of law.	None
It is a project coming up in the forest area without Forest Clearance, and even the consent to establish and or operate has not been granted by the concerned Board.	Facts
Moreover, this project is bound to have an adverse impact on environment and ecology.	Facts
The recommendations of the CEC clearly state that the whole complex should be pulled down and only a parking place must be constructed as was originally visualized, for which the Forest Clearance under the Act of 1980 has been granted.	Facts
The CEC also blames the concerned authorities by suggesting that there has been collective failure and serious lapses on part of the State Government and its officials connected with the unauthorized and illegal construction of the project, which was constructed on the two pieces of land.	Facts
The Report also observed that the State Government should be directed to deposit Rs. 1	Facts
Crore in a special fund and the project proponent should be blacklisted and penalized suitably for the grave illegalities and irregularities committed by him.	Facts
The NGT characterized the construction of the HotelcumRestaurant structure as an intentional violation that exhibited violation of law coupled with serious adverse impacts on environment and ecology of the eco sensitive area(Para 27 of the impugned judgment.).	Facts
It held that just as seeking an Environmental Clearance under MOEFs Notification dated 14 September 2006 is a precondition to the commencement of the project, which cannot be derogated from, seeking a Forest Clearance under Section 2 of the Forest Act was a necessary precondition in the present case before construction could have begun.	Facts
It drew on this Courts jurisprudence on the precautionary principle, polluter pays principle and the principle of sustainable development.	Facts
Report of the District and Sessions Judge, Kangra	None
In furtherance of this Courts order dated 16 May 2016, the District and Sessions Judge submitted his enquiry report on 9 October 2018.	Facts
The report is based on documentary evidence and statements from sixteen witnesses.	Facts
In his report, the District and Sessions Judge has found that the Bus Stand Complex Has been constructed on forest land, in violation of the provisions of the Forest Act Has been constructed without requisite permissions being obtained from the TCP Department Does not conform to the plans prepared by thirdparty consultants hired by the appellant, which were submitted during the RFP Has not been properly maintained, and is plagued by issues of seepage and Suffers from architectural defects due to which it is extremely difficult for buses to turn into the bus stand from the main road.	Facts
The District and Sessions Judge concludes that the second respondent could not have engaged in this illegal construction without the connivance of the officials of the following departments (i) the appellant (ii) Himachal Pradesh Tourism Department (iii) TCP Department (iv) Forest Department (v) Municipal Committee and Municipal Corporation (vi) Revenue Department and (vii) Electricity Department.	Facts
The report states this in the following terms I have no hesitation to conclude that the officials officers of all the departments were hand in gloves with the M s Prashanti Surya Construction Company, in order to give undue advantage to M s Prashanti Surya Construction Company including the financial benefits.	Facts
For the same these officers officials are liable.	Facts
It is a case of serious lapse and failure on the part of officers officials of State Government, who were duty bound to take prompt and immediate action to stop the unauthorised and illegal construction of the structure in dispute.	Facts
So, it is my humble submission that concerned Disciplinary Authority Authorities of the State Government be directed to take deterrent action against the defaulting officers officials.	Facts
It appears that the CEO and Board of Directors suo moto assumed the powers to change the conceptual plan and allowed the construction work of illegal structure on the spot by throwing into the air the statutory provisions of law.	Facts
Moreover, the structure of bus stand on the spot has not been properly erected.	Facts
As submitted here in above, due to pillars, there was lack of sufficient space for turning the buses and at the same time there is no separate entry and exit point of the buses.	Facts
The structure has not been properly maintained and seepage was found on the spot.	Facts
There is no separate place for idle bus parking.	Facts
So, it appears that the Bus Stand Authority has got no control over the maintenance of the bus stand structure and it is not paying any heed in this regard.	Facts
In view of my submissions, it is a case of open favoritism of M s Prashanti Surya Construction Company.	Facts
All the concerned Authorities were well aware of the legal requirements, but they preferred to continue with the illegal construction without following the legal requirements.	Facts
It cannot be believed that the construction work on the spot continued from mid 2005 to beginning 2009 without connivance sic of the aforesaid Government Agencies and these officials officers.	Facts
Submissions of counsel Challenging the impugned judgment of the NGT, the appellant has made the following submissions The appellant had been legitimately provided the land for the construction of the Bus Stand Complex, when the forest land was diverted for non forest purposes through orders dated 12 November 1997 and 1 March 2001 issued by the MOEF (ii) The appellant included the HotelcumRestaurant structure in the Bus Stand Complex to make it more commercially viable, for which it then assigned the rights to the second respondent without assigning it any interest in the land (iii) While this was in public knowledge from the beginning, the sixth and seventh respondents did not raise any objections then but only did so belatedly when the construction of the Bus Stand Complex was already underway (iv) In relation to the violations of the Himachal Pradesh Town and Country Planning Act, 1977 (TCP Act) (a) once the project was handed over to the second respondent, it was their responsibility to get appropriate permissions (b) arguments in relation to violation of the TCP Act were not raised by the sixth and seventh respondents before the CEC or the NGT (c) the NGT cannot, in any case, consider violations of the TCP Act and (d) the Deputy Commissioner Kangra had recommended, by a letter dated 13 April 2007 addressed to the Director of the TCP Department for relaxation in respect of the parameters since this was a first of its kind parking complex at a hill station which regularly suffers from traffic congestion.	Arguments of Petitioner
(v) Section 14(3)(e) of the HP Bus Stands Act empowers the appellant to establish and maintain hotels and restaurants at or near bus stands.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was no secrecy or wrongdoing in awarding the project to the second respondent, it having made the lowest bid.	Arguments of Petitioner
The project was to be constructed on a BOT basis and would be handed back to the State of Himachal Pradesh at the end of the concession period (vi) Since by the orders dated 12 November 1997 and 1 March 2001 permission had already been obtained to divert the land for a nonforest purpose, no further consents from the MOEF were needed for the construction of the HotelcumRestaurant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even so, the State of Himachal Pradesh, by way of abundant caution, moved an application to seek its consent for change of land use for the construction of a Hotelcum Restaurant structure within the Bus Stand Complex.	Arguments of Petitioner
On 12 June 2007, the application was not dismissed on merits through a speaking order, but only owing to an inability to consider the same since proceedings were ongoing before the CEC and (vii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The Explanation attached to Section 2 of the Forest Act expressly provides that non forest purpose means the breaking up or clearing of any forest land or portion thereof for any purpose other than reafforestation.	Arguments of Petitioner
As a result, the incidental and ancillary facilities of the HotelcumRestaurant structure in the Bus Stand Complex were sanctioned by the clearances already granted.	Arguments of Petitioner
Supporting the submission of the appellant, the second respondent submits that It decided to participate in the project because it was not limited to the bus stand, but also included the management of the HotelcumRestaurant which made it commercially viable.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under the Concession Agreement, the second respondent was to build the bus stand, parking and Hotelcum Restaurant which it would retain until the year 2022, following which it would stand transferred to the State of Himachal Pradesh.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the second respondent, this was done through a transparent process (ii) The CEC incorrectly decided the application filed by the sixth and seventh respondents without properly understanding the second respondents reasons for constructing the additional floors in the structure, which was due to the strength and condition of the soil.	Arguments of Petitioner
The same error was made by the NGT in its impugned judgment (iii) The allegation that the appellant acted in a biased manner are unfounded.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant is a nodal independent statutory authority for maintenance of modern commercial bus stand infrastructure.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant is empowered under Section 14(3)(e) of the HP Bus Stands Act to establish and maintain hotels and restaurants at or near bus stands.	Arguments of Petitioner
At the relevant time, the appellant did not have adequate financial resources to construct bus stands on its own and so it took a policy decision for their construction by seeking private participation on a BOT basis (iv) Not an inch of forest land was encroached upon other than what was permitted by the MOEF.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, on the lower parcel of land, minimum trees were felled by the forest department and on the upper portion of land there were no trees.	Arguments of Petitioner
The felling and removing of the trees was done strictly in accordance with the permission granted (v) The District and Sessions Judge ignored the public nature of the project and that the land will revert to the State of Himachal Pradesh after the concession period.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is nothing to suggest that the second respondent constructed the project with the objective of obtaining wrongful gain or undue advantage.	Arguments of Petitioner
The second respondent has invested more than Rs. 19 crores in the public project in question, with a major chunk of it being sourced through bank borrowings.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under the financial scheme of the project, 70 of the revenue was to be recovered by the second respondent from the HotelcumRestaurant and 30 from the operation of the bus stand.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, since the HotelcumRestaurant has not been operationalized, the second respondent, after making the investment in the project, has not been able to receive proportionate returns and has been forced to face a financial crisis, for no fault of its own (vi)	Arguments of Petitioner
The second respondent is no longer managing or operating the parking space and the bus stand after the District Magistrate, Kangra by an order dated 7 June 2019 under Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, constituted and authorized an Executive Committee to take control of the parking space and run it free of cost in public interest.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, the District Magistrate, through an order dated 31 July 2019, notified the space available at McLeod Ganj Bus Stand as public parking place under Section 117 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, in the interest of the efficient organization of the transport system (vii) The NGT erred in not directing the Central Government to consider the possibility of granting expost facto clearance to the HotelcumRestaurant structure of the Bus Stand Complex under Section 2 of the Forest Act, given that the construction of the HotelcumRestaurant structure took place pursuant to a tender floated by a statutory authority (viii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The NGT overlooked the fact that the CECs report dated 18 September 2008 was prepared without following the principles of natural justice.	Arguments of Petitioner
This was because it was prepared on the basis of the second affidavit dated 18 August 2008 filed by the Chief Secretary of the State of Himachal Pradesh, which was not served upon the second respondent and (ix) The NGT should have considered that the appellant had made a representation to the second respondent in the Concession Agreement that all the necessary permissions have been obtained by it for the execution of the Bus Stand Complex.	Arguments of Petitioner
The State of Himachal Pradesh has made the following submissions The Bus Stand Complex had all requisite permissions, and had been constructed lawfully without the conferment of undue benefits to the second respondent (ii) The report of the District and Sessions Judge dated 9 October 2018 is flawed because (a) the appellant did not ask for permission from the MOEF, since such permission was already available (b) the project was constructed in accordance with approved plans, and keeping in mind the topography of the area and (c) the maintenance of the project could not be questioned because its upkeep had to be abandoned in 2009 after the litigation began.	Arguments of Petitioner
(iii) As regards the findings in the report of the District and Sessions Judge dated 9 October 2018, the reason why no consent for the construction of the HotelcumRestaurant structure was separately sought was because the appellant was under the impression that the consent for diverting forest land for a nonforest purpose, granted by the MOEF by its orders dated 12 November 1997 and 1 March 2001, was sufficient.	Arguments of Petitioner
The State of Himachal Pradesh argues that this is a case involving procedural lapses, as opposed to illegality.	Arguments of Petitioner
The setting up of such projects in the State is a gigantic task given the peculiar topography and other conditions existing there.	Arguments of Petitioner
The project, if allowed to be continued completed, will not only provide facilities of a modular bus stand to the people of the town but also, the provision of a commercial complex will cater to economical services to commuters, besides providing opportunities of employment to the local population.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, if the structure is ordered to be demolished at this stage, it is likely to cause environmental damage since it will be difficult to dispose of the huge debris emanating from the demolition as the area is congested and covered with extensive vegetation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Some part of the proceeds received as income from the commercial complex may be utilized to compensate the loss that might have been caused to the environment and ecology of the area due to the construction of the Bus Stand Complex.	Arguments of Petitioner
36.	Arguments of Petitioner
The State of Himachal Pradesh later submitted before this Court on 3 November 2020 that it had taken steps for initiating prosecutions for violations of the provisions of the Forest Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It placed on record, through an affidavit, the steps taken by it.	Arguments of Petitioner
37.	Arguments of Petitioner
Opposing these submissions and arguing in support of NGTs impugned judgment, the CEC submits the following The forest land was permitted to be diverted for nonforest purposes only for the construction of a bus stand and parking space.	None
However, the appellant expanded the scope to include a HotelcumRestaurant without prior permission The second respondent started construction of the Bus Stand Complex without approval of the drawings and plans by the TCP Department, which later pointed out issues with the plans and On 12 June 2007, MOEF rejected the request of the State of Himachal Pradesh for the extension of the use of the forest land for anything other than a bus stand and a parking space.	None
Supporting the submissions of the CEC, the sixth and seventh respondents submit The dereservation of forest land for the construction of the Hotelcum Restaurant structure in the Bus Stand Complex was in violation of (i) Section 2(i) of the Forest Act and (ii) the order dated 13 November 2000 issued by this Court in Centre for Environmental Law,	Arguments of Respondent
WWF  I vs Union of India (Writ Petition (Civil) No. 337 of 1995), which held that further land shall not be dereserved pending further orders from this Court As such, the actions of the appellant and the second respondent in deliberately violating the provisions of the Forest Act constitute a violation of the environmental rule of law enunciated by this Court in Hanuman Laxman Aroskar vs Union of India (2019) 15 SCC 401 and The entire Bus Stand Complex was constructed without requisite permissions under the TCP Act.	None
The MOEF has accepted the report submitted by the District and Sessions Judge in its entirety and stands by its findings.	Arguments of Respondent
The rival submissions now fall for our consideration.	None
Analysis The construction of the HotelcumRestaurant structure in the Bus Stand Complex is illegal and constitutes a brazen violation of law.	Reasoning
The permission which was granted by MOEF on 12 November 1997 was only for construction of a parking place at McLeod Ganj.	Reasoning
Similarly, the permission granted on 1 March 2001 was granted for constructing a bus stand in the same area.	Reasoning
At no point was any permission granted for the construction of a hotel or commercial structure.	Reasoning
NGTs finding on this count commends acceptance.	Reasoning
The appellant, on being granted permission to engage in construction for a specified purpose, unlawfully utilised that permission as the basis to construct a different structure which was not authorized.	Reasoning
It has done so in disregard of the provisions of the Forest Act.	Reasoning
Section 2 of the Forest Act reads as follows Restriction on the dereservation of forests or use of forest land for nonforest purpose.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force in a State, no State Government or other authority shall make, except with the prior approval of the Central Government, any order directing that any reserved forest (within the meaning of the expression reserved forest in any law for the time being in force in that State) or any portion thereof, shall cease to be reserved that any forest land or any portion thereof may be used for any nonforest purpose that any forest land or any portion thereof may be assigned by way of lease or otherwise to any private person or to any authority, corporation, agency or any other organisation not owned, managed or controlled by Government that any forest land or any portion thereof may be cleared of trees which have grown naturally in that land or portion, for the purpose of using it for reafforestation.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this section nonforest purpose means the breaking up or clearing of any forest land or portion thereof for (a) the cultivation of tea, coffee, spices, rubber, palms, oil bearing plants, horticulture crops or medicinal plants (b) any purpose other than reafforestation, but does not include any work relating or ancillary to conservation, development and management of forests and wildlife, namely, the establishment of checkposts, fire lines, wireless communications and construction of fencing, bridges and culverts, dams, waterholes, trench marks, boundary marks, pipelines or other like purposes.	None
The provisions of Section 2 mandate strict and punctilious compliance.	Reasoning
Mere substantial compliance is not enough.	Reasoning
The construction of the Hotelcum Restaurant structure is entirely illegal, having been carried out in clear breach of this mandatory statutory stipulation.	Reasoning
That officials of statutory bodies of the State Government have connived at the violation of law is a reflection on the nature of governance by those who are expected to act within the bounds of law.	Reasoning
The report of the CEC is a serious indictment of the actions of the appellant.	Reasoning
The CEC report indicates that (i) the construction of the Hotelcum Restaurant structure in Bus Stand Complex was illegal (ii) the land was a reserved forest (iii) there was no valid permission for diversion for the land for the construction of the HotelcumRestaurant structure (iv) Forest Act consent was taken only for the parking facility and the bus stand (v) there was no valid approval from the TCP Department of the plans of the entire Bus Stand Complex and (vi) the finally constructed Bus Stand Complex is not in conformity with the appellants own proposed plans in the RFP.	Reasoning
The findings which were arrived at in NGTs judgment are supported by the report submitted by the District and Sessions Judge.	Reasoning
The report presents a striking analysis of the manner in which the HotelcumRestaurant structure was constructed in breach of statutory requirements and how this was made possible by the connivance of multiple state actors.	Reasoning
The relevant findings from the report are excerpted below The EPC has prepared the conceptual plan Ex.	None
Cl I4A, but the bus stand authority went on to flout the aforesaid conceptual plan and on its own and decided to construct bus standcumparking and hotel complex on two pieces of forest land under BOT basis.	Reasoning
No sanction or approval was obtained by the Bus Stand Authority under the provision of Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 for diversion of forest land to use the same for non  forest purpose.	Reasoning
The Government of India Ministry of Environment and Forest, turned down the request to use the forest land for nonforest purpose and change the name of user agency from SDO(C) and H.P. Tourism Department to Bus Stand Authority vide copy of letter Ex.	Reasoning
Cl03.	None
The illegal construction of disputed structure was raised with sole motive to give undue advantage to M s Prashanti Surya Construction Company and for the same Bus Stand Authority is primarily responsible and in addition to that the officers officials of other concerned departments are also responsible.	Reasoning
In this case the Bus Stand Authority did not inform in writing the Director of Town and Country Planning Department, regarding the construction work in question as discussed here in above in the aforesaid statutory provisions.	Reasoning
Said information should have been given by the CEO of the Bus Stand Authority in the year of 2005 when the construction work started on the spot.	Reasoning
So, the CEO of Bus Stand Authority in the year 2005, is responsible for ignoring the statutory provisions of Section 28 of the H.P. Town and Country Planning Act.	Reasoning
NGT acted within its mandate in a case of this nature, where the appellant actively allowed the perpetration of a structure in breach of environmental norms.	Reasoning
Not looking askance at the construction of the HotelcumRestaurant structure, in an area which the NGT rightly describes as the lap of nature, will put us on the path of judicially sanctioned environmental destruction.	Reasoning
I.1 Environmental rule of law In a constitutional framework which is intended to create, foster and protect a democracy committed to liberal values, the rule of law provides the cornerstone.	None
The rule of law is to be distinguished from rule by the law.	None
The former comprehends the setting up of a legal regime with clearly defined rules and principles of even application, a regime of law which maintains the fundamental postulates of liberty, equality and due process.	None
The rule of law postulates a law which is answerable to constitutional norms.	None
The law in that sense is accountable as much as it is capable of exacting compliance.	None
Rule by the law on the other hand can mean rule by a despotic law.	None
It is to maintain the just quality of the law and its observance of reason that rule of law precepts in constitutional democracies rest on constitutional foundations.	None
A rule of law framework encompasses rules of law but it does much more than that.	None
It embodies matters of substance and process.	None
It dwells on the institutions which provide the arc of governance.	None
By focussing on the structural norms which guide institutional decision making, rule of law frameworks recognise the vital role played by institutions and the serious consequences of leaving undefined the norms and processes by which they are constituted, composed and governed.	None
A modern rule of law framework is hence comprehensive in its sweep and ambit.	None
It recognises that liberty and equality are the focal point of a just system of governance and without which human dignity can be subverted by administrative discretion and absolute power.	None
Rule of law then dwells beyond a compendium which sanctifies rules of law.	None
Its elements comprise of substantive principles, processual guarantees and institutional safeguards that are designed to ensure responsive, accountable and sensitive governance.	None
The environmental rule of law, at a certain level, is a facet of the concept of the rule of law.	None
But it includes specific features that are unique to environmental governance, features which are sui generis.	None
The environmental rule of law seeks to create essential tools conceptual, procedural and institutional to bring structure to the discourse on environmental protection.	None
It does so to enhance our understanding of environmental challenges of how they have been shaped by humanitys interface with nature in the past, how they continue to be affected by its engagement with nature in the present and the prospects for the future, if we were not to radically alter the course of destruction which humanitys actions have charted.	None
The environmental rule of law seeks to facilitate a multi disciplinary analysis of the nature and consequences of carbon footprints and in doing so it brings a shared understanding between science, regulatory decisions and policy perspectives in the field of environmental protection.	None
It recognises that the law element in the environmental rule of law does not make the concept peculiarly the preserve of lawyers and judges.	None
On the contrary, it seeks to draw within the fold all stakeholders in formulating strategies to deal with current challenges posed by environmental degradation, climate change and the destruction of habitats.	None
The environmental rule of law seeks a unified understanding of these concepts.	None
There are significant linkages between concepts such as sustainable development, the polluter pays principle and the trust doctrine.	None
The universe of nature is indivisible and integrated.	None
The state of the environment in one part of the earth affects and is fundamentally affected by what occurs in another part.	None
Every element of the environment shares a symbiotic relationship with the others.	None
It is this inseparable bond and connect which the environmental rule of law seeks to explore and understand in order to find solutions to the pressing problems which threaten the existence of humanity.	None
The environmental rule of law is founded on the need to understand the consequences of our actions going beyond local, state and national boundaries.	None
The rise in the oceans threatens not just maritime communities.	None
The rise in temperatures, dilution of glaciers and growing desertification have consequences which go beyond the communities and creatures whose habitats are threatened.	None
They affect the future survival of the entire ecosystem.	None
The environmental rule of law attempts to weave an understanding of the connections in the natural environment which make the issue of survival a unified challenge which confronts human societies everywhere.	None
It seeks to build on experiential learnings of the past to formulate principles which must become the building pillars of environmental regulation in the present and future.	None
The environmental rule of law recognises the overlap between and seeks to amalgamate scientific learning, legal principle and policy intervention.	None
Significantly, it brings attention to the rules, processes and norms followed by institutions which provide regulatory governance on the environment.	None
In doing so, it fosters a regime of open, accountable and transparent decision making on concerns of the environment.	None
It fosters the importance of participatory governance of the value in giving a voice to those who are most affected by environmental policies and public projects.	None
The structural design of the environmental rule of law composes of substantive, procedural and institutional elements.	None
The tools of analysis go beyond legal concepts.	None
The result of the framework is more than just the sum total of its parts.	None
Together, the elements which it embodies aspire to safeguard the bounties of nature against existential threats.	None
For it is founded on the universal recognition that the future of human existence depends on how we conserve, protect and regenerate the environment today.	None
In its decision in Hanuman Laxman Aroskar vs Union of India (supra), this Court, speaking through one of us (DY Chandrachud, J.) recognized the importance of protecting the environmental rule of law.	Reasoning
The court observed Fundamental to the outcome of this case is a quest for environmental governance within a rule of law paradigm.	Reasoning
Environmental governance is founded on the need to promote environmental sustainability as a crucial enabling factor which ensures the health of our ecosystem.	Reasoning
Since the Stockholm Conference, there has been a dramatic expansion in environmental laws and institutions across the globe.	Reasoning
In many instances, these laws and institutions have helped to slow down or reverse environmental degradation.	Reasoning
However, this progress is also accompanied, by a growing understanding that there is a considerable implementation gap between the requirements of environmental laws and their implementation and enforcement both in developed and developing countries alike The rule of law requires a regime which has effective, accountable and transparent institutions.	Reasoning
Responsive, inclusive, participatory and representative decision making are key ingredients to the rule of law.	Reasoning
Public access to information is, in similar terms, fundamental to the preservation of the rule of law.	Reasoning
In a domestic context, environmental governance that is founded on the rule of law emerges from the values of our Constitution.	Reasoning
The health of the environment is key to preserving the right to life as a constitutionally recognised value under Article 21 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Proper structures for environmental decision making find expression in the guarantee against arbitrary action and the affirmative duty of fair treatment under Article 14 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
In its first global report on environmental rule of law in January 2019, the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) has presciently stated(UNEP, Environmental Rule of Law First Global Report (January 2019), pgs viii and 223)	None
If human society is to stay within the bounds of critical ecological thresholds, it is imperative that environmental laws are widely understood, respected, and enforced and the benefits of environmental protection are enjoyed by people and the planet.	None
Environmental rule of law offers a framework for addressing the gap between environmental laws on the books and in practice and is key to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.	None
Successful implementation of environmental law depends on the ability to quickly and efficiently resolve environmental disputes and punish environmental violations.	None
Providing environmental adjudicators and enforcers with the tools that allow them to respond to environmental matters flexibly, transparently, and meaningfully is a critical building block of environmental rule of law.	None
The need to adjudicate disputes over environmental harm within a rule of law framework is rooted in a principled commitment to ensure fidelity to the legal framework regulating environmental protection in a manner that transcends a casebycase adjudication.	None
Before this mode of analysis gained acceptance, we faced a situation in which, despite the existence of environmental legislation on the statute books, there was an absence of a set of overarching judicially recognized principles that could inform environmental adjudication in a manner that was stable, certain and predictable.	None
In an article in the AsiaPacific Journal of Environmental Law (2014), Bruce Pardy describes this conundrum in the following terms(Bruce Pardy, Towards an Environmental Rule of Law, 17 Asia Pacific Journal of Environmental Law 163 (2014))	None
Environmental regulations and standards typically identify specific limits or prohibitions on detrimental activities or substances.	None
They are created to reflect the principles and prohibitions contained in the statute under which they are promulgated.	None
However, where the contents of the statute are themselves indeterminate, there is no concrete rule or set of criteria to apply to formulate the standards.	None
Their development can therefore be highly political and potentially arbitrary.	None
Instead of serving to protect citizens environmental welfare, an indeterminate environmental law facilitates a utilitarian calculus that allows diffuse interests to be placed aside when they are judged to be less valuable than competing considerations.	None
However, even while using the framework of an environmental rule of law, the difficulty we face is this when adjudicating bodies are called on to adjudicate on environmental infractions, the precise harm that has taken place is often not susceptible to concrete quantification.	None
While the framework provides valuable guidance in relation to the principles to be kept in mind while adjudicating upon environmental disputes, it does not provide clear pathways to determine the harm caused in multifarious factual situations that fall for judicial consideration.	None
The determination of such harm requires access to scientific data which is often times difficult to come by in individual situations.	None
In an article in the Georgetown Environmental Law Review (2020), Arnold Kreilhuber and Angela Kariuki explain the manner in which the environmental rule of law seeks to resolve this imbroglio(Arnold Kreilhuber and Angela Kariuki, Environmental Rule of Law in the Context of Sustainable Development, 32 Georgetown Environmental Law Review 591 (2020).)	None
One of the main distinctions between environmental rule of law and other areas of law is the need to make decisions to protect human health and the environment in the face of uncertainty and data gaps.	None
Instead of being paralyzed into inaction, careful documentation of the state of knowledge and uncertainties allows the regulated community, stakeholders, and other institutions to more fully understand why certain decisions were made.	None
The point, therefore, is simply this the environmental rule of law calls on us, as judges, to marshal the knowledge emerging from the record, limited though it may sometimes be, to respond in a stern and decisive fashion to violations of environmental law.	Reasoning
We cannot be stupefied into inaction by not having access to complete details about the manner in which an environmental law violation has occurred or its full implications.	Reasoning
Instead, the framework, acknowledging the imperfect world that we inhabit, provides a roadmap to deal with environmental law violations, an absence of clear evidence of consequences notwithstanding.	Reasoning
In the case before us, it is not possible for us to determine in quantifiable terms the exact effect of the construction of the HotelcumRestaurant structure by the appellant and the second respondent on the ecology of the area.	Reasoning
Both of them have tried to argue that the number of trees felled by them, in the case of the present construction, is what it would have been, had they only built a bus stand and a parking space.	Reasoning
However, what we can record a determination on is the way in which the appellant and second respondent have gone about achieving this object.	Reasoning
Specifically, the parties have engaged in the construction without complying with the plans drawn by the appellants thirdparty consultants, which were agreed to by them in the RFP.	Reasoning
The construction proceeded even when the TCP Department tried to halt it, refusing to approve its plans.	Reasoning
Even the post facto refusal by the MOEF for changing the nature of the diverted forest land was not enough to stop the parties.	Reasoning
Ultimately, when they were forced to halt the construction by the CEC, they proceeded with it under the guise of an order of this Court which permitted only legal construction.	Reasoning
A combination of these circumstances highlights not only conduct oblivious of the environmental consequences of their actions, but an active disdain for them in favour of commercial benefits.	Reasoning
While the second respondent was a private entity, they were actively supported in these efforts by the appellant.	Reasoning
Hence, it is painfully clear that their actions stand in violation of the environmental rule of law.	Reasoning
Whatever else the environmental rule of law may mean, it surely means that construction of this sort cannot receive our endorsement, no matter what its economic benefits may be.	Reasoning
A lack of scientific certainty is no ground to imperil the environment.	Reasoning
I.2 Role of courts in ensuring environmental protection In a recent decision of this Court in Bengaluru Development Authority vs Sudhakar Hegde 2020 SCC OnLine SC 328, this Court, speaking through one of us (DY Chandrachud, J.) held The adversarial system is, by its nature, rights based.	None
In the quest for justice, it is not uncommon to postulate a winning side and a losing side.	Reasoning
In matters of the environment and development however, there is no tradeoff between the two.	Reasoning
The protection of the environment is an inherent component of development and growth Professor Corker draws attention to the idea that the environmental protection goes beyond lawsuits.	None
Where the state and statutory bodies fail in their duty to comply with the regulatory framework for the protection of the environment, the courts, acting on actions brought by public spirited individuals are called to invalidate such actions The protection of the environment is premised not only on the active role of courts, but also on robust institutional frameworks within which every stakeholder complies with its duty to ensure sustainable development.	Reasoning
A framework of environmental governance committed to the rule of law requires a regime which has effective, accountable and transparent institutions.	Reasoning
Equally important is responsive, inclusive, participatory and representative decision making.	Reasoning
Environmental governance is founded on the rule of law and emerges from the values of our Constitution.	Reasoning
Where the health of the environment is key to preserving the right to life as a constitutionally recognized value under Article 21 of the Constitution, proper structures for environmental decision making find expression in the guarantee against arbitrary action and the affirmative duty of fair treatment under Article 14 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Sustainable development is premised not merely on the redressal of the failure of democratic institutions in the protection of the environment, but ensuring that such failures do not take place.	Reasoning
In Lal Bahadur vs State of Uttar Pradesh (2018) 15 SCC 407, this Court underscored the principles that are the cornerstone of our environmental jurisprudence, as emerging from a settled line of precedent the precautionary principle, the polluter pays principle and sustainable development.	Reasoning
This Court further noted the importance of judicial intervention for ensuring environmental protection.	Reasoning
In a recent decision in State of Meghalaya others vs All Dimasa Students Union (2019) 8 SCC 177, this Court reiterated the key principles of environmental jurisprudence in India, while awarding costs of Rs. 100 crores on the State of Meghalaya for engaging in illegal coal mining.	Reasoning
The UNEP report (supra) also goes on to note(Supra at note 5, pg 213) Courts and tribunals must be able to grant meaningful legal remedies in order to resolve disputes and enforce environmental laws.	None
As shown in Figure 5.12, legal remedies are the actions, such as fines, jail time, and injunctions, that courts and tribunals are empowered to order.	None
For environmental laws to have their desired effect and for there to be adequate incentives for compliance with environmental laws, the remedies must both redress the past environmental harm and deter future harm.	None
In its Global Judicial Handbook on Environmental Constitutionalism, the UNEP has further noted(UNEP, Global Judicial Handbook on Environmental Constitutionalism (3rd edition, 2019), pg 7) Courts matter.	None
They are essential to the rule of law.	None
Without courts, laws can be disregarded, executive officials left unchecked, and people left without recourse.	None
And the environment and the human connection to it can suffer.	None
Judges stand in the breach.	None
The above discussion puts into perspective our decision in the present appeals, through which we shall confirm the directions given by the NGT in its impugned judgment.	Reasoning
The role of courts and tribunals cannot be overstated in ensuring that the shield of the rule of law can be used as a facilitative instrument in ensuring compliance with environmental regulations.	Reasoning
I.3 Illegal activities on forest land We are not traversing unexplored territory.	None
In the past, this Court has clamped down on illegal activities on reserved forest land specifically, and in violation of environmental laws more generally, and taken to task those responsible for it.	Reasoning
In a recent threejudge bench decision of this Court in the case of Hospitality Association of Mudumalai vs In Defence of Environment and Animals 2020 SCC OnLine SC 838, this Court was confronted with a situation involving illegal commercial activities taking place in an elephant corridor.	Reasoning
Justice S. Abdul Nazeer, speaking for the Court, held as follows 42 the Precautionary Principle has been accepted as a part of the law of our land.	Reasoning
Articles 21, 47, 48A and 51A(g) of the Constitution of India give a clear mandate to the State to protect and improve the environment and to safeguard the forests and wild life of the country.	Reasoning
It is the duty of every citizen of India to protect and improve the natural environment including forests and wild life and to have compassion for living creatures.	Reasoning
The Precautionary Principle makes it mandatory for the State Government to anticipate, prevent and attack the causes of environmental degradation.	Reasoning
In Goel Ganga Developers India Pvt.	Reasoning
Ltd. vs Union of India14, this Court dealt with a situation in which the project proponent had engaged in construction that was contrary to the environmental clearance granted to it.	Reasoning
Coming down on the project proponent, a twojudge bench, speaking through Justice Deepak Gupta, held as follows Having held so we are definitely of the view that the project proponent who has violated law with impunity cannot be allowed to go scotfree.	None
This Court has in a number of cases awarded 5 of the project cost as damages.	Reasoning
This is the general law.	Reasoning
However, in the present case we feel that damages should be higher keeping in view the totally intransigent and unapologetic behaviour of the project proponent.	Reasoning
He has manoeuvred and manipulated officials and authorities.	Reasoning
Instead of 12 buildings, he has constructed 18 from 552 flats the number of flats has gone up to 807 and now two more buildings having 454 flats are proposed.	Reasoning
The project proponent contends that he has made smaller flats and, therefore, the number of flats has increased.	Reasoning
He could not have done this without getting fresh EC.	Reasoning
With the increase in the number of flats the number of persons residing therein is bound to increase.	Reasoning
This will impact the amount of water requirement, the amount of parking space, the amount of open area, etc.	Reasoning
Therefore, in the present case, we are clearly of the view that the project proponent should be and is directed to pay damages of Rs 100 crores or 10 of the project cost, whichever is more.	Reasoning
In M.C. Mehta vs Union of India (2018) 18 SCC 397, a two judge Bench of this Court held that the land notified under Punjab Land Preservation Act, 1900 in the Kant Enclave was to be treated as forest land.	None
As a result, any construction made on the land or its utilization for nonforest purposes without Central Government approval was violative of the Forest Act and therefore illegal.	None
The relevant excerpt of this Courts decision, speaking through Justice Madan B. Lokur, is as follows 132 R. Kant Co. and the Town and Country Department of the State of Haryana being fully aware of the statutory Notification dated 1881992 and the restrictions placed by the notification.	None
R. Kant Co. and the Town and Country Department of the State of Haryana were also fully aware that Kant Enclave is a forest or forest land or treated as a forest or forest land, and therefore any construction made on the land or utilisation of the land for nonforest purposes, without the prior approval of the Central Government, would be illegal and violative of the provisions of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980.	None
Notwithstanding this, constructions were made (or allowed to be made) in Kant Enclave with the support, tacit or otherwise, of R. Kant Co. and the Town and Country Department of the State of Haryana.	None
They must pay for this.	None
In the present set of appeals, the forest land was allowed to be used by the MOEF for the specific purposes of constructing a parking space and bus stand in McLeod Ganj.	Reasoning
MOEF made a conscious decision not to modify the terms of this permission, even when granted an opportunity to do so.	Reasoning
Hence, any construction undertaken by the second respondent, even with the tacit approval of the appellant being a statutory authority under the HP Bus Stands Act, will be illegal.	Reasoning
I.4 Jurisdiction of NGT	None
An ancillary issue now remains for our consideration, which is whether the NGT could have adjudicated upon a violation of the TCP Act, which is not an Act present in Schedule I of the NGT Act.	Issue
In a recent twojudge Bench decision of this Court in State of M.P. vs Centre for Environment Protection Research Development (2020) 9 SCC 781, one of us speaking for the Court (Justice Indira Banerjee), held as follows The Tribunal constituted under the NGT Act has jurisdiction under Section 14 of the said Act to decide all civil cases where any substantial question relating to environment including enforcement of any right relating to environment is involved and such question arises out of the implementation of the enactments specified in Schedule I to the said Act, which includes the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.	Reasoning
In view of the definition of substantial question relating to environment in Section 2(1)(m) of the NGT Act, the learned Tribunal can examine and decide the question of violation of any specific statutory environmental obligation, which affects or is likely to affect a group of individuals, or the community at large.	Reasoning
For exercise of power under Section 14 of the NGT Act, a substantial question of law should be involved including any legal right to environment and such question should arise out of implementation of the specified enactments.	Reasoning
Violation of any specific statutory environmental obligation gives rise to a substantial question of law and not just statutory obligations under the enactments specified in Schedule I.	Reasoning
However, the question must arise out of implementation of one or more of the enactments specified in Schedule I.	None
The provisions of the TCP Act required the appellant and second respondent to take prior permission from the TCP Department before changing the nature of the land through their construction.	Reasoning
Nonconformity with this stipulation led to a violation of their environmental obligations.	Reasoning
In any case, this question is academic because the NGTs impugned judgment grounds its decision in the appellant and second respondents violation of Section 2 of the Forest Act, which is an Act present within Schedule I of the NGT Act.	Reasoning
Conclusion Based on our analysis above, we uphold the directions which have been issued by the NGT in its judgment.	Decision
By the earlier orders dated 16 May 2016 and 9 September 2016, this court only stayed NGTs direction in relation to the demolition of the HotelcumRestaurant structure.	Decision
The appellant has tried to argue against the demolition of the HotelcumRestaurant structure in the Bus Stand Complex, submitting that it may be allowed to stand for their use.	Decision
However, we cannot accept this submission.	Decision
Doing so would legalise what is an otherwise entirely illegal construction, the reasons for which have been adduced by us in the judgment above.	Decision
Hence, we direct that the process of demolishing the Hotelcum Restaurant structure in the Bus Stand Complex be commenced within two weeks from the date of the judgment and the structure shall be demolished by the second respondent within one month thereafter.	Decision
In the event of default, the Chief Conservator of Forest along with the administration of district Dharamshala shall demolish the structure and recover the cost and expenses as arrears of land revenue from the second respondent.	Decision
Further, as directed by the NGT, the State of Himachal Pradesh and the second respondent can utilise the parking space and the bus stand in the Bus Stand Complex, after the demolition of the HotelcumRestaurant structure.	Decision
However, this has to be in accordance with orders dated 12 November 1997 and 1 March 2001 issued by the MOEF, i.e., it shall not be used for any purpose other than parking of cars and buses, as the case may be.	Decision
The appeals are accordingly disposed of.	Decision
Pending application(s), if any, stand disposed of.	Decision
