 N. Variava, J. These Appeals are against the judgment of the Madras High Court dated 8th October, 2001.	None
Briefly stated the facts are as follows The Appellants are the manufacturer of sugar.	Facts
They purchase sugarcane from farmers.	Facts
By virtue of the Sugarcane (Control) Order, 1966 made under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 the price for such purchase is statutorily fixed.	Facts
Clause 3 of the Sugarcane (Control) Order lays down the minimum price of sugarcane payable by a producer of sugar.	Facts
This is the price which is payable immediately at the time that the sugar is purchased.	Facts
Over and above this, by virtue of Clause 5A, an additional price is also payable.	Facts
This additional price is to be fixed on the basis of a formula laid down in the first Schedule of the Sugarcane (Control) Order.	Facts
The Formula given therein is as follows RL 2A B X  2 C R is the amount in rupees of sugar produced during the sugar year excluding the excise duty paid or payable to the factory by the purchaser.	Facts
It is evident from the formula itself that the additional price is the amount which is incapable of determination at the time the sugarcane is supplied to the factory by the grower.	Facts
The additional price can only be determined at the end of the sugar year and not earlier.	Facts
Even though the additional price could not be determined till the end of the sugar year, in practice it took a long time to determine this price.	Facts
Therefore the State Government advised the sugar producers to pay a price which was higher than the minimum price fixed under Clause 3.	Facts
The manufacturers of sugar, like the Appellants, also paid the additional price as fixed by the Government at the time of purchase.	Facts
The additional price so paid was then adjusted against the price fixed under Clause 5A of the Sugarcane (Control) Order, 1966.	Facts
Under the Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act, 1959 dealers were given an option, under Section 13(2), of paying tax in advance on the basis of monthly returns.	None
Section 13 is relevant and it reads as follows Advance payment of tax (1)	None
The tax for each year payable under any of the provisions of this Act may be collected in advance during the year in monthly or other prescribed instalments and for this purpose a dealer may be required to furnish within the prescribed period such returns as may be prescribed.	None
The assessing authority may provisionally determine the amount of tax payable in advance during any year or in respect of any period and on such determination and intimation to the dealer he shall pay such tax in such instalments and within such period as may be prescribed.	None
(2) In lieu of the tax provisionally determined under subsection (1), a dealer may, at his option, pay tax in advance during the year on the basis of his actual turnover for each month or for such other periods as may be prescribed.	None
For this purpose, he may be required to furnish returns showing his actual turnover for each month or other periods as may be prescribed and to pay tax on the basis of such returns.	None
The tax under this subsection shall become due without any notice of demand to the dealer on the date of receipt of the return or on the last due date as prescribed, whichever is later.	None
2A. Notwithstanding anything contained in subsections (1) or (2), every dealer other than those paying tax under subsection (2) of section 3D, section 3E or 7E, whose total turnover in the preceding year was not less than ten lakhs of rupees or his taxable turnover was not less than three lakhs of rupees and all dealer newly registered in the year shall pay tax during the year on the basis of his actual turnover for each month or for such other period, as may be prescribed.	None
(3) If no return is submitted by the dealer under subsection (1) or subsection (2) within the prescribed period, or if the return submitted by him appears to the assessing authority to be incomplete or incorrect, the assessing authority may, after making such enquiry as it considers necessary, determine the tax payable by the dealer to the best of its judgment Provided that, before taking action under this subsection on the ground that the return submitted by the dealer in incomplete or incorrect, the dealer shall be given a reasonable opportunity of proving the correctness or completeness of the return submitted by him.	None
(4) If the assessing authority has reason to believe that the tax determined by it for any period was based on too low a turnover or was made at too low a rate or was based on too high a turnover or was made at too high a rate, it may enhance or reduce, as the case may be, such determination tax PROVIDED that before making an enhancement of the tax payable as aforesaid, the assessing authority shall, except where such enhancement is based on the turnover finally determined for the preceding year, give a reasonable opportunity to the dealer to show cause against such enhancement and make such enquiry as it may consider necessary.	None
(5) The determination and collection of tax under this section shall be subject to such adjustment as may be prescribed on the completion of final assessment in the manner prescribed.	None
The Appellants were thus filing returns.	None
In these monthly returns they showed their turnover on the basis of minimum price paid by them and paid tax thereon.	None
They indicated the additional price which they had paid as per the advice of the Government but did not include it as part of the turnover and did not pay tax on such additional price.	None
As and when the price, under Clause 5A, was fixed the Appellants filed a revised return and paid tax on that.	None
After the revised returns were filed an Assessment Order was passed.	None
In the Assessment Order interest was sought to be charged, under Section 24(3), on the price fixed under Clause 5A from the date that the sugar was purchased till payment of tax was made by the Appellants.	None
The Appellants challenged the demand for interest before the Tamil Nadu Taxation Special Tribunal.	None
The Tribunal dismissed the Petition on 19th April, 2000.	None
The Appellants then filed Writ Petition before the High Court which has been dismissed by the impugned judgment.	None
Two questions arise for our consideration (a) whether the advance, paid, pursuant to the advice of the Government, can be considered to be price and thus includible in the monthly turnover of the Appellants and (b) whether interest under Section 24(3) can be charged on the price fixed under Clause 5A and or on the advance paid and if so, from what date.	Issue
On these questions, Mr. Vellapally has submitted that the price fixed under Clause 5A would only be known after it was determined and that till the Clause 5A price was announced it would not be includible in the returns for the reason that the price would not be known.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the advances given as per the advice of the Government are mere adhoc payments and that these advances do not constitute price.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his submission, he relied upon the Judgment of this Court in the case of State of Tamil Nadu vs. Kothari Sugars Chemicals Ltd. reported in 1996(7) SCC 751.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submitted, that, in any case, on a plain reading of Sections 13 and 24 of the Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act no interest can be levied unless and until an assessment has taken place and a notice of demand has been issued and tax had not been paid within the time specified in the notice of demand.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this submission, he relied upon the cases of J.K. Synthetics Ltd. vs. Commercial Taxes Officer reported in 1994(4) SCC 276 and Frick India Ltd. vs. State of Haryana reported in 1994(5) SCC 559.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Mr. Iyer submitted that the Appellants had chosen to follow the procedure under Section 13(2).	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that tax had to be paid on the actual turnover.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the decision of this Court in Kothari Sugars and Chemicals Ltd.s case (supra) was only concerned with the question as to whether the amounts paid in advance, over and above the price fixed under Clause 5A, can be considered to be price.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the observations made in that case are in the context of this question.	Arguments of Respondent
He points out that this Court has in the case of U.P. Cooperative Cane Unions Federations vs. West U.P. Sugar Mills Association reported in 2004 (5) SCC 430 so noted.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that therefore the observations in Kothari Sugars and Chemicals Ltd.s case cannot be construed to mean that the evidence price, paid towards the price fixed under Clause 5A, does not constitute price.	Arguments of Respondent
He further submitted that J.K. Synthetic Ltd.s case would have no application as, in the present case, the tax is to be paid on actual turnover which would mean the actual amounts paid by way of price.	Arguments of Respondent
We have heard the parties and considered the submissions.	None
Let us first consider whether the advance, paid, towards, the Clause 5A price, constitutes price and is includible in the monthly returns ad turnover.	None
As stated above, reliance has been placed, by Mr. Vellapally, on the judgment of this Court in Kothari Sugars and Chemicals Ltd.s case (supra).	None
This Judgment does indicate that the advance paid pursuant to the advice of the Government cannot be considered to be the price.	None
But we find that the observations made in this Judgment are in the context of the question whether additional amounts paid over and above the price fixed under Clause 5A can be considered to be the price.	None
This has been so noticed by a Constitution Bench of this Court in U.P. Cooperative Cane Unions Federationss case (supra).	None
In Kothari Sugars Chemicals Ltd.s case, tax had admittedly been paid in time on the advance paid towards Clause 5A price.	None
Tax was also sought to be levied on monies advanced over and above the Clause 5A price.	None
The observations made are merely setting out that advances made, over and above the Clause 5A price, cannot be considered to be price.	None
However, it is clear that if amounts are paid towards the Clause 5A price, they would be payment towards price and therefore part of turnover even though they may be paid in advance.	None
In our view, Kothari Sugar Chemicals Ltd.s case does not lay down to the contrary.	None
It does not even deal with this aspect.	None
Of course Clause 5A price will not be known till much later.	Reasoning
However the Government advice makes it clear that the advance payment is to be towards the Clause 5A price.	None
Thus so long as the advance made is less than or equal to the Clause 5A price it is advance payment of price.	None
However if anything more has been paid then that would not be price in the absence of a contract or any statutory provision.	None
It will thus have to be held that in the monthly returns the advance should have been included as part of turnover.	None
If tax has been paid on advance and it is found that excess payment has been made, refund of tax on the excess payment can be claimed.	None
The question then arises whether interest, under Section 24(3) can be charged on the Clause 5A price or on the advance and if so from what date.	None
As has been noted hereinabove, the price fixed under Clause 5A can only be decided on the basis of a formula set out hereinabove.	None
It therefore cannot be decided at least till the end of the sugar year.	None
In practice it is however decided much later.	None
As the price would be an unknown, neither the assessee could predict what the price would be nor could the Assessing Officer, even on the basis of his best judgment, predict what that price would be.	None
Therefore till the price under Clause 5A is fixed before there would be no question of an assessee including it in the monthly returns filed by him.	None
A monthly return filed not showing the price fixed under Clause 5A would neither be incorrect nor incomplete.	None
It is only after the price under Clause 5A is fixed that the assessee would be required to file a revised return showing the price fixed under Clause 5A as part of his turnover.	None
Mr. Iyer fairly admitted that interest on the price fixed under Clause 5A could not be levied from the date the sugarcane was purchased as it would be impossible to know in advance what the price under Clause 5A would be.	None
His submission however was that the advance paid was towards the price fixed under Clause 5A and therefore the amount paid as advance should have been included in the monthly returns as turnover and tax paid on that.	None
He submitted that such returns had to show that the actual turnover and if the returns did not show the actual turnover then the returns were incorrect and or incomplete and therefore interest would be leviable from the date that these amounts were actually paid to the sugarcane growers till the tax on these amounts was paid.	None
Thus the Assessment Order levying interest on the entire price fixed under Clause 5A and the Judgments of the Tribunal and the High Court upholding that are clearly erroneous.	Reasoning
As stated above, the price fixed under Clause 5A would not be known till much later.	Reasoning
Thus, it would be impossible to show it in the monthly returns filed earlier.	Reasoning
Of course as indicated earlier, Mr. Iyer is right the monthly returns should have included the amounts paid as advance in the turnover.	Reasoning
The question still remains whether by not including them interest becomes payable on them under Section 24(3).	None
To consider this aspect, one needs to look at Section 13, which has been set out hereinabove.	None
It is to be seen that under Section 13(2) tax could be paid in advance on the basis of monthly returns.	None
A plain reading of Section 13(2) shows that the tax which has to be paid on the basis of such returns.	None
If, as now contended by Mr. Iyer, the returns are incomplete or incorrect then, under Section 13(3), the Assessing Authority must, after giving a reasonable opportunity to the assessee, determine what was the tax payable and issue a notice to pay the tax within a particular period.	None
The determination and collection under Section 13 would then be subject to such adjustments as may be prescribed on completion of the final assessment.	None
Section 24 reads as follows Payment and Recovery of tax (1) Save as otherwise provided for in subsection (2) of section 13, the tax assessed or has become payable under this Act from a dealer or person and any other amount due from him under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments, if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment, not being less than twentyone days from the date of service of the notice.	None
The tax under subsection (2) of section 13 shall be paid without any notice of demand.	Reasoning
In default of such payments the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax or interest under this Act.	None
(2) Any tax assessed on or has become payable by, or any other amount due under this Act from a dealer or person and any fee due from him under this Act, shall, subject to the claim of the Government in respect of land revenue and the claim of the Land Development Bank in regard to the property mortgaged to it under section 28(2) of the Tamil Nadu Cooperative Land Development Banks Act, 1934 (Tamil Nadu Act X of 1934), have priority over all other claims against the property of the said dealer or person and the same may without prejudice to any other mode of collection be recovered  (a) as land revenue or (b) on application to any Magistrate by such Magistrate as if it were a fine imposed by him Provided that no proceedings for such recovery shall be taken or continued as long as he has, in regard to the payment of such tax, other amount or free, as the case may be, complied with an order by any of the authorities to whom the dealer or person has appealed or applied for revision, under sections 31, 31A, 33, 35, 36, 37 or 38.	None
(3) On any amount remaining unpaid after the date specified for its payment as referred to in subsection (1) or in the order permitting payment in instalments, the dealer or person shall pay, in addition to the amount due, interest at one and half per cent per month of such amount for the first three months of default and at two percent per month of such amount for the subsequent period of default.	None
PROVIDED that if the amount remaining unpaid is less than one hundred rupees and the period of default is not more than a month, no interest shall be paid Provided Further that where a dealer or person has preferred an appeal or revision against any order of assessment or revision of assessment under this Act, the interest payable under this subsection, in respect of the amount in dispute in the appeal or revision, shall be postponed till the disposal of the appeal or revision, as the case may be, and shall be calculated on the amount that becomes due in accordance with the final order passed on the appeal or revision as if such amount had been specified in the order of assessment or revision of assessment, as the case may be.	None
(3A) Where a dealer submits the prescribed return within ten days after the expiry of the prescribed period, he shall also pay, in addition to the amount of tax due as per his return, interest at two per cent of the tax payable for every month or part thereof.	None
(4) Where the tax paid under this Act is found to be in excess on final assessment or revision of assessment, or as a result of an order passed in appeal, revision or review, the excess amount shall be refunded to the dealer after adjustment of arrears of tax, if any, due from him.	None
Where the excess amount is not refunded to the dealer within a period of ninety days from the date of the order of assessment or revision of assessment and in the case of order passed in appeal, revision or review within a period of ninety days from the date of receipt of the order, the government shall pay by way of interest, where the amount refundable is not less than one hundred rupees, a sum equal to the sum calculated at the rate of one percent or part thereof such amount for each month or part thereof after the expiry of the said period of ninety days.	None
Explanation For the purpose of this section, the expression order passed in appeal, revision or review shall not include an order passed in such appeal, revision or review with direction to make fresh assessment order.	None
Under Section 24(1) if the tax has been assessed or has become payable under the Act, then the payment has to be made within the said time as may be specified in the notice of assessment and tax under Section 13(2) has to be paid without any notice of demand.	Reasoning
However, as seen above, the tax under Section 13(2), in the absence of any determination by the Assessing Authority, is tax as per the returns.	Reasoning
If default is made in payment of such tax then interest becomes payable under the Act.	Reasoning
In the present case, it is an admitted position that tax as per the monthly return had been paid within time.	Reasoning
It is also an admitted position that there was no assessment, even provisional by the Assessing Authority prior to the final assessment made after the revised returns had been filed.	Reasoning
Interest becomes payable under Section 24(3) on an amount remaining unpaid after the date specified for its payment under subsection (1) of Section 24.	Reasoning
As seen above subsection (1) of Section 24 deals with an assessed tax or tax which has become payable under the Act.	Reasoning
In cases covered by Section 13(2) tax must be paid without any notice of demand.	Reasoning
But as stated above, under Section 13(2) tax is to be paid on the basis of such returns.	Reasoning
Tax as per the returns has admittedly been paid.	Reasoning
If the returns were incomplete or incorrect as now claimed the assessing authority had to determine the tax payable and issue a notice of demand.	Reasoning
In the absence of any assessment, even provisional, and a notice of demand no interest would be payable under Section 24(3).	Reasoning
In this case, it is an admitted position that as soon as the revised return was filed the Appellants paid the tax as per the revised return.	Reasoning
Therefore they paid the tax even before the final assessment took place.	Reasoning
Thus the claim for interest, under Section 24(3) from the date that the advances were paid to the sugarcane growers is not sustainable.	Reasoning
There is no provision under the Act which permits charging of interest unless and until there has been a provisional assessment and a notice of demand prescribing the period within which the tax was to be paid.	Reasoning
Our view finds support from the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in J.K. Synthetics Ltd.s case (supra).	Reasoning
It must be mentioned that earlier to J.K. Synthetics Ltd.s case the question whether interest would be payable from the date of return on the footing that the return is an incorrect return had come up for consideration before a three Judge Bench of this Court in the case of Associated Cement Company Ltd. vs. Commercial Tax Officer, Kota reported in 1981(4) SCC 578.	Reasoning
There was a difference of opinion.	Reasoning
The majority Judgment held that the return must be a true return and if in a final assessment it is held that the return was incorrect or incomplete, then interest would be leviable from the date the incomplete or incorrect return was filed.	Reasoning
The minority opinion held that tax was to be paid as per the return and so long as tax was paid as per the return, merely because in the final assessment it was held that the return was incorrect or incomplete interest could not be levied prior to the date of final assessment and the demand thereunder.	Reasoning
The majority view was doubted and the question was referred to a Constitution Bench.	Reasoning
The Constitution Bench in J.K. Synthetics Ltd.s case accepted the minority view and overruled the majority view.	Reasoning
The Constitution Bench held that tax was payable only as per the returns.	Reasoning
It is held that if incomplete or incorrect return are filed it was open to the Assessing Officer to provisionally assess and make a demand.	Reasoning
It is held that if that was not done then interest could not be levied on the footing that in a final assessment it is found that the returns had been incorrect.	Reasoning
The decision in J.K. Synthetics Ltd.s case was thereafter followed by another Constitution Bench in the case of Frick India Ltd.s case (supra).	Reasoning
These judgments fully cover the question under consideration.	Reasoning
They are not only binding on us but we are in full agreement with the principle laid down therein.	Reasoning
Mr. Iyer made an attempt to distinguish the judgments on the ground that the provisions under consideration, in J.K. Synthetics Ltd.s case, are not in pari materia with the provisions of the Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the words actual turnover had not been used in the Rajasthan Act.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that under the Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act the return has to be as per the actual turnover.	Arguments of Respondent
In our view, the words actual turnover can have no different meaning from the word turnover.	Reasoning
The word turnover has been defined under Section 2(r) to mean the aggregate amount for which the goods are bought and sold.	Reasoning
Under Section 13(2) the monthly return has to indicate the actual turnover and tax is then payable as per the return.	Reasoning
If the return shows that the actual turnover and tax is not paid as per the return, then interest would be payable under Section 24(3) as that would be a case where amount has remained unpaid after the date specified for its payment.	Reasoning
However, if the monthly return does not indicate the actual turnover the it was for the Assessing Authority to make a demand on the footing that the return was incomplete or incorrect.	Reasoning
In the absence of any such demand interest would not become payable under Section 24(3) as there is no provision for charging of interest prior to the date of demand.	Reasoning
In this respect the principles laid down in J.K. Synthetics Ltd.s case fully apply even though the provisions of the Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act and the Rajasthan Act may not be identical.	Reasoning
The principle to be kept in mind is, that, when the levy of interest emanates as a statutory consequence and such liability is a direct consequence of nonpayment of tax, be it under Section 215 of the Income Tax Act or under Section 7(2) 7(2A) read with Section 11B(a) of the Rajasthan Sales Tax Act, 1954 (as discussed in the decision of this Court in the case of J.K. Synthetics Ltd.s case (supra) or under Sections 13(2) 24(3) read with Rule 18(3) under the Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act, 1959, then such a levy is different from the levy of interest which is dependent on the discretion of the Assessing Officer.	Reasoning
The default arising on nonpayment of tax on an admitted liability in the case of selfassessment falls under Section 24(3) read with Rule 18(3) which attracts automatic levy of interest whereas the default in filing incomplete and incorrect return falls under Rule 18(4) which the levy of interest is based on the adjudication by the Assessing Officer.	Reasoning
Therefore, Rule 18(3) and Rule 18(4) operate in different spheres.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter, the impugned Judgment of the High Court and the Order of the Tribunal as well as the Assessing Authority cannot be sustained and are hereby set aside to the extent they levy interest under Section 24(3).	Decision
In this view of the matter, the Appeals stand allowed.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs.	Decision
