Dr. B.S. Chauhan, J. These appeals have been preferred against the impugned judgment and order dated 30.7.2002 passed by the High Court of Rajasthan (Jaipur Bench) in Civil Writ Petition Nos. 5481/1994 and 105/1997, by which the High Court has allowed the writ petitions filed by the respondentDiamond and Gem Development Corporation Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as the Company), for quashing the order of cancellation of allotment of land and directing the appellants for providing the approach access road.	Issue
As these appeals have been preferred against the common impugned judgment, for the sake of convenience, Civil Appeal Nos. 725253/2003 are to be taken to be the leading case.	None
The facts and circumstances giving rise to these appeals are That a huge area of land admeasuring 607 Bighas and 5 Biswas situate in the revenue estate of villages Durgapura, Jhalan Chod, Sanganer and DholkaBad in District Jaipur, stood notified under Section 4(1) of the Rajasthan Land Acquisition Act, 1953 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) on 18.7.1979, for a public purpose i.e. industrial development, to be executed by the appellant Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation (in short RIICO).	Facts
Declaration under Section 6 of the Act was made on 22.6.1982 for the land admeasuring 591 Bighas and 17 Biswas.	None
After meeting all requisite statutory requirements contained in the Act, possession of the land, was taken over by the Government and was subsequently handed over to appellantRIICO, on 18.10.1982 and 17.11.1983.	Facts
The Land Acquisition Collector assessed the market value of the land and made an award on 14.5.1984.	Facts
RIICO made allotment of land admeasuring 105 acres vide allotment letter dated 10.3.1988 to the respondent no.1 company, to facilitate the establishment of a Gem Industrial Estate for the manufacturing of Gem stones.	Facts
C.	Facts
In pursuance of the aforesaid allotment letter, a lease deed was executed between the appellant and respondentcompany on 22.5.1989, with a clear stipulation that the land was allotted on an as iswhere is, and that the respondentcompany must complete the said project within a period of 5 years, and further that, in the event that the terms and conditions of the lease agreement were not complied with, the appellant would be entitled to recover its possession in addition to which, various other conditions were also incorporated therein.	Facts
D.	Facts
After possession was taken by the respondentcompany, construction could be carried only on a portion of the land allotted to it.	Facts
As the development work was being carried out at an extremely slow pace, the appellant issued various notices from time to time, reminding the respondentcompany that it was under an obligation to complete the project within a specified period, owing to which, it must accelerate work.	Facts
Additionally, there also arose some difficulty with respect to the respondentcompanys attempts to sublease the said premises, or parts thereof, and in view of this, an amendment dated 4.11.1991 was inserted in Rule 11A of the Rajasthan Land Revenue (Industrial area Allotment) Rules, 1959 (hereinafter referred to as the Rules 1959), enabling the company to sublease the said land.	Facts
E.	Facts
The appellant vide notice dated 4.7.1992, informed the respondentcompany, that as per clause 2(n) of the lease deed, all construction had to be completed within a stipulated time period of 5 years.	Facts
The respondentcompany began asking the appellant to provide it accessibility via road, from the Jaipur Tonk main road and, as the same was not provided, the respondentcompany filed Writ Petition No. 5481 of 1994 before the High Court, seeking the issuance of a direction to the appellant to provide to it, the aforesaid road.	Facts
F. During the pendency of the aforesaid writ petition, the appellant expressing its dissatisfaction with regard to the progress of the development of the said land by the respondentcompany, filed a reply to the said writ petition before the High Court stating that it was not under any obligation to provide to the respondentcompany the aforementioned approach road, as the lease deed had been executed between them, on the basis of an asiswhere is agreement.	Facts
Further, the appellant issued a show cause notice dated 29.8.1996, to determine the lease in light of the lease agreement, in lieu of the fact that the respondentcompany had not made any progress regarding the completion of the project, and even after the expiry of a period of 5 years, only 10 of the total construction stood completed.	Facts
In pursuance thereof, the lease deed was cancelled vide order dated 1.10.1996, and possession of the land in dispute was taken back by the appellant on 3.10.1996.G. The respondentcompany filed another Writ Petition No. 105 of 1997, challenging the cancellation order dated 1.10.1996 and the taking over of possession by the appellant on 3.10.1996.	Facts
The appellant contested the said writ petition on the grounds that it was entitled to restoration of possession, as the respondentcompany had failed to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions incorporated in the lease deed, according to which, the company was required to complete the said project within a period of 5 years.	Facts
However, presently, the extent of development completed by it stood at 10.	Facts
Therefore, in light of the aforementioned circumstances, the appellant had no choice but to cancel the lease deed and take back possession.	Facts
H. The High Court vide its impugned judgment and order, allowed both the writ petitions quashing the order of cancellation, and directed the restoration of possession of the aforesaid land to the respondentcompany, and further, also directed the appellant to provide to the respondentcompany, the approach access road demanded by it.	Facts
Hence, these appeals.	Facts
Shri Dhruv Mehta, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantRIICO, and Shri Manish Singhvi, learned Additional Advocate General for the State of Rajasthan have submitted that, as the allotment of the land had been made to the respondentcompany on an asiswhereis basis, there was no obligation on the part of RIICO to provide to it, the said access road.	Arguments of Petitioner
The terms of the contract must be interpreted by court, taking into consideration the intention of the parties and not on the basis of equitable grounds.	Arguments of Petitioner
Moreover, the cancellation of the deed was in accordance with the terms and conditions incorporated in the lease deed, and therefore, in light of the facts and circumstance of the case, the High Court has committed an error, by quashing the order of cancellation and, in issuing a direction for the restoration of possession and for the provision of the access road.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court has misinterpreted the amendment to Rule 11A of the Rules 1959, and has thus held that the appellant had no jurisdiction to cancel the said lease, as the respondentcompany by virtue of the operation of the amended provision, had become a direct lessee of the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
In such a factsituation, there was no obligation on the part of the appellant to provide the approach road as it was not the lessor of the respondentcompany.	Arguments of Petitioner
In case by virtue of the amendment in Rule 11A of the Rules 1959, the State Government became the lessor, the appellantRIICO lost the title interest over the property which had been acquired by it on making payment of the huge money and that too, without getting any refund.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such an interpretation leads to absurdity.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, the appeals deserve to be allowed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, Shri P.S. Patwalia, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondentcompany, has submitted that the judgment and order of the High Court does not require any interference whatsoever, for the reason that the respondentcompany had been invited to establish and develop the Gem Stone industrial park at Jaipur.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of the fact, that the amendment to Rule 11A of the Rules 1959 was made exclusively to facilitate the respondentcompany to sublease a part of the developed premises, the High Court has rightly held that the State Government became the lessor and that, RIICO had no concern whatsoever in relation to the said matter, owing to which, it had no competence to cancel the lease.	Arguments of Respondent
In the light of the fact that RIICO was in possession of other lands surrounding the land in question, the High Court has directed it to provide to the respondentcompany, an access road on equitable grounds, taking into consideration the fact that, in the event that the respondentcompanys area remained land locked, it would be impossible for it to develop the project, and has stated that not providing the access road was in fact, the basic reason for delay in development.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, the appeals lack merit and, are liable to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
Before proceeding further, it may be pertinent to refer to the relevant statutory provisions, and certain terms of the lease deed.	None
Rule 11A of the Rules 1959 read .xx	None
xx	None
xxClause (iv) of Rule 11A.	None
The Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation Ltd. may sublease the leased land or part thereof for industrial purpose including essential welfare and supporting services.	None
Provided that in the case of Diamond and Gem Development Corporation to whom the land has already been leased out by RIICO for 99 years, the sub lessee i.e. DGDC may further sublet and the terms and conditions and other provisions contained in the rules in so far as they relate to RIICO shall mutatis mutandis apply to DGDC also as if the land in question has been let out to them by State Government under Rule 11A. (Emphasis added)	None
There has been further amendment to Rule 11A of the Rules 1959 w.e.f. 12.10.2000, and the relevant part thereof reads as under In Rule 11A of the said rules, after condition (iv) and before condition (v), the following new condition (iva) shall be inserted namely(iva)	None
The sub lessee of the Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation Limited may further sublease the subleased land or part thereof on such terms and conditions as may be mutually agreed between such sub lessee and subsequent sublessee.	None
The terms and conditions applicable to sublessee shall also mutatis mutandis apply to such subsequent sublessee.	None
Rajasthan State Industrial Investment Corporation Limited (Disposal of Land) Rules, 1979 (hereinafter referred to as Rules 1979), deals with the allotment of land by RIICO to entrepreneurs.	None
Relevant rules thereof read as under The allottee shall not except with the written consent of the Corporation, be allowed to sublet the constructed premises for industrial purpose only which can be considered on following conditionsi)	None
The subletting of vacant and or unutilized land in the industrial areas of the Corporation shall not be allowed.ii) That consent of the Managing Director be given to the allottee of the plot (owner) to sublet the whole or part of the constructed premises after the allottee has cleared all the outstanding dues of the Corporation and started the production at the allotted plot on the following conditionsiii)	None
xx	None
xx xxiv) Permission for transfer of surplus unutilized land with the units which have come into commercial production shall be granted on payment of premium as may be decided by the Corporation from time to time which is presently equal to 50 rate of development charges at the time of such transfer of difference amount between the prevailing rates of development charges and the rates of development charges on which the allotment was made whichever is higher.24.	None
Cancellation The Corporation shall have the right to cancel the allotment after issuing 30 days show cause notice to the allottee by the concerned Senior Regional Manager Regional Manager on any breach of any of these rules, condition of allotment letter and terms of lease agreement.	None
It may also be pertinent to refer the relevant terms and conditions of lease deed dated 22.5.1989, which read as under AND WHEREAS the lessor has agreed to demise and the lessor has agreed to take on lease, the piece of land known as plot	None
no.	None
SP 1 Indusrial Area, Sanganer, PhaseII on as is where is basisxx xx xx2(b)	None
That the lessee will bear, pay and discharge all service charges as may be decided by the lessor from time to time which for the present would be Rs.10.10 (Ten paisa per sq.mtrs.)	None
per year from the date, the lessor provided as pucca links road in this area.xx xx xxd)	None
That the lessee will erect on the demised premises and will commence such construction within the period of 6 months and will completely finish the same fit for use and start production within the period of 60 months from the date of these presents or within such the case of these presents, or within such the date of these presents or within such extended period of time as may be allowed by the lessor in writing at its discretion.xx xx xxg)	None
That the lessee will provide and maintain in good repair a properly constructed approached road or path alongwith the event across drain to the satisfaction of the lessor local Municipal Authority leading from the public cooperation road to the building to be erected on the demises premises.xx xx	None
xx(i)	None
The lessee will not without the general prior consent in writing of the lessor transfer, sublet, relinquish, mortgage or assign his interest in the demised premisesxx xx xxm)	None
That lessee shall construct and complete the said building and put the demised premises with the buildings constructed thereon to use hereinabove mentioned within 54 calendar months from the date of possession of the said land is handed over to him and in any case within 60 calendar months from the date of this agreement provided that the lessor may at his discretion extend the time hereinbefore provided if in his opinion the delay is caused for reasons beyond the control of the lessee.	None
Provided that utilized land of the allotted plot of land shall revert to the Corporation on the expiry of the prescribed extended period for starting production expansion of the unit.xx xx xxr)	None
The lessee will in each year within 2 months from the expiry of the account in year supply to the lessor a copy of his profit and loss account pertaining to the accounting year and the business run by him in the demised premises.3(a) Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained if there shall have been in opinion of the lessor any breach by the lessor.	None
or if the lessee fails to commence and complete the buildings in time and manner it shall be lawful for the lessor .to reenter without taking recourse to the Court of law up on the demised premises or any part there of his name of whole and there on this demise shall absolutely cease and determine and the money paid by the Lessee by virtue of these preset shall stand forfeited to the lessor without prejudice to rights of the lessor here under with interest thereon at 19 per annum and the Lessee shall not be entitled to any compensation whatsoever.xx xx	None
xx3(h)	None
Every dispute, difference or question touching or arising out or in respect of this agreement to the subject matter shall be referred to the sole arbitrator, the Collector of the District wherein the leased plot is situated or a, person appointed by him.	None
The decision of such arbitrator shall be final and binding on the parties.	None
Before entering into merits of the case, it is required to deal with the legal issues involved herein Approbate and Reprobate A party cannot be permitted to blow hotblow cold, fast and loose or approbate and reprobate.	None
Where one knowingly accepts the benefits of a contract, or conveyance, or of an order, he is estopped from denying the validity of, or the binding effect of such contract, or conveyance, or order upon himself.	None
This rule is applied to ensure equity, however, it must not be applied in such a manner, so as to violate the principles of, what is right and, of good conscience.	None
(Vide Nagubai Ammal Ors.	None
v. B. Shama Rao Ors., AIR 1956 SC 593 C.I.T. Madras v. Mr. P. Firm Muar, AIR 1965 SC 1216 Ramesh Chandra Sankla etc. v. Vikram Cement etc., AIR 2009 SC 713 Pradeep Oil Corporation v. Municipal Corporation of Delhi Anr., AIR 2011 SC 1869 Cauvery Coffee Traders, Mangalore v. Hornor Resources (International) Company Limited, (2011) 10 SCC 420 and V. Chandrasekaran Anr.	None
v. The Administrative Officer Ors., JT 2012 (9) SC 260 ).	None
Thus, it is evident that the doctrine of election is based on the rule of estoppel the principle that one cannot approbate and reprobate is inherent in it.	None
The doctrine of estoppel by election is one among the species of estoppels in pais (or equitable estoppel), which is a rule of equity.	None
By this law, a person may be precluded, by way of his actions, or conduct, or silence when it is his duty to speak, from asserting a right which he would have otherwise had.	None
II.	None
Mutatis Mutandis  means In M s. Ashok Service Centre Anr. etc. v. State of Orissa, AIR 1983 SC 394 , this court held as under Earl Jowitts The Dictionary of English Law 1959) defines mutatis mutandis as with the necessary changes in points of detail.	None
Blacks Law Dictionary (Revised 4th Edn.1968) defines mutatis mutandis as with the necessary changes in points of detail, meaning that matters or things are generally the same, but to be altered when necessary, as to names, offices, and the likeExtension of an earlier Act mutatis mutandis to a later Act, brings in the idea of adaptation, but so far only as it is necessary for the purpose, making a change without altering the essential nature of the things changed, subject of course to express provisions made in the later Act.	None
In the circumstances the conclusion reached by the High Court that the two Acts were independent of each other was wrong.	None
We are of the view that, it is necessary to read and to construe the two Acts together as if the two Acts are one, and while doing so to give effect to the provisions of the Act which is a later one in preference to the provisions of the Principal Act wherever the Act has manifested an intention to modify the Principal Act Similarly, in Prahlad Sharma v. State of U.P. Ors., (2004) 4 SCC 113 , the phrase mutatis mutandis has been explained as under The expression mutatis mutandis itself implies applicability of any provision with necessary changes in points of detail.	None
(See also Mariyappa Ors.	None
v. State of Karnataka Ors., AIR 1998 SC 1334 and Janba (dead) thr.	None
Lrs. v. Gopikabai (Smt.), AIR 2000 SC 1771 ).	None
Thus, the phrase mutatis mutandis implies that a provision contained in other part of the statute or other statutes would have application as it is with certain changes in points of detail.	None
III.	None
Contractual disputes and writ jurisdiction There can be no dispute to the settled legal proposition that matters disputes relating to contract cannot be agitated nor terms of the contract can be enforced through writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution.	None
Thus, writ court cannot be a forum to seek any relief based on terms and conditions incorporated in the agreement by the parties.	None
(Vide Bareilly Development Authority Anr.	None
v. Ajay Pal Singh Ors., AIR 1989 SC 1076 and State of U.P. Ors.	None
v. Bridge Roof Co. (India) Ltd., AIR 1996 SC 3515 ).	None
In Kerala State Electricity Board Anr.	None
v. Kurien E. Kalathil Ors., AIR 2000 SC 2573 , this Court held that a writ cannot lie to resolve a disputed question of fact, particularly to interpret the disputed terms of a contract observing as under The interpretation and implementation of a clause in a contract cannot be the subjectmatter of a writ petition.	None
.If	None
a term of a contract is violated, ordinarily the remedy is not the writ petition under Article 226.	None
We are also unable to agree with the observations of the High Court that the contractor was seeking enforcement of a statutory contractThe contract between the parties is in the realm of private law.	None
It is not a statutory contract.	None
The disputes relating to interpretation of the terms and conditions of such a contract could not have been agitated in a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.	None
That is a matter for adjudication by a civil court or in arbitration if provided for in the contract.	None
The contractor should have relegated to other remedies.	None
It is evident from the above, that generally the court should not exercise its writ jurisdiction to enforce the contractual obligation.	Reasoning
The primary purpose of a writ of mandamus, is to protect and establish rights and to impose a corresponding imperative duty existing in law.	Reasoning
It is designed to promote justice (ex debito justiceiae).	Reasoning
The grant or refusal of the writ is at the discretion of the court.	Reasoning
The writ cannot be granted unless it is established that there is an existing legal right of the applicant, or an existing duty of the respondent.	Reasoning
Thus, the writ does not lie to create or to establish a legal right, but to enforce one that is already established.	Reasoning
While dealing with a writ petition, the court must exercise discretion, taking into consideration a wide variety of circumstances, interalia, the facts of the case, the exigency that warrants such exercise of discretion, the consequences of grant or refusal of the writ, and the nature and extent of injury that is likely to ensue by such grant or refusal.	None
Hence, discretion must be exercised by the court on grounds of public policy, public interest and public good.	Reasoning
The writ is equitable in nature and thus, its issuance is governed by equitable principles.	Reasoning
Refusal of relief must be for reasons which would lead to injustice.	Reasoning
The prime consideration for the issuance of the said writ is, whether or not substantial justice will be promoted.	Reasoning
Furthermore, while granting such a writ, the court must make every effort to ensure from the averments of the writ petition, whether there exist proper pleadings.	Reasoning
In order to maintain the writ of mandamus, the first and foremost requirement is that the petition must not be frivolous, and must be filed in good faith.	Reasoning
Additionally, the applicant must make a demand which is clear, plain and unambiguous.	Reasoning
It must be made to an officer having the requisite authority to perform the act demanded.	Reasoning
Furthermore, the authority against whom mandamus is issued, should have rejected the demand earlier.	Reasoning
Therefore, a demand and its subsequent refusal, either by words, or by conduct, are necessary to satisfy the court that the opposite party is determined to ignore the demand of the applicant with respect to the enforcement of his legal right.	Reasoning
However, a demand may not be necessary when the same is manifest from the facts of the case, that is, when it is an empty formality, or when it is obvious that the opposite party would not consider the demand.	Reasoning
IV.	None
Interpretation of terms of contract A party cannot claim anything more than what is covered by the terms of contract, for the reason that contract is a transaction between the two parties and has been entered into with open eyes and understanding the nature of contract.	None
Thus, contract being a creature of an agreement between two or more parties, has to be interpreted giving literal meanings unless, there is some ambiguity therein.	None
The contract is to be interpreted giving the actual meaning to the words contained in the contract and it is not permissible for the court to make a new contract, however is reasonable, if the parties have not made it themselves.	None
It is to be interpreted in such a way that its terms may not be varied.	None
The contract has to be interpreted without giving any outside aid.	None
The terms of the contract have to be construed strictly without altering the nature of the contract, as it may affect the interest of either of the parties adversely.	None
(Vide United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Harchand Rai Chandan Lal, AIR 2004 SC 4794 Polymat India P. Ltd. Anr.	None
v. National Insurance Co. Ltd.	None
Ors., AIR 2005 SC 286 ).	None
In DLF Universal Ltd. Anr.	None
v. Director, T. and C. Planning Department Haryana Ors., AIR 2011 SC 1463 , this court held It is a settled principle in law that a contract is interpreted according to its purpose.	None
The purpose of a contract is the interests, objectives, values, policy that the contract is designed to actualise.	None
It comprises joint intent of the parties.	None
Every such contract expresses the autonomy of the contractual parties private will.	None
It creates reasonable, legally protected expectations between the parties and reliance on its results.	None
Consistent with the character of purposive interpretation, the court is required to determine the ultimate purpose of a contract primarily by the joint intent of the parties at the time the contract so formed.	None
It is not the intent of a single party it is the joint intent of both parties and the joint intent of the parties is to be discovered from the entirety of the contract and the circumstances surrounding its formation.	None
As is stated in Ansons Law of Contract, a basic principle of the Common Law of Contract is that the parties are free to determine for themselves what primary obligations they will acceptToday, the position is seen in a different light.	None
Freedom of contract is generally regarded as a reasonable, social, ideal only to the extent that equality of bargaining power between the contracting parties can be assumed and no injury is done to the interests of the community at large.	None
The Court assumes that the parties to the contract are reasonable persons who seek to achieve reasonable results, fairness and efficiencyIn a contract between the joint intent of the parties and the intent of the reasonable person, joint intent trumps, and the Judge should interpret the contract accordingly.	None
Asiswhereis means The phrase, as iswhereis, has been explained by this Court in Punjab Urban Planning Development Authority Ors.	None
v. Raghu Nath Gupta Ors., (2012) 8 SCC 197 , holding as under We notice that the respondents had accepted the commercial plots with open eyes, subject to the abovementioned conditions.	None
Evidently, the commercial plots were allotted on asiswhereis basis.	None
The allottees would have ascertained the facilities available at the time of auction and after having accepted the commercial plots on asis whereis basis, they cannot be heard to contend that PUDA had not provided the basic amenities like parking, lights, roads, water, sewerage, etc.	None
If the allottees were not interested in taking the commercial plots on asiswhere is basis, they should not have accepted the allotment and after having accepted the allotment on asiswhereis basis, they are estopped from contending that the basic amenities like parking, lights, roads, water, sewerage, etc. were not provided by PUDA when the plots were allotted (See also UT Chandigarh Admn.	None
Anr.	None
v. Amarjeet Singh Ors., (2009) 4 SCC 660 ).	None
VI.	None
As if means The expression as if, is used to make one applicable in respect of the other.	None
The words as if create a legal fiction.	None
By it, when a person is deemed to be something, the only meaning possible is that, while in reality he is not that something, but for the purposes of the Act of legislature he is required to be treated that something, and not otherwise.	None
It is a well settled rule of interpretation that, in construing the scope of a legal fiction, it would be proper and even necessary, to assume all those facts on the basis of which alone, such fiction can operate.	None
The words as if, in fact show the distinction between two things and, such words must be used only for a limited purpose.	None
They further show that a legal fiction must be limited to the purpose for which it was created.	None
(Vide Radhakissen Chamria Ors.	None
v. Durga Prasad Chamria Anr.,	None
AIR 1940 PC 167 Commr. of Incometax, Delhi v. S. Teja Singh, AIR 1959 SC 352 Ram Kishore Sen Ors.	None
v. Union of India Ors., AIR 1966 SC 644 Sher Singh v. Union of India Ors., AIR 1984 SC 200 State of Maharashtra v. Laljit Rajshi Shah Ors, AIR 2000 SC 937	None
Paramjeet Singh Patheja v. ICDS Ltd. AIR 2007 SC 168 and Commissioner of Income Tax v. Willamson Financial Services Ors.	None
(2008) 2 SCC 202 ).	None
In East End Dwelling Co. Ltd. v. Finsbury Borough Council, 1952 AC 109, this Court approved the approach which stood adopted and followed persistently.	None
It set out as under The statute says that you must imagine a certain state of affairs it does not say that having done so, you must cause or permit your imagination to boggle when it comes to the inevitable corollaries of that state of affairs.	None
In Industrial Supplies Pvt.	None
Ltd. Anr.	None
v. Union of India Ors., AIR 1980 SC 1858 , this Court observed as follows It is now axiomatic that when a legal fiction is incorporated in a statute, the court has to ascertain for what purpose the fiction is created.	None
After ascertaining the purpose, full effect must be given to the statutory fiction and it should be carried to its logical conclusion.	None
The court has to assume all the facts and consequences which are incidental or inevitable corollaries to giving effect to the fiction.	None
The legal effect of the words as if he were in the definition of owner in Section 3(n) of the Nationalisation Act read with Section 2(1) of the Mines Act is that although the petitioners were not the owners, they being the contractors for the working of the mine in question, were to be treated as such though, in fact, they were not so.	None
(Emphasis added)	None
The instant case is required to be decided in the light of the aforesaid settled legal propositions.	None
The terms and conditions incorporated in the lease deed reveal that, the allotment was made on asis whereis basis.	None
The same was accepted by the respondentcompany without any protest, whatsoever.	None
The lease deed further enabled the appellant to collect charges, in case it decided to provide the approach road.	None
Otherwise, it would be the responsibility of the respondentcompany to use its own means to develop such road, and there was absolutely no obligation placed upon the appellant to provide to the respondent the access road.	None
As the respondentcompany was responsible for the creation of its own infrastructure, it has no legal right to maintain the writ petition, and courts cannot grant relief on the basis of an implied obligation.	None
The order of the High Court is in contravention of clause 2(g) of the lease deed.	None
The State of Rajasthan had acquired the land in exercise of its eminent domain and transferred the same to the appellantRIICO after receiving the consideration amount and executed the lease deed in its favour.	None
The State exercised its power in transferring the land to RIICO under the Rules 1959.	None
However, further allotment by RIICO to the respondentcompany was under the Rules 1979.	None
Therefore, the High Court committed an error treating that the whole case was governed only under the Rules 1959, and that Rules 1979 had no application at all.	None
The High Court recorded a finding, as regards the submission made on behalf of the appellantRIICO, stating that the audit conducted by it showing various irregularities and pointing out the misappropriation of public funds by the respondentcompany, was a matter entirely unrelated to the allotment and development of the said land.	None
Rule 11A of the Rules 1959, as amended created a legal fiction by which the respondentcompany had become a lessee and the State of Rajasthan, the lessor and therefore the order passed by the appellant RIICO, was wholly without jurisdiction, as after 4.11.1991, RIICO had no authority whatsoever, to cancel the allotment of land made in favour of the respondentcompany, since it was only the State of Rajasthan that had the authority to cancel the said allotment by not providing for an access road, the purpose for which allotment was made by RIICO stood defeated, and this was what had resulted in the delay of the development of the said land, and in such a factsituation, cancellation of land was not permissible there was a constructive obligation on the part of the appellantRIICO to provide an approach road with respect to the land which was allotted and that RIICO had failed to cooperate with the respondentcompany to accomplish the task it had undertaken, and that the order of cancellation was liable to be set aside for lack of jurisdiction and for want of competence.25.	Reasoning
The aforesaid reasons given by the High Court are mutually inconsistent.	Reasoning
When the High Court came to the conclusion that the appellantRIICO had no competence to deal with the land and to cancel the allotment made in favour of the respondentcompany, there was no justification to hold RIICO responsible for providing the approach road.	Reasoning
Such a finding could be permissible only if the appellantRIICO had competence to deal with the land in dispute.26.	Reasoning
The High Court also erred in holding that the provision of providing the access road was an obligation on the part of the appellantRIICO, deciding this on equitable grounds.	Reasoning
The terms of the lease deed clearly stipulated that in case the appellantRIICO provides the access road, it will be vested with the right to collect the charges incurred by it from the respondentcompany, therein, and in the alternative, it would be the obligation of the respondent company to develop its own infrastructure, and the same would include development of the access road.	Reasoning
Therefore, the appellantRIICO was not under any obligation to provide the said access road.	None
The interpretation given to the amended Rule 11A of the Rules 1959 by the High Court, takes away the vested right of the appellant RIICO in the title as well as in the interest that it had acquired in the property, as it had paid the entire amount for the land to the State when possession of land was handed over to it.	None
Rule 11A of the Rules 1959 was amended only to facilitate the respondentcompany to grant further sublease and not to divest RIICO from its rights and title.	None
It was found necessary in wake of difficulties faced by the respondentcompany as it was not permissible for it to grant further sublease.	None
Thus, the rule provided a deeming clause fiction that for the purpose of sublease by the respondent company to further allottees, it would be deemed that the State Government had executed the lease in favour of the respondentcompany.	None
The terms mutatis mutandis, and as if, used in the amended provisions of Rule 11A of the Rules 1959 simply facilitated the sub letting of a part of the premises by the respondentcompany, and did not take away the title and rights that the appellantRIICO had over the land.	None
The Rule 11A of the Rules 1959 has further been amended on 12.10.2000 enabling all the allottees of RIICO to sublease further.	None
Thus, if the interpretation given by the High Court is accepted, the appellant RIICO looses all its lands and properties and rendered the development authority existing on papers only, without any status authority.	None
The ultra activist view articulated by the High Court on the basis of supposed intention and imaginative purpose to the amendment act, is uncalled for and ought to have been avoided.	None
It rendered the appellantRIICO totally insignificant and irrelevant without realising that the appellantRIICO had autonomous functioning, and the interpretation given by the High Court has devastating effect underlying its status, authority and autonomous functioning.	None
In fact, by interpretation the High Court had conferred an authoritarian role to the State, taking away the right of appellantRIICO on its property without realising that the amendment to Rule 11A of the Rules 1959 had specifically been engrafted therein only, for the purpose of facilitating the respondentcompany to grant further sublease.	None
Thus, it is evident that the High Court decided the case on speculative and hypothetical reasons.	None
The terms incorporated in the lease deed itself provide for timely completion of construction and also for the commencement of production within a stipulated period.	None
Records however, reveal that only 10 of total construction work stood completed by the respondent company.	None
No proper application was ever filed for seeking extension of time by the respondentcompany, as per the Rules.	None
We have been taken through the record.	None
While providing justification for the noncompletion of construction and commencement of production, in very vague terms, it was submitted by the respondentcompany that extension of time was sought from statutory authorities.	None
However, the said application did not specify how much more time the company was seeking, and that too, without meeting any requirements provided in the statutory rules.	None
According to clause 2(d) of the lease deed the entire project was to be completed within a period of five years i.e. by 25.5.1994.	None
But it is evident from the material on record that construction was just made on the fraction of the entire land.	None
Clause 2 (i) contemplated that, the lessee will not transfer nor sublet nor relinquish rights without prior permission from the appellantRIICO.	None
However, it is evident from the record that the respondentcompany had negotiated with a third party for development of the land.	None
The cancellation of allotment was made by appellant RIICO in exercise of its power under Rule 24 of the Rules 1979 read with the terms of the lease agreement.	None
Such an order of cancellation could have been challenged by filing a review application before the competent authority under Rule 24 (aa) and, in the alternative, the respondent company could have preferred an appeal under Rule 24(bb)(ii) before Infrastructure Development Committee of the Board.	Reasoning
The respondent company ought to have resorted to the arbitration clause provided in the lease deed in the event of a dispute, and the District Collector, Jaipur would have then, decided the case.	Reasoning
However, the respondent company did not resort to either of the statutory remedy, rather preferred a writ petition which could not have been entertained by the High Court.	Reasoning
It is a settled law that writ does not lie merely because it is lawful to do so.	Reasoning
A person may be asked to exhaust the statutory alternative remedy available to him in law.	Reasoning
In view of the above, the appeals deserve to be allowed.	Decision
Thus, the appeals are allowed.	Decision
Judgment and order impugned are set aside and the order of cancellation of allotment in favour of the respondent company by the appellant is restored.	Decision
However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
