 Venkataswami,	None
J. Special leave granted.	None
These appeals raise a common question of law and the parties are same in both the appeals.	Issue
As a matter of fact, in Civil Appeal arising out of S.L.P.(C)	Issue
No. 16665/92	Issue
the High Court has simply followed its earlier judgment against which the Civil Appeal arising out of S.L.P.(C)	Issue
No. 16718/91 has been filed.	Issue
In the circumstances, both the appeals are disposed of by this common judgment.	Issue
The respondent, a manufacturer of iron, steel and allied products, entered into an agreement of lease in respect of land measuring 569.6 acres with the State Government in order to meet its own requirements of raw material, namely, limestone and dolomite.	Facts
Under the agreement, it was agreed that the respondent was liable to pay royalty on the minerals extracted.	Facts
However, the dispute that arises for consideration out of the two judgments of the High Court is whether the respondent is liable to pay royalty on the quantity of mineral extracted as it is or on the quantity arrived at after the said mineral had undergone a processing to remove waste and foreign matters.	Facts
It was the case of the appellants that the respondent was liable to pay royalty on the mineral extracted while the case of the respondent was that the liability was on the quantity of mineral obtained after it had undergone the process.3.	Facts
The process adopted by the respondent is given in the SLP paper book at page 11, which reads as followsIn the Mechanised Section of the respondents quarry, after blasting, the blasted materials containing Limestone and other foreign materials are loaded by mechanical shovels and are brought to the crushing Plant by dumpers.	Facts
These are called Run of Mines, for short R.O.M.	Facts
The R.O.M. are fed into the crusher, and when necessary stockpile is made, the same is fed into the primary crusher	Facts
whereafter	Facts
it goes to the secondary crusher mechanically.	Facts
In between the secondary crusher and the screening Plant is affixed the Weighto meter.	Facts
From the secondary crusher the Limestone is moved into the screening Plant and from the screening Plant to the stockpile.	Facts
The stockpile is then transported and loaded into the railway wagons.	Facts
The Weightometer recording mentioned hereinabove, is done as the workmen are paid their incentives on the basis of production.	Facts
This figure recorded by the Weightometer is duly recorded in he books kept by the respondentcompany in the regular course of business as production.	Facts
The Senior Mining Officer is duly intimated of the weight recorded in the manner as aforesaid.	Facts
The High Court, after referring to Section 9(1) of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957 (hereinafter called the Act) and also clause 3 of Part V of the Lease Deed, held as follows  A distinction has to be made between removal from the mine and removal from the leased area.	Facts
If after the mineral is extracted from the mine, it undergoes some processing and during processing a part of the mineral is wasted and the wastage remains on the leased area and is not removed therefrom, the lessee cannot be asked to pay royalty on that portion of the wastage.	Facts
On that view of the matter, the High Court quashed the demands, which were levied on the quantity of unprocessed minerals.4.	None
Aggrieved by the order of the High Court, the present appeals are filed by special leave.	Facts
The learned counsel appearing for the appellants submitted that the High Court was not right in making the distinction and concluding that the quantity of mineral which had undergone certain process alone was liable to levy of royalty.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, this view runs counter to the view already taken by another Divison Bench of the same High Court in O.J.C. No. 909/74.	Arguments of Petitioner
The further case of the learned counsel was that the judgment in O.J.C. 909/74 was taken on appeal to this Court by the aggrieved assessee in Civil Appeal No. 807/76 National Coal Development Corporation Ltd. v. State of Orissa Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
and this Court approved the view taken by the High Court and dismissed the said Civil Appeal on 5.12.91.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel, in support of his argument, placed reliance on the judgments of this Court, namely, India Cement Ltd. Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. State of Tamil Nadu ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
, (1990) 1 SCC 12 and Saurashtra Cement and Chemical Industries Ltd. v. Union of India Anr., (1994) 1 SCC 226 .	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel appearing for the respondentassessee supported the judgments under appeal on the basis of the distinction made by the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the arguments and the reasonings contained in the judgments under appeal.	None
Section 9(1) of the Act reads as follows  The holder of a mining lease granted before the commencement of this Act shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the instrument of lease or in any law in force at such commencement, pay royalty in respect of any mineral removed or consumed by him or his agent, manager, employee, contractor or subleassee from the leased area after such commencement, at the rate for the time being specified in the Second Schedule in respect of that mineral.	None
It is to be noted that the levy of royalty is in respect of minerals removed or consumed by the contractor from the leased area.	None
We have seen earlier the process that the mineral said to undergo before the same was removed from leased area.	None
Section 9(1) of the Act also contemplates the levy of royalty on the mineral consumed by the holder of a mining lease in the leased area.	None
If that be so, the case of the appellants that such processing amounts to consumption and, therefore, the entire mineral is exigible to levy of royalty has to be accepted.	None
We are unable to agree with the distinction made by the High Court and the conclusion that the royalty can be levied only on the quantity of mineral obtained after processing.	None
Another Division Bench of the Orissa High Court in National Coal Development Corporation case (supra), while considering the question whether the coal extracted by the workmen for their own domestic consumption is exigible levy of royalty, accepting the contention of the Revenue, held that removal from the seam in the mine and extracting the same through the pits mouth to the surface satisfy the requirement of Section 9 in order to give rise to liability for royalty.	Reasoning
This view of the High Court found approval by this Court in Civil Appeal No. 807/76 and this Court held that the lessee in that case was liable to pay royalty for the coal supplied to its workmen for consumption.	Reasoning
In India Cements case (supra), a Constitution Bench, while considering the constitutionality of levy of cess on the royalty, held as follows  In the Western India Theatres Ltd. v. Cantonment Board, Poona Cantonment it was held that an entertainment tax is dependent upon whether there would or would not be a show in the cinema house.	None
If there is no show, there is no tax.	None
It cannot be a tax on profession or calling.	None
Professional tax does not depend on the exercise of ones profession but only concerns itself with the right to practice.	None
It appears that in the instant case also no tax can be levied or is leviable under the impugned Act if no mining activities are carried on.	None
Hence, it is manifest that it is not related to land as a unit which is the only method of valuation of land under Entry 49 List II, but is relatable to minerals extracted.	None
Royalty is payable on a proportion of the minerals extracted For the reasons stated above, we hold that the High Court was not right in quashing the demand, which were rightly calculated and levied.	None
The impugned judgments of the High Court are set aside and the O.J.Cs. filed by the respondents stand dismissed.	None
The appeals are allowed accordingly with no order as to costs.	None
Appeals allowed.	None
