 Vaidialingam, J. 1.	None
This appeal, by special leave, is directed against the Award dated October 26, 1967 of the National Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta in Reference No. NIT3 of 1967, holding that for the accounting year 196566, the quantum of bonus payable by the appellant to its workmen is 20 of the effective salaries or wages with a further direction to set on a sum of Rs. 1, 46, 252.	Facts
2.	None
The appellant, Indian Cable Company Ltd. (hereinafter to be referred as the Company) occupies a very prominent position in the Cable Industry of India having its Head Office at Calcutta and its factory at Jamshedpur.	None
It has, branches in Bombay, Madras, New Delhi, Kanpur, Ahmedabad, and Bangalore.	None
(In addition to insulated cables, the Company manufactures Aluminium Rods, Radio Aerials, Fuse Wires and other products.).	None
Its paid up capital is Rs. 2, 48, 65, 450.	None
It employed workmen numbering over 5000.	None
The gross effective salaries and wages of its employees for the relevant accounting year amounts to Rs. 1, 05, 32, 880.	None
Its accounting year is from 1st April to 31st March of the succeeding year.	None
3.	None
For the accounting year 196465, the Company declared and paid bonus at 20 to all employees in accordance with the provisions of the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 (hereinafter to be referred as the Act).	Facts
For the year in question 196566, it calculated a sum of Rs. 23, 68, 785 as available surplus.	Facts
This amount was arrived at by the Company after calculating direct tax without deducting the provision for payment of bonus payable to its workmen.	Facts
A sum of Rs. 14, 21, 271 being 60 of the said available surplus was declared as bonus for the year 196566.	Facts
This amount represented 1351 of the wage bill.	Facts
The workmen were dissatisfied with this offer of bonus at 13.51 and demanded payment of bonus at the maximum rate of 20 as provided in the Act.	Facts
In consequence they raised a dispute with the Company.	Facts
In view of the agreement dated November 24, 1966 between the parties to refer the claim for additional bonus for adjudication to a Tribunal, the workmen received the bonus at the rate of 13.51 offered by the Company.	Facts
The Central Government by order dated June 23 1967 referred for adjudication to the National Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, the following disputeWhat should be the quantum of bonus payable to the Workmen of the Indian Cable Company Limited Calcutta for the accounting year 196566 4.	Facts
The Unions contended before the Tribunal that the computation of allocable surplus by the Company has not been properly made in accordance with the Act and that several items shown in the profit and loss account as expenditure have to be added back to arrive at the actual gross profits.	Facts
The Unions further alleged that the Company has spent large amounts for payment of liability for future years with a view to reduce the available and allocable surplus, which in consequence has resulted in, the reduction of percentage of bonus.	Facts
The Company on the other hand maintained that it has kept proper accounts which have been audited by a reputed firm of auditors Messrs Lovelock Lewes and that the computation of allocable surplus has been properly arrived at having due regard to the provisions of the Act.	Facts
The Company denied the allegations of the Unions that enormous expenditure has been shown with a view to reduce the quantum of bonus.	Facts
On the other hand, the Company pleaded that all items of expenditure were justified and those items are deductable in considering, the claim for bonus.	Facts
5.	None
At this stage it may be mentioned that the Unions served interrogatories requiring information on various matters and there is no controversy that the Company furnished all the informations that were Called for.	Facts
6.	None
Before the Tribunal the Company required various deductions to be made from the net profits shown in its profit and loss account.	Facts
On the other hand, the Unions required various items to be added back.	Facts
The Tribunal accepted the contentions of both the parties with regard to certain items.	Facts
We will in due course refer to the items which are in dispute before us at the instance of both the Company and the Unions.	Facts
The Tribunal computed the, available surplus at Rs. 37, 54, 713, 60 of this amount being Rs. 22, 52, 828 was fixed as allocable surplus.	Facts
The Tribunal held that a sum of Rs. 21, 06, 576 being bonus at 20 of the gross effective salaries and wages was payable for the year in question and it directed the surplus amount of Rs. 1, 46, 252 to be set on.	Facts
As the bonus at the rate of 13.51 had already been declared and paid by the Company, the Tribunal directed the payment of the balance 6.49 within the period mentioned in the Award.	Facts
One aspect which has to be acted is that (in calculating the available surplus, the Tribunal before calculating the notional direct tax, deducted the bonus payable for the accounting year in question.	Facts
7.	None
The grievance of the Company, as placed before us by its learned counsel Mr. D. N. Mukherjee, relates to three items (1) the method of computation of notional direct tax (2) disallowance of the deduction from grossprofits of the sum of Rs. 2.65 lakhs made as exgratia payment for the accounting year 196465 to employees drawing emoluments exceeding Rs. 750 per mensem and (3) disallowance of the claim for return on provision for doubtful debts.	Issue
8.	None
The first contention relates to the principle to be adopted for calculating direct tax when computing the available and allocable surplus for payment of bonus under the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the Tribunal, under ss. 6 and 7 of the Act, the bonus payable for , the relevant accounting year has to be deducted from the gross profits for calculation of direct tax or alternatively rebate for bonus found payable has to be calculated and 60 of the rebate has to be added back as allocable surplus.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Tribunal took notice of the fact that the Incometax Authorities did not object to deduction of the provision made by the Company for payment of bonus for the accounting year 196566.	Arguments of Petitioner
On this reasoning the Tribunal added back to the grossprofits as per the profit and loss account the provision made for payment of bonus.	Arguments of Petitioner
For coming to this view the Tribunal followed its previous decision in Indian Oxygen Ltd. v. Their Workmen (N.I.T.1 of 1966).	Arguments of Petitioner
The Tribunal has also noted that its Award in the Indian Oxygen Ltd. was pending appeal in this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. D. N. Mukherjee, this method of calculation of direct tax under the Act, adopted by the Tribunal is contrary to the decisions of this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
9.	None
We are in entire agreement with this contention of Mr. Mukherjee.	Reasoning
In view of the decisions of this Court, to which we will immediately refer, Mr. P. S. Khera, learned counsel for the Unions was unable to support the reasoning of the Tribunal on this aspect.	Reasoning
10.	None
The question of calculation of direct tax under the Act was considered for the first time b y this Court in Metal Box Co. of India Ltd. v. Their Workmen.(1969 1 S.C.R. 750.)	Reasoning
It was held therein that the national tax liability is to be worked out by first working out the grossprofits and deducting there from the prior charges under s. 6, but not the bonus payable to the employees.	Reasoning
Therefore, it is clear from this decision that an employer is entitled to deduct his tax liability without deducting first the amount of bonus he would be liable to pay from and out of the amount computed under ss. 4 and 6 of the Act.	Reasoning
The same principle, has been reiterated in The Workmen of William Jacks and Company Ltd.	Reasoning
Madras v. Management of William Jacks and Co., Madras, (A.I.R. 1971 S.C. 1821.)	Reasoning
Delhi Cloth and General Mills Co. Ltd. v. Workmen(1971 2 S.C.C. 695) and Indian Oxygen Ltd. etc. v. Their Workmen.	Reasoning
(A.I.R. 1972 S.C. 471.)	Reasoning
In fact the last decision overruled the decision of the National Industrial Tribunal in Reference No. NIT1 of 1966, which has been followed by the present Tribunal.	Reasoning
We may also state that after the first decision of this Court, referred to above, the Act was amended in 1969.	Reasoning
The last three decisions of this Court considered the question whether the amendments effected to the Act had made any change in the principle laid down by this Court in the first decision.	Reasoning
It was uniformly held in all the three decisions that the amendment has not effected any change in the principle laid down in the earliest decision that the tax liability under the Act is to be worked out first by working out the grossprofits and deducting there from bonus payable to the employees.	Reasoning
Therefore, it follows that the Tribunal committed an error in law in corrupting, direct tax after deducting bonus.	Reasoning
Therefore, this point will have to be held in favour of the appellant.	Reasoning
11.	None
The second item relates to the disallowance of Rs. 2.65 lakhs which represented the exgratia payment made by the Company to certain employees drawing, emoluments exceeding Rs. 750 per mensem for the year 196465.	Reasoning
The Company claimed that this amount should be deducted from the gross profits whereas the Unions contended that the same has to be added back to the grossprofits shown in the profit and loss account.	Reasoning
The factual position relating to this claim is as follows From the letter dated February 4, 1966, Ext. 1, written by the Company to one of its officers Mr. S. N. Banerjee, it is seen that the Company in appreciation of the officers services during the year 196465 made an exgratia payment of Rs. 90.	Reasoning
Mr. Banerjee has given evidence on behalf of the Unions.	Reasoning
He has deposed to the fact that he was drawing about Rs. 1, 000 per mensem and that he received the letter Ext.	Reasoning
I as well as the sum of Rs. 90 mentioned therein.	Reasoning
H e has further stated that over and above this sum of Rs. 90 he has also, received the bonus payable to him under the Act for the year 196465.	Reasoning
He has also deposed to the effect that the exgratia payment of Rs.	Reasoning
( 90 was paid to him in lieu of bonus calculated on the difference in emoluments drawn by him and the ceiling of Rs. 750 per mensem fixed by the Act.	Reasoning
It was the practice of the Company to pay bonus to all the members of its staff without application of any ceiling.	Reasoning
In view of the fact that a ceiling had been fixed under the Act, to make up for the lesser amount that the employees like Mr. Banerjee will get under the Act, this amount of Rs. 2.65 lakhs was paid to all such officers.	Reasoning
The Tribunal accepted the evidence of Mr. Banerjee that the exgratia amount was paid to keep up the old practice of the Company of paying all the members of the staff without the application of any ceiling.	Reasoning
The Tribunal held that such a payment was not an item which could be deducted from the grossprofits under the Act as claimed by the management.	Reasoning
Accordingly, it added back the sum of Rs. 2.65 lakhs to the grossprofits shown i n the profit and loss account.	Reasoning
12.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Mukherjee urged that the Company was justified in claiming the above amount by way of deduction.	Arguments of Petitioner
He referred us to the definition of employee in s. 2(13) of the Act as also to the employees declared eligible f or bonus under s. 8.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also relied on ss. 10 and 11 which make it obligatory on an employer to pay the minimum bonus and also the maximum bonus up to 20 respectively.	Arguments of Petitioner
13.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are not inclined to agree with the contention of Mr. Mukherjee that the Tribunal committed an error when it added back the sum of Rs. 2.65 lakhs.	Reasoning
From the evidence of Mr. Banerjee, which has been accepted by the Tribunal, read along with the letter Ext. 1, it is clear that Mr. Banerjee received not only bonus due to him under the Act, but also the extra amount of Rs. 90.	Reasoning
Mr. Banerjee was admittedly drawing a salary of Rs. 1000 per mensem.	Reasoning
For a person to be an employee under s. 2(13), among other things, he is a person drawing a salary or wage not exceeding Rs . 1600 per mensem.	Reasoning
Under s. 8, it is provided that every employee is entitled to be paid in an accounting year bonus as per the Act provided he has worked in the establishment for not less than thirty working days in that year.	Reasoning
Section 10, provides for payment of minimum bonus to every employee.	Reasoning
Similarly s. 11 provides for payment of bonus to every employee subject to a maximum of 20 of his salary or wage.	Reasoning
According to Mr. Mukherjee there is no prohibition in the Act from paying bonus to officers like Mr. Banerjee, up to a maximum of 20.	Reasoning
Therefore, when the payment as in Ext. 1, has been made to officers like Mr. Banerjee and others, such amounts have to be computed as an item of expenditure, under the Second Schedule of t he Act.	Reasoning
It is no doubt true that an officer drawing a salary not exceeding, Rs. 1600 per mensem is an employee under s. 2(13) and he will also be eligible for payment of bonus under s. 8 read with ss. 10 and 11 of the Act.	Reasoning
But , the point that is missed by the learned counsel is the limitation contained in s. 12.	Reasoning
Though officers drawing salary up to Rs. 1600 per mensem are employees under s. 2 (13) and eligible for bonus, still for purposes of calculation of bonus payable under ss .	Reasoning
10 and 11, such officers, whose salary exceeds Rs. 750 per mensem, for calculating bonus, the, salary or wages per month will be taken at the maximum of Rs. 750 per mensem.	Reasoning
That is, if an officer is getting, Rs. 1500, per mensem.	Reasoning
he will be eligible for onus nevertheless for calculating bonus payable to him he will be treated as drawing a salary of only Rs. 750 per mensem.	Reasoning
Therefore, Mr. Banerjee, in the case before., us, has admittedly to be paid bonus, which is due to him under the Act f or the year 1964 65 on the, basis that his salary is only Rs. 750 per mensem.	Reasoning
What the Company has done was to pay him not only the bonus as calculated under the Act, but also an additional amount.	Reasoning
Such additional amount paid to all such officers tot alling Rs. 2.65 lakhs cannot be considered to be an expenditure debited directly to Reserves.	Reasoning
The Tribunal was justified in adding back this amount to the grossprofits.	Reasoning
14.	None
The third item relates to return on provision for doubtful debts.	None
The Company had calculated return of Share capital and Reserves.	None
It further claimed a return at 6 on Rs. 2.5 lakhs, which according to it was a revision for doubtful debts.	None
The amount claimed as return under this head was Rs. 15, 000 and the Company claimed to deduct this amount from the grossprofits as an item of expenditure.	None
The Tribunal has rejected this claim of the Company.	None
It is not necessary for us to dwell on this point at any great length in view of the decision of this Court in Indian Oxygen Ltd. etc.	None
v. Their Workmen(A.I.R. 1972 S.C. 471.), where the decision of the Tribunal directing such an amount to be added back in computing the grossprofits has been approved.	None
The legal position has been dealt with in the said judgment.	None
Accordingly, we hold that the Tribunal was justified in adding back the said amount to grossprofits.	Reasoning
15.	None
Mr. P. S. Khera, learned counsel for the Unions has contended that the Tribunal was not justified in allowing deduction of certain items from the grossprofits for purposes of computing the available and allocable surplus.	None
The Unions no doubt have not filed any appeal.	None
In fact in the particular circumstances of this case the could not have filed an appeal because they have been awarded the maximum 20 allowable under the Act.	None
But, according to Mr. Khera, if the items on which he has relied on had been added back, the Award of the Tribunal can be maintained even on the basis that the principle adopted by the Tribunal in respect of direct tax is found to be erroneous by this Court.	None
16.	None
The right of parties like the respondents before us even in labour adjudication to support the decision of the Tribunal on grounds which were not accepted by the Tribunal o r on other grounds which may not have been taken note of by the Tribunal, has been recognised by this Court in Management of Northern Railway Cooperative Society Ltd. v. Industrial Tribunal, Rajasthan etc.(1967 2 S.C.R. 476.)	Reasoning
In fact this decision had to deal with an appeal filed a Cooperative Society against the Award of the Tribunal setting aside the order passed by the Society removing from its service an employee.	Reasoning
This Court permitted the Union concerned, which was respondent in the appeal, to support the Award of the Tribunal, directing reinstatement of the employee on grounds which had not been accepted by the Tribunal and also on ground which had not been taken notice of by the Tribunal.	Reasoning
Similarly, in J. K. Synthetics Limited v. J. K. Synthetics Mazdoor Union (1971 2 L.L.J 552), this Court permitted the Union, which was the respondent in the appeal, to support the decision of the Industrial Tribunal on a method of computation regarding bonus which was not adopted by the Tribunal.	Reasoning
Though t he management appellant therein challenged the right of the Union to support the award on other grounds without filing an appeal, that contention was rejected by this Court as followsOn behalf of the management the right of the union to challenge the multiplier and divisor, in the absence of an appeal by it, is strenuously contested but in our view there is little force in this objection.	Reasoning
The appeal by the employer is against the grant of bonus to, the employees which implies that the method of computation of the gross profits, as well as of the available surplus and the rate at which the bonus is granted can subjected to scrutiny.	None
It is needless to recount the several priorities that have to be deducted and the items in respect of which amounts have to be added, before arriving at the available surplus.	None
In an appeal, the sevetat steps which have to be taken for computation of the available surplus, either in respect of the actual amounts or the method adopt ed, can be challenged.	None
If so, the union, even where it has not appealed against , the award, can support it on a method of computation, which may not have been adopted by the Tribunal but nonetheless is recognised by the Full Bench formula of this Court so longing in the final result the amount awarded is not exceeded.	None
We are supported in this view by a decision of this Court in Management of Northern Railway Cooperative Society Ltd. v. Industrial Tribunal, Rajasthan, Jaipur and another((1967) 2 S.C.R. 476.), where it was held that the respondents were entitled to support the decision of the Tribunal even on grounds which were not accepted by the Tribunal or on other grounds which may not have been taken notice of by the Tribunal while they were patent on the face of the record.	None
17.	None
In the said decision this Court also found support for the above view in the decision of Ramanbhai Ashabhai Patel v. Dabhi Ajitkumar Fulsinji and others(19651 S.C.R. 712.), though the latter decision related to an election appeal.	Reasoning
18.	None
We will now deal with the items, which, according to the Unions should not have been allowed to be deducted from the grossprofits.	Reasoning
The first item r elates to a sum of Rs. 18, 24, 047 paid by the Company to retired workmen at Jamshedpur Workshop under a Voluntary Retirement Scheme.	Reasoning
This Scheme is Ex.	Reasoning
G. and it was framed on August 9, 1965.	Reasoning
The Scheme states that the Company has been suffering, from an acute shortage of imported raw materials in view of the difficulty in getting foreign exchange and as such production could not be maintained for some, considerable time.	Reasoning
In view of these difficulties it is stated that the Company has found it necessary substantially to reduce the number of workers in the Workshop.	Reasoning
The Scheme offered substantial benefits to workmen who choose to retire voluntarily, namely, exgratia payment equal to retrenchment compensation under s. 25 of the Industrial Disputes Act, and gratuity admissible to the workmen.	Reasoning
There is evidence on the side of the Company that about 450 workmen availed themselves of the Voluntary Retirement Scheme and a sum of Rs. 18, 24, 047 was paid .	Reasoning
This item has been included in the profit and loss account under the heading Salary, Wages, Bonus and Retirement gratuities.	Reasoning
The Company gave a break , up of these items in answer to the interrogatories furnished to it by the workmen.	Reasoning
19.	None
The contention on behalf of the Unions is that under the Retirement Gratuity Scheme, which is in force, a workman retires at the age of 60 and normally during the year 196566, the payment of gratuity to persons so retired would have come to Rs. 1 .21 lakhs.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, it was argued that the payment of Rs. 18.24 lakhs and odd paid as lump sum under the Voluntary Retirement Scheme during the year 196566 was not proper as that amount would have in the ordinary course been spread over eight or ten years.	Arguments of Respondent
20.	None
The Tribunal has rejected this claim of the Unions, and in , , our opinion, quite rightly.	None
If there had been a retrenchment and compensation had been paid to all these workmen, the Unions cannot raise any objection in law to the payment of such amount.	None
If retrenchment had been restored, the junior most men under the principle last come first go would have been sent out of service.	None
On the other hand, the Voluntary Retirement Scheme enabled the younger workmen to continue in service while it offered a temptation for the older employees to retire from service.	None
The Voluntary Retirement Scheme has not been challenged, as mala fides by the Unions.	None
We are in agreement with the view of the Tribunal that the payment of compensation to induce the workmen to retire prematurely was an item of expenditure incurred by the Company on the ground of commercial expense in order to facilitate carrying on of the business and it w as an expenditure allowable under s. 37(1) of the Incometax Act.	None
It was not an expenditure of a capital nature.	None
The Tribunal was justified in declining to add back this item of expenditure to the grossprofits.	None
21.	None
The second item, which according to the Unions should have been added back is the sum of Rs. 65, 764 which was claimed as extra shift allowance of plants and machinery added during the year.	None
The consideration of this claim was postponed by the Incometax Officer on the ground that the Company had not furnished the requisite particulars.	None
The Company claimed a sum of Rs. 36, 10, 594 as depreciation allowable under s. 32(1) of the Incometax Act.	None
According to the Unions, as the sum of Rs. 65, 764 has not been accepted by the Incometax Officer, the Company can claim depreciation only in the sum of Rs. 35, 44, 830.	None
The Tribunal did not accept this contention of the Unions on the ground that the amount of Rs. 65, 764 has not been disallowed by the Incometax Officer.	None
It is now stated in an affidavit filed in this Court on March 23, 1972 by the Chief Financial Accountant of the Company that the Company has filed an appeal against the order of the Incometax Officer refusing to allow Rs. 65, 764 as extra shift allowance for the year 196566.	None
In our opinion, the rejection of the Unions contention in this regard by the Tribunal is justified.	None
It is seen that the Company has produced figures for depreciation and that has not been subjected to any serious challenge by the Unions.	None
Hence the objection regarding extra shift allowance has also to be rejected in view of the decision of this Court, in Jabalpur Bijlighar Karamchari Panchayat v. The Jabalpur Electric Supply Co. Ltd. and another.	None
(A.I.R. 1972 S.C.70) 22.	None
The third item objected to by the Unions related to the expenditure shown by the Company for repairs and renewals.	None
According to the Unions the expenses shown are very heavy and large and that the Company was not justified in incurring the same.	None
In our opinion, this contention also has been properly rejected by the Tribunal.	None
Apart from the fact that the Unions are not technically entitled to raise this objection, as they have not pleaded the same in their statement of case filed before this Court, this contention can be rejected even on merits.	None
The Unions had furnished interrogatories requiring the Company to furnish certain particulars.	None
Mr. R. N. Gupta, the Chief Financial Accountant of the Company filed an affidavit before the Tribunal giving answers to the interrogatories.	None
He had categorically given details as to how the amount of Rs. 12.94 lakhs has been incurred as expenses for repairs and renewal.	None
Mr .	None
Gupta had also given evidence about this matter.	None
In crossexamination he had stated that all the vouchers for repairs and renewal were scrutinised by the auditors and this evidence has been accepted by the Tribunal.	None
Therefore, the Tribunal was justified in rejecting this claim of the Unions.	None
23.	None
The last item relates to the claim made by the Unions that after distribution of bonus at 20 for the year 196465, there must have been a surplus and it.	None
should have been set on for the next year, namely, 196566.	None
This amount so set on should be taken into account for computing bonus for the year 196566.	None
This assertion made on behalf of the Unions was controverted by the Company on the ground that there was no surplus left after paying, the maximum 20 bonus for the accounting year 196465.	None
In fact the evidence of Mr. Gupta shows that apart from there not having been any surplus, the Company Raid 20 bonus merely because they had already announced that they will pay the same.	None
It is clear from his evidence that bon us at 20 could not have been declared for the year 196465 and in order to honour the declaration made by the Company, bonus was paid at that percentage.	None
This evidence of Mr. Gupta has been, in our opinion, rightly accepted by the Tribunal.	None
No evidence contra has been adduced by the Unions.	None
Once the evidence of Mr. Gupta is accepted, it is clear that there was no surplus after paying bonus for 1964 65.	None
Therefore, the question of set on does not arise.	None
This plea of the Unions also has to be rejected.	None
24.	None
From what is stated above, it is seen that the only aspect in respect of which the Award of the Tribunal requires modification is in respect of the principle to, be adopted for calculating direct tax.	None
As we have accepted the contention of the Company in that regard, it follows that recomputation of the available and allocable surplus will have to be made after making a calculation of direct tax without deducting bonus payable for the year 196566.	None
25.	None
In the original calculation filed by the Company, it calculated tax only in the sum of Rs. 98, 10, 893.	None
It has later on corrected this figure by adding a sum of Rs. 1, 34, 921 being surtax.	None
Therefore, the total direct tax will be Rs. 99, 45, 814.	None
Here again Mr. Gupta in his affidavit dated March 23, 1972 has given the correct figures.	None
Therefore the recomputation of the available surplus, allocable surplus and the percentage of bonus for T he accounting year 196566 on the basis of our judgment will be as follows TABLE 26.	None
From the above, it will be seen that the workmen will be entitled to bonus at 14.02 of their total salary or wages and the amount will be Rs. 14, 76, 706 and not Rs. 20 as awarded by the Tribunal.	None
From this it follows that the further direction in the Award of the Tribunal regarding set on cannot be accepted.	None
Admittedly, the Company has already declared and paid Rs. 14, 22, 922 representing 13.51 of the total wages or salary.	None
Therefore, the balance additional amount that the Company will have to pay by way of bonus to make up the 14.02, as stated above, is Rs. 53, 714.	None
This amount will be paid by the Company within a period not exceeding two months from today.	None
27.	None
The Award of the Industrial Tribunal is accordingly modified and the appeal allowed in part.	Decision
Parties will bear their own costs.	Decision
28.	None
Appeal allowed in part.	None
