 RAY, C.J.1.	None
This appeal by special leave is on the question whether the appellant is exempt from interState tax on the sales of poles and cables to the Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking by reason of the provisions contained in section S(2)(a)(iv) of the Punjab Sales Act hereinafter referred to as the State Act.2.	Issue
Section 5(2) (a) (iv) of the State Act is as follows5(2) In this Act the expression taxable turnover means that part of a dealers gross turnover during any period which remains after deducting there from(a) his turnover during that period on(iv) sales to any undertaking supplying electrical energy to the public under a licence or sanction granted or deemed to have been granted under the Indian Electricity Act, 1910, of goods for use by it in the generation or distribution of such energy.	None
Under section 8 of the Central Sales Tax Act hereinafter referred to as the Central Act, every dealer, who in the course of interState trade or commerce sells to the Government any goods or sells to a registered dealer other than the Government goods of the description referred to in subsection (3) shall be liable	None
t o pay tax under this Act, which shall be three per cent of his turnover.	None
The provisions in section 8(2A) of the Central Act are as followsNotwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1A) of section 6 or subsection (1) or subsection (2) of this section, the tax payable under this Act by a dealer on his turnover in so far as the turnover or any part thereof relates to the sale of any goods, the sale or, as the case may be, the purchase of which is, under the sales tax law of the appropriate State, exempt from tax generally or subject to tax generally at a rate which is lower than three per cent, (whether called a tax of fee or by any other name), shall be nil or, as the case may be, shall be calculated at the lower rate.	Facts
EXLANATION	Facts
For the purposes., of, this sub section a sale or purchase of any goods shall not be deemed to be exempt from tax generally under the sales tax law of the appropriate State if under that law the sale or purchase of such goods is exempt only in specified circumstances or under specified conditions or the tax is levied on the sale or purchase of such goods at specified stage s or otherwise than with reference to the turnover of the goods.3.	Facts
The contention on behalf of the appellant is that by reason of the Explanation to section 8(2A) of the Central Act read with section 5(2)(a)(iv) of the State Act the appellant is exempt from payment of interState sales tax.	Arguments of Petitioner
The words goods for use by it in the gene ration or distribution of such energy occurring in section S (2) (a) (iv) of the State Act are said by counsel for the appellant to be descriptive of the goods.	Arguments of Petitioner
In short, the appellants contention is that goods for use by the undertaking supplying electrical energy are generally exempt from taxation, and, therefore, they should not be included in the turn over.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
The contention on behalf of the State is that the exemption granted under section 5(2)(a)(iv) of the State Act is exemption in specified circumstances and under specified conditions.	Arguments of Respondent
The specified circumstances are said to be sales to an undertaking supp lying electrical energy to the public under the Indian Electricity Act, 1910.	Arguments of Respondent
The specified conditions are that the goods are for use by the undertaking in the generation or distribution of such energy.5.	Arguments of Respondent
The answer to the question in this appeal is whether the exemption mentioned in section 5(2) (a) (iv) of the State Act is in specified cir circumstance or under specified conditions, as the Case may be, or it is a general exemption as the appellant contends in cases of sales of goods to an Electric Supply Undertaking for use by it in the generation or distribution of such energy.	None
The appellant referred to Schedule read with section 6 of the State Act and in particular Items 33 and 46 to illustrate what would be exemption under specified circumstances or specified conditions.	None
In Schedule there are two columns.	None
The first column describes the goods.	None
The second column describes the conditions which make the goods tax free.	None
In Item 33 in Schedule Photographs including Xrays photographs mentioned in the first column are tax free when sold by photographers and radiologists preparing them as mentioned in the second column.	None
In Item 46 hand spun yarn mentioned in the first column becomes tax free when sold by one who deals in hand spun yarn exclusively as mentioned in the second column.6.	None
Section 5(2) of the State Act deals with taxable turnover.	None
There is no dispute that electricity poles and cables sold to the undertaking supplying electric energy are exempt under the State Act from being included within the taxable turnover.	None
The question is whether such sales made in the course of interState trade are also exempt from the levy of Central Sales Tax.7.	None
The appellant contends that the exemption in the State Act is general because exemption applies in respect of goods without any enumeration or classification of goods.	None
Further, it is said that exemption is general because the sales are for use in generation and distribution of electrical energy.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the appellants sales of all goods to the undertaking supplying electrical energy are exempt from being included in the taxable turnover as long as the goods answer the description that they are for use in the generation or distribution of electrical energy.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant relied on the decision of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Commissioner of Sales Tax, Madhya Pradesh v. Kapoor Dori Niwar Co., Gwalior(1) tn support of the meaning of the expression exempt from tax generally.	None
In the Madhya Pradesh case (supra) the State Government issued a notification in the year 1959 exempting from the payment of sales tax for a period of one year sales of niwar by a dealer registered under the 1958 relevant State Act.	None
The exemption was later on extended up to 31 March, 1963.	None
The assessee a registered dealer claimed exemption on inter State sales of niwar.	None
The Madhya Pradesh High Court held that during the period of the exemption, the sales of niwar by a registered dealer were exempt from tax generally within the meaning of section 8(2A) of the Central Act, and, therefore, the assessees interState sales of niwar were exempt from tax under the Central Act.	None
The expression exempt only in specified circumstances or under specified conditions occurring in the Explanation to section 8(2A) of the Central Act was held to mean such circumstances or conditions the nonexistence or nonperformance of which precludes the grant of exemption.	None
In other words, if those circumstances do not exist or those conditions are not performed then the sales of goods cannot be exempted from tax even if they are effected by a class of dealers to whom exemption is granted and during the period for which exemption is granted.	Reasoning
In the Madhya Pradesh case (supra) there was no dispute that the sales effected by the assessee fell under section 8(1) of the Central Act.	None
The State Act granted exemption from sales tax on sales of niwar effected by a registered dealer.	None
The exemption granted to sales by a registered dealer under the notification was without any restriction or limitation so far as sales by a registered dealer were concerned.	None
Though the period of exemption was fixed, it was not regarded as a condition imposed in relation to the exemption.	None
It was also contended there that because the exemption was granted to the registered dealers the exempt ion was granted to a class of dealers, and, therefore, it should be construed to be an exemption in specified circumstances or under specified conditions.	None
The Court repelled the contention by stating that the exemption was to all registered dealers without any restriction or condition.9.	None
The other decision on which the appellant relied is of the Allahabad High Court in Hindustan Safety Glass Works (P.) Ltd. v. The State of Uttar Pradesh Anr.(1)	None
In the Safety Glass Works case (supra) the company manufactured toughened glasses and mirrors in its factories.	None
Under a notification issued by the State Government under the State Act sales of mirrors and safety glasses were liable to sales tax either at the point of sale by the importer of such goods or at the point of sale by the manufacturer thereof.	None
Subsequently, a notification was issued by the State Government exempting toughened glasses and mirrors manufactured by the company at Allahabad from payment of sales tax for a period of three years.	None
The company claimed that the turnover of sales of toughened glasses and mirrors manufactured by it, being generally exempt from tax under the State Act, was also not liable to Central Sales Tax because of the provisions contained in section 8(2A) of the Central Act.	None
It was held that for purposes of section 8(2A) of the Central Act, sale of mirrors and toughened glasses manufactured by the company was under no condition and in no circumstance liable to be taxed in the hands of the company.	None
The reasons given were that normally it will be taken that the sale of mirrors and toughened glasses by the company was exempt from to the generally unless it could be shown that such goods belonged to the class specified in the Explanation to section 8(2A) of the Central Act.	None
As the toughening glasses and mirrors manufactured by the company did not fall in such a category the turnover of the sales of those goods in the hands of the company was not liable to tax under the Central Act.	None
The stipulation in the notification in the Safety Glass Work case (supra) that the turnover of such sales would for a period of three years be exempt from payment of sales tax did not amount to exempting the turnover of such goods from tax under specified circumstances or specified conditions.10.	None
Section 6 of the State Act does not speak of exemption, but deals with tax free goods.	None
In other words, section 6 deals with specified goods on which n o tax is payable.	None
Section S of the State Act deals with what has to be excluded from the taxable turnover of the dealer.11.	None
Both the sections deal with goods which do not suffer from sales tax.	Reasoning
A Section 8(2A) of the Central Act exempts good s from inter State sales tax where a tax law of the State has exempted them from sales tax.	Reasoning
The Explanation to section 8(2A) of the Central Act takes away the exemption where it is not general and has been granted in specified circumstances or under specified conditions.	Reasoning
The provisions contained in section 5 (2) (a) (iv) of the State Act exclude sales which are made under specified circumstances or specified conditions.	Reasoning
The specified circumstances are that the sale must be to an undertaking engaged in supplying electrical energy to the public under a licence or sanction granted under the Indian Electricity Act, 1910.	Reasoning
The specified condition is that the goods purchased by the undertaking must be used for the generation or distribution of electrical energy.	Reasoning
If the circumstances do not exist or if the conditions are not performed then the sales of goods cannot be exempted from tax.	Reasoning
General exemption means that r the goods should be totally exempt from tax before similar exemption from the levy of Central sales tax can become available.	Reasoning
Where the exemption from taxation is conferred by conditions or in certain circumstances there is no exemption from tax generally.	Reasoning
The contention of the appellant that the words in the generation or distribution of such energy in section 5(2)(a)(iv) of the State Act are descriptive of goods is unacceptable.	Reasoning
The expression generation or distribution of such energy specifies the condition under which exemption is granted.12.	None
For these reasons we are of opinion that the High Court was correct in holding that the sales by the undertaking supplying electrical energy were not exempt from tax generally within the meaning of section 8(2A) of the Central Act read with section 5(2)(a)(iv) of the State Act.	None
The appeal is dismissed.	Decision
In view of the fact that the High Court directed the parties to pay and bear their own costs, similar order is made here.13.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	Decision
