 KRISHNA IYER, J. 1.	None
The core controversy in this appeal by special leave rages round the legality of the selection of Readers by the Allahabad University.	Issue
The fortunes of the litigation, pending for seven years have been fluctuating from court to court.	Issue
The fine line of distinction between internal autonomy for educational bodies and insulation of their operations from judicial interference on the one hand and the constitutional obligation of the court to examine the legality of academic actions and correct clear injustices on the other is jurisprudentially real and the present appeal illustrates the demarcation between the two positions.	Issue
While legal shibboleths like handoff universities and meticulous forensic invigilation of educational organs may both be wrong, a balanced approach of leaving universities in their internal functioning well alone to a large extent, but striking at illegalities and injustices, if committed by however high an authority, educational or other, will resolve the problem raised, by counsel before us in this appeal from a judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court.	Issue
2.	None
Once We recognize the basic yet simple proposition that no islands of insubordination to the rule of law exist in our Republic and that discretion to disobey the mandate of the law does not belong even to university organs or other authorities the retreat of the Court at the sight of an academic body, as has happened here, cannot be approved.	Facts
On the facts and features of this case such a balanced exercise of jurisdiction will, if we may anticipate our ultimate conclusion, result in the reversal of the appellate judgment and the restoration, in substantial measure, of the learned single Judges judgment quashing the selections made by the University bodies for the posts of Readers in English way back in 1973.A perception in perspective of the facts which are brief and the law which is clear, persuades us to narrate the circumstances which have led a number of lecturers of the Allahabad University to fighting forensic battles over the selection of some as Readers in English by the selection Committee and their opportunity by the Executive Council.	Facts
3. Nearly a decade ago, six posts of Readers in the English Department of the University fell vacant and applications were invited by advertisement.	None
The petitioners and respondents 5 to 10 among others, were applicants.	Facts
These parties were all serving as lecturers in the university at that time.	Facts
A selection committee was constituted as contemplated by the statutes and ordinances harmed under the Allahabad university Act, 1921 (for short, hereinafter called the Act.)	Facts
Section 29 of the Act, stipulates that teachers of the university shall be appointed by the executive council on the recommendations of the selection committee.	Facts
There are statutory provisions regulating the functions of the selection committee section 32(2)(f) of the Act provides for the issuance of ordinances prescribing qualifications for appointment of teachers.	Facts
Ordinance 912) lays down the qualifications for teachers in the various faculties.	Facts
We are concerned with ordinance 9 with special reference to the prescription of qualifications for Readers and it runs thus9.	Facts
The following qualifications are prescribed for the appointment of teachers in the Faculties of Arts, Science, Commerce and Law (2) For Readers (i) First or high Second Class Masters degree in the Subject concerned and good academic record.	Facts
(ii) Established reputation for sound scholarship and be competent to teach upto Masters degree and guide research (iii) A doctors degree, or equivalent published work.(iv)	Facts
At least 5 Years teaching experience of the subject concerned in postgraduate classes in a University recognized by law, or research experience in a Research Institute recognized by the.	Facts
University or the State, or the Central Government.	None
Provided that the selection Committee may relax the qualifications contained in clause (iii) for the post of Readers in the case of candidates whose total length of service as tea cheers in this University is not less than the period required to teach the maximum of the Lecturers grade and who shall have established a reputation as teachers.	None
Provided further that in the case of women teachers of this (i.e. Allahabad University), in place of qualification No. (IV) requiring 5 year s teaching experience in post graduate classes a minimum of 5 Years teaching experience of the subject in the graduate classes in this University may also be considered adequate for the post of Readers.	None
4.	None
The statutory exercise of choosing the best among the applicants in conformity with the minimum qualifications is done by the selection committee which recommends to the executive council its panel.	None
While there is no specific legislative provision regarding the procedure to be adopted by the selection committee there is no doubt that arbitrariness is anathema, violation of natural justice vitiates and subject to this, selfcreated rules, flexible and pragmatic, fair and functionally viable, may well be fashioned by the selection committee.	Facts
In this case the committee chose to interview the candidates who were other wise eligible for consideration.	Facts
13 applicants turned up for inter view.	Facts
But respondent No, 9, Dr. Bhattacharya, and petitioner No. 2, Skand Gupta, apparently resented the viva voce test as unauthorized and did not care to appear for the interview.	Facts
How ever, Dr. Bhattacharya (R. 9), on being persuaded, did later turn up, was interviewed and eventually included in the select list.	Facts
The second Petitioner did not enjoy the benefit of a second persuasion to present himself for interviews did not appear before the Selection Committee and missed the bus.	Facts
5.	None
The Committee, which consisted of academic experts prepared a panel and forwarded it to the Executive Council.	None
As is inevitable in situations of over supply, many are called but few are chosen and Respondents 5 to 10 (Dr. Mrs. Hem Lata Joshi, R5, Shri H. S Saxena, R6 Dr. R. R. Dutt, R7, Shri I. N. Agarwal, R8, Dr. A.N. Bhattacharyya, R9, and Dr. L.M. Upadhayaya, R10) were lucky to be chosen while the Petitioners were luckless and lost.	Facts
Petitioner No. 2 represented against the propriety of the s election to the executive council, but the latter overruled the objection and accepted the recommendation.	Facts
Respondents 5 to 10 were thus appointed Readers.	Facts
The Petitioners thereupon moved the chancellor under s.42 of the Act and urged in their Petition, that the selection was illegal, but were disappointed because the chancellor, by this order of November 22, 1973, upheld the selection and the appointments.	Facts
The last refuge of those with lost causes is the writ jurisdiction of the High Court.	Facts
The Petitioners invoked Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution and impugned the legality of the selection process and the appointments on various grounds.	Facts
The learned single Judge considered the merits of the contentions and concluded that the selections and the consequent appointments were bad in law except in regard to respondents 7 and 10 and directed the university, in January 1976, to hold fresh selections .	Facts
for filling the vacancies of long years ago.	None
6.	None
Inevitably, the vanquished respondents rushed to the appellate Bench of the High Court where success greeted them for, the appeals were allowed in reversal of the single Judges reasoning and the writ petition was dismissed in entirety.	Facts
T he final sanctuary of those who F. fancy that they are victims of judicial injustice of other forms of iniquity is the Supreme Court in its misleadingly immense and self defeatingly multiform jurisdiction under Art.	Facts
136, The appellants are here hopefully invoking our power to heal their alleged in jury.	Facts
7.	None
With this backdrop, it will be easy to appreciate the few submissions urged by the appellants in substantiation of their case that although the selection committee was legally constituted, the process of selection and the criteria for selection Were illegal, If the selecting were invalid dated by any lethal vice the councils action in accepting the commendees cannot survive.	None
Nor can the chancellors dismissal of the objections of the appellants lend life to what otherwise is non est.	None
Thus, the crucial issue is whether the grounds of attack levelled against the selection have substance.	None
8.	None
A few basic facts must be remembered before We discuss the merits.	None
All the parties with whom we are concerned as candidates, have acquired their masters degree from the Allahabad University.	None
In tune with the hierarchical ethos of Indian society which does not spare the academic there is a pyramidal structure with lecturers at the bottom, Readers above them and professors at the top, speaking simplistically.	None
Our concern in this appeal is with Readers and the eligibility qualifications mentioned in ordinance 9 are the minimum, not the maximum.	None
We may straight get into the meat of the matter, The substantial con tension urged by the appellant with success before the single Judge and failure before the Division Bench is that the contesting respondents are not even qualified for consideration because they do not have a first class or a high second class in the Masters degree.	None
It is common ground that none of them has a first class.	Reasoning
It is undisputed that the Allahabad University awards first class to those who obtain 60 and above and second class to those who secure anything between 48 to 59.	Reasoning
For the nonce, we are not concerned with the other qualifications itemized in ordinance 9.	Reasoning
The marks obtained by the appellants show that they are recipients of first class or high second class.	Reasoning
The controversy is not about their eligibility but that of the contesting respondents.	Reasoning
Dr. Mrs. Joshi (R. S) has secured 52.2 marks Shri Saxena (R. 6) has scraped through with 49 .3 marks Dr. Dutt (R. 7) has, however, obtained a firs t class while Shri Agarwal (R.8) is slightly below the middle line in the second class range having got only 53 .8, marks Dr. Bhattacharya (R9.)	Reasoning
has fared a little better with 54 .5 marks.	Reasoning
Dr. Upadhyaya (R. 10) also has a better performance record in the Masters degree examination since he has 55.1 marks to his credit.	Reasoning
From these figures it is obvious that Dr. Dutt (R.7) has the distition of being the holder of a first class.	Reasoning
It is beyond ones comprehension how his selection ca n be challenged on the score of ineligibility.	Reasoning
Indeed, the appellants have accepted the findings of the learned single Judge who has disallowed the writ petition visavis R. 7 and R. 10.	Reasoning
We agree.	Reasoning
Even in regard to the conclusion arrive d at so far as R. 10, Dr. Upadhyaya, is concerned who has secured marks above the middle line in the range between 48 and 59 , we are not disposed to disagree with the single Judge.	Reasoning
Thus, the appointments of. 7 and R.10 do not call for any interference.	Reasoning
The rest will, right now, be exposed to the actinic light of legal scrutiny.	Reasoning
9.	None
We may dispel two mystiques before we debate the real issued.	None
Did the selection committee act illegally in resorting to the interview process to pick out the best ?	None
We think not.	None
Any administrative or quasi judicial body clothed with powers and left unfettered by procedures is free to devise its own pragmatic, flexible and functionally viable processes of transacting business subject, of course to the basics of natural justice fair play in action, reasonableness in collecting decisional materials, avoidance of arbitrariness and extraneous considerations and otherwise keeping with in the leading strings of the law.	Reasoning
We find no flaw in the methodology of interviews.	Reasoning
Certainly, cases arise where the are of interviewing candidates deteriorates from strategy to stratagem and undetectable manipulation of results is achieved by remote control tactics masked as viva voce tests.	Reasoning
This, if allowed, is surely a sabotage of the purity of proceedings, a subterfuge whereby legal means to reach illegal ends is achieved.	Reasoning
So it is that courts insist, as the learned single Judge has, in this very case, suggested on recording of marks at interviews and other fair checks like guidelines for marks and remarks about candidates and the like.	Reasoning
If the court is skeptical, the record of the Selection proceedings, including the notes regarding the interviews, may have to be made available.	Reasoning
Interviews, as such, are not bad but polluting it to attain illegitimate ends is bad.	Reasoning
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was right when be wrote.	None
So I have tried to make it clear that it is wrong to use immoral means to attain moral ends.	None
But now I must affirm that it is just as wrong, or even more, to use moral means to preserve immoral ends.	None
10.	None
The second obscurantism we must remove is the blind veneration of marks at examination as the main measure of merit.	None
Social scientists and educational avant garde may find pitfalls in our system of education and condemn the unscientific aspects of marks as the measure of merit, things as they now stand.	None
But, however imperfect an d obtuse the current system and however urgent the modernization of our courses culminating in examinations may be, the fact remains that F he court has to go by what is extent and cannot explore on its own or ignore the measure of merit adopted by universities.	None
Judges must not rush in where even educationists fear to tread.	None
So, we see no purpose in belittling the criterion of marks and class the Allahahad University has laid down, although to swear religiously by class and grad e may be exaggerated reverence and false scales if strictly scrutinized by progressive criteria.	None
11.	None
We have stated earlier that the prescription of first class or high second class is part of the ordinance as a qualification for a Readers post. is this condition mandatory or directory ?	Issue
The High Court at the two tiers has taken contrary views.	None
But we are inclined to hold that a high second class is a mandatory minimum.	Reasoning
A glance at the relevant portion of ordinance 9 reveals that wherever relaxation of qualifications is intended, the ordinance specifically spells it out and by necessary implication, where it has not said so, the possession of such qualification is imperative.	Reasoning
We must remember that a Reader is but next to a Professor and holds high responsibility in giving academic guidance to postgraduate students.	Reasoning
He has to be a creative scholar himself capable of stimulating in his students a spirit of enquiry and challenge, intellectual ferment and thirst for research.	Reasoning
If the teacher is innocent of academic excellence, the student, in turn, will be passive, mechanical, negative and memorizing where he should be innovative, imaginative and inventive.	Reasoning
The inference is irresistible that a Reader who guides the students and raises his faculties into creative heights is one who himself has had attainments to his credit.	Reasoning
Putting aside for a moment the value of examinations and marks as indicators of the students potential, we must agree that the ordinance has a purpose when it prescribes atleast a high second class for a Readers post.	Reasoning
It is obligatory 12.	None
Now we come to close grips with the Principal point debated before us.	Issue
When is a second class high, going by marks?	Issue
For any layman the meaning is clear.	None
For any purpose oriented interpretation the decoding is simple.	Reasoning
High is the antithesis of low and a high second class is, therefore, a contrast to a low second class.	Reasoning
When the range of second class marks is wide, of the candidate who gets that class with marks within the lower half bracket you cannot say he gets a high second class.	Reasoning
If he manages to get 48 marks he barely gets a second classnot a high second class.	Reasoning
And commonsense which is not an enemy of court sense, points clearly to the meaning of high second class as one where the marks fall a little short of first class marks and he narrowly misses first class.	Reasoning
In the context of ordinance 9 and its purpose an d the collocating of words used viz.	Reasoning
first class or a high second class, the interpretation will misfire if we disregard the intent and effect of the adjective high and indifferently read it to mean merely the minimum marks needed to b ring the candidate within the second class.	Reasoning
High is high and a superior second class denotes marks some where near first class marks.	Reasoning
Assuming we relax, dilute and liberalize the rigour clearly imported by the draftsman by using the expression high second class, still it is impermissible to render the word high nugatory or make, by construction, that intensive adjective redundant.	Reasoning
Nor are we impressed with the strange submission that the University has all these years treated a high second class to mean a male .	Reasoning
second class, and, therefore English has lost its potency in the Allahabad University and high includes low.	Reasoning
Such bathetic semantics must be rejected sucre continuing commission of wrong does not right it.	None
13.	None
The utmost we may reiuctantly accept is the construction that the learned single Judge has adopted.	None
Draw a line at midpoint, and marks above and below that line will be high and LOW second class respectively.	Reasoning
14.	None
It was urged that marks for the secondclass grade vary from university to University and start sometimes with 40 and so, even 48 must be regarded as high second class for Allahabad University.	None
Here we are concerned only with holders of second class from the Allahabad University and so the complication of other universities does not rise.	Reasoning
Even otherwise, will reference to and particular university, the marks for second class may be from X to Y and high with reference to that university will be the superior half between X and Y. Lexically, logically, legally, teleologically, we, find the conclusion the same.	Reasoning
We regretfully but respectfully disagree with the Division Bench and uphold the sense of high second class attributed by the learned single Judge.	Reasoning
The mid line takes us to 54 and although it is unpalatable to be mechanical and mathematical, we have to hold that those who have not secured above 54 marks cannot claim to have obtained a high second class and are ineligible.	Reasoning
In the instant case, Dr. Mrs. Joshi, Shri Saxena and Shri Agarwal do not fill the bill, their marks being below 54 in the Masters degree examination.	Reasoning
We have earlier held that the power to relax, as the ordinance now runs, in so far as high second class is concerned, does not exist.	Reasoning
Inevitably, the appointment of the 3 respondents violate the ordinance and are therefore, illegal.	Reasoning
It is true, as counsel for the respondent urged, that the selection Committee is an expert body.	Reasoning
But their expertise is not in law, but in other branches of learning and the final interpretation of an ordinance is a legal skill outside the academic orbit.	None
15.	None
Rulings of this Court were cited before us to hammer home the point that the Court should not substitute its judgment for that of academicians when the dispute relates to educational affairs.	None
While there is no absolute ban, it is a rule of prudence that courts should hesitate to dislodge decisions of academic bodies.	None
But university organs, for that matter any authority in our system, is bound by the rule of law and cannot be a law unto itself If the Chancellor or any other authority lesser in level decides an academic matter or an education al question, the Court keeps its hands off but where a provision of law has to be read and understood, it is not fair to keep the Court out.	None
In Govinda Raos case (1) Gajendragadkar, J (as he they was) struck the right	None
noteWhat the High Court should have considered is whether file appointment made by the Chancellor Had contravened any statutory or finding rule or ordinance, and in doing so, the High Court should have shown due regard to the opinions expressed b y the Board and its recommendations on which the Chancellor has acted.	None
(Emphasis added) 16.	None
The later decisions cited before us broadly conform to the rule of caution sounded in Govinda Rao.	None
But to respect an authority is not to worship it unquestioningly since the bhakti cult is inept in the critical field of law.	None
In short, while dealing with legal affairs which have an impact on academic bodies, the views of educational experts are entitled to great consideration but not to exclusive wisdom.	None
Moreover, the present case is so simple that profound doctrines about academic autonomy have no place here.	None
17.	None
A strange submission was mildly made that the Executive Council has also the power to make ordinances and so, by accepting a low second class has equal to a High second class in the case of the three respondents, the Council must be deemed to have amended the ordinance and implicitly re written it to delete the adjective high before second class.	Arguments of Respondent
This argument means that an illegal act must be deemed to be legal by reading a legislative function into an executive action.	None
Were this dubious doctrine applied to governmental affairs and confusion between executive and legislative functions juris prudentially sanctioned, the consequences could Well be disastrous to the basics of our democracy We mention this facet of the argument not only to reject it but to emphasize that small gain in some case should not justify the urging of propositions which are subversive of our Constitution Be that as it may, we are satisfied that respondents 5, 6 and 8 do not possess a high second class in their Masters degree.	Reasoning
18.	None
The second condition successfully urged before the single judge of the High Court relates to Dr. Bhattacharya (R. 9).	None
The point is that R. 9 and petitioner No. 2 for selection the second Petitioner lost his chance of being considered because he did not appear for the interview and Dr. Bhattacharya avert ed that fate because he was sent for a second time.	None
The equivocal version of Dr. Bhattacharya has not been accepted by the learned single Judge and we are unhappy that an academic has been put to the necessity of this dubiety which suggests that taking liberties with truth for getting a temporary advantage is a tendency which does not spare highly educated and gifted persons.	None
In this connection, even the terminological inexactitude indulged in by Dr. Hem Lata Joshi (R. 5) is not complimentary, when she says that in her application she gave 54 marks as against the actual figure of 52.2 and when challenged, she excused herself by saying that her memory, working in a hurry, let her down.	Reasoning
We are satisfied that if the Selection Committee had chosen to give an opportunity to the 2nd petitioner, even as they did to R. 9, he might well have turned up and having regard to his high marks, might also have stood a good chance of being selected.	Reasoning
The criticism is not that the Selection Committees action was malafide or biassed, but that there has been unequal treatment between equals.	Reasoning
For this reason, the selection of R. 9 deserves to be struck down as violative of Art.	Reasoning
14.	None
19.	None
Other minor points which have been urged and countered do not deserve serious consideration and we decline to deal with them.	None
The conclusion we reach is that the selection and appointments of respondents 7 and 10 are good but the selection and appointment of respondents 5, 6, 8 and 9 are bad in law.	Reasoning
20.	None
The tragic sequel cannot be dismissed as none of our concern because the Court, by its process, must, as far as possible, act constructively, minimising the injury and maximising the benefit.	None
Indifference to consequences upon institutions and individuals has an imperial flavour and we wish to make it clear that the fact that since 1973 the respondents 5, 6, 8 and 9 have been functioning as Readers without blemish is a factor which distresses us when we demolish their appointments.	Reasoning
They have gained experience of several years in the Readers post.	Reasoning
They are otherwise well qualified on the academic side.	Reasoning
The shortfall in the matter of a high second class, while some of them have been doctorates, should not have such disastrous consequences as to throw out the appointees 7 years after.	Reasoning
We think that these special circumstances may well justify the appropriate authority in the University resorting to alternatives which may mitigate their misfortune.	Reasoning
We have been informed by counsel Mr. Manoj Swarup that the University is inclined to take an accommodative attitude to mitigate the hardship that may flow from the adjudication.	Reasoning
Of course, they are free to take such steps as they deem just and necessary.	Reasoning
We do not think there was anything wrong in Dr. Bhattacharya having been persuaded to come to the interview, but we regard it as improper that such a facility was not extended to the 2nd petitioner.	Reasoning
21.	None
In conclusion, we allow the appeal and direct a fresh selection from among those candidates who are qualified for Readership in the light of our interpretation of Ordinance 9.	Decision
We make it clear that the appointments of respondents 7 and 10 sustained by the High Court, will remain untouched.	None
22.	None
The appeal is allowed subject to the observations made above.	None
23.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
