 Shah, J.1.	None
Netherlands Steam Navigation Company Ltd.  	None
hereinafter called the assessee  is a nonresident Company engaged in shipping business.	None
For the assessment years 195253 to 195657 the assessee filed its return of income for the relevant accounting years disclosing taxable income computed on the basis of its annual turnover in its Indian trade i.e., round voyages to and from Indian Ports.	Facts
The assessee did not furnish particulars of its world income.	Facts
The Incometax Officer computed the taxable business income of the assessee for each year by the application of the following formulaIndian Port receipts Indian trade profits Total Port receiptsBy the expression Indian trade profits in the formula was meant profit earned in round voyages made by the assessees ships which touched Indian ports.	Facts
Operation of the formula may be illustrated by taking a sample computation by the Incometax Officer for the year 195354Total gross earnings in Indian TradeKr. 10,024,996Deduct(1) Total expenses in Indian Trade.	Facts
Kr. 7,705,474(2) Depreciation allowanceKr.733,671Kr.	Facts
8,439,145Net profit Indian TradeKr.	Facts
1,585,851Gross earnings from Indian portsProportionate Indian profitsKr.	Facts
5,440,0425,440,042x 1,585,851Kr.	Facts
860,55910,024,996(Rs.	Facts
100 Kr. 79,80)Rs. 10,78,3952.	Facts
In computing the profits of the assessee in India in each year the Incometax Officer allowed normal depreciation and other trade allowances admissible under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, and the relevant rules made thereunder.	Facts
He, however, did not allow initial depreciation and additional depreciation in respect of the ships of the assessee in any of the assessment years, because the ships acquired by the assessee were not introduced into the Indian business in the years in which they were newly acquired.	Facts
The orders of assessment were confirmed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.3.	Facts
In appeal to the Incometax Appellate Tribunal the assessee claimed additional depreciation for four ships for which the following details were furnished(1) S. S. Bintang.  	Facts
Brought into use in 1950.Brought into use in the Indian trade in 1951.Claim for the assessment years 195253 to 195455.(2) S. S. Billiton  Brought into use in 1951.Brought into use in the Indian trade in 1952.Claim for the assessment years 195354 to 195657.(3) S. S. Banka.  	Facts
Brought into use in 1953.Brought into use in the Indian trade in 1954.Claim for the assessment years 195556 and 195657.(4) S. S. Bawean.  	Facts
Brought into use in 1953.Brought into use in the Indian trade in 1954.Claim for the assessment years 195556 and 195657.The assessee and the Commissioner were agreed that the taxable income of the assessee had to be determined by the application of the second method in Rule 33 of the Indian Incometax Rules, 1922.	Facts
The Tribunal also observed that the Commissioner and the assessee agreed that the formula adopted by the Incometax Officer was the correct method of assessment.4.	Facts
The Commissioner submitted before the Tribunal that if the Indian business of the assessee be regarded as part of its world business and not independent of it, the world profits of the assessee must be computed according to the provisions of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, and additional depreciation may be taken into account in determining the taxable profits under the Indian Incometax Act as a fraction of the world profits.	Facts
But he maintained that if the Indian trade be regarded as a separate business and not part of the world trade of the assessee, additional depreciation could only be allowed under Section 10 (2) (via) of the Indian Incometax Act, provided ships which are new are introduced into the Indian trade and not otherwise.5.	Facts
In the opinion of the Tribunal, in computing the taxable income of the assessee under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 the Indian business must be taken to be part of the assessees world business, and depreciation which the assessee was entitled to, in respect of its world business by the application of the Indian Incometax Act would be proportionately available in respect of its business.	Facts
The Tribunal observed that under Rule 33 the profits have to be calculated under the terms of the Indian Incometax Act and this Act postulated that on all machinery, plants and such other things like steamers brought into business after March 31, 1948, additional depreciation must also be granted.	Facts
The Tribunal then observed that the ships brought into the Indian trade were not new in the years of account relevant to the five years of assessment, but the assessee was still qualified under Section 10 (2) (via) to additional depreciation for a continuous period of five years, and the fact that in the first of these years the new ships did not call at the Indian Ports in one assetsment year did not disentitle the assessee to the benefit not only for that year but also for the succeeding four years.	Facts
Accordingly the Tribunal held that in respect of all the four ships of the assessee, additional depreciation was admissible as claimed.6.	Facts
At the instance of the Commissioner of Incometax, the following question was referred by the Tribunal to the High Court of Culcutta for opinion in respect of each of the five yearsWhether on the facts and circumstances of the case the assesseeCompany is entitled to additional depreciation in respect of the four ships mentioned above ?	Facts
The High Court answered the question in the negative.7.	None
Clause (via) was inserted in Section 10 (2) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, by Section 11 of the Taxation Laws (Extension to Merged States and Amendment) Act 67 of 1949.	None
The clause as amended by Section 8 of the Indian Incometax (Amendment) Act 25 of 1953 with effect from April 1, 1952, reads as followsIn respect of depreciation of buildings newly erected, or of machinery or plant being new which has been installed, after the 31st day of March, 1948, a further sum (which shall be deductible in determining the written down value) equal to the amount admissible under clause (vi) (exclusive of the extra allowance for double or multiple shift working of the machinery or plant and the initial depreciation allowance admissible under that clause for the first year of erection of the building or the installation of the machinery or plant) in not more than five successive assessments for the financial years next following the previous year in which such buildings are erected and such machinery and plant installed and falling within the period commencing on the 1st day of April, 1949, and ending on the 31st day of March, 1959.The assessee is a nonresident Company.	None
It maintains a Branch Office in Calcutta but on that account the Indian business of the assessee cannot be regarded as business distinct from its world business.	Reasoning
It was not so treated by the Incometax Officer, or by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	Reasoning
In computing profits or gains of business carried on by an assessee, normal depreciation under Section 10 (2) (vi) and additional depreciation under Section 10 (2) (via) are undoubtedly admissible in the conditions and to the extent allowed under the two clauses.8.	Reasoning
By Section 4 (1) of the Indian Incometax Act, the total income of any previous year of a nonresident includes all income, profits and gains from whatever source derived which(1) are received or are deemed to be received in the taxable territories in such year by or on behalf of such person, and(2) which accrue or arise or are deemed to accrue or arise to him in the taxable territories during such year.	None
Section 10 of the Act which charges to tax the profits and gains of business, profession or vocation carried on by an assessee applies to assessees who are residents, residents but not ordinarily residents, and nonresidents.	None
Profits and gains of business of a nonresident received or deemed to be received in the taxable territories by or on behalf of the assessee are taxable under the Indian Incometax Act 1922 profits and gains of business which accrue or arise or are deemed to accrue or arise to him in the taxable territories are also taxable under that Act but profits and gains which accrue or arise or are deemed to accrue or arise to a nonresident without the taxable territories are not taxable under the Act.9.Section 4 is one of the pivotal sections in the scheme of the Incometax Act.	None
Thereby within the total income of a nonresident is included income received, arising or according, or deemed to be received, or to have arisen or accrued, within the taxable territories.	None
The Act however gives no clear guidance for determining when income may be said to have arisen or accrued within the taxable territories.	None
But Rule 33 framed under the Act purports to give some direction to the Incometax Officer for determining income, profits or gains accruing or arising to a nonresident for the purpose of assessment.	None
to incometax.	None
There is no dispute that the profits of the business taxable under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, are a fraction of the worldprofits  and the profits are to be determined under R. 33 of the Incometax Rules.	None
Rule 33 of the Incometax Rules reads as followsIn any case in which the Incometax Officer is of opinion that the actual amount of the income, profits or gains accruing or arising to any person residing out of the taxable territories whether directly or indirectly through or from any business connection in the taxable territories or through or from any property in the taxable territories, or through or from any asset or source of income in the taxable territories, or through or from any money lent at interest and brought into the taxable territories in cash or in kind cannot be ascertained, the amount of such income, profits or gains for the purposes of assessment to incometax may be calculated on such percentage of the turnover so accruing or arising as the Incometax Officer may consider to be reasonable, or on an amount which bears the same proportion to the total profits of the business of such person (such profits being computed in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Incometax Act) as the receipts so accruing or arising bear to the total receipts of the business, or in such other manner as the Incometax Officer may deem suitable.	None
The rule authorises the Incometax Officer to adopt one of the three methods of determining income, profits or gains for the purpose of assassment to incometax where the Incometax Officer is unable to ascertain the actual amount of income, profits or gains, arising inter alia out of a business connection in the taxable territories (a) a percentage of turnover considered reasonable (b) a proportion of the total profits (computed according to the provisions of the Indian Incometax Act) of the business of the assessee equal to the proportion which the receipts accruing or raising bear to the total receipts of the business and (c) such other manner as the Incometax Officer may deem suitable.10.	Reasoning
The second method, it was common ground, was properly applicable to the determination of taxable income of the assessee.	Reasoning
That method requires as a first step, determination of the total profits of the business of the assessee in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Incometax Act, the next step is to determine the proportion between the receipts accruing or arising within the taxable territories and the total receipts of the business and the third step is to determine the income, profits or gains by the application of the proportion for the purpose of assessment to incometax.	Reasoning
This method ordains that the fraction which the total profits bear to the total world receipts is to be applied to the Indian receipts for determining the taxable profits.	Reasoning
The income so determined will be the taxable income without any further allowances, because the permissible allowance will all enter the computation of the world income and income taxable under the Incometax Act is also a fraction thereof.11.	Reasoning
Apparently the Incometax Officer did not apply the second method under Rule 33 in computing the taxable income of the assessee, for under that method in determining the taxable income the receipts accrued or arising in India had to be multiplied by the proportion between the total profits of the business and the total receipts of the world business.12.	Reasoning
Counsel for the assessee asked us to assume that the profits computed by the Incometax Officer according to the formula adopted by him are profits determined by the second method in Rule 33, and claimed on that footing that besides normal depreciation, additional depreciation ought also to have been taken into account and the taxable profits of the assessee determined on that basis.	Arguments of Petitioner
But that assumption cannot be made.	None
One of the essential conditions of the applicability of the second method in Rule 33 is the determination of the total world profits of the assessee under the Indian Incometax Act, and reduction of the Indian taxable profits by the application of the appropriate fraction.	Reasoning
The assessee has not produced its books of account of its world trade to enable the Incometax Officer to determine its total taxable profits arising from its world business.13.	Reasoning
There was apparently no clear appreciation of the true import of the second method under Rule 33 before the Departmental Authorities and the Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel for the assessee suggested that his client may be willing to produce before the Incometax Officer the books of account of the relevant years for computing the total world profits according to the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, and the benefit of additional depreciation may then be allowed to the assessee in computing the total profits under the Indian Incometax Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel for the Commissioner expressed his willingness to the adoption of that course.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel requested us to adjourn the hearing to enable them to obtain instructions from their respective clients, and the hearing was accordingly adjourned for three weeks.	Arguments of Respondent
But ultimately counsel for the assessee informed us that his client may not be able to bring before the Incometax Officer the books of account of their world trade.14.	None
The Incometax Officer has evolved a special formula for determining the profits which is not the second method in Rule 33 of the Incometax Rules.	Reasoning
The assessee has not challenged the correctness of that method, nor has the Department.	Reasoning
In the application of that formula, normal depreciation and trade expenses are deducted from the total gross earning in the Indian trade, but not the additional depreciation.15.	Reasoning
Clearly the Incometax Officer did not in computing the taxable income resort to the second method in Rule 33 of the Incometax Rules.	Reasoning
We are exercising in these appeals advisory jurisdiction, and are only called upon to answer the question referred by the Tribunal.	Reasoning
We are incompetent to decide whether computation of the taxable income by the Incometax Officer by the application of the formula evolved by him is correct that question is not before us.	Reasoning
We are only concerned to determine the validity of the claim for admitting additional depreciation in the computation of the taxable income of the assessee by the method adopted by the Incometax Officer.	Reasoning
Additional depreciation is a statutory allowance in the determination of taxable profits under Section 10 of the Act, andin the case of a nonresident where actual income cannot be determined, and resort is had to Rule 33, not when an empirical method is adopted for computation of the taxable income.16.	Reasoning
We are however unable to agree with the observations of the High Court that no relief in any shape or form can be enjoyed by any assessee under the Indian Incometax Act in respect of a source of income, unless the income from that source is taken into consideration for the purpose of that Act.	Reasoning
In the reference before us the income in question was outside the purview of assessment under the Indian Incometax Act.	Reasoning
That was not the plea of the Commissioner.	Reasoning
The source of the income of the assessee charged to tax was business it was not income from any other source.	Reasoning
The Commissioner and the assessee were ad idem on that matter.	Reasoning
The only dispute was whether additional depreciation was admissible in the computation of the taxable income, when the taxable business profits were determined by the Incometax Officer by the method evolved by him.17.	Reasoning
It was common ground that the appropriate method for determining the profits was the second method in Rule 33.	Reasoning
But that method was never applied if it was applied in the computation of the world profits of the assessee, it would have been necessary to allow the various depreciation allowances.	Reasoning
The assessee could not, while accepting determination of taxable profits in a manner not warranted by the second method under Rule 33, claim that additional depreciation should be allowed.	Reasoning
The answer to the question therefore is that additional depreciation is not admissible as an allowance in the computation of the taxable income by the special formula adopted by the Incometax Officer.18.	Reasoning
The appeals fail.	Decision
The assessee will pay the costs of these appeals.	Decision
One hearing fee.19.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
