Madan B. Lokur, J. We had heard I.A. No. 494 of 2017 along with other I.As and had passed an order on 29th March, 2017.	Facts
The operative portion of the order is as follows Accordingly, for detailed reasons that will follow, we direct that(a) On and from 1st April, 2017 such vehicles that are not BSIV compliant shall not be sold in India by any manufacturer or dealer, that is to say that such vehicles whether two wheeler, three wheeler, four wheeler or commercial vehicles will not be sold in India by any manufacturer or dealer on and from 1st April, 2017.(b)	Facts
All the vehicle registering authorities under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 are prohibited for registering such vehicles on and from 1st April, 2017 that do not meet BSIV emission standards, except on proof that such a vehicle has already been sold on or before 31st March, 2017.	Facts
We now give our reasons for the above order.	None
Recent history3.	Facts
Sometime in 2003 the National Auto Fuel Policy was announced by the Government of India for the implementation of Bharat Stage norms for vehicular emissions.	Facts
This Policy was based on the recommendations of the Mashelkar Committee constituted in 2001.	Facts
It is not necessary to detail the Policy except to say that it provides a road map for achieving vehicular emission norms over a period of time and the corresponding fuel quality upgradation requirements.	Facts
A road map for vehicular emission norms for new vehicles was drawn up and those cities facing serious pollution levels were brought under a separate road map for quicker adoption of emission norms.4.	Facts
In the process of implementing the Bharat Stage vehicular emission norms, or the BS norms for short, a few communications were issued concerning the registration of motor vehicles.	Facts
Our attention was first drawn to a communication dated 23rd March, 2005 issued by the Ministry of Shipping, Road Transport and Highways of the Government of India which related to the registration of motor vehicles from 1st April, 2005.	Facts
This was in the context of the introduction of BSIII compliant vehicles in the cities of Delhi, Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Mumbai, Pune and Kolkata.	None
The communication clarified that only BSIII compliant vehicles manufactured on or after 1st April, 2005 could be registered in these cities.	Facts
However, BSI and BSII compliant vehicles could be registered in the rest of the areas of the States and also in these cities for some time till the accumulated stock is exhausted.5.	None
The relevant extract of the communication dated 23rd March, 2005 stated as follows It is clarified that the gazette notifications in this regard clearly mention that these norms shall be applicable to only vehicles manufactured on or after 1st April, 2005.	Facts
Bharat Stage II and Bharat Stage I compliant vehicles manufactured prior to this date would, therefore, be eligible for registration in the above named cities and rest of the areas of the States respectively for sometime after 1st April, 2005 till the accumulated stock is exhausted.	Facts
If we examine the text, it is not very clear how long after 1st April, 2005 would the registration of BSI and BSII compliant vehicles be permitted except that it would be till the accumulated stock is exhausted, that is for an indefinite period.	Facts
Nothing of value can be derived from this communication but it is referred to only since learned counsel for the manufacturers and dealers of motor vehicles (for short the interveners) suggested that notifications that amend the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 and communications issued in the context of BSIV compliant vehicles, which are the subject matter of the present discussion, should be similarly interpreted while learned Amicus submitted that we should look to the purpose of the National Auto Fuel Policy as also the overall objective in introducing Bharat Stage emission norms.7.	Facts
A second communication brought to our notice was issued by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways of the Government of India on 5th April 2010 relating to the registration of four wheeled vehicles with effect from 1st April, 2010.	Facts
This communication is somewhat similar to the earlier communication of 23rd March, 2005 and drew attention to a notification dated 9th February, 2009 amending the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 (hereinafter referred to as the Rules).	Facts
The notification laid down the Mass Emission Standards (BSIII) for two wheeler vehicles and three wheeler vehicles manufactured on and from 1st April, 2010.	None
It also laid down the Mass Emission Standards (BSIV) for M and N category fourwheeled vehicles manufactured on or after 1st April, 2010.	None
The notification required that BSIII emission norms would be applicable to all vehicles manufactured on or after 1st April, 2010.	None
However, BSIV emission norms would be applicable in the National Capital Region and ten other mega cities, that is, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Hyderabad including Secunderabad, Kanpur, Pune, Surat and Agra in respect of fourwheeled vehicles manufactured on or after 1st April, 2010 except four wheeler transport vehicles plying on Inter State Permits, National Permits or All India Tourist Permits.8.	Facts
The communication dated 5th April, 2010 clarified that BSIII compliant vehicles could be registered in the abovementioned Region and cities even after 1st April, 2010 till the accumulated stock is exhausted.	None
To get over the uncertainty of determining the accumulated stock, the Principal Secretaries (Transport) and Transport Commissioners of the concerned States were expected to get details of BSIII compliant vehicles in the accumulated stock from the concerned dealers and manufacturers.	Facts
In any event, the period for registration of such vehicles was again left indeterminate and only the accumulated stock was identified or quantified.9.	Facts
In this background, a further amendment was carried out to subrule (15) of Rule 115 of the Rules on 21st May, 2010 by adding a proviso to the effect that BSIV emission norms would be applicable in the cities of Sholapur and Lucknow in respect of four wheeler vehicles manufactured on or after 1st June, 2010 except four wheeler transport vehicles plying on InterState Permits or National Permits or All India Tourist Permits within the jurisdiction of the said cities.	Facts
Yet another amendment was carried out on 16th July, 2014 adding a proviso to subrule (15) of Rule 115 of the Rules to the effect that BSIV emission norms were made applicable to several other cities in respect of fourwheeled vehicles manufactured on or after 1st October, 2014 except fourwheeled transport vehicles plying on InterState Permits or National Permits or All India Tourist Permits within the jurisdiction of those cities.10.	None
A similar amendment was carried out on 14th July, 2015 including some other cities where BSIV emission norms would be applicable in respect of four wheeler vehicles manufactured on or after 15th July, 2015 and finally an amendment was carried on 19th August, 2015 in respect of several other cities in respect of fourwheeled vehicles manufactured on or after 1st October, 2015 and 1st April, 2016.	Facts
Eventually, by an amendment carried out on 19th August, 2015 it was mandated that BSIV norms would come into force all over the country in respect of fourwheeled vehicles manufactured on or after 1st April, 2017.Two and three wheeler vehicles11.	None
The application of BSIV norms in respect of two wheeler and three wheeler vehicles was somewhat different.	None
As mentioned above, BSIII emission norms were made applicable to two and three wheeler vehicles on and from 1st April, 2010.12.	Facts
Thereafter subrule (16) was inserted in Rule 115 of the Rules on 4th July, 2014 to the effect that new models of two wheeler vehicles manufactured on and after 1st April, 2016 shall comply with BSIV emission norms and existing models of two wheeler vehicles would comply with BSIV emission norms from 1st April, 2017.13.	None
In respect of three wheeler vehicles, subrule (17) was inserted in Rule 115 of the Rules on 12th June, 2015 to the effect that BSIV standards would be applicable to new models of three wheelers manufactured on or after 1st April, 2016 and for existing models of three wheelers manufactured on or after 1st April, 2017.View of the Government14.	None
It seems that there still remained some confusion with regard to the interpretation of the various notifications relating to the registration of vehicles conforming to BSIII emission norms.	None
This confusion partly arose from a response submitted by the Environment Protection Control Authority (for short EPCA) constituted by a notification issued under the provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.	Facts
To clear the air, so to say, the Ministry of Petroleum Natural Gas filed an affidavit in I.A. No.345 of 2014 on or about 27th March, 2015 to place on record certain additional documents on behalf of the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change.	Facts
One of the additional documents was the comments of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas in response to issues raised by EPCA.	Facts
It was stated therein that the Government has fully implemented the recommendations of the Auto Fuel Policy, 2003.	Facts
In fact it has decided to go beyond the recommendations made therein on a voluntary basis by extending BSIV auto fuel to 50 more cities by March 2015 with preference to most polluted cities, State capitals and cities with million plus population subject to logistical constraints.	Facts
It was further stated that out of these 50 cities, BSIV auto fuel has already commenced supply to 26 cities and the remaining 24 cities would be covered by 15th March, 2017.15.	Facts
It was clear therefore that as far back as in March, 2015 the Government was prepared to walk the extra mile in ensuring that BSIV auto fuel is readily available at least in the mega cities.16.	Facts
Earlier, an office memorandum was issued by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways on 3rd March, 2015 (apparently in response to the issues raised by EPCA) wherein it was stated that though the intent is to have only BSIV compliant vehicles manufactured after 1st April, 2017 but the inventory of old vehicles manufactured by 31st March, 2017 would need to be protected and registered.	Facts
It was clarified that there is no bar on the sale or registration of vehicles produced prior to the above time lines and that this was the procedure followed when the country migrated to BSII and BSIII emission norms in 2001 and 2005.The perspective17.	Facts
To place the matter in perspective, it is clear that the Government was quite determined to introduce BSIV emission norms in respect of all vehicles manufactured on and from 1st April, 2017 onwards.	None
The implementation of this policy was gradual, starting with the NCR Region and ten mega cities and this was extended from time to time to other cities.	Facts
The intent was made clear that with the progress in the implementation plan there would be an increase in the number of cities where the sale and registration of vehicles that are not BSIV compliant would be prohibited.	Facts
This was as broad a hint as any that the sale and registration of vehicles that were not BSIV compliant would be eventually prohibited with the cutoff date being 1st April, 2017.	None
This was coupled with the mandate to manufacturers of two and three wheeler vehicles that they could manufacture new models of vehicles on and after 1st April, 2016 only if they comply with BSIV emission norms.	Facts
The determination to switch over from BSIII compliant vehicles to BSIV compliant vehicles was more than evident.18.	None
To avoid any inconvenience to anybody, the Government was quite clear that BSIV auto fuel would also be made available throughout the country.19.	None
Implicit in this nationwide exercise was the possibility of the unexpected, that is, unsold stock of BSIII compliant vehicles or the nonavailability of BSIV auto fuel.	None
It is in this context that the Government gave clarifications in 2005 and 2010 suggested in March 2015 employing a rather amorphous phrase, that the sale and registration of noncompliant vehicles would be permitted till the accumulated stock is exhausted.	Facts
However, this was not and could not reasonably be intended to permit the interveners to continue manufacturing noncompliant vehicles and then depend on grace for the disposal of accumulated stock.	Facts
Plan A was to switch over to BSIV compliant vehicles and Plan B was to take care of unforeseen and emergent situations  it is not that the Government gave up implementation of Plan A.20.	Facts
This is more than clear from the fact that when this writ petition was taken up for consideration on 5th January, 2016, it was submitted by the learned Solicitor General that BSIV fuel would be available by 1st April, 2017 all over the country.	None
This submission is recorded in M.C. Mehta v. Union of India, (2016) 4 SCC 269 para 36.Recommendation to Parliament21.	Facts
In the meanwhile, the Standing Committee of Parliament on Petroleum Natural Gas also expressed concern over the phenomenal rise of air pollution and made some recommendations.	Facts
We are mentioning this only in the limited context of indicating the concern of the Executive earlier expressed and now the Legislature also over issues of air pollution.22.	Facts
The Standing Committee submitted its Fifth Report to the Lok Sabha Secretariat.	Facts
This was presented to the Lok Sabha on 7th May, 2015 and was laid in the Rajya Sabha on the same date.	Facts
In the introductory paragraphs, it is stated by the Standing Committee as follows Greenhouse gases induced global warming and subsequent climate change are some of the perils threatening the survival of present day generation.	Facts
The process of industrialization and development has caused innumerable changes in global climate.	Facts
These climatic changes, which have occurred principally through the burning of fossil fuels such as gasoline and diesel in the transportation sector and automobile industry have led to an increase in the concentration of green house gases such as Carbon Dioxide, Methane, Nitrous Oxide and Hydro Flouro Carbons in the atmosphere, thus disrupting the ecological and social systems across the globe.1.2	Facts
The rapid growth in automobile industry and the increasing number of vehicular population have become one of the major causes in the phenomenal rise of air pollution in India.	Facts
Though air pollution is caused by several factors, the dramatic rise in the vehicular emissions has compounded the problem.	Facts
In the first recommendation made by the Standing Committee in its Report, it was noted that the Auto Fuel Policy of 2003 and the Expert Committee Report on Auto Fuel Vision Policy, 2025 (chaired by Shri Saumitra Chaudhury, the then Member of the Planning Commission) are vital public policy instruments at the disposal of the Government to address growing vehicular pollution in the country.	Facts
The Committee therefore recommended that the concerned Ministry should chalk out an action plan for the implementation of the Expert Committee recommendations as per the time line suggested or wherever possible earlier and adhere to the policy in letter and spirit.24.	Facts
The recommendation was made in the context of the Standing Committee having noted that the Expert Committee had recommended a detailed road map for auto fuel quality till 2025 for the country.	Facts
The Standing Committee appreciated the comprehensive coverage of various issues by the Expert Committee in its Report such as fuel quality, demand and supply of fuel, infrastructure and logistics of fuel quality related projects, promotion of alternate fuels, vehicular technologies, emission norms, health issues, ambient air quality, reduction of pollution from inuse vehicles and fiscal measures for funding requisite upgradation of oil refineries.	Facts
At this stage we must record that the learned Solicitor General stated before us that the Central Government through its refineries had incurred an expenditure of about Rs. 30,000 crores to make available BSIV auto fuel from 1st April, 2017 all over the country.	None
This was a reaffirmation, confirmation and reiteration of the submission made on 5th January, 2016 that BSIV fuel would be available by 1st April, 2017 all over the country.	None
In other words, we take it that the Government was and is proactively supporting the reduction of vehicular pollution by controlling the emission norms and complying with the Bharat Stage standards keeping in view the auto fuel policy and the Report of the Expert Committee referred to by the Parliamentary Standing Committee.	Reasoning
Proximate developments26.	None
To revert to the narration of facts, it may be stated that more than a year after the 5th January, 2016 submission, EPCA held a meeting with various stakeholders on 19th October, 2016 for reducing vehicular emission norms.	Facts
The minutes of that meeting record that the Ministry of Surface Transport and Highways as well as the Ministry of Petroleum and Industrial Gas intimated that BSIV standards had been notified and introduced in key cities in 2010.	None
Ergo	Facts
, the country was well prepared for a nationwide roll out of BSIV auto fuel.27.	None
In the meeting, the representatives of the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) assured that the automobile industry will not manufacture any vehicle on and from 1st April, 2017 which did not meet BSIV emission norms.	Facts
Keeping this in mind and the progression over the last more than a decade to control emission norms, EPCA clarified that there would be no sale or registration of nonBSIV compliant vehicles from 1st April, 2017 and that this should be communicated to all manufacturers so that they have sufficient notice of about six months to plan their production and sales.	Facts
In response, the representatives of SIAM expressed the view that it would be difficult for the automobile manufacturers to ensure compliance.	Facts
EPCA however insisted that all manufacturers should ensure that the BSIII compliant stock of vehicles is exhausted before 1st April, 2017 since BSIV compliant vehicles reduce pollution by about 80 in particulate matter as compared to BSIII compliant vehicles.28.	None
On 1st December, 2016 SIAM wrote to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) confirming that only BSIV compliant vehicles would be manufactured from 1st April, 2017.	Facts
However, it was submitted that EPCAs direction that there should be no sale or registration of BSIII compliant vehicles from 1st April, 2017 is at variance with the notifications issued by the Government of India.	Facts
It was also mentioned in the communication that the sale of BSIII compliant vehicles would depend on market forces and that it is beyond the control of vehicle manufacturers to ensure that the entire stock of BSIII compliant vehicles is exhausted by 1st April, 2017.29.	None
This communication was responded to by the CPCB on 10th December, 2016 indicating that EPCA had called the meeting on 19th October, 2016 only to ensure that stock of BSIII compliant vehicles are exhausted before 1st April, 2017 for the reasons mentioned in the minutes of that meeting.	Facts
It was reiterated that BSIV auto fuel would be available all over the country from 1st April, 2017.30.	None
Thereafter, there were communications exchanged between EPCA and CPCB and SIAM wherein it was reiterated that the stock of BSIII compliant vehicles should be exhausted by 31st March, 2017 while SIAM stated that it would not be possible to exhaust that stock.31.	Facts
In this background, one of the members of SIAM, that is, Bajaj Auto Limited filed I.A. No. 487 of 2017 wherein it is prayed that an order may be passed by this Court directing the Union of India and or EPCA to issue a communication to all vehicle manufacturers that on or after 1st April, 2017 vehicles that are not BSIV compliant would not be manufactured, sold or registered across the country.32.	Facts
Notice was issued in the above application on 20th March, 2017 which led to a spate of intervention applications by some of the automobile manufactures, by SIAM and by an association of dealers of automobile vehicles.	Facts
Learned Amicus also filed an independent application being I.A.	Facts
No. 494 of 2017 wherein it was prayed that on and from 1st April, 2017 only such vehicles that comply with BSIV standards shall be manufactured, sold and registered across the country.33.	None
As mentioned above, we heard all the learned counsel and passed the order extracted above on 29th March, 2017.	Facts
The issue A perusal of the facts leading up to presentation of the IAs before us leads us to the simple question whether the accumulated stock of BSIII compliant vehicles manufactured on or before 31st March, 2017 could be sold and registered after 1st April, 2017.	None
It appeared to us that if someone was to make a bona fide purchase of a BSIII compliant vehicle on or immediately before 31st March, 2017 it might not be possible for that individual to have the vehicle registered before the cutoff date.	None
Therefore, we felt it reasonable to permit the registration of BSIII compliant vehicles purchased on proof on or before 31st March, 2017 from 1st April, 2017 and have ordered accordingly.	None
Accordingly, the issue that remains for consideration is whether the stock of BSIII compliant vehicles manufactured on or before 31st March, 2017 can be sold from 1st April, 2017 onwards.	None
Submissions and discussion The primary contention of learned counsel for the interveners manufacturing and dealing in BSIII compliant vehicles is that in terms of the notifications issued from time to time, the manufacture of BSIII compliant vehicles was permitted up to 31st March, 2017 except new models of two wheeler and three wheeler vehicles.	None
Consequently, the interveners were entitled to carry out such manufacturing activities and in doing so they had not violated any prohibition or any law.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, it would be unreasonable to expect them to clear the stock of BSIII compliant vehicles on or before 31st March, 2017 or to prohibit the sale of such stock on and from 1st April, 2017.	None
In this context it was submitted that it was erroneous for the learned Amicus to suggest that the manufacture of BSIII compliant vehicles till 31st March, 2017 should be read in a manner which would result in a prohibition on and from 1st April, 2017 on the sale and registration of such vehicles or to prejudicially affect the commercial interest of the interveners.	Arguments of Respondent
In our opinion, the interveners have completely ignored the history of the last a decade or so which led to the introduction of Bharat Stage norms and their implementation in a phased manner.	Reasoning
The Auto Fuel Policy was announced by the Government of India, as mentioned by the Parliamentary Standing Committee, taking into account, inter alia, the rapid growth in the automobile industry and the increasing number of vehicular population which had become one of the major causes in the phenomenal rise of air pollution in India.	Reasoning
The Standing Committee noted that air pollution is caused by several factors but the dramatic rise in vehicular emissions has compounded the problem.39.	Reasoning
It is quite evident therefore that given the recent history and unfolding of events, it was incumbent upon the automobile industry to modulate its views and give secondary importance to commercial profits and take proactive steps to reduce vehicular pollution.	Reasoning
It seems that the automobile industry was quite sanguine that its desire for selling accumulated stock of BSIII compliant vehicles even after 1st April, 2017 would be acceded to.	Reasoning
This is evident from the past practice when it had become necessary, in one sense, for the Government of India to virtually submit to the commercial interests of the automobile industry by permitting the registration of BSIII compliant vehicles in some cities while permitting the sale and registration of BSI and BSII compliant vehicles in other cities even after the cutoff date of 1st April, 2005 till the accumulated stock is exhausted.	Reasoning
Five years later the Government of India had again to submit to the commercial interests of the automobile industry when it was required to issue a communication on 5th April, 2010 permitting the registration and therefore the sale of BSIII compliant vehicles even after 1st April, 2010 till the accumulated stock is exhausted.41.	None
No one knows, nor were we told how long these accumulated stock were expected to last or actually lasted.	Reasoning
But the fact of the matter is that we would have expected the automobile industry to have shown some responsibility and taken a positive approach to reduce vehicular pollution and ensure that nonconforming vehicles are not manufactured so that air pollution in the country does not continue unabated and to take measures to curtail the phenomenal rise in air pollution recognized by the Parliamentary Standing Committee.	Reasoning
Some responsible manufacturers, especially Maruti Suzuki being the market leader in four wheeler vehicles, did take the necessary down to business approach and we were told that it had switched over to manufacturing BSIV compliant vehicles quite a few years ago.	None
Other manufacturers of four wheeler vehicles also took similar steps, but somewhat tentatively.	None
Notwithstanding this, several members of SIAM continued rather unfortunately to take it easy and (as the figures filed before us by SIAM suggest) though there was a decrease in the production of BSIII compliant vehicles between January, 2016 and December, 2016 that is for the entire calendar year, unfortunately, there was only a marginal increase for the corresponding period in the manufacture of BSIV compliant vehicles.	None
However, there was a sudden spurt of manufacturing BSIV compliant vehicles in February, 2017 and a decline in the manufacture of BSIII compliant vehicles except commercial vehicles  indicative of a lack of planning and perhaps real concern over a prolonged past period.	None
The production figures of some of the major manufacturers are given below in the table PRODUCTION OF VEHICLES (as supplied by SIAM) Name of CompanyJanuary 2016 BSIIIDecember 2016 BSIIIFebruary 2017 BSIII January 2016 BSIVDecember 2016 BSIVFebruary 2017 BSIV TWO WHEELERS Hero Motor Corp Ltd.5,32,0782,98,83963,026 NIL33,0784,40,275 Honda Motorcycle Scooters India Pvt.	None
Ltd.3,63,8051,91,5342,30,02213,6447,5831,45,217 India Yahama Motors50,07745,0171202,8803,80066,499 TVS Motor Company Ltd.1,65,9561,48,51922,049NILNIL1,35,448 THREE WHEELERS Mahindra Mahindra Ltd.4,2043,5303060 NILNIL52 Piaggio Vehicles Pvt.	None
Ltd.12,7307,2874,388NILNIL6,366 MEDIUM AND HEAVY TRUCKS, OTHER COMMERCIAL VEHICLES Ashok Leyland10,9359,40211,528 6421,6611,998 Mahindra Mahindra12,0018,70811,2872,6004,6056,096 Tata Motors27,50713,73422,9153,6275,0047,783	None
The sum and substance of the discussion is that the automobile industry had, at the very minimum, a fiveyear warning that it would have to consider issues relating to air pollution as a part of its manufacturing activities and production strategy and thereafter the industry had more than five years to plan out its activities and revisit the strategy, but did not do so.45.	Reasoning
On the contrary the automobile industry gave a variety of excuses for not making adjustments for the benefit of the people of the country.	Reasoning
Similarly, efforts of the Government to regulate and reduce vehicular emissions were not given the support that they deserved, including taking advantage of time granted for phased introduction of BSIV complaint vehicles as per the Government policy.	Reasoning
It was submitted during the hearing that the sale of BSIII compliant vehicles would depend on market forces at one time it was submitted that demonetization (which took place in November, 2016) upset their plans at another time it was submitted that some models are slow moving and therefore could not be sold and yet at another time it was submitted that weak market conditions did not make it possible for the industry to dispose of the existing BSIII compliant stock.	None
None of these explanations justify the failure of the automobile industry to increase the production of BSIV compliant vehicles, in spite of sufficient notice of a switchover and reduce the production of BSIII compliant vehicles.	None
The attempt, sadly, seems to have been to push all concerned to the wall by putting before them a fait accompli situation and by ignoring the concerns of millions of our country men and women who are entitled to breathe fresh air or at least breathe less polluted air.	Reasoning
As is apparent from the figures relating to the production of BSIII and BSIV compliant vehicles supplied to us, this activity and inactivity has been entirely for commercial benefits and to avoid the cost of upgrading available technology.	None
Literal versus purposive interpretation Learned counsel for the interveners sought to impress upon us that we should interpret the various notifications issued from time to time only in a literal manner.	Arguments of Respondent
When the health of millions of people in our country is involved, notifications relating to commercial activities ought not to be interpreted in a literal manner.	Arguments of Respondent
The only option in such eventualities is to give a purposive interpretation to notifications that directly concern public health issues which have an impact not only in the present but also in the future.	Arguments of Respondent
We were informed that the life of vehicles is in the range of 10 and 15 years.	Arguments of Respondent
While the development versus environment paradigm could be debated upon, there cannot be any debate in the development versus public health paradigm.47.	Arguments of Respondent
Our attention was also drawn to the fact that the existing stock of BSIII compliant vehicles is a miniscule percentage of the overall number of vehicles on the roads in the country and if that miniscule number is brought on the roads by way of sale, it would only result in a marginal increase in air pollution.	Arguments of Respondent
With respect, this submission cannot be accepted.	None
The health of every person in our country is important and we are more than reluctant to accept any submission that the health of the people can be compromised, even in the smallest measure, for the commercial interests of the automobile industry or of any industry for that matter.	Reasoning
Additionally, given that the life of such vehicles would be at least 10 years (as submitted by the interveners) the concern is not only for the present population of the country but for future generations who also have an entitlement to breathe pollution free air.	Reasoning
This is what sustainable development and intergenerational equity is all about.	None
Do we really want to leave behind drastically polluted air to be breathed in this case at least for the next between 10 and 15 years?	None
We must also point out that it was brought to our notice by the learned SolicitorGeneral that the Government of India has expended, through its refineries, an amount of about Rs. 30,000 crores for implementing the Auto Fuel Policy along with the recommendations of the Expert Committee in making BSIV quality fuel available positively by 1st April, 2017 in keeping with the stated objective of One country  One fuel in the shortest possible time.	Arguments of Petitioner
Surely, such a huge investment from the tax payers earnings cannot be defeated only with a view to subserve the interest of the automobile industry which, as discussed by the Parliamentary Standing Committee, has become one of the major causes in the phenomenal rise of air pollution in India.49.	None
Given this background, it is not at all surprising that learned Amicus vehemently contended that the various notifications do not deserve to be given a literal meaning but a purposeful interpretation.	Arguments of Petitioner
What is the mischief sought to be remedied and how best is it possible to remedy that mischief?	Arguments of Petitioner
To recall what lyricist and singer Bob Dylan had to say  the answer is blowing in the wind.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Amicus is right that the entire issue must be looked at in a particular context, as a matter of public health and as a matter of public concern.	Reasoning
It is a matter of common knowledge that polluted air can lead to a variety of health problems and this is evident from a casual visit to the website of the CPCB and the World Health Organization.	Reasoning
Admittedly, the use of BSIV auto fuel reduces particulate matter in the air by 80 as compared to BSIII auto fuel.	None
Under these circumstances, it cannot be said that learned Amicus erroneously seeks a prohibition on the sale and registration of BSIII compliant vehicles on and from 1st April, 2017.	None
It is worth noting that the WHO reported that as urban air quality declines, the risk of stroke, heart disease, lung cancer, and chronic and acute respiratory diseases, including asthma, increases.2 Similarly, the CPCB says in its Annual Report 201415 that Scientific studies have indicated links between fine particulate matter and numerous health problems including bronchitis, acute and chronic respiratory symptoms such as shortness of breath and painful	None
breathing.3 2 http www.who.int phe healthtopics outdoorair databases cities en (Accessed on 5th April, 2017).	None
3 http cpcb.nic.in upload AnnualReports AnnualReport55AnnualReport201415.pdf (Accessed on 5th April, 2017).	None
Additionally, if the entire scheme laid out by the Government  of discouraging the manufacture of polluting vehicles and gradually phasing them out coupled with their gradual replacement with fuel efficient vehicles, availability of cleaner and greener fuel and compliance with fuel emission norms is appreciated in a much larger context rather than on a notification by notification basis  the objective behind the scheme would be apparent.	None
The Government could very well have issued one single notification way back in 2010 that with effect from 1st April, 2017 the manufacture, sale and registration of vehicles that do not comply with BSIV emission norms would be prohibited.	Reasoning
It did not do so to enable all concerned, particularly the auto industry and marketing strategists to gradually manage their affairs rather than subject them to a sudden future shock.	Reasoning
The scheme of a gradual phaseout is now sought to be perverted through a literal interpretation of each notification, unfortunately, for a commercial benefit rather than being appreciated in a larger canvas for the benefit of society as a whole.	None
There is no doubt, therefore, that the various notifications issued and the amendments made to the Rules must be read cumulatively in a purposive manner with the objective of enhancing or protecting further deterioration of the quality of the air we breathe from a continuing and continuous onslaught of pollutants.	None
Office memorandum of 3rd March, 2015 In was submitted by learned counsel for the interveners that inherent in the manufacture of BSIII compliant vehicles was their entitlement to sell such vehicles any time on or after 1st April, 2017 until the accumulated stock is exhausted.	None
Given the experience of the past, they legitimately expected that they would be allowed to clear the accumulated stock.	Arguments of Respondent
We questioned learned counsel for the interveners on the time required for disposal of the accumulated stock.	None
No one gave any definite answer  the answers varied from about 5 and 6 months to one year and hedged in with conditions dependent upon market forces and slow moving models.	Reasoning
Perhaps Siri would have given a more definite answer.55.	None
In this context, reference was made to the most recent office memorandum dated 3rd March, 2015 issued by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways.	None
It was submitted that the office memorandum made clear the intention of the various notifications, namely, to ensure the manufacture of only BSIV compliant vehicles after 1st April, 2017 and at the same time ensure that BSIII compliant vehicles manufactured on or before 31st March, 2017 are protected and registered.	None
This is clear from the statement in the office memorandum that there is no bar on vehicles produced prior to the above time lines, meaning thereby that BSIII compliant vehicles manufactured on or before 31st March, 2017 could be sold or registered keeping in view the past practice.56.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the only reasonable construction of the office memorandum (issued two years ago) would be that subject to the occurrence of some extraordinary or unforeseen event, should it become necessary to sell and register BSIII compliant vehicles on or after 1st April, 2017 limited exceptions on a case to case basis could be claimed and considered.	Reasoning
The office memorandum cannot reasonably be interpreted as a carte blanche to the automobile industry to continue the manufacture of BSIII compliant vehicles till the very last day and then plead the necessity of clearing accumulated stock of BSIII vehicles.	Reasoning
This would make a mockery of the efforts of all concerned in regulating vehicular emissions and virtually enabling the interveners to emasculate an important component of the right to life guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution, namely, the entitlement of millions of our country men and women to breathe less polluted air and ignore public health issues in conducting their business.	Reasoning
We cannot be asked to shut our eyes to the phenomenal rise in pollution levels in the country.	None
Blaming EPCA57.	None
It was also contended by learned counsel for the interveners that the automobile industry (as indeed any other industry) needs stability, certainty and predictability in the regulatory regime.	Arguments of Respondent
This is undoubtedly true but that stability, certainty and predictability was apparent from the time the National Auto Fuel Policy was announced in 2003.	None
Rather than admit responsibility for a lack of concern of public health issues, some of the interveners have sought to blame EPCA for its failure to approach the Government of India to seek amendments to the notifications issued from time to time and to incorporate a prohibition on the sale and registration of BSIII compliant vehicles on or after 1st April, 2017.	Reasoning
Unfortunately, fingerpointing and blame games do not lead anyone anywhere and deserve to be discouraged.58.	None
In any event, the fact is that EPCA had convened a meeting of all stakeholders on 19th October, 2016 and had brought to the notice of the representatives of SIAM that there would be no sale and registration of BSIII compliant vehicles from 1st April, 2017 and that this should be communicated to all manufacturers.	Reasoning
The clear intention of EPCA was to give sufficient notice of almost six months to enable the automobile industry to plan its production and sale and take proactive steps to significantly decrease the production of BSIII compliant vehicles and correspondingly significantly increase the production of BSIV compliant vehicles.	Reasoning
Unfortunately, SIAM did not heed the caution but expressed the view that it would be difficult to ensure compliance.	Reasoning
We were also told that EPCA had no jurisdiction or authority to give such a direction.	Reasoning
However, that is not an issue of concern at the present moment.59.	Reasoning
EPCA also pointed out in the meeting that BSIV compliant vehicles reduce pollution by 80 of particulate matter as compared to BSIII compliant vehicles, but even this had no effect.60.	None
The meeting convened by EPCA was followed up by the CPCB when it wrote to SIAM on 10th December, 2016 reiterating that BSIV fuel would be available all over the country from 1st April, 2017 and that the automobile industry should ensure that the stock of BSIII compliant vehicles are exhausted before that date for reasons mentioned in the minutes of the meeting held on 19th October, 2016.	None
Even this had no effect on SIAM.	Reasoning
Therefore, to blame EPCA for their problems is rather unfair of the interveners.61.	Reasoning
However one may look at the issue of air pollution, it is time to realize that a collective effort is needed to clear up the air.	Reasoning
In this process, the interveners have a huge role and they should now wake up to their responsibility for the benefit of all of us.	Reasoning
Conclusion62.	Decision
For the reasons given above, we allow	Decision
I.A. No. 494 of 2017 filed by the learned Amicus and I.A.	Decision
No. 487 of 2017 by Bajaj Auto Limited.	Decision
The intervention applications and submissions made therein by the automobile industry and the dealers association are rejected.	Decision
