 Dipak Misra, CJI.1.	None
In this writ petition, the petitionerTrust and the college have prayed for issue of a writ of certiorari for quashing the order dated 31.05.2017 passed by the respondent No.1 whereunder the petitioners have been debarred from admitting 150 students in the MBBS course in the academic years 201718 and 201819 and further to restrain the respondent No.2, Medical Council of India (MCI), to encash the bank guarantee of Rs. 2 crores furnished by the petitionerinstitution.	Issue
That apart, the prayer is to quash the order dated 14.08.2017 passed by the respondent No.1 for reiterating the said order.	None
The relief has been sought for issue of writ of mandamus, commanding the respondent No.1 to grant renewal for the academic year 201718 keeping in view the recommendations dated 14th May, 2017, submitted by the Oversight Committee constituted in terms of the order of this Court and to direct the respondents to permit the institution to admit 150 students in MBBS Course for the academic year 201718.2.	Issue
At the very inception, it is necessary to state that though many a document has been filed and prolonged, anxious, forceful and sometimes vehement arguments have been canvassed, yet the controversy, as we perceive, lies in a narrow compass.	Facts
And to appreciate the same, we are required to set out the chronology of litigation.	Facts
Its life is not long.3.	Facts
The petitioner No.1, a Trust, established under the Indian Trust Act, 1882 decided to establish a new Medical College by the name of Kerala Medical College at Palakkad, Kerala.	Facts
It submitted an application under Section 10A of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (for brevity, the Act) to the respondent No.1 to establish the Medical College in the name and style of Kerala Medical College and Hospital seeking admission of 150 students in the MBBS Course for the academic year 201415.	None
As certain deficiencies were pointed out by the MCI, it was not granted Letter of Permission (LOP) for the year 201415.	None
Thereafter, in 2015, an application was filed for grant of LOP for the academic session 201617.	None
A team of assessors of the respondent No. 2 conducted assessment of the college in regard to grant of LOP for the academic year 201617 and submitted its report.	None
The respondent No.2, on the basis of the reports of the assessors dated 16.12.2015 and 17.12.2015 in its Executive Committee meeting dated 28.12.2015 made recommendation to the respondent No.1 not to grant LOP for the academic year 201617.	Facts
On 18.01.2016, the respondent No.1 afforded an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner as contemplated under Section 10A(4) of the Act and the petitioner gave its explanation as regards the deficiencies pointed out by the respondent No.2 and the respondent No.1 being satisfied referred back the matter to the respondent No. 2 for review.4.	None
As the factual narration would evince, on 10th February, 2016, a team of assessors of the respondent No. 2 conducted verification assessment for grant of LOP for the academic year 201617.	None
In the mean time, the Constitution Bench in Modern Dental College and Research Center and others v. State of Madhya Pradesh and others, 2016(3) S.C.T. 35 (2016) 7 SCC 353 constituted the Oversight Committee headed by Justice R.M. Lodha former CJI to oversee the functioning of the MCI.	None
We shall refer the relevant paragraphs of the said judgment at a later stage.	Facts
On 13th May, 2016, the report of the assessors team was considered by the Executive Committee of the respondent No.2 in its meeting dated 13.05.2016 and on 14.5.2016 the MCI recommended the disapproval of the scheme of the petitioner under Section 10A of the Act for the academic year 201617.	None
However, after Oversight Committee was constituted, the Central Government issued a public notice informing all the Medical Colleges to submit a compliance report concerning their respective colleges who had applied for LOP for 201617.	Facts
As the facts would unfold, the 1st respondent sent the compliance report along with the reply of the MCI to the Oversight Committee for consideration which on 11.08.2016 approved the same for the year 201617 imposing certain conditions.5.	None
At this juncture, it is necessary to state in what circumstances the Oversight Committee was constituted by the Constitution Bench.	Facts
It referred to the functioning of MCI and keeping in view certain other factors including a report of the Expert Committee directed the Central Government to consider and to take further appropriate action in the matter at the earliest.	Facts
At the same time, however, in exercise of power under Article 142, the Court constituted the Oversight Committee to oversee the functioning of the MCI and all other matters.	Facts
In this regard the Court saidIn view of the above, while we do not find any error in the view taken by the High Court and dismiss these appeals, we direct the constitution of an Oversight Committee consisting of the following members1.	Facts
Justice R.M. Lodha (former Chief Justice of India)2.	Facts
Prof. (Dr) Shiv Sareen (Director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences)3.	Facts
Shri Vinod Rai (former Comptroller and Auditor General of India)A notification with respect to constitution of the said Committee be issued within two weeks from today.	Facts
The Committee be given all facilities to function.	Facts
The remuneration of the Members of the Committee may be fixed in consultation with them.	Facts
The said Committee will have the authority to oversee all statutory functions under the MCI Act.	Facts
All policy decisions of MCI will require approval of the Oversight Committee.	Facts
The Committee will be free to issue appropriate remedial directions.	Facts
The Committee will function till the Central Government puts in place any other appropriate mechanism after due consideration of the Expert Committee Report.	Facts
Initially the Committee will function for a period of one year, unless suitable mechanism is brought in place earlier which will substitute the said Committee.	Facts
We do hope that within the said period the Central Government will come out with an appropriate mechanism.6.	Facts
As mentioned earlier, the Government constituted the Oversight Committee and thereafter the assessment report and the views of the Executive Committee were sent to the Oversight Committee.7.	Facts
The Oversight Committee, after some analysis, took the applications for consideration pertaining to establishment of Medical Colleges for the academic year 20162017, forwarded by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MHFW) on 22nd July, 2016.	Facts
Dealing with the present college, the Oversight Committee directed as followsKerala Medical College, Palakkad, Kerala, MBBS (150 seats), LOP for 2016217 u s 10A.The Institution had stated that all deficiencies (faculty resident clinical material and infrastructure) pointed out by MCI have been made up by them.	Facts
The OC peruse the statement in the compliance report submitted by the college.	Facts
These statements satisfy the criteria stated in para 3.1 above.	Facts
Accordingly, the application is approved subject to conditions laid down in aforementioned para 3.2.8.	None
Para 3.2 of the said order read as follows3.2	None
The applicants for new private colleges for UG for 201617 whose applications, have been approved by OC, shall submit to MHFW, within 15 days of issue of notification of approval by MHFW u s 10A(4) of IMC Act, 1956, the following(i) An affidavit from the Dean Principal and Chairman of the Trust concerned, affirming fulfillment of all deficiencies and statements made in the respective compliance report submitted to MHFW by 22 June 2016,(ii)	None
A bank guarantee in the amount of Rs. 2 crore in favour of MCI, which will be valid for 1 year or until the first renewal assessment, whichever is later.	None
Such bank guarantee will be in addition to the prescribed fee submitted alongwith the application.3.2(a)	None
OC may direct inspection to verify the compliance submitted by the college and considered by OC, anytime after 30 September 2016.(b)	None
In default of the conditions (i) and (ii) para 3.2 above and if the compliances are found incomplete in the inspection to be conducted after 30 September 2016, such college will be debarred from fresh intake of students for 2 years commencing 201718.9.	None
In compliance of the conditional approval granted by the Oversight Committee, the assessment was carried out on 28th and 29th December, 2016, by the team of assessors and the following defects were pointed out1.	None
Deficiency of faculty is 13.84 as detailed in the report.2.	Facts
Shortage of Residents is 8.69 as detailed in the report.3.	Facts
No Anti Sera are available in Microbiology laboratory.4.	Facts
Bed Occupancy is 50 at 10 a.m. on day of assessment as underDepartmentBedsAvailableOccupied1General Medicine72292Paediatrics24203TB Chest08074Psychiatry08065Skin VD08076General Surgery90317Orthopaedics30258Opthamology10029ENT100210O.G.4021TOTAL3001505.	Facts
Casualty Separate casualty for O.G. is not available.	Facts
Crash Cart is not available.6.	Facts
O.T. Preoperative beds are not available.7. ICUs There was only 1 patient in ICCU, SICU on day of assessment.8.	Facts
Only 1 out of 2 Static Xray machines has AERB approval.9.	None
Blood Bank Only 2 units were dispensed on day of assessment.10.	Facts
ETO Sterlizer is not available.11.	Facts
OPD Separate Registration counters for OPD IPD are not available.12.	Facts
Audiometry (Soundproof Airconditioned) is not available.	None
There was no Audiometer.13.	Facts
Other deficiencies as pointed out in the assessment report.10.	Facts
The Executive Committee took into consideration the report of the assessors and letter dated 29th December, 2016 of the Principal, Kerala Medical College, Palakkad regarding promotion of Dr. Munir U.A. from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor in the department of Pediatrics and the clinical material and leave of the faculty and resident doctors during MCI assessment.	Facts
Regard being had to the deficiencies, the MCI recommended to the Central Government not to grant Letter of Permission.11.	Facts
Thereafter, the Union of India passed an order on 31st May, 2017, debarring the petitionerCollege to admit the students in the MBBS course in the academic years 2017 2018 and 20182019 and also authorized the MCI to encash the bank guarantee of Rs. 2.00 crore.	Facts
The said order reads thusIn continuation to this Ministrys letter dated 20.08.2016 granting conditional permission for establishment of a medical college 150 seats for the academic year 20162017 on the basis of approval communicated by Supreme Court Mandated Oversight Committee on MCI and after granting an opportunity of hearing to the College with reference to the recommendation of the MCIs letter NO.MCI36(41)(e86)/2016 Med./167376 dated 15.01.2017, I am directed to convey the decision of the Central Government to debar Kerala Medical College, Palakkad from admitting students in next two academic years i.e. 20172018 20182019 and also to authorize MCI to encash the Bank Guarantee of Rs. 2.00 crore.	Facts
You are therefore, directed not to admit students in the MBBS course in the academic years 20172018 20182019 at your College.	Facts
Thereafter, next batch of students shall be admitted in the College only after obtaining permission of the Central Government for renewal.	Facts
Admissions made in violation of the above directives will be treated as irregular and action will be initiated under IMC Act Regulations made thereunder.12.	Facts
The petitionerTrust challenged the order of the Central Government before the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam in Writ Petition (C) No.21195/2017 (Y) and the High Court placing reliance on the judgment passed by this Court in Glocal Medical College and Super Specialty Hospital Research Centre v. Union of India, 2017(3) S.C.T. 642 2017(5)	Facts
Recent Apex Judgments (R.A.J.) 63 (2017) 8 SCALE 356 on 1st August, 21017, passed the following orderIn the light of the order passed by the Apex Court in Writ Petition (Civil) No.411 of 2017 and connected matters on 01.08.2017, as the medical colleges involved in these cases are similarly placed, I deem it appropriate to pass an interim order directing the Central Government to consider afresh the materials on record pertaining to the issue of renewal or otherwise of the letter of permission granted to the petitioner colleges institutions.	Facts
Ordered accordingly.	Facts
It is made clear that while undertaking this exercise, the Central Government shall reevaluate the recommendations views of the MCI, Hearing Committee, Director General of Health Services and the Oversight Committee, as available on records.	Facts
The Central Government shall also afford an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner colleges institutions to the extent necessary.	Facts
The process of hearing and the final reasoned decision thereon, as ordered, shall be completed peremptorily, within a period of fifteen days from today.13.	Facts
In pursuance of the aforesaid order, the Central Government on 14th August, 2017, passed an order declining Letter Of Permission to the petitionerinstitution.	None
The Central Government notedWhereas, the MCI vide letter dated 15.1.2017 has informed and recommended to the Ministry as underIn view of the above, the college has failed to abide by the undertaking it had given to the Central Govt.	Facts
that there are no deficiencies as per clause 3.2(i) of the directions passed by the Supreme Court mandated Oversight Committee vide communication dated 11/8/2016.	Facts
The Executive Committee, after due deliberation and discussion, have decided that the college has failed to comply with the stipulation laid down by the Oversight Committee.	Facts
Accordingly, the Executive Committee recommends that as per the directions passed by Oversight Committee in para 3.2(b) vide communication dated 11/08/2016 the college should be debarred from admitting students in the above course for a period of two academic years i.e. 201718 201819 as even after giving an undertaking that they have fulfilled the entire infrastructure for establishment of new medical college at Palakkad by Royal Medical TGrust under Kerala University of Health Sciences, Thrissur the college was found to be grossly deficient.	Facts
It has also been decided by the Executive Committee that the Bank Guarantee furnished by the college in pursuance of the directives passed by the Oversight Committee as well as GOI letter dated 20/08/2016 is liable to be enchashed.	Facts
Ministry decided to grant a personal hearing to the College on 08.02.2017 by the DGHS.	Facts
The Hearing Committee after considering the oral and written submission of the College, submitted its report to the Ministry.	Facts
In its report, the Hearing Committee observed as underSl.	Facts
NoDeficiencies reported by MCIObservations of hearing committeei.	Facts
Deficiency of faculty is 13.84 as detailed in the report.	Facts
No satisfactory justification for deficiencies.ii.Shortage of Residents is 8.69 as detailed in the reportiii.	Facts
No Anti Sera are available in Microbiology laboratory.iv.Bed occupancy is 50 at 10 a.m. on day of assessment as underDepartmentBedsAvailableOccupied1General Medicine72292Paediatrics24203TB Chest08074Psychiatry08065Skin VD08076General	Facts
Surgery90317Orthopaedics30258Opthamology10029ENT100210O.G.4021TOTAL300150v.	Facts
Casualty Separate Casualty for O.G. is not available.	Facts
Crash Cart is not availablevi.	Facts
O.T. Preoperative beds are not availablevii.	Facts
ICUs There was only 1 patient in ICCU, SICU on day of assessment.viii.	Facts
Only 1 out of 2 Static Xray machines has AERB approval.ix.	None
Blood Bank Only 2 units were dispensed on day of assessment.x.	Facts
ETO Sterilizer is not available.xi.	Facts
OPD Separate Registration counters for OPD IPD are not available.xii.	Facts
Audiometry (Soundproof Airconditioned) is not available.	None
There was no Audiometer.	None
Whereas, the Ministry forwarded the Hearing Committee report to the OC for guidance.	None
The OC vide its letter dated 14.05.2017 conveyed their following views to the Ministry(i) Faculty Considering the 7 members of faculty (out of 8) as explained by the College, the deficiency is 3.03 which is within the acceptable limits.(ii) Residents Considering the 4 residents as explained by the College, there is no deficiency.(iii)	Facts
No Anti Sera	None
The deficiency is subjective though explained by the College.(iv) Bed occupancy The College has explained the grounds.(v)	None
Casualty The College has explained the grounds.	Facts
This deficiency is subjective.	Facts
No MSR.(vi) OT	None
The College has explained the grounds.(vii) ICUs The College has explained the grounds.	None
This deficiency is subjective.	Facts
No MSR.(viii) XRay machines The statement of College is correct as seen from the attached approvals.(ix)	None
Blood Bank The ColLege has explained the grounds.	Facts
This deficiency is subjective.	Facts
No MSR.(x) ETO The College has explained the grounds.(xi)	Facts
OPD The College has explained the grounds.v.	Facts
Casualty Separate Casualty for O.G. is not available.	Facts
Crash Cart is not availablevi.	Facts
O.T. Preoperative beds are not availablevii.	Facts
ICUs There was only 1 patient in ICCU, SICU on day of assessment.viii.	Facts
Only 1 out of 2 Static Xray machines has AERB approval.ix.	None
Blood Bank Only 2 units were dispensed on day of assessment.x.	Facts
ETO Sterilizer is not available.xi.	Facts
OPD Separate Registration counters for OPD IPD are not available.xii.	Facts
Audiometry (Soundproof Airconditioned) is not available.	None
There was no Audiometer.(xii)	None
Audiometry The College explanation is acceptable on the basis of photos attached.	None
LOP confirmed.14.	None
After so noting, the Central Government referred to its earlier order dated 31st May, 2017 and the order dated 2nd August, 2017, passed by the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam and held thusNow, in compliance with the above direction of Honble High Court dated 2.8.2017, the Ministry granted hearing to the college on 8.8.2017.	Facts
The Hearing Committee after considering the record and oral written submission of the college submitted its report to the Ministry.	Facts
Findings of Hearing Committee are as underMCI has pointed out deficiency of 9 faculty and 4 residents against the requirement.	Facts
The shortfall is attributed by the college to leave opted by staffs during the Christmas  New Year week.	Facts
Supporting documents such as bank statement Form16 (for financial year 201516) were also submitted for the doctors on leave.	Facts
It is observed that the appointment orders issued by the college are without any reference number.	Facts
Nothing could be conclusively established about the faculty on leave.	Facts
The submission of the college regarding static xray machine, preoperative beds, ETO sterilizer, audiometry, etc. may be accepted.	None
However, the college seems deficient in bed occupancy.	Facts
In view of the Committee, the college is at LoP stage and the facilities have to be satisfactorily verified.	Facts
The Committee agrees with the decision of the Ministry vide letter dated 31.05.2017 to debar the college for two years and also permit MCI to encash bank guarantee.	Facts
Accepting the recommendations of Hearing Committee, the Ministry reiterates it earlier decision dated 31.5.2017 to debar the college from admitting students for a period of 2 years i.e., 201718 201819 and also authorize MCI to encash Bank Guarantee of Rs. 2 crores.	Facts
The said order is the subject matter of assail in this Writ Petition.15.	None
We have heard Dr. Rajiv Dhawan and Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned senior counsel for the petitioners, Mr. Ajit Kumar Sinha, learned senior counsel for the Union of India and Mr. Vikas Singh, learned senior counsel along with Mr. Gaurav Sharma, learned counsel for the MCI.16.	None
Learned counsel for the petitioners submit that the inspection that has been carried out by the MCI is a composite inspection for 20162017 and 20172018 and when the deficiencies are marginal and, in fact, it can be said there is really no deficiency, there is no justification to deny the LOP for 20172018.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged by them that the explanation offered by the petitionerinstitution has really not been taken into consideration and had it been appositely appreciated, such an assessment could not have been made by the assessors.	None
They have also highlighted that certain other institutions having more deficiencies have been extended the benefit of LOP for 20172018, but for no fathomable or acceptable reason, the institution in question has been deprived of the said benefit.	None
It is urged with vehemence that the order passed by the Central Government is not in consonance with the judgments rendered by this Court in Glocal Medical College (supra), IQ City Foundation and Another v. Union of India Ors, 2017(3) S.C.T. 634 2017(5)	Facts
Recent Apex Judgments (R.A.J.) 54 (2017) 8 SCALE 369.	None
That apart, it is contended that the inspection by the MCI was done during the Christmas and New Year, which is not permissible as per the Regulations and hence, the whole report deserves to be disregarded.	None
Additionally, it is propounded that the status of the order passed by the Central Government still remains an unreasoned one and by stretch of reasoning, it can be conferred the distinction of a reasoned order.	None
Dr. Rajiv Dhawan, pyramiding the aforesaid submissions along with Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, submits that the Court does not sit in appeal over such order and, therefore, when the order is absolutely perverse and arbitrary, it should be overturned in exercise of power of judicial review and the institution should be granted LOP for the academic year 20172018.17.	Reasoning
Mr. Ajit Kumar Sinha, learned senior counsel appearing for the Union of India, per contra, would contend that the Oversight Committee had passed a conditional order and when the conditions were not fulfilled, the institution has to face the consequences and in such a situation it is extremely hollow on the part of the petitionerinstitution to set forth unacceptable criticism pertaining to the order passed by the Central Government.	Arguments of Respondent
He would further submit that the order dated 31st May, 2017, as this Court has already held, was not an order which reflected reason, but the order impugned is irrefragably a reasoned one because there is reference to the history of the institution, the chronology of events, the report of the Oversight Committee, the opinion of the Hearing Committee and eventual expression of an opinion.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, if such an order is not given the stamp of a reasoned order, it will be granting premium to recalcitrant institutions, which are bent upon imparting medical education in an unscrupulous manner.	Arguments of Respondent
According to Mr. Sinha, concept of negative equality is not within the ambit of Article 14 of the Constitution of India and, in any case, this Court has issued notice to the other institutions and, therefore, the petitioners cannot claim parity.	Arguments of Respondent
Additionally, he would put forth that in most of the matters, this Court has directed for consideration of the LOP for the year 20182019 and the present fact situation does not exposit a different scenario and hence, this Court should not make any distinction in the present case.18.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Vikas Singh, learned senior counsel appearing for the MCI refuting the arguments advanced by the learned senior counsel for the petitioners, contends that ascribing of reasons by an administrative authority should not be equated to a judgment of the Court, for what is required is to see whether the reasons are discernible and whether there has been application of mind.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Singh would further contend that the allegation made by the petitionerinstitution that the Executive Committee has not considered the explanation offered by the competent authority of the college shows an attitude of obstinacy and deviancy.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned senior counsel would contend that the in IQ City Foundation (supra) when this Court remanded the matter and in Glocal Medical College (supra) when this Court granted the benefit on proper appreciation, it would be quite lucent, the role conferred on the MCI of India and the reason for extending the benefit to an institution for 2017 2018.	Arguments of Respondent
That apart, propounds Mr. Singh, that the educational institutions cannot remain disobedient to the framework of the Regulations brought into existence under Section 33 of the Act and assert with stubbornness that they should be given the LOP.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, if such a situation is allowed to prevail, the Act, the Regulations and Minimum Standard Requirement (MSR) for the MCI would be tenuous and ultimately come within the tentacles of unscrupulous institutions.19.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court in IQ City Foundation (supra), after referring to Dr. Ashish Ranjan and Others v. Union of India and Others, (2016) 11 SCC 225 and Manohar Lal Sharma v. Medical Council of India and Others, 2013(4) S.C.T. 516 (2013) 10 SCC 60 , Medical Council of India v. Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) and Others, 2016(3) S.C.T. 96 (2016) 11 SCC 530 and Royal Medical Trust (Registered) and Another v. Union of India and Another, 2015(4) S.C.T. 140 (2015) 10 SCC 19 held thusOn a reading of Section 10A of the Act, Rules and the Regulations, as has been referred to in Manohar Lal Sharma (supra), and the view expressed in Royal Medical Trust (supra), it would be inapposite to restrict the power of the MCI by laying down as an absolute principle that once the Central Government sends back the matter to MCI for compliance verification and the Assessors visit the College they shall only verify the mentioned items and turn a Nelsons eye even if they perceive certain other deficiencies.	None
It would be playing possum.	None
The direction of the Central Government for compliance verification report should not be construed as a limited remand as is understood within the framework of Code of Civil Procedure or any other law.	None
The distinction between the principles of open remand and limited remand, we are disposed to think, is not attracted.	None
Be it clearly stated, the said principle also does not flow from the authority in Royal Medical Trust (supra).	None
In this context, the objectivity of the Hearing Committee and the role of the Central Government assume great significance.	None
The real compliant institutions should not always be kept under the sword of Damocles.	None
Stability can be brought by affirmative role played by the Central Government.	None
And the stability and objectivity would be perceptible if reasons are ascribed while expressing a view and absence of reasons makes the decision sensitively susceptible.	None
Having said this, we are not inclined to close the matter.	None
The petitioners have been running the College since 201314.	None
We have been apprised that students who have been continuing their education shall continue for 201718.	None
As we find the order of the Central Government is not a reasoned one.	None
It is obligatory on its part to ascribe reasons.	None
For the said purpose, we would like the Central Government to afford a further opportunity of hearing to the petitioners and also take the assistance of the newly constituted Oversight Committee as per the order dated July 18, 2017 passed by the Constitution Bench in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 408 of 2017 titled Amma Chandravati Educational and Charitable Trust and others v. Union of India and another and thereafter take a decision within two weeks.	None
Needless to say, the decision shall contain reasons.	None
We repeat at the cost of repetition that the decision must be an informed one.20.	None
Section 10A of the Act deals with permission for establishment of new medical college, new course of study, etc. Subsection (7) of Section 10A reads as follows(7)	None
The Council, while making its recommendations under clause (b) of subsection (3) and the Central Government, while passing an order, either approving or disapproving the scheme under subsection (4), shall have due regard to the following factors, namely(a) whether the proposed medical college or the existing medical college seeking to open a new or higher course of study or training, would be in a position to offer the minimum standards of medical education as prescribed by the Council under Section 19A or, as the case may be, under Section 20 in the case of postgraduate medical education.(b) whether the person seeking to establish a medical college or the existing medical college seeking to open a new or higher course of study or training or to increase its admission capacity has adequate financial resources(c) whether necessary facilities in respect of staff, equipment, accommodation, training and other facilities to ensure proper functioning of the medical college or conducting the new course or study or training or accommodating the increased admission capacity, have been provided or would be provided within the timelimit specified in the scheme(d) whether adequate hospital facilities, having regard to the number of students likely to attend such medical college or course of study or training or as a result of the increased admission capacity, have been provided or would be provided within the timelimit specified in the scheme(e) whether any arrangement has been made or programme drawn to impart proper training to students likely to attend such medical college or course of study or training by persons having the recognised medical qualifications(f) the requirement of manpower in the field of practice of medicine and(g) any other factors as may be prescribed.21.	None
Section 3B of Indian Medical Council (Amendment) Act, 2010, which confers the powers on the Board of Governors, reads as follows3B.	None
Certain modifications of the Act.	None
During the period when the Council stands superseded (b) The Board of Governors shall(i) exercise the powers and discharge the functions of the Council under this Act and for this purpose, the provisions of this Act shall have effect subject to the modification that references therein to the Council shall be construed as references to the Board of Governors(ii) grant independently permission for establishment of new medical colleges or opening a new or higher course of study or training or increase in admission capacity in any course of study or training referred to in Section 10A or giving the person or college concerned a reasonable opportunity of being heard as provided under Section 10A without prior permission of the Central Government under that section, including exercise of the power to finally approve or disapprove the same and(iii) dispose of the matters pending with the Central Government under Section 10A upon receipt of the same from it.22.	None
In Manohar Lal Sharma (supra), Section 3B was interpreted thusMCI, with the previous sanction by the Central Government, in exercise of its powers conferred by Sections 10A and 33 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956, made the Regulations known as the Establishment of Medical College Regulations, 1999.	None
Regulation 8 of the 1999 Regulations deals with grant of permission for establishment of new college.	None
Application Scheme submitted by the applicants is evaluated and the verification takes place by conducting physical inspection by the team of inspectors of MCI.	None
The Board of Governors may grant LoP to the applicant for making admissions in the first year of MBBS course in the medical college and the permission is renewed every year subject to the college achieving the yearly target mentioned in Minimum Standard Requirements for the Medical College for 150 Admissions Annually Regulations, 1999.	None
Schedule I of the abovementioned Regulation provides for accommodation in the medical college and its teaching hospital.	None
Schedule II deals with equipment required for various departments in the college and hospital.	None
The requirements are statutorily prescribed and, therefore, the Board of Governors has no power to dilute the statutory requirements mentioned in the abovementioned Regulations.23.	None
In Royal Medical Trust (supra), the Court after due advertence to Section 10A of the Act and the Regulations framed by the Medical Council of India, has ruledMCI and the Central Government have been vested with monitoring powers under Section 10A and the Regulations.	None
It is expected of these authorities to discharge their functions well within the statutory confines as well as in conformity with the Schedule to the Regulations.	None
If there is inaction on their part or nonobservance of the time schedule, it is bound to have adverse effect on all concerned.	None
The affidavit filed on behalf of the Union of India shows that though the number of seats had risen, obviously because of permissions granted for establishment of new colleges, because of disapproval of renewal cases the resultant effect was net loss in terms of number of seats available for the academic year.	None
It thus not only caused loss of opportunity to the students community but at the same time caused loss to the society in terms of less number of doctors being available.	None
MCI and the Central Government must therefore show due diligence right from the day when the applications are received.	None
The Schedule giving various stages and timelimits must accommodate every possible eventuality and at the same time must comply with the requirements of observance of natural justice at various levels.	None
In our view the Schedule must ideally take care of(A)	None
Initial assessment of the application at the first level should comprise of checking necessary requirements such as essentiality certificate, consent for affiliation and physical features like land and hospital requirement.	None
If an applicant fails to fulfil these requirements, the application on the face of it, would be incomplete and be rejected.	None
Those who fulfil the basic requirements would be considered at the next stage.(B)	None
Inspection should then be conducted by the Inspectors of MCI.	None
By very nature such inspection must have an element of surprise.	None
Therefore sufficient time of about three to four months ought to be given to MCI to cause inspection at any time and such inspection should normally be undertaken latest by January.	None
Surprise inspection would ensure that the required facilities and infrastructure are always in place and not borrowed or put in temporarily.(C) Intimation of the result or outcome of the inspection would then be communicated.	None
If the infrastructure and facilities are in order, the medical college concerned should be given requisite permission renewal.	None
However, if there are any deficiencies or shortcomings, MCI must, after pointing out the deficiencies, grant to the college concerned sufficient time to report compliance.(D) If compliance is reported and the applicant states that the deficiencies stand removed, MCI must cause compliance verification.	None
It is possible that such compliance could be accepted even without actual physical verification but that assessment be left entirely to the discretion of MCI and the Central Government.	None
In cases where actual physical verification is required, MCI and the Central Government must cause such verification before the deadline.(E)	None
The result of such verification if positive in favour of the medical college concerned, the applicant ought to be given requisite permission renewal.	None
But if the deficiencies still persist or had not been removed, the applicant will stand disentitled so far as that academic year is concerned.	None
Emphasis added24.	None
On a perusal of the aforesaid, it is clear as crystal that the surprise inspection is permissible and the college is required to remain compliant.	None
The thrust of the matter is whether the inspection is justified and the decision taken by the Central Government is correct or not.	None
To appreciate the propriety and correctness of the inspection during Christmas and New Year, it is necessary to refer to clause 8(3)(1)(d) of the Establishment of Medical College Regulations, 1999.	None
The said clause reads as followsHowever, the office of the Council shall ensure that such inspections are not carried out at least 2 days before and 2 days after important religious and festival holidays declared by the Central State Govt.25.	None
In the case at hand, the assessors had gone for inspection on 28th and 29th December, 2016.	None
In Shri Venkateshwara University Through its Registrar Another v. Union of India and Another, 2017 SCC Online SC 1034 Writ Petition (Civil) No. 445 of 2017 this Court has referred to the decision in Kanachur Islamic Education Trust (R) v. Union of India and Another, (2017) 10 SCALE 321 and after reproducing few paragraphs has heldOn a careful reading of the aforesaid judgment, we do not think that the clause has been interpreted as not to allow any inspection on a Sunday, but the Court have said in the factual matrix of the said case that the Institution was a minority institution and a major festival for the said community was scheduled on 12th December, 2016 and the day previous thereto i.e. 11th December, 2016, was a Sunday and the said facts are not wholly irrelevant.	None
The said analysis cannot be regarded as the construction of the clause.	None
Having said that, we shall proceed to analyze what the clause precisely conveys.	None
On a careful reading of the same, it is quite clear and unambiguous that the obligation of the MCI is to ensure that inspections are not to be carried out at least 2 days before and 2 days after an important religious and festival holidays declared by the Central State Government.	None
In the clause, the words which gain significance are important religious and festival holidays.	None
On 12th December, 2016, it was MiladunNabi and it is the day of festival.	None
The inspection was done on 9th December, 2016, which was a Friday.	None
The amended clause of the notification state only covers 2 days before the festival declared as a holiday by the Central State Government and 2 days thereafter.	None
In the case at hand, the inspection team had gone for inspection on 9th December, 2016, and they were deprived to carry out the inspection.	None
It was not covered by the concept of two days of moratorium.26.	None
At this juncture, it is pertinent to understand and appreciate the ratio of Kanachur Islamic Education Trust (R) (supra) because it is being highlighted in certain cases that there is no acceptability or permissibility to have a second inspection in quite succession.	None
The paragraph that has been highlighted from Kanachur Islamic Education Trust (R) (supra) reads thusThat against the inspections conducted by the MCI, the petitioners college institution had submitted representations on 15.12.2016 and 16.1.2017 before the Central Government is a matter of record.	None
That the report qua the inspection conducted on 1718.11.2016 did not disclose any substantial deficiency warranting disapproval as observed by the Hearing Committee is also not in dispute.	None
It is unambiguously clear that the inspection of the petitioners college undertaken on 1718.11.2016 did not divulge any substantial deficiency justifying disapproval of the LOP to it.	None
The reason for the surprise inspection on 9 10.12.2016, i.e. within three weeks of the first exercise and that too in absence of any noticeable substantial deficiency, is convincingly not forthcoming.27.	None
On a careful reading of the said paragraph, it is limpid that is not the ratio of the decision that there cannot be a surprise inspection and every time reasons have to be recorded.	None
Be it noted, the Court has also clarified the position at the end of the verdict stating thusWe make it clear that the decision rendered and the directions issued are in the singular facts and circumstances of the case.28.	None
It is well settled in law that the ratio of a decision has to be understood regard being had to its context and factual exposition.	None
The ratiocination in an authority is basically founded on the interpretation of the statutory provision.	None
If it is based on a particular fact or the decision of the Court is guided by specific nature of the case, it will not amount to the ratio of the judgment.	None
Lord Halsbury in Quinn v. Leathem, 1901 AC 495 (190003)	None
ALL ER Rep 1 (HL) has ruled every judgment must be read as applicable to the particular facts proved, or assumed to be proved, since the generality of the expressions which may be found there are not intended to be expositions of the whole law, but are governed and qualified by the particular facts of the case in which such expressions are to be found.29.	None
A threeJudge Bench in Union of India and others v. Dhanwanti Devi and others, (1996) 6 SCC 44 , while adverting to the concept of precedent under Article 141 of the Constitution, has opined thusBefore adverting to and considering whether solatium and interest would be payable under the Act, at the outset, we will dispose of the objection raised by Shri Vaidyanathan that Hari Krishan Khosla case, (1993)	None
Supp (2) 149 is not a binding precedent nor does it operate as ratio decidendi to be followed as a precedent and is per se per incuriam.	None
It is not everything said by a Judge while giving judgment that constitutes a precedent.	None
The only thing in a Judges decision binding a party is the principle upon which the case is decided and for this reason it is important to analyse a decision and isolate from it the ratio decidendi.	None
According to the wellsettled theory of precedents, every decision contains three basic postulates(i) findings of material facts, direct and inferential.	None
An inferential finding of facts is the inference which the Judge draws from the direct, or perceptible facts (ii) statements of the principles of law applicable to the legal problems disclosed by the facts and (iii) judgment based on the combined effect of the above.	None
A decision is only an authority for what it actually decides.	None
What is of the essence in a decision is its ratio and not every observation found therein nor what logically follows from the various observations made in the judgment.	None
Every judgment must be read as applicable to the particular facts proved, or assumed to be proved, since the generality of the expressions which may be found there is not intended to be exposition of the whole law, but governed and qualified by the particular facts of the case in which such expressions are to be found.	None
It would, therefore, be not profitable to extract a sentence here and there from the judgment and to build upon it because the essence of the decision is its ratio and not every observation found therein.	None
The enunciation of the reason or principle on which a question before a court has been decided is alone binding as a precedent.	None
The concrete decision alone is binding between the parties to it, but it is the abstract ratio decidendi, ascertained on a consideration of the judgment in relation to the subjectmatter of the decision, which alone has the force of law and which, when it is clear what it was, is binding.	None
It is only the principle laid down in the judgment that is binding law under Article 141 of the Constitution.	None
A deliberate judicial decision arrived at after hearing an argument on a question which arises in the case or is put in issue may constitute a precedent, no matter for what reason, and the precedent by long recognition may mature into rule of stare decisis.	None
It is the rule deductible from the application of law to the facts and circumstances of the case which constitutes its ratio decidendi.	None
Therefore, in order to understand and appreciate the binding force of a decision it is always necessary to see what were the facts in the case in which the decision was given and what was the point which had to be decided.	None
No judgment can be read as if it is a statute.	None
A word or a clause or a sentence in the judgment cannot be regarded as a full exposition of law.	None
Law cannot afford to be static and therefore, Judges are to employ an intelligent technique in the use of precedents.30.	None
In Bussa Overseas and Properties Private Limited and Another v. Union of India and Another, 2016(1) R.C.R.(Civil) 955 2016(1)	None
Recent Apex Judgments (R.A.J.) 491 (2016) 4 SCC 696 , while dealing with the precedential value of the decision in Thungabhadra Industries Limited v. State of A.P., AIR 1964 SC 1372 , the twoJudge Bench heldThe aforesaid decision in Thungabhadra Industries Ltd. case when properly appreciated clearly reveals that it pertains to the stage when objection is to be taken.	None
It does not lay down that a special leave petition against a review petition is maintainable or not.	None
The focus on the stage of taking objection is factcentric but not principleoriented.	None
To elaborate, the said decision does not lay down as a principle that the Court is bereft of power to hear on maintainability.	None
If we understand the view expressed therein, it can be said that the Court has been guided by the concept of propriety.	None
Emphasis supplied31.	None
In Royal Medical Trust (supra), this Court has clearly held that there can be surprise inspection as that ensures that the required facilities and infrastructure are always in place and not borrowed or put in temporarily.32.	None
In IQ City Foundation and Another (supra), after referring to Royal Medical Trust (supra), the Court has heldTherefore, the emphasis is on the complaint institutions that can really educate doctors by imparting quality education so that they will have the inherent as well as cultivated attributes of excellence.33.	None
Thus, in our considered opinion what has been stated in Royal Medical Trust (supra) and IQ City Foundation (supra) has the precedential value under Article 141 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
We have no hesitation in saying that the pronouncement in Kanachur Islamic Education Trust (R) (supra) has to rest on its own facts.34.	Reasoning
Having said that, it is necessary to scrutinise the explanation offered by the Principal of the petitionerinstitution.	None
The Principal has justified the leave availed of by the faculty and the residents during the period of inspection of the assessors of the Medical Council of India.	None
We think it appropriate to reproduce the said explanationWe would like to bring to your kind notice that few faculty and residents were on leave and half day leave on various reasons during the assessment conducted by MCI in Kerala Medical College, Palakkad on 28122016.	None
The details are mentioned below for your kind perusal.1.	None
Dr. Gurusiddana Gowda, Associate Professor of Radio Diagnosis.	None
His father had expired two weeks back	None
and he had gone to perform the rituals of his father as per Hindu religious custom.	None
He is the elder son in the family.	None
Form 16, salary statement from bank and attendance register copy is enclosed herewith.2.	None
Dr. R. Balamurugan Ramdas, Associate Professor of Bio Chemistry.	None
He had gone to his native Pondichery during Christmas Holidays taking leave till 01012017 because of personal reasons.	None
Form 16, salary statement from bank and attendance register copy is enclosed herewithleave submission form.3.	None
Dr. MS Ramaiyah, Associate Professor of Medicine.	None
He was on half day leave on 28122016 and reported in the afternoon.	None
He was presented before the inspectors but not accepted as he was not present at the time of taking attendance at 11 a.m.	None
Form 16, salary statement from the bank and attendance register copy is enclosed herewith.4.	None
Dr. N. Natarajan, Associate Professor of Medicine.	None
He was on half day leave on 28122016 and reported in the afternoon.	None
He was presented before the inspectors but not accepted as he was not present at the time of taking attendance at 11 a.m.	None
Form 16, salary statement from the bank and attendance register copy is enclosed herewith.5.	None
Dr. MS Dhananjaya, Professor of OBG.His cousin brother had expired and the 12th day ritual ceremony was on 28122016 and he had been sanctioned leave.	None
He is present on 2912 2016 and presented before the assessors.	None
Form 16, salary statement from the bank and attendance register copy is enclosed herewith.6.	None
Dr. Ravi Chandra, Associate Professor of Surgery.	None
He had gone to his native during Christmas holidays taking leave till 3112.2016 because of personal reasons.	None
Salary statement from bank and attendance register copy is enclosed herewith.7.	None
Dr. Asha S Jagtap, Professor of PSMShe had gone to her native during Christmas holidays taking leave till 31122016 because of personal reasons.	None
Form 16, salary statement from the bank and attendance register copy is enclosed herewith.8.	None
Dr. Girist A, Senior Resident in Medicine.	None
He was on half day leave on 28122016 and reported in the afternoon.	None
He was presented before the inspectors but not accepted as he was not present at the time of taking attendance at 11 a.m.	None
Salary statement from the bank and attendance register copy is enclosed herewith.9.	None
Dr. Basavaraj SK, Senior resident of Medicine.	None
He had gone to his native during Christmas holidays taking leave till 31122016 because of personal reasons.	None
Salary statement from bank and attendance register copy is enclosed herewith.10.	None
Dr. B. Ravindra Shivaji, Senior Resident of Radio Diagnosis.	None
He had gone to his native during Christmas holidays taking leave till 31122016 because of personal reasons.	None
Salary statement from bank and attendance register copy is enclosed herewith.11.	None
Dr. Harithakumari Landa, Senior Resident of pulmonary medicine.	None
She had gone to his native during Christmas holidays taking leave till 31122016 because of personal reasons.	None
Salary statement from the bank and attendance register copy is enclosed herewith.35.	None
It is submitted by the learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioners that the Medical Council of India as well as the Central Government should have accepted the leave position and, in any case, it was within the permissible limit.36.	None
In this regard, Mr. Vikas Singh learned senior counsel for the MCI has drawn our attention to the extract of the Minutes of the Executive Committee dated 21st August, 2014.	None
It reads as followsRegarding specifying the type of acceptable leave during inspection of medical colleges.	None
Read the matter with regard to regarding specifying the type of acceptable leave during inspection of medical colleges.	None
The Executive Committee of the Council considered the report of the Sub Committee dt.	None
17.04.2014 as constituted by the Executive Committee at its meeting held on 14th March, 2014 and decided to accept the report with the following amendments(1)	None
The faculty who is on leave due to the following reasons would be accepted(a) For attending International National conferences organized by the respective International National Associations or Societies(b)	None
For attending any work assigned by Medical Council of India, either at headquarters or for assessment of a medical college(c) For conducting examination of the concerned subject in a medical college in Central State University(d)	None
For attending CourtsProvided that appropriate documents certifying the same which are countersigned by the dean are furnished.(2)	None
The faculty who is on sanctioned Maternity leave would be accepted provided the appropriate leave sanction order issued by the sanctioning authority and countersigned by the Dean is furnished with all necessary certificates.37.	None
The said resolution is strenuously contested by the learned senior counsel for the petitioners.	None
It is urged with immense vehemence that the resolution smacks of gross arbitrariness and reveals a sense of hidden base for use of power of an absolute tyrant and a despot.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Singh explaining the same would submit that a hospital to remain compliant has to have the requisite number of doctors and staff, and to run a medical college constant compliance is imperative.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, when a college is granted LOP for the first year, 5 margin with regard to absence is granted and that is why certain categories of leave have not been mentioned in the resolution, but that does not mean that the college can grant leave to the doctors at its whim and fancy.	Arguments of Petitioner
Be that as it may, the absence of faculty members which has been taken note of by the Medical Council of India and accepted by the Central Government cannot be allowed to pale into total insignificance.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this regard, a submission advanced by the learned senior counsel for the petitioners requires to be noted.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged by them that the engagement of the faculty members are to be believed as they are paid their salaries by the petitioners and it is shown in the necessary Income Tax form.	Arguments of Petitioner
38.	Arguments of Petitioner
It needs no special emphasis to state that the said submission cannot be the guiding factor for our analysis.	Arguments of Petitioner
The issue is the deficiency of the doctors and the absence of the doctors during the period of inspection.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have already held that the period in which the assessors inspected cannot be said to be a period covered under the Regulations.	Arguments of Petitioner
That apart, as is noticeable, the Hearing Committee which has been constituted on the basis of the decision in Amma Chandravati Educational and Charitable Trust (supra), has also held that the college is deficient in bed occupancy at the conditional LOP stage other facilities have to be specifically verified and in the absence of satisfaction, the LOP ought not to be granted.39.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the course of hearing, Mr. Rohatgi, learned senior counsel for the petitioners has placed heavy reliance on Krishna Mohan Medical College and Hospital Anr v. Union of India Anr, 2017 SCC Online SC 1032 (Writ Petition (Civil) No. 448 of 2017 decided on 01.09.2017) and Dr. Jagat Narain Subharti Charitable Trust Anr v. Union of India Ors, (2017) 10 SCALE 308.	Arguments of Petitioner
40.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Krishna Mohan Medical College (supra), this Court has held as the Act and Regulations framed thereunder have been envisioned to attain the highest standards of medical education, we direct the Central Government MCI to cause a fresh inspection of the petitioner college institution to be made in accordance therewith for the academic year 201819 and lay the report in respect thereof before this Court within a period of eight weeks herefrom.	None
A copy of the report, needless to state, would be furnished to the petitioner college institution at the earliest so as to enable it to avail its remedies, if so advised, under the Act and the Regulations.	None
The Central Government MCI would not encash the bank guarantee furnished by the petitioner college institution.	None
For the present, the impugned order dated 10.8.2017 stands modified to this extent only.	None
The direction for a writ, order or direction to the respondents to permit the petitioner college institution to admit students for the academic year 201718, in the facts of the case, is declined.41.	None
In Dr. Jagat Narain Subharti Charitable Trust (supra), the Court, while granting the benefit for academic session 20172018, opinedThus, there has been substantial compliance of the said requirement by the petitioners.	None
Assuming that the notification dated 16.10.2015 applied even to the proposal of the petitioners, suffice it to observe that failure to furnish information in the prescribed Form5 cannot be held against the petitioners.	None
In any case, that is not a deficiency relating to infrastructure or academic matters as such, which may require a different approach.42.	None
The aforesaid decisions speak for themselves and, therefore, reliance on the same by the petitioners is of no avail.43.	None
Dr. Rajiv Dhawan would submit that this Court should not exercise appellate jurisdiction which is fundamentally called an error jurisdiction or rectification of errors.	Arguments of Respondent
We are absolutely conscious of the appellate jurisdiction and the jurisdiction this Court is required to exercise while determining the controversy in exercise of power of judicial review under Article 32 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
The principle of judicial review by the constitutional courts have been lucidly stated in many an authority of this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
In Tata Cellular v. Union of India, (1994) 6 SCC 651 , dealing with the concept of Judicial Review, the Court heldLord Scarman in Nottinghamshire County Council v. Secretary of State for the Environment proclaimedJudicial review is a great weapon in the hands of the judges but the judges must observe the constitutional limits set by our parliamentary system upon the exercise of this beneficial power.	Arguments of Respondent
Commenting upon this Michael Supperstone and James Goudie in their work Judicial Review (1992 Edn.)	None
at p. 16 sayIf anyone were prompted to dismiss this sage warning as a mere obiter dictum from the most radical member of the higher judiciary of recent times, and therefore to be treated as an idiosyncratic aberration, it has received the endorsement of the Law Lords generally.	Arguments of Respondent
The words of Lord Scarman were echoed by Lord Bridge of Harwich, speaking on behalf of the Board when reversing an interventionist decision of the New Zealand Court of Appeal in Butcher v. Petrocorp Exploration Ltd. 1831991.Observance of judicial restraint is currently the mood in England.	Arguments of Respondent
The judicial power of review is exercised to rein in any unbridled executive functioning.	Arguments of Respondent
The restraint has two contemporary manifestations.	Arguments of Respondent
One is the ambit of judicial intervention the other covers the scope of the courts ability to quash an administrative decision on its merits.	Arguments of Respondent
These restraints bear the hallmarks of judicial control over administrative action.	Arguments of Respondent
Judicial review is concerned with reviewing not the merits of the decision in support of which the application for judicial review is made, but the decisionmaking process itself.44.	Arguments of Respondent
After so stating, reference was made to the law enunciated in Chief Constable of the North Wales Police v. Evans, (1982) 3	None
All ER 141 wherein, it has been ruledJudicial review, as the words imply, is not an appeal from a decision, but a review of the manner in which the decision was made.	None
Judicial review is concerned, not with the decision, but with the decisionmaking process.	None
Unless that restriction on the power of the court is observed, the court will in my view, under the guise of preventing the abuse of power, be itself guilty of usurping power.45.	None
In the said case, the Court also referred to R. v. Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, ex. P. Datafin plc, (1987) 1	None
All ER 564 wherein Sir John Donaldson, M.R. commentedAn application for judicial review is not an appeal.46.	None
The three Judge Bench further	None
heldThe duty of the court is to confine itself to the question of legality.	None
Its concern should be1.	None
Whether a decisionmaking authority exceeded its powers?2.	None
Committed an error of law,3.	None
committed a breach of the rules of natural justice,4.	None
reached a decision which no reasonable tribunal would have reached or,5.	None
abused its powers.47.	None
The Court further opined that in the process of judicial review, it is only concerned with the manner in which the decisions have been taken.	None
The extent of the duty is to act fairly.	None
It will vary from case to case.	None
Explicating further, it ruledShortly put, the grounds upon which an administrative action is subject to control by judicial review can be classified as under(i)	None
Illegality This means the decisionmaker must understand correctly the law that regulates his decisionmaking power and must give effect to it.(ii)	None
Irrationality, namely, Wednesbury unreasonableness.(iii)	None
Procedural impropriety.	None
The above are only the broad grounds but it does not rule out addition of further grounds in course of time.	None
As a matter of fact, in R. v. Secretary of State for the Home Department, ex Brind, Lord Diplock refers specifically to one development, namely, the possible recognition of the principle of proportionality.	None
In all these cases the test to be adopted is that the court should, consider whether something has gone wrong of a nature and degree which requires its intervention.48.	None
Thereafter, the Court referred to the authorities in R. v. Askew, (1768) 4 Burr 2186 98 ER 139 and Council of Civil Service Unions v. Minister for Civil Service, (1985) 1 AC 374 (1984) 3	None
All ER 935 (1984) 3 WLR 1174 and further expressedAt this stage, The Supreme Court Practice, 1993, Vol. 1, pp. 849850, may be quoted 4.	None
Wednesbury principle.	None
A decision of a public authority will be liable to be quashed or otherwise dealt with by an appropriate order in judicial review proceedings where the court concludes that the decision is such that no authority properly directing itself on the relevant law and acting reasonably could have reached it.	None
(Associated Provincial Picture Houses Ltd. v. Wednesbury Corpn., per Lord Greene, M.R.)We may hasten to add, though the decision was rendered in the context of justification of grant of contract but the principles set out as regards the judicial review are of extreme significance.49.	None
Discussing at length, the principle of judicial review in many a decision, the two Judge Bench in	None
Reliance Telecom Ltd.	None
Another v. Union of India Another, (2017) 4 SCC 269 , has heldAs we find, the decision taken by the Central Government is based upon certain norms and parameters.	None
Though criticism has been advanced that it is perverse and irrational, yet we are disposed to think that it is a policy decision which subserves the consumers interest.	None
It is extremely difficult to say that the decision to conduct the auction in such a manner can be considered to be mala fide or based on extraneous considerations.50.	None
Thus analysed, it is evincible that the exercise of power of judicial review and the extent to which it has to be done will vary from case to case.	Reasoning
It is necessary to state with emphasis that it has its own complexity and would depend upon the factual projection.	Reasoning
The broad principles have been laid down in Tata Cellular (supra) and other decisions make it absolutely clear that judicial review, by no stretch of imagination, can be equated with the power of appeal, for while exercising the power under Article 226 or 32 of the Constitution, the constitutional courts do not exercise such power.	Reasoning
The process of adjudication on merit by reappreciation of the materials brought on record which is the duty of the appellate court is not permissible.51.	Reasoning
The duty of the Court in exercise of the power of judicial review to zealously guard the human rights, fundamental rights and the citizens right of life and liberty as also many nonstatutory powers of governmental bodies as regards their control over property and assets of various kinds.	Reasoning
(See Union of India and Anr.	None
v S.B. Vohra, 2004(1)	None
S.C.T 788 (2004) 2 SCC 150)52.	None
What Dr. Dhawan submits basically is that as the order passed by the Central Government after the order passed by the High Court of Kerala does not really reflect any reason, this Court should axe the same treating it as arbitrary and grant the LOP and that would be within the power of judicial review.	Arguments of Petitioner
The order passed by the Central Government has to be appreciated in its entirety.	Reasoning
We repeat at the cost of repetition that neither the Central Government nor the Hearing Committee is expected to pass a judgment as a Judge is expected to do.	Reasoning
The order must reflect application of mind and should indicate reasons.	Reasoning
We may reiterate that the order dated 31st May, 2017, was bereft of reason, but the order impugned, that is the order dated 14th August, 2017, cannot be said to be sans reason.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned senior counsel would contend with all the vigour at his command that it is not a reasoned one and for the same our attention has been drawn to the penultimate paragraph of the order.53.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are of the considered opinion that the order of the present nature has to be appreciated in entirety and when we peruse the entire order, we find that substantial reasons have been ascribed and, therefore, we are compelled to repel the submissions so assiduously and astutely advanced by Dr. Dhawan.54.	Reasoning
Keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the case, we sum up our conclusions and directions, thus(a)	None
The petitioners are not entitled to Letter Of Permission (LOP) for the academic session 20172018.	None
We direct that the order passed in the present writ petition shall be applicable hereafter for the academic session 20172018 since the cut off date for admissions to MBBS course for academic session 20172018 is over and the academic session has commenced.	None
No petition shall be entertained from any institution college society trust or any party for grant of LOP for 20172018.	Decision
We say so as the controversy for grant of LOP for the academic year 20172018 should come to an end and cannot become an event that defeats time.	None
The students who are continuing their studies on the basis of LOP granted for the academic year 20162017 should be allowed to continue their studies in the college and they shall be permitted to continue till completion of the course.(b)	Decision
The applications submitted for 20172018 shall be treated as applications for 20182019 and the petitioners shall keep the bank guarantee deposited with the Medical Council of India alive and the MCI shall not encash the same.(c)	Decision
The Medical Council of India shall conduct a fresh inspection as per the Regulations within a period of two months.	Decision
It shall apprise the petitionerinstitution with regard to the deficiencies and afford an opportunity to comply with the same and, thereafter, proceed to act as contemplated under the Act.(d)	Decision
The inspection shall be carried out for the purpose of grant of LOP for the academic session 20182019.(e)	None
After the Medical Council of India sends its recommendation to the Central Government, it shall take the final decision as per law after affording an opportunity of hearing to the petitioners.	None
Needless to say, it shall take the assistance of the Hearing Committee as constituted by the Constitution Bench decision in Amma Chandravati Educational and Charitable Trust (supra) or other directions given in the said decision.55.	Decision
The writ petition is, accordingly, disposed of.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
