 B. Majmudar, J. The Municipal Board, Saharanpur, appellant herein, has filed this appeal against the decision of the Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad on a certificate of fitness granted to it by the High Court for appeal to this Court under Article 133 of the Constitution of India.	Issue
The said certificate is granted on the ground that a question of law arises as to what is the concept and meaning of the words common compound used in the Uttar Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1916 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Issue
A few relevant facts leading to these proceedings deserve to be noted at the outset to appreciate the grievance of the appellantMunicipal Board.	None
BACKDROP FACTS 2.	None
During the relevant period from 1.10.1959 to 31.3.1960, the respondent company was sought to be taxed by the appellant Municipality by way of water tax levied under Section 128, subsection (1)(x) of the Act.	Facts
The case of the appellant was that the respondent company had erected a factory with a large number of ancillary buildings and residential houses occupied by its officers and staff within the municipal limits of the appellants Board and that the entire complex of buildings owned by the respondent company was surrounded by a high wall for security reasons.	Facts
The appellant Board raised the bills of watertax on 13th August, 1959 calling upon the respondent to note that as a result of a public water stand pipe, the companys property, bearing all factory buildings situated on Cigarette Factory Khalasi Line, being within a radius of 600 feet from the said pipe had come within the taxable area with effect from the month of May, 1959 for the purpose of imposition of watertax.	Facts
The respondentcompany, by its communication dated 19th December, 1959 objected to the said imposition to watertax and submitted that the company was not liable to pay watertax bills for the period from 1.10.1959 to 31.3.1960, as according to the respondent company, the bills were incorrectly made out in that they included all residential and factory buildings.	Facts
It was further submitted that these buildings were not in a common compound and the residential bungalows should be treated as separate units in the same way as they have been treated as separate units in the case of house tax assessment.	Facts
The respondentcompany further submitted that watertax bills might be reissued for only those buildings of the company that fell within the radius of 600 feet from the water stand pipe and the company was objecting to pay watertax on buildings which did not fall within a radius of 600 feet from the water stand pipe.	Facts
The aforesaid communication by the respondentcompany did not find favour with the appellant.	Facts
The appellant, by its letter dated 29th December, 1959, informed the respondent that in view of Explanations (a) and (b) of Section 129 of the Act, all buildings and common compounds were assessable to watertax and, therefore, the bills had been correctly worked out against the company and the tax was payable.3.	Facts
This resulted into an appeal by the respondent under Section 160 of the Act to the District Magistrate, who was the appellate authority.	Facts
The appellate authority, after hearing the parties, came to the conclusion that the respondents houses situated in the companys complex could not be said to have been situated in a common compound as the term building defined in Explanation (a) to Section 129 of the Act required a compound to be a common appurtenance of several buildings.	Facts
On the aforesaid reasoning, it was found that the whole plot of land of the company containing number of factory buildings and residential buildings could not be treated as one unit for the purpose of watertax and that only these buildings and plots of land which came within the radius of 600 feet of the nearest water stand pipe from where water was made available to public by the Board could bear the burden of watertax and accordingly, only three bungalows which came within the radius of 600 feet could be assessed to watertax by the appellant Board and not all the residential bungalows and factory buildings which were outside the radius of 600 feet from the water stand pipe.	Facts
The companys appeal was, accordingly, allowed and the appellant was directed to issue fresh watertax bills in the lights of that order.	Facts
This resulted into a writ petition by the appellant before the High Court, who heard the writ petition, after hearing the contesting parties, came to the conclusion that all the buildings belonging to the respondentcompany were standing in a common compound (even though that the company might be subdivided into different sections), because the entire complex was surrounded by a common wall.	Facts
Relying on the map which was supplied by the respondentcompany, it was held that the said map clinched the arguments of the appellant which showed that inside the residential area there was one road which was undeniably appurtenant to the factory, since it led from the main municipal road to the gate of the factory proper, and there was another road which provided access to the various residential houses and was, therefore, a common appurtenance of all those houses.	Facts
The first of these roads consequently had to be treated as the compound of the factory, as defined in section 2(5) of the Act and similarly the second road was the compound of the residences.	Facts
Both these roads started from a point quite close to the municipal stand pipe and a substantial portion of both the roads was lying well within the radius of 600 feet measured from the stand pipe.	Facts
Hence, the appellant was entitled to raise the watertax bills connected with all the structures situated within the compound.	Facts
The writ petition, was accordingly, allowed and the order of the learned District Magistrate was set aside.4.	Facts
This decision of the learned single Judge was challenged in Special Appeal by the respondentcompany before a Division Bench of the High Court.	Facts
The Division Bench allowed the said Special Appeal by holding that the road lying in the entire compound was not appurtenant to the residential bungalows situated within the same and consequently, it could not be said that all these buildings were situated within the radius of 600 feet from the water stand pipe.	Facts
The Division Bench of the High Court came to the said conclusion heavily relying upon the definition compound in Section 2(5) of the Act.	Facts
It also observed that the learned District Magistrate found that only three of the residential bungalows fell within 600 feet limit of the nearest water standpipe and that he was justified in relying upon the materials before him and hence, his order could not be said to be suffering from any error apparent or jurisdictional error.	Facts
Therefore, both on merits as well as on the ground that there was no occasion for the learned single Judge to interfere with the decision rendered by the learned District Magistrate, the Special Appeal was allowed that order of the learned single Judge was set aside and the writ petition of the appellant was dismissed with costs.	Facts
Subsequently, on the request of the appellant, leave to appeal to this Court was granted by the Division Bench and a certificate of fitness was issued under Article 133 of the Constitution of India as noted earlier and that is how the appellant is before us in this appeal.5.	Facts
By an order dated 30th November, 1976, this Court granted stay pending disposal of appeal and ordered expedition of this appeal.	Facts
RIVAL CONTENTIONS	None
When this appeal reached final hearing before us, Shri Garg, learned counsel for the appellant, in the first instance, submitted that as per the Letters Patent applicable to the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad, no Special Appeal could be entertained by the Division Bench against the order of the learned single Judge as the learned Judge had exercised in substance jurisdiction under Article 227 of the Constitution of India against the appellate order of the District Magistrate passed under Section 160 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
On merits, it was submitted that the Division Bench had patently erred in law in applying the provisions of Section 2 subsection (5) defining compound while interpreting Explanation (a) to Section 129 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the term building for the purpose of the said section will have to be understood in the light of Explanation (a) to Section 129 and hence could include not only the structure or structures along with their compounds which may be appurtenant to them but the said term would also include in its meaning several buildings which are situated in a common compound, as in the present case, and consequently, all such buildings in the common compound together will be treated as building for the purpose of finding out 600 feet distance from the nearest stand pipe to such buildings as required under Section 129(iii) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Garg further submitted that neither the District Magistrate nor the learned single Judge and also not even the Division Bench of the High Court had kept his aspect of the matter in view.	Arguments of Petitioner
With the result that a question of appurtenance of compound land to the structures by invoking the definition of Section 2 subsection (5) was wrongly considered.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that on a conjoint reading of Section 128(1)(x) and Section 129(iii) Explanation (a), it ought to have been held that as all the buildings belonging to the respondent were situated in a common compound, hence the imposition to watertax by the appellant was fully justified on account of the fact that from the nearest stand pipe the distance of a part of the common compound of the respondent was admittedly not more than 600 feet and consequently, the judgment and order of the Division Bench be set aside and the order of the learned single Judge be restored though on a different reasoning as put forward by him for our consideration.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri R.F. Nariman, learned senior counsel for the respondent company, on the other hand, submitted that the certificate granted by the High Court itself is erroneous as no question of law arises in connection with the interpretation of the term common compound on the facts of the present case as the District Magistrate had come to a finding of fact that the concerned buildings were not situated within a radius of 600 feet from the nearest water stand pipe that such a finding of fact should not have been interfered with under Article 226 of the Constitution of India by the learned single Judge.	Arguments of Respondent
Under these circumstances, the Division Bench could have allowed the appeal only on that ground without undertaking the further exercise of finding out whether on merits the interpretation of the relevant provisions of the Act by the learned single Judge was justified or not.	Arguments of Respondent
He further contended that even that apart, as noted by the Division Bench in the impugned judgment, by Notification of the Government of Uttar Pradesh dated 18th September, 1958, the Board was authorised to assess watertax on those residential buildings which fell within a radius of 600 feet from the nearest water stand pipe under Section 129(a) of the Act, that the said Notification naturally could not apply to the factory premises of the respondent.	Arguments of Respondent
Consequently, the water tax bulls issued by the appellant seeking to impose watertax on the factory premises and other nonresidential buildings of the respondent company were ex facie unauthorised leaving aside any other questions.8.	Arguments of Respondent
On merits, it was submitted by Shri R.F. Nariman that on a correct interpretation of Section 128(1)(x) and Section 129 Explanation (a), the term common compound has to be construed as a place where the common compound land was having appurtenance to the buildings situated therein and in the land in that compound, the residents of the buildings should have a right of common use or enjoyment and that would make the said surrounding land a common compound.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, according to the learned senior counsel for the respondent, the concept of appurtenance of the compound land to the buildings in question was a relevant question and could not be said to be contraindicated, as in his view, Section 2 subsection (5) which defines compound would squarely get attracted even in such a case.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of his contention, he invited our attention to the word common as found in P. Ramanatha Aiyars The Law Lexicon, Reprint Edition 1987 at page 216r.	Arguments of Respondent
He also submitted that under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India, the learned single Judge of the High Court had a limited jurisdiction and he could only revise any patent error of law that might have been committed by the authorities below and could not act as a court of appeal.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of the aforesaid submission, he placed reliance upon the following decisions of this Court in Shri Ambica Mills Co. Ltd. v. Shri S.B. Bhatt and Anr., 1961(3) SCR 220 at pages 227229	Arguments of Respondent
Syed Yakoob v. K.S. Radhakrishnan and Others, 1964(5)	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 64 at pages 6870 Bhutnath Chatterjee v. State of West Bengal and Others, 1969(3) SCC 675 at page 677 Mohd.	Arguments of Respondent
Yunus v. Mohd.	Arguments of Respondent
Mustaqim and Others, 1984(1)	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 211 at pages 215216 Harbans Lal v. Jagmohan Saran, 1985 Suppl.	Arguments of Respondent
(3) SCR 634 at pages 636637.	Arguments of Respondent
He also invited our attention to the decisions of this Court and other courts for submitting that the word appurtenance connotes a nexus with the object which is sought to be connected therewith.	Arguments of Respondent
He placed reliance on two decision of this Court, namely, State of U.P. and Others etc. v. L.J. Johnson and Anrs. etc., 1983(3) SCR 897 at pages 901911 Larsen and Toubro Ltd.	Arguments of Respondent
Club House Road, Madras v. Trustees of Dharmamurthy, Rao Bahadur Calavala Cunnan, Chettys Charities by its Trustees, 1988 Suppl.(2)	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 755 at pages 764768.	Arguments of Respondent
He also relied upon the decision of the Bombay High Court in Morarji Goculdas Deoji Trust and Others v. Madhav Vithal Kudwa, A.I.R. 1983 Bombay 68 at page 71 and a decision of the Court of Appeal in England reported in Methuen Campbell v. Walters, 1979(1)	Arguments of Respondent
All England Law Reports 606 at page 609.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr Nariman also submitted that on the facts of the present case, the learned single Judge of the High Court had patently erred in taking the view that the two private roads situated in the complex of the respondent, one leading to the factory and another leading to the residential complex could be said to be an appurtenance to these structures and as these roads were within a radius of 600 feet from the nearest water stand pipe, the charge of watertax could be said to have settled on these structures.	Arguments of Respondent
He further submitted that, in any case, if two views are possible in connection with the interpretation of the common compound then the view which supports the tax payer rather than the taxing authority should be preferred as we are concerned with a taxing stature imposing watertax on tax payers.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of these contentions, he invited out attention to the decisions of this Court reported in The Central India Spinning and Weaving and Manufacturing Co. Ltd., The Empress Mills, Nagpur v. The Municipal Committee, Wardha, 1958(1) SCR 1102 at page 1107 Commissioner of Incometax, Punjab v. Kulu Valley Transport Co.	Arguments of Respondent
(P) Ltd., 1971(1)	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 452 at page 464 Collector of Estate Duty v. M s. R. Kanakasabai and others, 1973(3)	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 747 at page 753 and Polestar Electronic (P) Ltd. v. Addl.	Arguments of Respondent
Commissioner, Sales Tax, Delhi, 1978(3)	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 98 at page 116.9.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also submitted by Shri Nariman that as the learned Single Judge had exercised powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, the Special Appeal was maintainable and that as this objection was not raised by the appellant before the Division Bench, it should not be permitted to be raised at this late stage.	Arguments of Respondent
In any case, he is entitled to challenge the decision of the learned single Judge in the present proceedings.	Arguments of Respondent
In rejoinder, Shri Garg, learned counsel for the appellant, submitted that the District Magistrate had patently erred in law in relying upon the definition of the term compound as found in Section 2, subsection (5) of the Act, while interpreting Explanation (a) to Section 129 and in fact the appellate authority completely bypassed the said provision and wrongly relied upon the aforesaid definition of the word compound which had nothing to do with the second part of the said Explanation and as these provisions were completely ignored by the appellate court, it could be said that the decision rendered by the appellate court suffered from a patent error of law.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such an error could rightly be set aside by the learned single Judge of the High Court under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
He next reiterated his main contention on the scheme of the Act in support of the appeal and also submitted that the question regarding nonapplicability of the Govt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Notification dated 18th September, 1958 to the factory premises was never urged by the respondent before the appellate authority or even before the learned single Judge or the Division Bench.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the said contention, which raises mixed question of law and fact may not be permitted to be raised for the first time in this appeal.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further alternatively contended that if such a contention has to be entertained, the proceedings deserve to be remanded to the appellate authority for considering this mixed question of law and fact with a view to finding out whether the factory premises were covered by sweep of Section 129 of the Act and whether there was any other Govt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Notification in that connection.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the aforesaid rival contentions, the following points arise for our consideration Whether the term common compound as found in Section 129, Explanation (a) would cover all buildings situated within the land wherein the occupants of the buildings have a common right of usage by way of passage to and for or even otherwise a right to commonly use the said land wherein the cluster of these buildings is situated, especially when a part of the said common land was within a radius of 600 feet from the nearest water stand pipe fixed by the appellant Board(2)	Arguments of Respondent
Whether the term common compound, as found in the aforesaid provision, would require the land comprised in such common compound to be appurtenant to each of such buildings situated therein(3) Whether the learned single Judge of the High Court was justified in interfering under Article 226 or 227 of the Constitution of India with the decision of the appellate authority(4) Whether the Special Appeal was maintainable against the decision of the learned single Judge before the Division Bench of the High Court(5)	Issue
Whether the factory premises of the respondent company can be brought within the tax net of water under Section 129 of the Act read with Section 128(1)(x) in the light of the Govt.	Issue
Notification dated 18th September, 1958 which, it is alleged, covered only residential buildings and(6)	Issue
What final Order ?	Issue
We will deal with these points seriatim.	None
Points Nos.	None
(1) and (2) These two points raise common questions of law and fact, and therefore, they are being dealt with together.	None
The watertax which is in dispute between the parties could be imposed by the appellant as per the provisions under Section 128(1)(x) of the Act which reads as under Taxes which may be imposed  (1) Subject to any general rules or special orders of the State Government in this behalf, the taxes which a municipality may impose in the whole or any part of a municipality are xxx xxx xxx(x) a watertax on the annual value of buildings or lands or of both13.	None
Restriction in the imposition of watertax is found in Section 129 of the Act.	None
The said provision, as it stood at the relevant time, reads as under 129.	None
Restriction in the imposition of watertax  The imposition of a tax under clause (x) of subsection (i) of Section 128 shall be subject to the following restrictions on the imposition of namely, watertax.(a) that the tax shall not be imposed on land exclusively used for agricultural purposes, or, where the unit of assessment is a plot of land or a building as hereinafter defined, on any such plot or building of which no part is within a radius, to be fixed by rule in this behalf for each Municipality, from the nearest standpipe or other waterwork whereat water is made available to the public by the board and(b) that the tax is imposed solely with the object of defraying the expenses connected with construction, maintenance, extension of improvement of municipal waterworks and that all moneys derived therefrom shall be expended solely on the aforesaid object.	None
Explanation  In this Section (a) building shall include the compound (if any) thereof, and, where there are several buildings in a common compound, all such buildings and the common compound(b) a plot of land means any piece of land held by a Single occupier, or held in common by several cooccupiers, whereof no one portion is entirely separated from any other portion by the land of another occupier or of other cooccupiers or by public property.	None
The terms building and compound are defined by Section 2, subsections (2) and (5) respectively as under (2) Building means a house, outhouse, stable, shed, hut or other enclosure or structure whether of masonry bricks, wood, mud, metal or any other material whatsoever, whether used as a human dwelling or otherwise, and includes any verandah, platform, plinth, staircase, doorstep, wall including compound wall other than a boundary wall of the garden or agricultural land not appurtenant to a house but does not include a tent or other such portable temporary shelter.(5) Compound means land, whether enclosed or not, which is the appurtenance of a building or the common appurtenance of several buildings.	None
A mere look at the aforesaid provisions shows that building will include any structure attached to earth and compound would mean any land, whether enclosed or open which is appurtenant to such building or which is a common appurtenance to several buildings, meaning thereby that, if a building has got adjoining land may be as side compound or front compound or backyard which is exclusively attached to the building and which would be in the exclusive use of the occupier of the building, such land could be said to be its compound land.	None
Similarly, if a cluster of buildings situated so close to each other and well knit had common land attached only to such composite cluster of buildings for use and occupation of owners of such a cluster of buildings, then these buildings could be said to have a compound of their own attached as appurtenance to all of them.	None
It is obvious that such compound land would be available for exclusive use of the occupiers of these buildings so closely situated to one another that their occupants could use this adjoining compound land being an appendage to their building.	None
However, so far as the term common compound is concerned, it is not defined by the Act.	None
When we turn to Section 128, we find that the Municipalities have been authorised subject to general rules or special rules of the State Government to impose watertax on the annual value of buildings or lands or of both.	None
Consequently, any building situated anywhere within the municipal limits along with its appurtenant compound as defined by Section 2, subsection (5) could be subjected to watertax on the annual value of such buildings or lands or of both.	None
However, Section 129 lays down restriction on the imposition of such watertax to the extent provided therein.	None
Subclause (a) of Section 129 restricts the power of the Municipality to impose watertax on any buildings of which no part is within the radius to be fixed by the rule in this behalf for each Municipality from the nearest standpipe or other waterworks whereat water is made available by the Board.	None
It is not in dispute between the parties that under the relevant Notification issued by the State of Uttar Pradesh, the permissible radius for imposition of such water tax as measured from the nearest stand pipe was 600 feet.	None
Thus, buildings, falling wholly or partially within the said radius would come within the sweep of the watertax levy.	None
The question is for the purpose of imposition of this area restriction what type of buildings would be covered ?	None
For answering the above question, we have to examine Explanation (a) to the said Section which enacts a separate definition of the terms buildings and land for the purpose of that section.	None
When we turn to the said definition of the term building as laid down in Explanation (a) of Section 129, we find that in the first part of this definition, the term building would include compound, if any, thereof.	None
The first part of the said Explanation, therefore, clearly includes the buildings as defined by Section 2, subsection (5) along with compound thereof, meaning thereby the compound forming part and parcel of that building being annexed thereto.	None
For understanding the meaning of the said term compound of the building definition of compound as found in Section 2, subsection (5) becomes relevant.	None
Such a compound whether enclosed or not should be appurtenant to such building or should have a common appurtenance to several buildings so situated near each other that they enjoy the common land as adjunct of such buildings.	None
The phrase compound if any thereof expands the scope of the term building as found in the first part of the Explanation.	None
It clearly indicates that such compound must be a part and parcel of that building.	None
But the said phrase also gets covered by the definition of the term building as found in Section 2(2) of the Act which covers even boundary walls of such compound land appurtenant to such a building.	None
Such compound land gets in its turn covered by the definition of the term compound as found in Section 2(5) of the Act.	None
Thus the first part of Explanation (a) to Section 129 which defines building can have a nexus with the definition of the terms building as found in Section 2(2) and compound as found in Section 2(5).	None
But when we turn to the second part of this Explanation, we find that, it deals entirely with a different situation wherein none of the buildings are said to be situated in a common compound.	None
Thus entirely a different legislative scheme is envisaged by the said second part which provides that where there are several buildings situated in a common compound all such buildings in the common compound together will be treated to be forming one building for the purpose of finding out the permissible 600 feet radius from the nearest water stand pipe, as mentioned in Section 129 main part.	None
It becomes at once clear that the Explanation (a) to Section 129 contemplates two types of compounds (I) compound of the building which naturally remains compound land attached to the building or appurtenant to the building as defined by Section 2, subsection (5) and (II) even apart from such compound appurtenant to the buildings, common compound land on which such buildings are situated together with their own adjoining compounds.	None
It is, therefore, obvious that the term common compound has a wider coverage as compared to the term compound as defined by Section 2, subsection (5).	None
To be a compound to the building, the land must form an adjunct or appendage to the building or a cluster of buildings being available to the occupiers of such buildings for their exclusive use.	None
They are individual compounds.	None
While the concept of common compound will embrace open land whether bound by boundary or not which can be utilised by the residents of buildings situated in this common compound land who have a right to use this land in common for the beneficial enjoyment of their buildings situated in such a land.	None
It is axiomatic to say that the term compound is different from the term common compound.	None
The former is the individual compound of a building, latter is the common compound for all the buildings situated therein.	None
If both these terms had the same meaning, then the legislature would be guilty of tantalising in mentioning compound in the first part of the Explanation (a) to Section 129 and then again referring the same by way of common compound in the latter part.	None
What is common compound must necessarily be something more than a compound.	None
It is, therefore, to be held that if number of buildings are situated in open land wherein the occupants of the buildings have the right to make common use of the said sorrounding land then the question whether such surrounding land has a common boundary wall or not would pale into insignificance.	None
All that would be required to being such a cluster of buildings situated in a common compound within the sweep of Section 129(iii) for measuring the distance of the stand pipe from such buildings is to find out whether any part of such common compound is within 600 feet distance of the water stand pipe.	None
Then the enture complex of the buildings situated in such common land would be covered by the taxing net of Section 129 read with Section 128(1)(x) and the restriction would stand lifted qua such entire complex.	None
It is difficult to appreciate how the learned single Judge arrived at the conclusion that common compound was appurtenant to such buildings.	None
In fact, as seen earlier, the concept of appurtenance of compound land to buildings is not at all germane to second part of Explanation (a) to Section 129.	None
It is relevant for the first part thereof only.	None
The term common is defined in Law Lexicon by P. Ramanatha Aiyar, Reprint Edition 1987, at page 216r as an adjective to mean amongst others shared among several.	None
The aforesaid meaning of the term common read in the light of the term compound as an adjective makes it very clear that if the compound land is shared in common by occupants of number of buildings situated therein it would be a common compound for them.	None
It has nothing to do with the question of being appurtenant to any one of those buildings.	None
The phrase appurtenant to the building gets ruled out while considering the question of a common compound as contemplated by second part of Explanation (a) of Section 129, as the phrase thereof as found in the first part is conspicuously absent in the second part.	None
It is pertinent to note that the term common compound is defined by the Act.	None
It has to be given its dictionary meaning or meaning understood in common parlance.	None
Any land used in common by the occupants of buildings situated in such common land can be said to form a common compound covering all such buildings and once that conclusion is reached, Explanation (a) to Section 129 starts clicking and makes all those buildings along with the common compound land wherein they are located to fall within the sweep of the term building as contemplated by Section 129 for measuring the distance of the stand pipe from any part of such building including the common compound.	None
It is not in dispute and is well established on record that all the buildings of the respondent company, whether residential or factory buildings, were situated in the common compound land available for approach to and fro and for common use of the occupiers of all such buildings though such land was not appurtenant to these buildings and if distance from the stand pipe put up by the Board on the public road nearby was to be measured up to the starting point of such a common compound it would be within the permissible limits of 600 feet of radius of such a stand pipe.	None
The District Magistrate and even the learned single Judge as well as the Division Bench have not considered this vital aspect of the definition of the term building as found in Explanation (a) to Section 129 for the purpose of measuring the permissible distance from the stand pipe towards respondents buildings.	None
They erroneously went at a tangent in importing the concept of appurtenant land for being treated as a common compound land by relying upon the definition of compound in Section 2, subsection (5) of the Act for construing the term common compound when the said definition did not cover the said term.	None
It must be held, especially in the light of the chart submitted by the respondent company itself before the authorities that all the residential buildings belonging to the respondent company were situated in common compound land belonging to the respondent company and in the said common land different residential bungalows were situated but even that apart there were other structures like swimming pool, nursery, canteen, kitchen, childrens park etc.	None
All structures and buildings including the factory were situated in common land which was available for use of all the occupants of the various buildings and structures situated therein.	None
It is not in dispute that the entire common land formed a building complex which belongs to the respondent company.	None
Therefore, this entire area styled as Bungalow Park Area or for that matter, the factory area could be said to be comprising of buildings situated in a common compound so as to fall within the sweep of Section 129 read with Explanation (a).	None
Once we reach the aforesaid factual conclusion on the scheme of the relevant provisions of the Act, the question whether the common compound land was appurtenant to any of the structures becomes irrelevant.	None
Hence, we do not think it fit to burden this judgment by consideration of various decisions of this Court noted earlier for deciding the correct connotation of the term appurtenant.	None
The learned senior counsel for the respondent company, Shri Nariman rightly invited our attention to the various decisions taking the view that for taxing purpose, if two views are possible on the construction of the provisions, the view which supports the case of the taxpayer should be preferred as compared to the view which support the taxing authority.	Reasoning
However, on the express language of Section 129 Explanation (a) it must be held that no two views are possible, but only one view is possible, namely, that the connotation of the term common compound is entirely different and wider in nature as compared to the connotation of compound as defined in Section 2, subsection (5) as seen earlier.	Reasoning
It is unfortunate that this express provisions in all its aspect was not noticed by any of the courts below, though the Explanation to Section 129 was referred to both by the learned single Judge as well as the Division Bench of the High Court.	Reasoning
We may mention at this stage that it was not the case of the respondent company at any time that the occupants of the buildings situated in the Bungalow Park Area or factory area had no common right to pass and repass from or to use the open land in which the said structures were situated or that the occupants of the residential bungalows could not use the common childrens park or swimming pool or kitchen etc.	Reasoning
Their only contention was that because this common area was not an adjunct of or an area appurtenant to each of these buildings, the buildings that came within the radius of 600 feet from water stand pipe only attracted the water tax levy.	Reasoning
As we have discussed earlier, it is not possible to agree with this contention canvassed by learned senior counsel of the respondent company on the scheme of the Act.	Reasoning
As a result of the aforesaid discussion, point No. 1 has to be answered in the affirmative, and point No. 2 in the negative.	Reasoning
Thus, the answers on both these points shall be in favour of the appellant and against the respondent.	Reasoning
Point No. (3) So far as this point was concerned, the learned senior counsel rightly contended that under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India, the High Court could not act as a court of appeal and only patent errors of law as found from the orders of the authorities below could be corrected in exercise of its jurisdiction.	Arguments of Respondent
But on the facts of the present case, the jurisdiction of the High Court squarely got attracted as we will presently see.	None
The writ petition before the learned single Judge of the High Court was against the decision rendered by the appellate authority under Section 160 of the Act.	None
While dealing with the question of imposing of watertax and the restrictions regarding the same as envisaged by Section 129(a) of the Act, the appellate authority in its judgement considered the definition of the term building as found in the Explanation to Section 129 and observed as under Compound means land, whether enclosed or not, which is appurtenance of a building or the common appurtenance of several buildings.	None
It was further observed that If the factory premises are treated as a common compound the question arises as to of which building or building it is an appurtenance.	None
I, therefore, do not recognise the whole plot of land containing a number of factory buildings and residential buildings as one Unit for purpose of water tax A mere look at the reasoning of the appellate authority shows that it suffered from a patent error of law while considering Explanation (a) to Section 129 which defines building the second part of the Explanation was completely ignored by the appellate authority.	None
As seen earlier, the second part goes beyond the question of compound and embraces a wider field, namely, common compound.	Reasoning
As that part of the Explanation was completely ignored and as the appellate authority wrongly concentrated on the definition of the term compound as found under Section 2, subsection (5), the entire reasoning adopted by the learned appellate authority became patently erroneous in law.	Reasoning
The said glaring error of law, therefore, was rightly required to be set aside in writ jurisdiction by the learned single Judge.	Reasoning
Once this conclusion is reached, the preliminary objection of Shri Nariman to the certificate issued by the High Court does not survive.	Reasoning
The question also about the correct connotation of the term common compound would certainly give rise to a substantial question of law.	Reasoning
However, we may mention that the reasoning adopted by the learned single Judge for upsetting the finding of the appellate authority is not accurate as the learned single Judge also wrongly involved the restricted definition of the term compound as found in Section 2, sub section (5) and assuming that this definition applied, he went in search of appurtenant land being attached to such bungalows.	Reasoning
Such exercise was not necessary on the clear scheme of second part of the Explanation (a) to Section 129 as seen earlier.	Reasoning
However, by a wrong process of reasoning, ultimately the learned single Judge reached the correct conclusion that a part of the common compound land which was to be termed as building, for the purpose of Section 129, belonging to the respondent company was within the permissible limits of 600 feet from the water stand pipe so as to entitle the appellant Municipality to impose watertax on the entire complex of the buildings situated in common land belonging to the respondent company.	Reasoning
This point for consideration is, therefore, to be answered in the affirmative in favour of appellant and against the respondent.	Reasoning
Point No. (4) This point for consideration strictly does not arise out of the certificate issued by the High Court in favour of the appellant Municipality.	Reasoning
We, therefore, do not deem it fit to consider this point.	Reasoning
We are inclined to take this view for a more substantial and practical reason, namely, that this appeal is pending since 1976 in this Court on the Certificate of fitness granted by the High Court.	Reasoning
Even assuming that the learned counsel for the appellant is right that the special appeal was not maintainable under the Letters Patent applicable to the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad, respondent would be entitled to urge before us that they may be permitted to challenge the order of the learned single Judge directly before us under Article 136 of the Constitution since the entire period spent by them in the High Court and this Court up till now will get excluded under Section 14 of the Limitation Act.	Reasoning
Consequently, at this late stage, we do not deem it fit to allow the appellant to take up this contention for voiding the decision of the Division Bench.	Reasoning
Point No. 4, is, therefore, disposed of as not entertained and, therefore, not answered.	None
Point No. (5) So far as this point is concerned, the learned counsel for the appellant was right when he submitted that such a contention raising mixed question of law and fact was never taken by the respondent company at any stage in the hierarchy of proceedings.	None
No such contention was canvassed before the appellate authority as well as before the learned single Judge nor before the Division Bench.	None
However, in our view, this point goes to the root of the jurisdiction and authority of the appellant to tax nonresidential premises by way of watertax.	None
It, therefore, becomes necessary for us to consider this point.	None
When we turn to the judgment under appeal, we find, as noted earlier, that the Division Bench has clearly mentioned that the Notification of the Govt.	None
of U.P. dated 18th September, 1958 authorised the Board to assess watertax on residential buildings within a radius of 600 feet from the nearest stand pipe under Section 129(a) of the Act.	None
These recitals prima facie, showed that the appellant Board was not authorised to impose watertax on nonresidential building like factory premises.	None
In order to ascertain whether there was any other Notification entitling the appellant Board to recover watertax even on nonresidential buildings, we posted these appeals by our order dated 30th July, 1998 to a further date for enabling the learned counsel for the appellant to supply to information regarding Notification dated 12th September, 1958 and thereafter it stood further adjourned from time to time till it was listed on 17th November, 1998 for hearing learned counsel for the parties only on this limited question pertaining to point No. 5.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant Board in the meantime has filed an additional affidavit dated 3rd November, 1998 of one Badaru Zaman, presently working as Suits clerk in Nagar Palika Parishad, Saharanpur wherein it was averred that watertax was imposed pursuant to rules framed by the Honble Governor in exercise of power conferred under Section 296 of the U.P. Municipalities Act, 1916 which were published vide Notification No. 3218S IXB34855 dated September 12, 1956 for the Saharanpur Municipality.	None
The Hindi version of the said gazette notification was published in a booklet known as Nagarpalika Saharanpurs byelaws, rules and regulations in its edition dated 6th October, 1973.	None
Along with the affidavit its English version is also enclosed.	None
The said printed booklet clearly shows that on 12th September, 1956 relevant rules were framed by the appellant Municipality imposing amongst others, watertax which were subsequently got sanctioned by the Government Order dated 12th September, 1958.	None
The said rules recited that in continuation of the Government notification dated 24th July, 1956 the Governor in exercise of the powers conferred under section 296 of the U.P. Municipalities Act, 1916, has made the Rules for the assessment and collection of watertax of Saharanpur Municipality.	None
Amongst others, Rule 8 read as under With reference to Section 129(a) of the Act, the radius governing the imposition of the watertax shall be 600 ft.	None
Along with the said affidavit was also produced an extract of U.P. Municipalities Act, 1916.	None
In the said extract published in 1957 Section 129 of the U.P. Municipalities Act as it then stood read as under Restrictions on the imposition of watertax  	None
The imposition of a tax under clause (x) of the subsection (1) of section 128 shall be subject to the following restrictions namely, (a) that the tax shall not be imposed on land exclusively used for agricultural purposes, or, where the unit of assessment is a plot of land or a building as hereinafter defined on any such plot or building of which no part is within a radius, to be fixed by rule in this behalf for each municipality, from the nearest standpipe or other waterwork whereat water is made available to the public by the board and(b) that the tax is imposed solely with the object of defraying the expenses connected with the construction, maintenance, extension of improvement of municipal waterworks and that all moneys derived therefrom shall be expended solely on aforesaid object.	None
Explanation  In this section (a) building shall include the compound (if any) thereof, and, where there are several buildings in common compound, all such buildings and the common compound(b) a plot of land means any piece of land held by a single occupier, or held in common by several cooccupiers whereof no one portion is entirely separated from any other portion by the land of another occupier or of other cooccupiers or by public property.	None
A mere look at the said provisions shows that in 1957 the Act authorised the appellant Municipality to impose watertax under Section 128(1) clause (x) subject to the restriction that the tax shall not be imposed on any plot or building of which no part is within the radius prescribed for the municipality from the nearest standpipe or other water work.	None
The rules framed by the appellant Municipality which came into force on 12th September, 1958 amongst others, as noted earlier, included Rule 8 which with reference to Section 129(a) of the Act permitted the appellant Municipality to impose watertax on lands or buildings which were within the radius of 600 feet from the nearest water stand pipe.	None
A conjoint reading of Section 129 (1)(a) and the aforesaid rule 8 of the appellants Rules leaves no room for doubt that after 1958 the appellant Municipality imposed watertax on lands and buildings which fell within the radius of 600 ft. from the nearest water stand pipe.	None
There was no restriction under these rules to show that the radius of 600 ft. was confined only to residential buildings as tried to be suggested by learned senior counsel Shri Nariman for the respondent.	None
It is of course true that the District Magistrate in his order at page 24 of Volume II and the High Court in the impugned judgment at page 6 have referred to notification dated 12th September, 1958 pertaining to only residential buildings.	None
But when the copy of the original notification as produced with the additional affidavit of Shri Badaru Zaman aforesaid is seen along with the relevant rules no doubt is left in our mind that the said notification entitled the appellant Municipality to impose watertax on lands and buildings of all types situated within the municipal limits and which were in the radius of 600 ft. from the nearest water stand pipe.	None
Shri Nariman, learned senior counsel for the respondent submitted that when the High Court has referred to notification dated 12th September, 1958 the copy of the notification relied upon in this additional affidavit may refer to some other notification.	None
The aforesaid contention cannot be sustained for the simple reason that a close look at the said notification shows that the sanction for imposition of watertax is pursuant to the Government Order dated 12th September, 1958 but the draft rules appeared to have been framed on 12th September, 1956.	None
The High Court and the District Magistrate seem to have referred to 12th September, 1958 as the date on which the relevant rules came into force.	None
As the disputed assessment is for a period after 12th September, 1958, the objection raised by Shri Nariman about any inconsistency regarding date of the rules pales into insignificance.	Reasoning
Shri Nariman, learned senior counsel for the respondent then submitted that the Gazette Notification is still not produced and only a booklet is produced.	Reasoning
But when we turn to the printed booklet, we do not find that what is printed at page 9 of the booklet does refer to the relevant Notification as in terms the number of the relevant notification has been mentioned.	Reasoning
There is nothing to indicate that the said notification would not have been gazetted in the same form in which it is printed in the booklet.	Reasoning
Presumption under Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act regarding the performance of Officials Act therefore, would clearly get attracted in the facts of the present case.	Reasoning
Nothing was pointed out to us by learned senior counsel for the respondent to indicate that there was any contrary gazette notification or that the gazette notification was laying down any different scheme as compared to the one which is printed in the booklet of 1973 which has stood the test of time for all these years.	Reasoning
Consequently, point No. 5 is answered against the respondent and in favour of the appellant by holding that the notification of 12th September, 1958 also brought the factory premises of the respondent company within the tax net of watertax and the said notification did not cover only the residential buildings.	Reasoning
This point is, therefore, answered in favour of the appellant and against the respondent.	Reasoning
Point No. (6) As a result of the aforesaid finding on the relevant points, we set aside the order of the Division Bench and confirm the order of the learned single Judge and allow the writ petition of the appellant Municipality on the reasoning indicated hereinabove.	Reasoning
It is held that the impugned levy of watertax on residential and nonresidential buildings of the respondent company was perfectly justified in the facts and circumstances of the case.	Reasoning
As the levy of the watertax for the relevant period is found to be well sustained there will remain no question of refunding any amount collected by the appellant towards the said levy from the respondent.	Reasoning
The appeal is accordingly allowed.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of the case, there will be no order as to costs.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
