 Aftab Alam,	None
J. The present is a fall out from a criminal trial arising from a hit and run accident on a cold winter morning in Delhi in which a car travelling at reckless speed crashed through a police check post and crushed to death six people, including three policemen.	Facts
Facing the trial, as the main accused, was a young person called Sanjeev Nanda coming from a very wealthy business family.	Facts
According to the prosecution, the accident was caused by Sanjeev Nanda who, in an inebriated state, was driving a black BMW car at very high speed.	Facts
The trial, commonly called as the BMW case, was meandering endlessly even after eight years of the accident and in the year 2007, it was not proceeding very satisfactorily at all from the point of view of the prosecution.	Facts
The status of the main accused coupled with the flip flop of the prosecution witnesses evoked considerable media attention and public interest.	Facts
To the people who watch TV and read newspapers it was yet another case that was destined to end up in a fiasco.	Facts
It was in this background that a well known English language news channel called New Delhi Television (NDTV) telecast a programme on May 30, 2007 in which one Sunil Kulkarni was shown meeting with IU Khan, the Special Public Prosecutor and RK Anand, the Senior Defence Counsel (and two others) and negotiating for his sell out in favour of the defence for a very high price.	Facts
Kulkarni was at one time considered the most valuable witness for the prosecution but afterwards, at an early stage in the trial, he was dropped by the prosecution as one of its witnesses.	Facts
Nearly eight years later, the trial court had summoned him to appear and give his testimony as a court witness.	Facts
The telecast came a few weeks after the court order and even as his evidence in the trial was going on.	Facts
According to NDTV, the programme was based on a clandestine operation carried out by means of a concealed camera with Kulkarni acting as the mole.	Facts
What appeared in the telecast was outrageous and tended to confirm the cynical but widely held belief that in this country the rich and the mighty enjoyed some kind of corrupt and extraconstitutional immunity that put them beyond the reach of the criminal justice system.	Facts
Shocked by the programme the Delhi High Court suo moto initiated a proceeding (Writ Petition (Criminal) No.796 of 2007).	Facts
It called for from the news channel all the materials on which the telecast was based and after examining those materials issued show cause notices to RK Anand, IU Khan and Bhagwan Sharma, an associate advocate with RK Anand why they should not be convicted and punished for committing criminal contempt of court as defined under section 2 (c) of the Contempt of Courts Act.	Facts
(In the sting operations there was another person called Lovely who was apparently sent to meet Kulkarni as an emissary of RK Anand.	Facts
But he died in a freak accident even before the stage of issuance of notice in the proceeding before the High Court).	Facts
On considering their show cause and after hearing the parties the High Court expressed its displeasure over the role of Bhagwan Sharma but acquitted him of the charge of contempt of court.	Facts
As regards RK Anand and IU Khan, however, the High Court found and held that their acts squarely fell within the definition of contempt under clauses (ii) (iii) of section 2(c) of the Contempt of Courts Act.	Facts
It, accordingly, held them guilty of committing contempt of Court vide judgment and order dated August 21, 2008 and in exercise of power under Article 215 of the Constitution of India prohibited them, by way of punishment, from appearing in the Delhi High Court and the courts subordinate to it for a period of four months from the date of the judgment.	Facts
It, however, left them free to carry on their other professional work, e. g., consultations, advises, conferences, opinion etc.	Facts
It also held that RK Anand and IU Khan had forfeited their right to be designated as Senior Advocates and recommended to the Full Court to divest them of the honour.	Facts
In addition to this the High Court also sentenced them to fine of rupees two thousand each.2.	Facts
These two appeals by RK Anand and IU Khan respectively are filed under section 19 (1) of the Contempt of Courts Act against the judgment and order passed by the Delhi High Court.	Facts
THE CONTEXT3.	Facts
Before proceeding to examine the different issues arising in the case it is necessary to first know the context in which the whole sordid episode took place.	Facts
It will be, therefore, useful to put together the basic facts and circumstances of the case at one place.	Facts
The occurance in which six people lost their lives was reconstructed by the prosecution on the basis of police investigation as followsThe crime, the Police investigation proceedings before the Trial court4.	Facts
On January 10, 1999 at about half past four in the morning a speeding vehicle crashed through a police checkpost on one of the Delhi roads and drove away leaving behind six people dead or dying.	Facts
As the speeding car hit the group of persons standing on the road some were thrown away but two or three persons landed on the cars bonnet and rolled down to the ground under it.	Facts
The car, however, did not stop.	Facts
It moved on dragging along the persons who were caught in its underside.	Facts
It halted only after the driver lost control and going down a distance of 200300 feet hit the road divider.	Facts
At this point the occupants came down from the car to inspect the scene.	Facts
They looked at the front and the rear of the car and would not have failed to notice the persons caught under the car who were still crying for help and who perhaps might have been saved if they were taken out even at that stage.	Facts
But the anxiety of the cars occupants to leave the accident site without delay seemed to override all other considerations.	Facts
They got back into the car, reversed it and drove on.	Facts
The car went on dragging the unfortunate victims trapped under it to certain and ghastly death and left behind at the accident site dismembered limbs and dead bodies of men.5.	Facts
The police investigation brought to light that the accident was caused by a black BMW car which was being driven by Sanjeev Nanda.	Facts
He was returning from a late night party, under the influence of liquor, along with some friend(s).6.	Facts
Five days after the accident, on January 15, 1999 one Sunil Kulkarni contacted the Joint Commissioner of Police, Delhi, and claimed to be an eye witness to the occurrence.	Facts
According to his story, at the time of the accident he was passing through the spot, on foot, on his way to the Nizamuddin Railway Station for catching a train for Bhopal.	Facts
He described the accident in considerable detail and stated that at the sight of so many people being mowed down by the car he got completely unnerved.	Facts
He proceeded for the railway station and on reaching there tried to ring up the police or the emergency number 100 but was unable to get through.	Facts
He finally went to Bhopal and on coming back to Delhi, being bitten by conscience, he contacted the police.	Facts
What was of significance in Kulkarnis statement is that the accident was caused by a car and when it stopped after hitting the people a man alighted from the driving seat and examined the front and rear of the car.	Facts
Then, another person got down from the passenger seat called the other, Sanjeev, and urged that they should go.	Facts
On the same day his statement was recorded by the police under section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).	Facts
The following day he was shown Nandas BMW car at Lodhi Colony Police Station and he identified it as the one that had caused the accident.	Facts
On January 21, 1999 Kulkarnis statement was recorded before a magistrate under section 164 of CrPC.	Facts
Before the magistrate, in regard to the accident, he substantially reiterated the statement made before the police, lacing it up with details about his stay in Delhi from January 7 and his movements on the evening before the accident.	Facts
In the statement before the magistrate the manner of identification of Sanjeev Nanda was also the same with the addition that after the accident when the car moved again the person on the driving seat was trying to look for the way by craning out his head out of the broken glass window and thus he was able to see him from a distance of no more than three and a half feet when the car passed by his side.	Facts
The police wanted to settle the question of the drivers identification by having Kulkarni identify Sanjeev Nanda in a test identification parade but Sanjeev Nanda refused to take part in any identification parade.	Facts
Then, on March 31, 1999 when Sanjeev Nanda was produced in court Kulkarni also happened to be there.	Facts
He identified him to the investigating officer as the driver of the car causing accident.7.	Facts
Kulkarnis arrival on the scene as an eye witness of the tragic accident got wide publicity and he was generally acclaimed as a champion of the public cause.	Facts
He must have appeared to the police too as godsend but soon there were reasons for the police to look at him completely differently.	Facts
He had given as his address a place in Mumbai.	Facts
A summons issued by the trial court on the Mumbai address given by him returned unserved.	Facts
The report dated August 30, 1999 on the summons disclosed that he had given a wrong address and his actual address was not known to anyone.	Facts
It also stated that he was a petty fraudster who had defrauded several people in different ways.	Facts
The report concluded by saying that he seemed to be a person of shady character.8.	Facts
At the same time Kulkarni also turned around.	Facts
On August 31, 1999 a Habeas Corpus petition (Writ Petition (Crl) No.846/99) was filed in the Delhi High Court making the allegation that he was being held by the Delhi Police in wrongful confinement.	Facts
On the following day (September 1, 1999) when the writ petition was taken up the allegations were denied on behalf of the police.	Facts
Moreover, Kulkarni was personally present in Court.	Facts
The Court, therefore, dismissed the writ petition without any directions.	Facts
Next, Kulkarni filed a petition (through a lawyer) before the trial court on September 13, 1999.	Facts
In this petition, he stated that on the date of occurrence, that is, January 10, 1999 itself he had told the police that the accident was caused by a truck.	Facts
But the police was adamant not to change the version of the FIR that was already registered and on the basis of which five persons were arrested.	Facts
The police forced him to support its story, and his earlier statements were made under police coercion.9.	Facts
On September 23, 1999 a clash took place between some policemen and some members of the bar in the Patiala House court premises for the custody of Kulkarni.	Facts
A complaint about the alleged high handed actions of the police was formally lodged before the court and a notice was issued to the Jt.	Facts
Commissioner.	Facts
In response to the notice the Jt.	Facts
Commissioner submitted a long and detailed report to the court on September 27, 1999.	Facts
In the report, apart from defending the action of the policemen the Jt.	Facts
Commissioner had a lot of things to say about Kulkarnis conduct since he became a witness for the prosecution in the BMW case.	Facts
He noted that he would never give his address or any contact number to any police official.	Facts
His life style had completely changed.	Facts
He lived in expensive hotels and moved around in big cars.	Facts
The Jt.	Facts
Commissioner enclosed with his report a copy of the printout of the cell phone of Kulkarni (the number of which he had given to one of the police officers) that showed that as early as on July 17, 1999 he was in touch with the counsel for the defence RK Anand (one of the appellants) and his junior Mr. Jai Bhagwan, Advocate and even with Suresh Nanda, father of Sanjeev Nanda.	Facts
He cited several other instances to show Kulkarnis duplicity.	Facts
The long and short of the report was that Kulkarni was bought off by the defence.	Facts
He was in collusion with the defence and was receiving fat sums of money from the family of the accused.	Facts
He was trying to play the two ends against the middle and he was completely unreliable.10.	Facts
On September 30, the date fixed for his examination, Kulkarni was duly present in court.	Facts
He was, however, represented by his own lawyer and not by the prosecuting counsel.	Facts
He was quite eager to depose.	Facts
But the prosecution no longer wanted to examine him.	Facts
IU Khan, the Special Prosecutor filed a petition stating that on the instructions of the State he gave up Kulkarni as one of the prosecution witness on the ground that he was won over by the accused.	Facts
He also submitted before the court the report of the Joint Commissioner dated September 27.	Facts
The allegation that he was won over was of course, denied both by Kulkarni and the accused.	Facts
The court, however, discharged him leaving the question open as to what inference would it draw as a result of his nonexamination by the prosecution.11.	Facts
Earlier to Kulkarnis exit from the case, the prosecution had lost two other key witnesses.	Facts
To begin with there were three crucial witnesses for the prosecution.	Facts
One was Hari Shankar Yadav, an attendant on a petrol pump near the site of the tragedy the other was one Manoj Malik who was the lone survivor among the victims of the accident and the third of course was Kulkarni.	Facts
Hari Shankar Yadav was examined before the court on August 18, 1999 and he resiled from his earlier statement made before the police.	Facts
Manoj Malik was scheduled to be examined on August 30, 1999 but he seemed to have disappeared and the police was unable to trace him out either in Delhi or at his home address in Orissa.	Facts
On the date fixed in the case, however, he appeared in court, not with the prosecution team but with two other lawyers.	Facts
He was examined as a witness notwithstanding the strong protest by the prosecution who asked for an adjournment.	Facts
Not surprisingly, he too turned hostile.	Facts
Lastly, Kulkarni too had to be dropped as one of the prosecution witness in the circumstances as noted above.12.	Facts
The trial proceeded in this manner and over a period of the next four years the prosecution examined around sixty witnesses on the forensic and other circumstantial aspects of the case.	Facts
The prosecution finally closed its evidence on August 22, 2003.	Facts
Thereafter, the accused were examined under section 313 of CrPC and a list of defence witnesses was furnished on their behalf.	Facts
While the case was fixed for defence evidence two applications came to be filed before the trial court, one was at the instance of the prosecution seeking a direction to the accused Sanjeev Nanda to give his blood sample for analysis and comparison with the blood stains found in the car and on his clothes, and the other by the defence under section 311 of CrPC for recalling nine prosecution witnesses for their further crossexamination.	Facts
By order dated March 19, 2007 the trial court rejected both the applications.	Facts
It severely criticised the police for trying to seek its direction for something for which the law gave it ample power and authority.	Facts
It also rejected the petition by the defence for recall of witnesses observing that the power under section 311 of CrPC was available to the court and not to the accused.	Facts
At the end of the order the court observed that the only witness in the case whose statement was recorded under section 164 of CrPC was Kulkarni and even though he was given up by the prosecution, the court felt his examination essential for the case.	Facts
It, accordingly, summoned Kulkarni to appear before the court on May 14, 2007.	Facts
Kulkarni thus bounced back on the stage with greater vigour than before.	Facts
MEDIA INTERVENTION13.	Facts
In the trial court the matter was in this state when another chapter was opened up by a TV channel with which we are primarily concerned in this case.	Facts
On April 19, 2007 one Vikas Arora, Advocate, an assistant of IU Khan sent a complaint in writing to the Chief Editor, NDTV with copies to the Commissioner of Police and some other authorities.	Facts
In the complaint it was alleged that one Ms Poonam Agarwal, a reporter of the TV Channel was demanding copies of statements of witnesses and the Police Casediary of the BMW case and was also seeking an interview with IU Khan or the complainant, his junior.	Facts
On their refusal to meet the demands she had threatened to expose them through some unknown person and to let the people know that the police and the public prosecutor had been influenced and bribed by the accused party.	Facts
He requested the authorities to take appropriate action against Poonam Agarwal.14.	Facts
On April 20, 2007 NDTV telecast a half hour special programme on how the BMW case was floundering endlessly even after more than seven years of the occurrence.	Facts
Apparently, the telecast on April 20, 2007 brought Poonam Agarwal and Kulkarni together.	Facts
According to Poonam Agarwal, on April 22, 2007 she received a phone call from Kulkarni who said that he was deeply impressed by the programme telecast by her channel and requested for a meeting with her.	Facts
(The version of Kulkarni is of course quite different).	Facts
She met him on April 22 and 23.	Facts
He told her that in the BMW case the prosecution was hand in glove with the defence he wanted to expose the nexus between the prosecution and the defence and needed her help in that regard.	Facts
Poonam Agarwal obtained the approval of her superiors and the idea to carry out the sting operation using Kulkarni as the decoy was thus conceived.15.	Facts
Even while the planning for the sting operation was going on, NDTV on April 26 gave reply to the notice by Vikas Arora.	Facts
In their reply it was admitted that Poonam Agarwal had sought an interview with Aroras senior which was denied for reasons best known to him.	Facts
All other allegations in Aroras notice were totally denied and it was loftily added that the people at NDTV were conscious of their responsibilities and obligations and would make continuous efforts to unravel the truth as a responsible news channel.16.	Facts
On April 28, 2007 Kulkarni along with one Deepak Verma of NDTV went to meet IU Khan in the Patiala House court premises.	Facts
For the mission Poonam Agarwal wired Kulkarni, that is to say, she equipped him with a concealed camera and a small electronic device that comprised of a tiny black buttonshaped lens attached to his shirt front connected through a wire to a small recorder with a microchip hidden at his backside.	Facts
Before sending off Kulkarni she switched on the camera and waited outside the court premises in a vehicle.	Facts
Deepak Verma from the TV channel was sent along to ensure that everything went according to plan.	Facts
He was carrying another concealed camera and the recording device in his handbag.	Facts
Kulkarni and Deepak Verma were able to meet IU Khan while he was sitting in the chamber of another lawyer.	Facts
Kulkarni entered into a conversation with IU Khan inside the crowded chamber (the details of the conversation we will examine later on at its proper place in the judgment).	Facts
The conversation between the two that took place inside the chamber was recorded on the microchips of both the devices, one worn by Kulkarni and the other carried by Deepak Verma in his bag.	Facts
After a while, on Kulkarnis request, both IU Khan and Kulkarni came out of the chamber and some conversation between the two took place outside the chamber.	Facts
The recording on the microchip of Kulkarnis camera was copied onto magnetic tapes and from there to compact discs (CDs).	Facts
The microchip in Kulkarnis camera used on April 28, 2007 was later reformatted for other uses.	Facts
Thus, admittedly that part of the conversation between Kulkarni and IU Khan that took place on April 28, 2007 outside the chamber is available only on CD and the microchip on which the original recording was made is no longer available.	Facts
The second operation was carried out on May 6, 2007 when Kulkarni met RK Anand in the VIP lounge at the domestic terminal of IGI Airport.	Facts
The recording of the meeting was made on the microchip of the concealed camera carried by Kulkarni.17.	Facts
On May 8, 2007 the third sting operation was carried out when Kulkarni got into the back seat of RK Anands car that was standing outside the Delhi High Court premises.	Facts
RK Anand was sitting on the back seat of the car from before.	Facts
The recording shows Kulkarni and RK Anand in conversation as they travelled together in the car from Delhi High Court to South Extension.18.	Facts
In the evening of the same day the fourth and final sting operation was carried out in South Extension Part II market where Kulkarni met one Bhagwan Sharma, Advocate and another person called Lovely.	Facts
Bhagwan Sharma is one of the juniors working with RK Anand and Lovely appears to be his handyman who was sent to negotiate with Kulkarni on behalf of RK Anand.19.	Facts
According to Poonam Agarwal, in all these operation she was only at a little distance from the scene and was keeping Kulkarni, as far as possible, within her sight.20.	Facts
According to NDTV, in all these operations a total of five microchips were used.	Facts
Four out of those five chips are available with them in completely untouched and unaltered condition.	Facts
One microchip that was used in the camera of Kulkarni on April 28, 2007, as noted above, was reformatted after its contents were transferred onto a CD.21.	Facts
On May 13, 2007 NDTV recorded an interview by Kulkarni in its studio in which Kulkarni is shown saying that after watching the NDTV programme (on the BMW case) he got in touch with the people from the channel and told them that the prosecution and the defence in the case were in league and he knew how witnesses in the case were bought over by the accused and their lawyers.	Facts
He also told NDTV that he could expose them through a sting operation.	Facts
He further said that he carried out the sting operation with the help of NDTV.	Facts
He first met IU Khan who referred him to RK Anand.	Facts
He then met some people sent by RK Anand, including someone whose name was Lovely or something like that.	Facts
As to his objective he said quite righteously that he did the sting operation in the interest of the judiciary.	Facts
In answer to one of the questions by the interviewer he replied rather grandly that he would ask the court to provide him security by the NSG and he would try to go and depose as soon as security was provided to him.	Facts
In the second part of the interview the interviewer asked him about the accident and in that regard he said briefly and in substance what he had earlier stated before the police and the magistrate.	Facts
Back to the Court22.	Facts
It is noted above that by order dated March 19, 2007 the trial court had summoned Kulkarni to appear before it as a court witness on May 14, 2007.	Facts
The defence took the matter to the Delhi High Court (in Crl.	Facts
M. C. No.1035/2007 with Crl.	Facts
M. 3562/2007)	Facts
assailing the trial court order rejecting their prayer to recall some prosecution witnesses for further crossexamination and suo moto summoning Kulkarni under section 311 of CrPC, to be examined as a court witness.	Facts
The matter was heard in the High Court on several dates.	Facts
In the meanwhile Kulkarni was to appear before the trial court on May 14, 2007.	Facts
Hence, the High Court gave interim directions allowing Kulkarni to be examined by the court but not to put him to any crossexaminations till the disposal of the petition being argued before it.	Facts
The petition was finally disposed of by a detailed order dated May 29, 2007.	Facts
The High Court set aside the trial court order rejecting the defence petition for recall of certain prosecution witnesses and asked the trial court to reconsider the matter.	Facts
It also held that the trial courts criticism of the police was unwarranted and accordingly, expunged those passages from its order.	Facts
However, insofar as summoning of Kulkarni was concerned the High Court held that there was no infirmity in the trial court order and left it undisturbed.23.	Facts
On May 14, 2007 Kulkarni appeared before the trial court but on that date, despite much persuasion, the court was not able to get any statement from him.	Facts
From the beginning he asked for an adjournment on the plea that he was not well.	Facts
In the end the court adjourned the proceedings to May 17 with the direction to provide him police protection.	Facts
On May 17, the examination of Kulkarni commenced and he described the accident more or less in the same way as in his statements before the police and the magistrate.	Facts
He said that the accident was caused by a black car (and not by a truck) but added that the car was coming from his front and its light was so strong that he could not see much.	Facts
He said about his identification of the car at the Lodhi Colony police station.	Facts
But on the question of identification of the driver there was a significant shift from his earlier statements.	Facts
He told the court that what he had heard was one of the occupants urging the other to go calling him Sanch or Sanz.	Facts
He had also heard another name Sidh being mentioned among the cars occupants.	Facts
In reply to the courts question he said that in his statement before the magistrate under section 164 of CrPC he had stated the name Sanjeev, and not the nick names that he actually heard, under pressure from some police officials.	Facts
He said that he was also put under pressure not to take the name of Sidharth Gupta and some police official told him that he was not in the car at the time of the accident.	Facts
He said that apart from the name that he heard being uttered by the occupant(s) of the car and the number of persons he saw getting down from the car the rest of his statement under section 164 was correct.	Facts
He said that actually three, and not two, persons had got down from the car.	Facts
The court then asked him to identify the persons who came out of the offending car.	Facts
Kulkarni identified Sanjeev Nanda who was present in court.	Facts
He further said that the third occupant of the car was a hefty boy whom he did not see in the court.	Facts
At this point IU Khan explained that he might be referring to Sidharth Gupta who was discharged by the order of the High Court.	Facts
Kulkarni added that he was unable to identify the second occupant of the car and went on to declare, even without being asked, he could not say who came out of the drivers side.	Facts
He was shown Manik Kapoor, another accused in the case, as one the occupants of the car but he said that after lapse of nine years he was not in a position to identify him.24.	Facts
On May 29 Kulkarni was cross examined on behalf of the Prosecution by IU Khan.	Facts
The prosecutor confronted him with his earlier statements recorded under sections 161 and 164 of CrPC and he took it as opportunity to move more and more away from the prosecution case.	Facts
He admitted that Sanjeev Nanda was one of the occupants of the car but positively denied that he came out from the driving seat of the offending car.	Facts
He elaborated that the one to come out from the driving seat of the car was a fat, hefty boy who was not present on that date.	Facts
(It does not take much imagination to see that he was trying to put Sidharth Gupta on the driving seat of the car who had been discharged from the case by the order of the Delhi High Court and was thus in no imminent danger from his deposition).	Facts
He denied that he disowned or changed some portions from his earlier statements under the influence of the accused persons.	Facts
On May 29 Kulkarnis crossexamination by IU Khan was incomplete and it was deferred to May 31.	Facts
But before that NDTV telecast the sting programme that badly jolted not only everyone connected with the BMW trial but the judicial system as well.	Facts
THE TELECAST25.	Facts
Based on the sting operations NDTV telecast a programme called India 60 Minutes (BMW Special) on May 30, 2007 at 8.00 p.m.	Facts
It was followed at 9.00 pm, normally reserved for news, as BMW Special.	Facts
From a purely journalistic point of view it was a brilliant programme designed to have the greatest impact on the viewers.	Facts
The programmes commenced with the anchors (Ms. Sonia Singh in the first and Ms. Barkha Dutt in the second telecast) making some crisp and hard hitting introductory remarks on the way the BMW case was proceeding which, according to the two anchors, was typical of the countrys legal system.	Facts
The introductory remarks were followed by some clips from the sting recordings and comments by the anchors, interspersed with comments on what was shown in the programme by a host of well known legal experts.26.	Facts
It is highly significant for our purpose that both the telecasts also showed live interviews with RK Anand.	Facts
According to the channels reporter, who was posted at RK Anands residence with a mobile unit, he initially declined to come on the camera or to make any comments on the programme saying that he would speak only the following day in the court at the hearing of the case.	Facts
According to the reporter, in course of the telecast Sanjeev Nanda also arrived at the residence of RK Anand and joined him in his office.	Facts
He too refused to make any comments on the ongoing telecast.	Facts
But later on RK Anand came twice on the TV and spoke with the two anchors giving his comments on what was being shown in the telecasts.	Facts
We shall presently examine whether the programmes aired to the viewers were truly and faithfully based on the sting operations or whether in the process of editing for preparing the programmes any slant was given, prejudicial to the two appellants.	Facts
This is of course subject to the premise that the Court has no reason to suspect the original materials on which the programme was based and it is fully satisfied in regard to the integrity and authenticity of the recordings made in the sting operations.	Facts
That is to say, the recordings of the sting operations were true and pure and those were not fake, fabricated, doctored or morphed.27.	Facts
In regard to the telecast it needs to be noted that though the sting operations were complete on May 8, 2007 and all the materials on which the telecast would be based were available with the TV channel, the programme came on air much later on May 30.	Facts
The reason for withholding the telecast was touched upon by the anchors who said in their introductory remarks that after the sting operations were complete and just before his testimony began in court Kulkarni withdrew his consent for telecasting the programmes.	Facts
Nevertheless, after taking legal opinion on the matter NDTV was going ahead with the airing of programme in larger public interest.	Facts
Towards the end of the nine oclock programme the anchor had a live discussion with Poonam Agarwal in which she elaborated upon the reason for withholding the telecast for about three weeks.	Facts
Concerning Kulkarni, Poonam Agarwal said that he was the main person behind the stings and the sting operation was planned at his initiative.	Facts
He had approached her and said to her that he wished to bring out into the open the nexus between the prosecution and the defence in the BMW case.	Facts
He had also said to her that in connection with the case he was under tremendous pressure from both sides.	Facts
But after the stings were complete he changed his stand and would not agree to the telecast of the programme based on the stings.	Facts
In the discussion between the anchor and Poonam Agarwal it also came to light that initially NDTV had seen Kulkarni as one of the victims of the system but later on he appeared in highly dubious light.	Facts
The anchor said that they had no means to know if he had received any money from any side.	Facts
Poonam Agarwal who had the occasion to closely see him in course of the sting operations gave instances to say that he appeared to her duplicitous, shifty and completely unreliable.28.	Facts
NDTV took the interview of RK Anand even as the first telecasts were on and thus what he had to say on what was being shown on the TV was fully integrated in the eight oclock and nine oclock programmes on May 30.	Facts
IU Khan was interviewed on the following morning when a reporter from the TV channel met him at his residence with a mobile transmission unit.	Facts
The interview was live telecast from around eight to twenty three past eight on the morning of May 31.	Facts
But that was the only time his interview was telecast in full.	Facts
In the programmes telecast later on, one or two sentences from his interview were used by the anchor to make her comments.29.	Facts
In his interview IU Khan basically maintained that from the clandestine recording of his conversation with Kulkarni, pieces, were used out of context and selectively for making the programme and what he spoke to Kulkarni was deliberately misinterpreted to derive completely wrong inferences.	Facts
He further maintained that in his meeting with Kulkarni he had said nothing wrong much less anything to interfere with the courts proceeding in the pending BMW case.	Facts
Impact of the telecast30.	Facts
On the same day IU Khan withdrew from the BMW case as Special Public Prosecutor.	Facts
Before his withdrawal, however, he produced before the trial court a letter that finds mention in the trial court order passed on that date, written in the hand of Kulkarni stating that he collected the summons issued to him by the court from SHO, Lodhi Colony Police Station on the advice of IU Khan.31.	Facts
The trial court viewed the telecast by NDTV very seriously and issued notice to its Managing Director directing to produce the entire unedited original record of the sting operation as well as the names of the employees reporters of NDTV who were part of the said sting operation by the following day.32.	Facts
The further crossexamination of Kulkarni was deferred to another date on the request of the counsel replacing IU Khan as Special Public Prosecutor.33.	Facts
On June 1, 2007, RK Anand had a legal notice sent to NDTV, its Chairman, Directors and a host of other staff asking them to stop any further telecasts of their BMW programme and to tender an unconditional apology to him failing which he would take legal action against them inter alia for damages amounting to rupees fifty crores.	Facts
NDTV gave its reply to the legal notice on July 20, 2007.	Facts
No further action was taken by RK Anand in pursuance of the notice.	Facts
HIGH COURT TAKES NOTICE34.	Facts
On the same day (May 31, 2007) a Bench of the Delhi High Court presided over by the Chief Justice took cognisance of the programme telecast by NDTV the previous evening and felt compelled to examine all the facts.	Facts
The Court, accordingly, directed the Registrar General to collect all materials that may be available in respect of the telecast including copies of CDs Video and transcript and submit the same for consideration within 10 days.	Facts
The court further directed NDTV to preserve the original material including the CDs Video pertaining to the aforesaid sting operation.35.	Facts
In response to the notice issued by the trial court, NDTV produced before it on June 1, 2007 two microchips and a recorder with the third chip inside it.	Facts
The chips were said to contain the original recordings.	Facts
In addition to the chips and the recorder NDTV also produced 5 CDs that were copies of the original, unedited recordings on the three chips.	Facts
It was brought to the notice of the trial court that the High Court had also issued notice to NDTV in the same matter.	Facts
The trial court, accordingly, stopped its inquiry and returned everything back to NDTV for production before the High Court.36.	Facts
On June 2, 2007, Ms. Poonam Agarwal of NDTV submitted before the High Court six CDs one of the CDs (marked 1) was stated to be edited and the remaining five (marked 26) unedited.	Facts
In a written statement given on the same day she declared that NDTV News Channel did not have any other material in connection with the sting operation.	Facts
She also stated that in accordance with the direction of the Court, NDTV was preserving the original CDs Videos relating to the sting operation.	Facts
On June 6, 2007, Poonam Agarwal submitted true transcripts of the CDs duly signed by her on each page.	Facts
She also gave a written statement on that date stating that the CDs submitted by her earlier were duplicated from a taperecording prepared from four spy camera chips which were recorded on different occasions.	Facts
(As we shall see later on, the total number of microchips used in all the four stings was actually five and not four).	Facts
She also gave the undertaking, on behalf of NDTV that those original chips would be duly preserved.37.	Facts
On June 11 (during summer vacation) the Court recorded the statement of the counsel appearing for NDTV that its order dated May 31 had been fully complied with.	Facts
On July 9 after hearing counsel for NDTV and on going through the earlier orders passed in the matter the Court felt the need for a further affidavit regarding the telecast based on the sting operation.	Facts
It, accordingly, directed NDTV to file an affidavit concerning the sting operation from the stage it was conceived and the attendant circumstances, details of the recording done, i.e., the time and place etc. and other relevant circumstances.	Facts
In compliance with the Courts direction, Poonam Agarwal filed an affidavit on July 23, 2007.Poonam Agarwals Affidavit38.	Facts
In her affidavit Poonam Agarwal stated that she was a reporter working with NDTV.	Facts
She had joined the TV channel two years ago.	Facts
She stated that NDTV was covering the BMW trial and had telecast a special programme on the case on April 20, 2007.	Facts
Two days later Kulkarni contacted her on telephone and requested for a meeting saying that he had something important to tell her about the case.	Facts
She met him on April 22 and 23.	Facts
In the second meeting he was accompanied by his wife.	Facts
He told her that there was a strong nexus between the prosecution and the defence in that case and that he had suffered a lot due to his involvement in the case.	Facts
He was determined to expose the nexus.	Facts
He said that he needed the help of NDTV to do a sting operation in order to bring out the complicity between the prosecution and the defence into open.	Facts
She discussed the plan mooted by Kulkarni with her superiors in the organisation and got their permission to carry out the sting operation.	Facts
In this regard she stated in the affidavit that the people at NDTV were greatly concerned over the manner in which a number of trials had ended up in acquittal on account of witnesses turning hostile, especially in cases in which accused were influential people.	Facts
NDTV, as a news channel, was trying to uncover the causes behind this malaise and it was in this spirit that the channel decided to help Kulkarni.	Facts
She duly told Kulkarni that NDTV was willing to help him in doing the sting operation.	Facts
Kulkarni informed her that he was going to meet IU Khan in his chamber to seek his direction in connection with the court summons issued to him and that would be good a opportunity for doing the sting.	Facts
Accordingly, she along with one Deepak Verma (a camera person from the TV channel) met Kulkarni outside the Patiala House court premises.	Facts
She fitted Kulkarni with a button camera and a recording device and also gave her a cell phone to communicate with her in any emergency.	Facts
Then Kulkarni and Deepak Verma went to meet IU Khan.	Facts
Deepak Verma carried another concealed camera and a recording device in his bag.	Facts
Deepak Verma was sent along with Kulkarni to ensure that he did not in any manner tamper with the hidden camera.	Facts
Before sending them off she switched on Kulkarnis camera.	Facts
After meeting with IU Khan both came back and she then switched off Kulkarnis camera.	Facts
She stated in the affidavit that after copying its contents onto a compact disc the microchip used in Kulkarnis camera was formatted for other projects but the microchip in the camera in Deepak Vermas bag was available undisturbed.	Facts
Kulkarni next called to tell her that he was meeting RK Anand at the IGI Airport (Domestic Terminal) and suggested to do a sting there.	Facts
She, accordingly, took her to the airport on May 6, 2007.	Facts
There she fitted him with the hidden camera and the recording device, switched the camera on and send him off to meet RK Anand.	Facts
She herself waited for him in her car.	Facts
After meeting with RK Anand, Kulkarni came out of the airport building and contacted her on the cell phone to find out where her car was parked.	Facts
He then came back to the car.	Facts
She switched off the camera and brought her back to her office.	Facts
Kulkarni again contacted her to say that he was meeting RK Anand on May 8.	Facts
This time she met him near the Delhi High Court and in her vehicle equipped him with the hidden camera and switched it on.	Facts
She waited in her vehicle while Kulkarni got into the back seat of a black car outside the Delhi High Court in which RK Anand was sitting from before.	Facts
The car with Kulkarni and RK Anand drove off and she followed them in her vehicle.	Facts
They went to South Extension, New Delhi where Kulkarni was dropped.	Facts
He came back to her vehicle and joined her.	Facts
She then switched off the camera.	Facts
She stated in the affidavit that all along the way from outside the Delhi High Court to South Extension the car in which Kulkarni and RK Anand were travelling did not stop anywhere except at the red lights on the crossings.	Facts
She also averred that all along the way she followed the car in her own vehicle and it always remained in her sight.	Facts
On the same day Kulkarni told her that he was scheduled to meet RK Anand in his office at South Extension Part II.	Facts
They together went to South Extension and from there Kulkarni telephoned RK Anand.	Facts
He told her that he was asked to wait there at a particular spot where someone would come to meet him.	Facts
After a short while Bhagwan Sharma arrived there whom she knew from before as an advocate associated with RK Anand.	Facts
At that time they were in her vehicle.	Facts
She wired Kulkarni, like the earlier occasions, and he went to meet Bhagwan Sharma at the fixed spot.	Facts
For a little while she lost them from her sight.	Facts
She then contacted Kulkarni on his cell phone and he, feigning to be talking to his wife, indicated to her the exact spot where he was at that moment.	Facts
She approached that spot and found that Bhagwan Sharma had gone away and Kulkarni was talking with a Sikh person whom he later identified as Lovely.	Facts
They moved around and talked for a pretty long time.	Facts
In the end Lovely got into his car and drove away.	Facts
Kulkarni then called her on the cell phone to find out where her vehicle was parked.	Facts
He came back to her.	Facts
She switched off the camera.	Facts
He narrated to her what transpired in the meetings with Bhagwan Sharma and Lovely.	Facts
She stated in the affidavit that the entire episode lasted for over an hour and a half.	Facts
All through she had Kulkarni in her sight except for the short period as indicated above.	Facts
She also stated that as the episode went on for a long time the batteries of the hidden camera got exhausted and, therefore, the recording of the meeting ended abruptly.	Facts
Once all the material collected in course of the sting operations came in possession of NDTV it was carefully examined and evaluated and the editorial team at NDTV came to the view that in the larger public interest it was their duty to put the whole matter in the public domain.	Facts
The decision was thus taken to telecast a special programme under the caption BMW expose.	Facts
The recordings made in the sting operations were then very carefully edited for making a programme that could be telecast.	Facts
The process of editing took three days.	Facts
The chips were copied onto CDs in her presence and under her supervision.	Facts
She, at all time, retained the custody of the original chips.	Facts
At all successive stages she was personally present to ensure the factual accuracy of the edited version incorporated in the programme.	Facts
But once the programme was made Kulkarni completely changed his position and strongly opposed the telecast of the programme.	Facts
He asked her not to telecast the programme saying that he and his wife were facing threat to their lives.	Facts
He would not clearly spell out the nature of the threat or its source but simply oppose the telecast.	Facts
In view of his plea that he and his wife faced threat to their lives it was decided to defer the telecast till his examinationinchief in the court was over.	Facts
She then stated about Kulkarnis interview (without stating the date on which it was recorded) on camera in the NDTV studio in which he spoke about why and how he carried out the stings.	Facts
Coming back to the telecast she said that she met Kulkarni on the dates of his appearance in the trial court on May 14, 17 and 29 but was not able to persuade him to agree to the telecast.	Facts
He was not willing to give his consent even on May 29 but then the people at NDTV felt that his stand was quite contradictory to the objective avowed by him for carrying out the stings with the help of NDTV by that date his examinationinchief was over and he was also provided with police protection.	Facts
Taking all those facts and circumstances into account it was decided to go ahead with the telecast regardless of Kulkarnis objections.	Facts
The programme was, accordingly, telecast on May 30, 2007.	Facts
In course of the telecast the anchor of the show engaged with RK Anand and presented his version too before the viewers.	Facts
IU Khan was similarly tried to be contacted but he was indisposed.	Facts
In the end the affidavit gave a list of all the materials submitted in the court along with it.39.	Facts
In Poonam Agarwals affidavit NDTV took the stand that the stings were conceived and executed by Kulkarni.	Facts
Its own role was only that of the facilitator.	Facts
Kulkarni would choose the date and time and venue of the meetings where he would like to do the sting.	Facts
He would fix up the meetings not in consultation with Poonam Agarwal but on his own.	Facts
He would simply tell her about the meetings and she would provide him with the wherewithal to do the sting.	Facts
She would not ask him when and how and for what purpose the meeting was fixed even though it may take place at such strange places as the VIP lounge of the airport or a car travelling from outside the Delhi High Court to South Extension.	Facts
She would not ask him even about any future meetings or his further plans.	Facts
Proceeding resumes40.	Facts
On July 25, 2007 when the matter next came up before the Court the affidavit of Poonam Agarwal was already submitted before it.	Facts
On that date the counsel for NDTV took the Court through the transcripts of the sting recordings and submitted that the three advocates and the other person Lovely, the subjects of the sting, had prima facie interfered with the due administration of criminal justice.	Facts
The Court, however, deferred any further action in the matter till it viewed for itself the original sting recordings.	Facts
On that date it appointed Mr. Arvind K. Nigam, Advocate as amicus curiae to assist the court in the matter.41.	Facts
On July 31, 2007, one Mr. Vinay Bhasin, Senior Advocate, tried to intervene stating that the action of NDTV in telecasting a programme based on sting operations in connection with a pending criminal trial itself amounted to interference with the administration of criminal justice.	Facts
On the same day both RK Anand and IU Khan also tried to intervene in the Court proceedings and sought to put forward their point of view.	Facts
The Court, however, declined to hear them, pointing out that there was no occasion for it at that stage since no notice was issued to them.42.	Facts
On August 7, 2007, the Court on a consideration of all the materials coming before it came to the view that prima facie the actions of RK Anand, IU Khan, Bhagwan Sharma and Lovely (who was dead by then) were aimed at influencing the testimony of a witness in a manner so as to interfere with the due legal process.	Facts
Their actions thus clearly amounted to criminal contempt of court as defined under clause (ii) (iii) of section 2(c) of the Contempt of Courts Act.	Facts
The Court accordingly passed the following orderFrom your aforesaid acts and conduct as discerned from the CDs and their transcripts, the affidavit 23rd	Facts
July, 2007 of Ms. Poonam Agarwal along with its annexures, we are, prima facie, satisfied that you Mr. R.K. Anand, Senior Advocate, Mr. I. U. Khan, Senior Advocate, Mr. Sri Bhagwan, Advocate and Mr. Lovely have wilfully and deliberately tried to interfere with the due course of judicial proceedings and administration of justice by the courts.	Facts
Prima facie your acts and conduct as aforesaid was intended to subvert the administration of justice in the pending trial and in particular influence the outcome of the pending judicial proceedings.	Facts
Accordingly, in exercise of the powers under Article 215 of the Constitution of India, we do hereby direct initiation of proceedings for contempt and issuance of notice to you, Mr. RK Anand, Senior Advocate, Mr. IU Khan, Senior Advocate, Mr. Shri Bhagwan, Advocate and Mr. Lovely to show cause as to why you should not be proceeded and punished for contempt of court as defined under Section 2(c) of the Contempt of Courts Act and under Article 215 of the Constitution of India.	Facts
You are, therefore, required to file your reply showing cause, if any, against the action as proposed within four weeks.	Facts
Noticees and contemnors shall be present in Court on the next date of hearing i.e. 24th September, 2007.Registry is directed to supply under mentioned material to the noticees(i) Copy of the order dated 7th August, 2007(ii) Affidavit of Ms. Poonam Agarwal dated 23rd July, 2007 together with annexures including the four copies of CDs filed along with the affidavit(iii) Copies of the corrected transcripts filed on 6th August, 2007 in terms of the order dated 31st	Facts
July, 2007(iv) Copies of 6 CDs, including one edited and five unedited containing the original footage which were produced on 6th June, 2007.NDTV shall make available to the Registry sufficient number of copies of the CDs.	Facts
and transcripts, which the Registry has to supply to the noticees as above.43.	Facts
In response to the notice RK Anand, instead of filing a show cause, first filed a petition (on September 5, 2007) asking one of the judges on the Bench, namely, Manmohan Sarin J. to recuse himself from the hearing of the matter.	Facts
The recusal petition and the review petition arising from it were rejected by the High Court by orders dated October 4 and November 29, 2007.	Facts
We will be required to consider the unpleasant business of the recusal petition in greater detail at its proper place later in the judgment.44.	Facts
While the matter of recusal was still pending a grievance was made before the Court (on September 24) that along with the notice the proceedees were given only five CDs, though the number of CDs submitted by NDTV before the Court was six.	Facts
Counsel for NDTV explained that the contents of two of the CDs were copied onto a single CD and hence, the number of CDs furnished to the noticees had come down to five.	Facts
Counsel for the TV channel, however, undertook to provide fresh sets of six CDs to each of the noticees.45.	Facts
On September 28, 2007 counsel for IU Khan was granted permission for viewing the six CDs submitted by NDTV on the courts record.46.	Facts
On October 1, IU Khan filed his affidavit in reply to the notice issued by the High Court and RK Anand and Bhagwan Sharma filed their affidavits on October 3, 2007.YET ANOTHER TELECAST47.	Facts
In the evening of December 3, 2007 NDTV telecast yet another programme from which it appeared that RK Anand and Kulkarni were by no means strangers to each other and the association between the two went back several years in the past.	Facts
Kulkarni, under the assumed name of Nishikant, had stayed in RK Anands villa in Shimla for some time.	Facts
There he also had a brush with the law and was arrested by the police in Una (HP).	Facts
He had spent about forty five days in jail.	Facts
From the HP police record it appeared that after coming on the scene in the BMW case he spent some time in hotels in Rajasthan and Gurgaon with the Nandas paying the bills.48.	Facts
This time RK Anand did not give any legal notice to NDTV seeking apology or claiming damages etc.	Facts
but on the following day (December 4) he made a complaint about the telecast before the Court.	Facts
The Court directed NDTV to produce all the original materials concerning the telecast and its transcript.	Facts
The Court further directed NDTV to file an affidavit giving details in regard to the collection of the materials and the making of the programme.49.	Facts
In response to the High Courts direction one Deepak Bajpai, Principal Correspondent with NDTV filed an affidavit on its behalf on December 11, 2007.	Facts
In the affidavit it was stated that following a reference to HP in the conversation between RK Anand and Kulkarni in the second sting that took place in the car he went to Shimla and other places in Himachal Pradesh and made extensive investigations there.	Facts
Kulkarni was easily identified by the people there through his photograph.	Facts
On making enquiries he came to learn that in the year 2000 Kulkarni lived in RK Anands villa called Schilthorn in Shimla for about a year under the assumed name of Nishikant.	Facts
While staying there he corresponded with an insurance company on behalf of RK Anand, using his letterhead, in connection with some insurance claim.	Facts
Interestingly, there he also obtained a driving licence describing himself as Nishikant Anand son of RK Anand.	Facts
In Shimla and in other places in Himachal he also duped a number of traders and businessmen.	Facts
In Una he was arrested by Police on suspicion and he had to spend about 45 days in jail.50.	Facts
In reply to the affidavit filed by Deepak Bajpai, RK Anand filed an affidavit on January 10, 2008 in which he mostly tried to point out the discrepancies in the sting recordings and contended that those were inadmissible in evidence.	Facts
PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE HIGH COURT51.	Facts
After putting the recusal petition and the review application out of its way, the Court took up the hearing of the main matter that was held on many dates spread over a period of four months from December 4, 2007 to May 2, 2008.	Facts
RK Anand appeared in person while IU Khan was represented through lawyers.	Facts
Neither RK Anand nor IU Khan (nor for that matter Bhagwan Sharma) tendered apology or expressed regret or contrition for their acts.	Facts
IU Khan simply denied the charge of trying to interfere with the due course of judicial proceedings and administration of justice by the Courts.	Facts
He took the stand that the expressions and words he is shown to have uttered in his meeting with Kulkarni were misinterpreted and a completely different meaning was given to them to suit the story fabricated by the TV channel for its programme.52.	Facts
RK Anand on his part took a posture of defiant denial and tried to present himself as one who was more sinned against than a sinner.	Facts
Before coming to his own defence he raised a number of issues concerning the role of the mass media in general and, in particular, in reporting about the BMW case.	Facts
He contended that it was NDTV that was guilty of committing contempt of Court as the programmes telecast by it on May 30, 2007 (and on subsequent dates) clearly violated the subjudice rule.	Facts
On this issue, however, he was strangely ambivalent he would not file an application before the Court for initiating contempt proceedings against the TV channel but invite the Court to suo moto take appropriate action against it.	Facts
He next submitted that the Court should rein in and control the mass media in reporting court matters, especially live cases pending adjudication before the court, arguing that media reports mould public opinion and thereby tend to goad the court to take a certain view of the matter that may not necessarily be the correct view.	Facts
He also urged the Court to lay down the law and guidelines in respect of stings or undercover operations by media.	Facts
After an elaborate discussion the High Court rejected all the contentions of the contemnors based on these issues.	Facts
Before us these issues were not raised on behalf of the appellants.	Facts
But we must observe we fail to see how those issues could be raised before the High Court as pleas in defence of a charge of criminal contempt for suborning a witness in a criminal trial.	Facts
In the overall facts and circumstances of the case it was perfectly open to the High Court to deal with those issues as well.	Facts
But it certainly did not lie with anyone facing the charge of criminal contempt to plead any alleged wrong doing by the TV channel as defence against the charge.	Facts
If the telecast of the programme concerning a pending trial could be viewed as contempt of Court or if the stings preceding it, in any way, violated the rights of the subjects of the stings those would be separate issues to be dealt with separately.	Facts
In case of the former the matter was between the Court and the TV channel and in the latter case it was open to the aggrieved person(s) to seek his remedies under the civil and or criminal law.	Facts
As a matter of fact RK Anand had given a legal notice to NDTV that he did not pursue.	Facts
But neither the stings nor the telecast would absolve the contemnors of the grave charge of suborning a witness in a criminal trial.	Facts
We have, therefore, not the slightest doubt that the High Court was quite right in rejecting the contemnors contentions based on those so called preliminary issues.53.	Facts
The contemnors then raised the issues of the nature of contempt jurisdiction and the onus and the standard of proof in a proceeding for criminal contempt.	Facts
They further questioned the admissibility of the sting recordings and contended that those recordings were even otherwise unreliable.	Facts
In course of hearing RK Anand tried to assail the integrity of the CDs furnished to him that were the reproductions from the original of the sting recordings.	Facts
According to him, there were several anomalies and discrepancies in those recordings and (on January 29, 2008) he submitted before the Court that from the CDs furnished to him he had got another CD of eight minutes duration prepared in order to highlight the tampering in the original recording.	Facts
He sought the Courts permission to play his eight minute CD before it.	Facts
On RK Anands request the Court viewed the eight minute CD submitted by him on February 5, 2008.	Facts
On February 27, 2008 the Court directed NDTV to file an affidavit giving its response to the CD prepared by RK Anand.	Facts
As directed, NDTV filed the affidavit, sworn by one Dinesh Singh, on March 7, 2008.	Facts
The affidavit explained all the objections raised by RK Anand in his eight minute CD.	Facts
RK Anand then filed a petition (Crl. M. 4012/2008) on March 31, 2008 for sending the original CDs for examination by the Central Forensic Science Laboratory.54.	Facts
Besides this, RK Anand filed a number of interlocutory applications in course of the proceedings.	Facts
Only three of those are relevant for us having regard to the points raised in the hearing of the appeal.	Facts
Those were (I) Crl.	Facts
M. No. 13782 of 2007 filed on December 3, 2007 for summoning Poonam Agarwal for crossexamination, (II) Crl.	Facts
M. No. 4010 of 2008 filed on March 31, 2008 for initiating proceeding of perjury against NDTV and Poonam Agarwal for deliberately making false statements on affidavits and fabricating evidence and (III) Crl.	Facts
M. No. 4150 of 2008 filed on April 2, 2008 asking the Court to direct NDTV to place all the original microchips before it and to furnish him copies directly reproduced from those chips.	Facts
Apart from the above, RK Anand also filed before the High Court on March 31, 2008 an application in the nature of written arguments.55.	Facts
On conclusion of oral submissions, on April 5, 2008 the Court, in presence of the three contemnors and their counsel, viewed all the original materials of the sting operations submitted before it by NDTV.	Facts
In the order passed on that date it recorded the proceeding of the day as underThe under mentioned recordings were played in court today in the presence of noticees, their counsel and the amicus curiae(i)	Facts
Bag camera chip of conversation with Shri I. U. Khan on 28.4.2007(ii) Button camera DVD of conversation with Shri I. U. Khan on 28.4.2007(iii) Button camera chip of conversation with Shri R. K. Anand on 6.5.2007(iv) Button camera chip of conversation with Shri R. K. Anand on 8.5.2007(v) Button Camera Chip of conversation with Sri Bhagwan Sharma Shri Lovely(vi)	Facts
Telecast of second expose of 3.12.2007 at H.P. stay of Sunil Kulkarni Mr. Huzefa Ahmedi for noticee Mr. I. U. Khan and Mr. R. K. Anand for himself and Sri Bhagwan offered their comments on the inferences to be drawn from the video recordings and the conversations therein.	Facts
Renotify on 10th April, 2008 at 2.30 p.m. for conclusion of submissions on behalf of noticees.56.	Facts
On the next date April 10, 2008 RK Anand concluded his submission and the counsel for IU Khan filed reply to the written submission of amicus curiae.	Facts
The matter came up once more before the Court on May 2, 2008 when the Court after giving some direction to NDTV and amicus curiae, reserved judgment in the case which was finally pronounced on August 21, 2008.	Facts
The Court held that the contempt jurisdiction of a Court is sui generis.	Facts
The provisions of CrPC and the Evidence Act are not applicable to a proceeding of contempt.	Facts
In dealing with contempt, the Court was entitled to devise its own procedure but it must firmly adhere to the principles of natural justice.	Facts
The Court also found and held that the recordings of the stings on the microchips and their reproduction on the CDs were completely genuine and unimpeachable and hence, those materials could not only be taken in evidence but fully relied on in support of the charge.57.	Facts
The High Court rejected all the interlocutory applications filed by RK Anand.	Facts
As to the request to call Poonam Agarwal for crossexamination the Court observed that what transpired between RK Anand and Kulkarni in the sting meetings was there on the microchips and the CDs, copied from those chips, for anyone to see and no statement by Poonam Agarwal in her crossexamination would alter that even slightly.	Facts
The Court further recorded its finding that the microchips were not subjected to any tampering etc.	Facts
and hence, rejected the petition for proceeding against NDTV for perjury.	Facts
In regard to the other petitions the Court observed that those were moved in desperation and for exerting pressure on NDTV and Poonam Agarwal.	Facts
The Court further observed that the original chips were in the safe custody of NDTV and there was no need for those chips to be deposited in Court.	Facts
The contents of the microchips were viewed by the proceedees and the CDs onto which the microchips were copied were handed over to them.	Facts
The proceedees, therefore, had no cause for grievance and the submission to send the microchips for forensic examination or for directing NDTV to submit the original microchips before the High Court had no substance or merit.58.	Facts
In the end the Court held that the circumstances and the manner in which the meetings took place between the proceedees and Kulkarni and the exchanges that took place in those meetings as evidenced from the sting recordings fully established that both IU Khan and RK Anand were guilty of the charges framed against them.	Facts
It accordingly convicted them for criminal contempt of Court and sentenced them as noticed above.	Facts
SOME OF THE ISSUES ARISING IN THE CASE These are broadly all the facts of the case.	None
We have set out the relevant facts in considerable detail since we do not see this case as simply a matter of culpability, or otherwise, of two individuals.	None
Inherent in the facts of the case are a number of issues, some of which go to the very root of the administration of justice in the country and need to be addressed by this Court.	None
The two appeals give rise to the following questions Whether the conviction of the two appellants for committing criminal contempt of court is justified and sustainable?	Issue
Whether the procedure adopted by the High Court in the contempt proceedings was fair and reasonable, causing no prejudice to the two appellants?	Issue
Whether it was open to the High Court to prohibit the appellants from appearing before the High Court and the courts subordinate to it for a specified period as one of the punishments for criminal contempt of court?	None
Whether in the facts and circumstances of the case the punishments awarded to the appellants can be said to be adequate and commensurate to their misdeeds?	None
Apart from the above, some other important issues arise from the facts of the case that need to be addressed by us.	Issue
These are The role of NDTV in carrying out sting operations and telecasting the programme based on the sting materials in regard to a criminal trial that was going on before the court.	Issue
The declining professional standards among lawyers, and The rootcause behind the whole affair the way the BMW trial was allowed to go directionless On these issues we were addressed at length by Mr. Altaf Ahmed, learned Senior Advocate appearing for RK Anand and Mr. P. P. Rao, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of IU Khan.	None
We also heard Mr. Harish Salve, learned Senior Advocate representing NDTV, which though not a party in the appeals was, nevertheless issued notice by us.	None
We also received valuable assistance from Mr. Gopal Subramanium, Senior Advocate and Mr. Nageshwar Rao, Senior advocate, the amici appointed by us having regard to the important issues involved in the case.	None
We spent a full day viewing all the sting recordings, the recording of the programmes telecast by NDTV on May 30, 2007 and the eight minute CD prepared by RK Anand.	None
Present at the viewing were all the counsel and one of the appellants, namely RK Anand.	None
RK ANANDS APPEAL Before adverting to anything else we must deal with the appeals proper.	None
In order to judge the charge of criminal contempt against the appellants it needs to be seen what actually transpired between Kulkarni and the two appellants in the stings to which they were subjected.	None
And for that we shall have to examine the raw sting recordings.	None
Taking the case of RK Anand first we go to the sting done on him on May 6, 2007 when Kulkarni met him in the VIP lounge at the domestic terminal of IGI Airport, Delhi.	None
Here, it needs to be recalled that as Kulkarni was behind the camera (which was fixed to his shirt front)	None
he is not seen in the picture.	None
What one sees and hears are the pictures of whomsoever he is engaged with and their voices.	None
The video begins with Kulkarni approaching the guard at the entrance of the airport building and asking him about the public address system from where he could contact RK Anand who was inside the airport building in the VIP lounge.	None
The following are the extracts from the transcript of the sting recording of the meeting that would give an idea how the meeting between the two took place and what was said in the meeting.	None
THE EXCHANGE BETWEEN KULKARNI RK ANAND Kulkarni Excuse me, apka announcement kaha hai?	None
Someone Kis liye?	None
Kulkarni Mr. RK Anand, yaha hai, ex Member of Parliament, mujhe unse milna hai, urgentI think woh udhar hi hai.	None
KULKARNI ON THE PUBLIC TELEPHONE AT THE AIRPORT Kulkarni Hello Haanji boss, bahar hi hoogate No.1 gate No.2 ke beech mein, Ha, VIP gate okIll be there.	None
Ya, ya, ya, ya, ok.	None
KULKARNI HANGS UP AND PROCEEDS TOWARDS THE VIP GATE Kulkarni Poonam, keep your mobile on Ok and keep it with your recorder	None
Ok Ok Im leaving for the VIP gatehe is waiting thereokok Anand Kya badmashi karte rehte ho?	None
Kulkarni Main aapko wohi time bata raha tha ke mujhe sab kuch pata	None
tha yeisi liye hamnebut lekin nobody believed me(Anand laughing)	None
Anand Acha Tu mere saath badmashi karni band kar detu banda ban ja.	None
Kulkarni Aap banaoge to banoonga.	None
Anand Agar nahi banega to main maroonga (Kulkarni cuts in) Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Kulkarni Ab kya strategy banani hai batao.	None
Kulkarni Maine message bheja tha khan saab ke passaapko shayad mila hoga	None
Anand Haanmil gaya tha	None
Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Anand Main kya bola?	None
(Laughs)	None
Anand Acha let me come back tomorrow, meri flight ayegi koi saare nau (9.30) bajetum ghar mein xxxx.	None
Kulkarni Han that will be better because I dont want Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Anand Haan abab mujhe batao Anand Ab batao mereko Kulkarni Mujhe bola dhai crore doongaaap batao mereko.	None
Anand Hain?	None
Kulkarni Dhai crore Anand Tu paanch crore maang le Kulkarni Main paanch crore maang leta	None
hoo Anand Tere ko cross examine maine zaroor karna hai Kulkarni Aur doosri baatcross examine aap karoge mereko?	None
(Anand laughs)	None
Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Kulkarni Jab bhi mereko zaroorat padegi main ghar pe aa jaunga, mujhe pata hai.	None
Anand Chalo let me come back tomorrow evening, you come and meet me in the nightin the farmdont meet me outside.	None
Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Kulkarni Nahi aaj jaroori tha isliye main milanahi to mainI avoid it Anand Nahi farm pe milna.	None
Kulkarni Aur doosri baatyeh inhe bhi jante hoyeh dekho its Commandook Anand Ya, Tomorrow evening, bye	None
The second sting took place on May 8, 2007 in the car.	None
Extracts from the transcript of that meeting are as follows.	None
Kulkarni kyon office mein bhi aur ghar pe bhi mat milloyeh sare log mere peeche Anand yahan kyon milte ho phir?	None
Kulkarni Yahan koi nahi dekhtaacha abhi kya karna hai batao.	None
Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Anand Ab dekho tum xxxx tum	None
xx	None
.paise	None
xxxxx Kulkarni Mainyeh sab main kaise boloongaab yeh sab drama yeh kar rahe hai nadrama kar rehe hai poora hiab dekho jo hua so hua Anand Baat to tumhare samne karonga, peeche to karongaa nahi Kulkarni Vo to mainbhi janta hoo Anand Samne baat hogi tumhare Kulkarni Kal kya mere ko nikaal rahe ho kya311 se?	None
Anand Nikal doo?	None
Kulkarni Nahinahi mat nikalna xxx Anand Nahi Nikalta Kulkarni Nahi Nahi mat nikalnawithdraw karva lo	None
na aapjab main aapke saath hoo, jo marzi karne ke liye tyaar hoo.	None
to yeh kaye ke liye High Court main laga diya aapneaur mere upar aapko itna bhi bharosa nahi hai kyatheek hai gussa ho jata hoo main xxxx Anand Nahi Nahi Kulkarni Lekin aana haidepose karna hai.	None
Anand Ab usse kya baat karni haibatao, Reasonable baat karo.	None
Kulkarni Aap decide karo.	None
Anand Tum decide karo.	None
Anand Woh to you decide.	None
Kulkarni 30,000 croresCBI ne 2300 croresbig investment84 crores Anand Vo choddo Kulkarni Kyonkyon Chodokyon chodo?	None
Aapmain aapka beta hoo. bolo.	None
Anand Tumhara bheja kharaab ho gaya hai(Laughs)	None
Kulkarni Kharaab ho gaya hai	None
na abhi Anand Haa bheja kharaab ho raha hai.	None
Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Anand	None
So you have not taken the summon?	None
Kulkarni Nanot al all.	None
Jab tak aap nahin bataoge, Khan sahib nahi bataenge tab main summon kaise lu.	None
Anand How did Ramesh Gupta inform him that you have taken the summons?	None
Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Kulkarni Ab maine kya karna haimaine summon liya nahi haiaap mere upar to bharosa kar sakte ho na?	None
Anand Poora, mujhe to poora Kulkarni Poora vishwas hai na?	None
To maine summon nahi liya	None
ha Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Anand Im out of touchIm not in trial, Im in High Court	None
so I dont knowanyhowwhat statement you are supposed to makewe will decide about itFirst of all, meet the bugger and talk to him.	None
And be reasonable.	None
Dont be unreasonable like what you told me that day.	None
Dont be silly Kulkarni Kitna Mango?	None
Anand Chodo nabat samjha kar yaaraadmi ko zindagi main aur bhi bade kaam aate haiaise nahi kartethat fellow is sick you knowthat manjo kya naam hai uska	None
xxx Kulkarni Hmm.	None
Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Anand Talk to me around seven forty five.	None
Kulkarni Ok Anand Ok Kulkarni Sir Anand Then well decide about it.	None
Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Kulkarni Hmm.	None
Paune aath (8) baje Ill get back to youagar paune aath (8) baje aap bulate ho to main aajubaaju ke area main hi rehta hooKanth ko bula lena basmeri	None
ek dil ki bhadaas niklane do basdo minute.	None
Anand Aaju baju mein hi rehna, main tumhe bula lunga.	None
Kulkarni Isme bachana hai na usko Sanjeev ko?	None
Anand xx	None
Kabhi kisika bura mat kiya karo.	None
Panga lene ka kaya faydaa.	None
Kulkarni Theek hai.	None
Kulkarni Nahilekin kaise kya karna hai vo aapne aur khan sahab ne decided karna haiafter all it was merely an accidentxxx.	None
Anand	None
And he remained in jail for 89 monthsyaar.	None
Kulkarni To mainto mere ko bhool jayoge aappentalis (45) din.	None
Anand Kaise.	None
Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Anand You were enjoying Kulkarni Kya, Anand You were enjoying.	None
Not that you were in a problemuski to dikkat hai bechare kixxxx Kulkarni Nahi NahiIm also not interested.	None
Aisi baat nahi hai Anand Kabhi kisi ka bura nahi kara karoaise bhala karne se hi aadmi to acha rehta	None
haikisi ko jhoota nahi phasana chahiyenikal dena chahiye	None
Kulkarni Chalo theek hai.	None
Aap ke kehne par main kuch bhi karne ke liye tayaar hooaur inki saari galat information hai.	None
Anand Aage jake bhi bhagwan ko jawaab dena hota hai yaaraage bhi jawaab kya fayda karnexxx Anand Chhuraane se phir bhi ache rehta haiphasane seto (abuses) bura hi kaam hota hai main to kisi main interested hi nahi hookisiko phasane main Kulkarni nahi vo to mujhe bhi pata hai Anand	None
In logo ne	None
Narsimha Rao ko phasayaacha thodi hua	None
tah vovaapis chhuraya tha humnekya fayda hua	None
Kulkarni Main aajo baajo main paune aath bajeaap mere ko bula lena	None
Anand Give me a call at seven forty five Kulkarni Ji Anand On my office number.	None
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Kulkarni Phir mere khayaal se 311 udega nahi na, blood sample ka udega?	None
Anand Hain?	None
Anand Kyon udayejab tumhare pass paise bante hai to main kyon udayo?	None
Kulkarni Jab main aapke saath	None
hoo Anand Hato phir kya hai Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Kulkarni Koi neta log thaachaseven forty five Anand Pakki gal	None
It is quite possible that Kulkarni had somehow found out RK Anands programme and RK Anand did not know that he was coming to meet him at the airport but there can be no doubt that he allowed him to come to him and the meeting took place with his consent.	None
From his opening remark and the general tenor of the conversation it is evident that they were quite free and familiar with each other.	None
(We may recall here their seven years old Shimla connection).	None
Now, when Kulkarni asks him what strategy was to be made it could mean only one thing.	None
He did not give any direct reply to that question but he did not ask Kulkarni to shut up either.	None
When Kulkarni said that he was offered two and half crores he indeed mockingly suggested that he should ask for five crores but here also what was sought to be ridiculed was the sum quoted and not the prospects for negotiation.	None
As a matter of fact for further negotiation door was kept wide open with the express invitation for further meeting albeit at a discreet place and time.	None
The meeting at the airport might or might not have been scheduled but there can be no doubt that the meeting in the car was fixed from before.	None
Otherwise, it was impossible for Kulkarni to enter the car having equipped himself with a hidden camera and the recording device from before in anticipation that he would get the chance to get into the car outside Delhi High Court.	None
The purpose of the meeting is manifest by the conversation between the two.	None
It is also evident that before parting another meeting was fixed in the evening for which Kulkarni was to call up RK Anand at his office.	None
As arranged, Kulkarni did telephone at RK Anands office but the meeting did not take place there or with RK Anand.	None
The meeting took place at the South Extension Market where first Bhagwan Sharma and then Lovely came to meet Kulkarni.	None
Both claimed that they were sent to meet him by RK Anand.	None
There is a very long transcript of the sting on the third meeting, first between Kulkarni and Bhagwan Sharma (who stayed with Kulkarni till Lovely came there) and then between Kulkarni and Lovely.	None
The recording of the third sting further makes it evident that Kulkarni was trying (at least for the purpose of the sting) to sell himself off in favour of the accused Sanjeev Nanda for a price that he left to be fixed by RK Anand.	None
However we see no reason to advert to the third sting, first because RK Anand was not personally present in the meeting and secondly and more importantly because the charge is fully established against him on the basis of the two stings done on him personally.	None
This is of course, provided the recordings of the two stings truly and faithfully represent what actually transpired in those two meetings.	None
Submissions on behalf of RK Anand Mr. Altaf Ahmed, learned senior counsel appearing for RK Anand, submitted that the High Court founded the appellants conviction under the Contempt of Courts Act on facts that were electronically recorded, even without having the authenticity of the recording properly proved.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court simply assumed the sting recordings to be correct and proceeded to pronounce the appellant guilty of criminal contempt on that basis.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, the genuineness and accuracy of what appeared in the sting recordings always remained questionable.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ahmed submitted that the judgment and order coming under appeal was quite untenable for the simple reason that the integrity of its factual foundation was never free from doubt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel further submitted that the procedure followed by the High Court was not fair and the appellant was denied a fair trial.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also submitted that the High Court arrived at its conclusions without taking into consideration the appellants defence and that was yet another reason for setting aside the impugned judgment and order.	Arguments of Petitioner
Nature of Contempt Proceeding Mr. Ahmed submitted that under the Contempt of Courts Act the High Court exercised extraordinary jurisdiction.	Arguments of Petitioner
A proceeding under the Act was quasi criminal in nature and it demanded the same standard of proof as required in a criminal trial to hold a person guilty of criminal contempt.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of the proposition he cited two decisions of this Court, one in Mritunjoy Das Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sayed Hasibur Rahman, (2001) 3 SCC 739 and the other in Chotu Ram Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Urvashi Gulati and ors., (2001) 7 SCC 530.	Arguments of Petitioner
In both the decisions the Court observed that the common English phrase, he who asserts must prove was equally applicable to contempt proceedings.	Arguments of Petitioner
In both the decisions the Court cited a passage from a decision by Lord Denning in Re Bramblevale Ltd., (ALL ER pp.	Arguments of Petitioner
1063H and 1064B) on the nature and standard of evidence required in a proceeding of contempt.	Arguments of Petitioner
A contempt of court is an offence of a criminal character.	None
A man may be sent to prison for it.	None
It must be satisfactorily proved.	None
To use the timehonoured phrase, it must be proved beyond reasonable doubt.	None
It is not proved by showing that, when the man was asked about it, he told lies.	None
There must be some further evidence to incriminate him.	None
Once some evidence is given, then his lies can be thrown into the scale against him.	None
But there must be some other evidence.	None
Where there are two equally consistent possibilities open to the court, it is not right to hold that the offence is proved beyond reasonable doubt.	None
Seeking to buttress the point learned Counsel also referred to some more decisions of this Court in (i) Anil Rattan Sarkar vs. Hirak Ghosh, (2002) 4 SCC 21 (ii) Bijay Kumar Mahanty vs. Jadu Ram Chandra Sahoo, (2003) 1 SCC 644 (iii) J. R. Parashar, Advocate vs. Prashant Bhushan, Advocate (2001) 6 SCC 735 and (iv) S. Abdul Karim vs. NK Prakash and others (1976) 1 SCC 975	Arguments of Petitioner
There cannot be any disagreement with the proposition advanced by Mr. Ahmed but as noted above if the sting recordings are true and correct no more evidence is required to see that RK Anand was trying to suborn a witness, that is, a particularly vile way of interfering with due course of a judicial proceeding especially if indulged in by a lawyer of long standing.	None
Admissibility of electronically recorded stored materials in evidence This leads us to consider the main thrust of Mr. Ahmeds submissions in regard to the integrity, authenticity, and reliability of the electronic materials on the basis of which the appellants were held guilty of committing contempt of Court.	None
Learned counsel submitted that the way the High Court proceeded in the matter it was impossible to say with any certainty that the microchips that finally came before it for viewing were the same microchips that were used in the spy cameras for the stings or those were not in any way manipulated or interfered with before production in court.	None
He further submitted that the admissibility in evidence of electronic recordings or Electronically Stored Information (ESI) was subject to stringent conditions but the High Court completely disregarded those conditions and freely used the sting recordings as the basis for the appellants conviction.	None
In support of the submissions Mr. Ahmed submitted a voluminous compilation of decisions (of this Court and of some foreign courts) and some technical literature and articles on ESI.	None
We propose to take note of only those decisions articles that Mr. Ahmed specifically referred to us and that have some relevance to the case in hand.	None
Two of the decisions of this Court referred by Mr. Ahmed, one in S	None
A Khan vs. Bhajan Lal, (1993) 3 SCC 151 and the other in Quamarul Islam vs. S. K. Kanta, (1973) 1	None
SCC 471 relate to newspaper reports.	None
In these two decisions it was held that news paper report is hearsay secondary evidence which cannot be relied on unless proved by evidence aliunde.	None
Even absence of denial of statement appearing in newspaper by its maker would not absolve the obligation of the applicant of proving the statement.	None
These two decisions have evidently no relevance to the case before us.	None
In regard to the admissibility in evidence of tape recorded statements Mr. Ahmed cited a number of decisions of this Court in (i) N. Shri Rama Reddy vs. V. Giri (1970) 2 SCC 340 (ii) R. M. Malkani vs. State of Maharashtra (1973) 1	None
SCC 471 (iii) Mahabir Prasad Verma vs. Dr. Surinder Kaur (1982) 2 SCC 258 and (iv) Ram Singh vs. Col. Ram Singh (1985) Suppl SCC 611 .	None
He also referred to two foreign decisions on the point, one in (i) R vs. Stevenson, 1971 (1) All ER 678, and the other of the Supreme Court, Appellate Division of the State of New York in The People of State of New York vs. Francis Bell (taken down from the internet).	None
We need here refer to the last among the decisions of this Court and the English decisions in R vs. Stevenson.	None
In Ram Singh, a case arising from an election trial the Court examined the question of admissibility of tape recorded conversations under the relevant provisions of the Indian Evidence Act.	None
The Court lay down that a tape recorded statement would be admissible in evidence subject to the following conditions Thus, so far as this Court is concerned the conditions for admissibility of a tape recorded statement may be stated as follows The voice of the speaker must be duly identified by the maker of the record or by other who recognise his voice.	None
In other words, it manifestly follows as a logical corollary that in the first condition for the admissibility of such a statement is to identify the voice of the speaker.	None
Where the voice has been denied by the maker it will require very strict proof to determine whether or not it was really the voice of the speaker.	None
The accuracy of the taperecorded statement has to be proved by the maker of the record by satisfactory evidencedirect or circumstantial.	None
Every possibility of tampering with or erasure of a part of a taperecorded statement must be ruled out otherwise it may render the said statement out of context and, therefore, inadmissible.	None
The statement must be relevant according to the rules of Evidence Act.	None
The recorded cassette must be carefully sealed and kept in a safe or official custody.	None
The voice of the speaker should be clearly audible and not lost or distorted by other sounds or disturbances.	None
In R vs. Stevenson too the Court was dealing with a tape recorded conversation in a criminal case.	None
In regard to the admissibility of the tape recorded conversation the court observed as follows Just as in the case of photographs in a criminal trial the original unretouched negatives have to be retained in strict custody so in my views should original tape recordings.	None
However one looks at it, whether, as counsel for the Crown argues, all the prosecution have to do on this issue is to establish a prima facie case, or whether, as counsel for the defendant Stevenson in particular, and counsel for the defendant Hulse joining with him, argues for the defence, the burden of establishing an original document is a criminal burden of proof beyond reasonable doubt, in the circumstances of this case it seems to me that the prosecution have failed to establish this particular type of evidence.	None
Once the original is impugned and sufficient details as to certain peculiarities in the proffered evidence have been examined in court, and once the situation is reached that it is likely that the proffered evidence is not the originalis not the primary and the best evidence that seems to me to create a situation in which, whether on reasonable doubt or whether on a prima facie basis, the judge is left with no alternative but to reject the evidence.	None
In this case on the facts as I have heard them such doubt does arise.	None
That means that no one can hear this evidence and it is inadmissible.	None
(emphasis added)	None
Mr. Ahmed also referred to another decision by a US Court on the admissibility of video tapes.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is by the Court of Appeal of the State of North Carolina in State of North Carolina vs. Michael Odell Sibley (downloaded from the internet).	Arguments of Petitioner
In this decision there is a reference to an earlier decision of the same court in State vs. Cannon.	None
92 N C App.	None
246 etc. in which the conditions for admissibility of video tape in evidence were laid down as under The prerequisite that the offer or lay a proper foundation for the videotape can be met by (1) testimony that the motion picture or videotape fairly and accurately illustrates the events filmed (illustrative purpose)	None
(2) proper testimony concerning the checking and operation of the video camera and the chain of evidence concerning the videotape (3) testimony that the photographs introduced at trial were the same as those the witness had inspected immediately after processing, (substantive purposes) or (4) testimony that the videotape had not been edited, and that the picture fairly and accurately recorded the actual appearance of the area photographed.	None
On the different issues germane to the admissibility of ESI Mr. Ahmed also referred to a decision of the District Court of Maryland, United State in Civil Action	None
No. PWG061893, Jack R. Lorraine and Beverly Mack vs. Markel American Insurance Company (downloaded from the internet).	None
Mr. Ahmed also cited before us an article captioned The Sedona Conference .	None
Commentary on ESI Evidence Admissibility A Project of The Sedona Conference Working Group on Electronic Document Retention Production (WGI)., published in Sedona Conference Journal, Fall 2008.	None
The article deals extensively with the different questions relating to admissibility in evidence of ESI and one of its basic premises is that the mere fact that the information was created and stored within a computer system would not make that information reliable and authentic.	None
He also invited our attention to an article appearing in The Indian Police Journal, JulySeptember 2004 issue under the caption Detection Technique of Video Tape Alteration on the Basis of Sound Track Analysis.	None
From this article Mr. Ahmed read out the following passages The acceptance of recorded evidence in the court of law depends solely on the establishment of its integrity.	None
In other words, the recorded evidence should be free from intentional alteration.	None
Generally, examination of recorded evidence for establishing the integrity authenticity is performed to find out whether it is a onetime recording or an edited version or copy of the original.	None
And further Alteration on an audio recording can be of Addition, Deletion, Obscuration, Transformation and Synthesis.	None
In video recordings the alteration may be with the intention to change either on the audio track or on the video track.	None
In both the ways there is always disturbance on both the track.	None
Alterations in a video track are usually made by adding or removing some frames, by rearranging few frames, by distorting certain frames and lastly by introducing artificially generated frames.	None
Alteration on a video recording In light of the decisions and articles cited above Mr Ahmed contended that the High Court freely used the copies of the sting recordings and the transcripts of those recordings made and supplied by NDTV without caring to first establish the authenticity of the sting recordings.	None
Learned counsel submitted that the use of the CDs of the sting recordings and their transcripts by the High Court was in complete violation of the conditions laid down by this Court in Ram Singh.	None
Learned counsel pointed out that at the threshold of the proceeding, started suo moto, the High Court, instead of taking the microchips used for the sting operations in its custody directed NDTV to preserve the original material including the CDs Video pertaining to the sting operations and to submit to the Court copies and transcripts made from those chips.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus the microchips remained all along with NDTV, allowing it all the time and opportunity to make any alterations and changes in the sting recordings (even assuming there were such recording in the first place) to suit its purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petition filed by RK Anand for directing NDTV to submit the original microchips before the Court and to give him copies made in Court directly from those chips remained lying on the record unattended till it was rejected by the final judgment and order passed in the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
Another petition requesting to send the microchips for forensic examination also met with the same fate.79.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ahmed further submitted that the procedure followed by the High Court was so flawed that even the number of chips used for the different sting operations remained indeterminate.	Arguments of Petitioner
The trial court order dated June 1, 2007 referred to three chips produced on behalf of NDTV.	Arguments of Petitioner
The written statement of Poonam Agarwal made before the High Court on June 6, 2007 mentioned four chips and finally their number became five in her affidavit dated October 1, 2007.80.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submitted that the audio and the video recording on the basis of which the NDTV telecast was based and that was produced before the High Court was done by Kulkarni and it was he who was the maker of those materials.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Court never got Kulkarni brought before it either for the formal proof of the electronic materials or for crossexamination by the contemnors.	Arguments of Petitioner
The finding of the High Court was thus based on materials of which neither the authenticity was proved nor the veracity of which was tested by crossexamination.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submitted that the affidavit of the NDTV reporter (Poonam Agarwal) doesnt cure this basic flaw in the proceedings.	Arguments of Petitioner
The recordings were not done by the TV channels reporter her participation in the process was only to the extent that she wired Kulkarni and received from him the recorded materials.	Arguments of Petitioner
What she received from Kulkarni was also not identified, much less formally proved before the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Ahmed, therefore, the finding of the High Court was wholly untenable and fit to be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
SUBMISSIONS CONSIDERED The legal principles advanced by Mr. Ahmed are unexceptionable but the way he tried to apply those principles to the present case appear to us to be completely misplaced.	None
Here, we must make it clear that we are dealing with a proceeding under the Contempt of Courts Act.	None
Now, it is one thing to say that the standard of proof in a contempt proceeding is no less rigorous than a criminal trial but it is something entirely different to insist that the manner of proof for the two proceedings must also be the same.	None
It is now well settled and so also the High Court has held that the proceeding of contempt of court is sui generis.	None
In other words, it is not strictly controlled by the provisions of the CrPC and the Indian Evidence Act.	None
What, however, applies to a proceeding of contempt of court are the principles of natural justice and those principles apply to the contempt proceeding with greater rigour than any other proceeding.	None
This means that the Court must follow a procedure that is fair and objective that should cause no prejudice to the person facing the charge of contempt of court and that should allow him her the fullest opportunity to defend himself herself.	None
(See In Re Vinay Mishra (1995) 2 SCC 584 , Daroga Singh and Ors.	None
vs. B.K. Pandey (2004)	None
5 SCC 26 ) CORRECTNESS OF STING RECORDINGS NEVER DISPUTED OR DOUBTED Keeping this in mind when we turn to the facts of this case we find that the correctness of the sting recordings was never in doubt or dispute.	None
RK Anand never said that on the given dates and time he never met Kulkarni at the airport lounge or in the car and what was shown in the sting recordings was fabricated and false.	None
He did not say that though he met Kulkarni on the two occasions, they were talking about the weather or the stock market or the latest film hits and the utterances put in their mouth were fabricated and doctored.	None
Where then is the question of proof of authenticity and integrity of the recordings?	None
It may be recalled that both in the eight oclock and nine oclock programmes, RK Anand was interviewed by the programme anchors and the live exchange was integrated into the programmes.	None
Let us see what his first response to the telecast was when the anchor of the eight oclock programme brought him on the show.	None
Following are the extracts from the exchange between the anchor and RK Anand LIVE EXCHANGE BETWEEN TV ANCHOR RK ANAND India 60 Minutes (BMW Special)	None
8 PM	None
Segment 2 Sonia We have RK Anand, on line with us.	None
Mr. RK Anand, you have watched that report, whats your defence?	None
RK Anand	None
My defence, what can be the defence you tell me.	None
See, he just came to me and he was making a joke that should I make a demand for Rs. 2.5 crores	None
and I said what the hell are you talking, you would want any amount you want ten, I meant this jokingly Id not serious manner.	None
I thought what the hell you want and I never invited him I was going out he must have come there to meet me and I dont know what kind of story if being made my NDTV on this channel.	None
Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Sonia But Mr. Anand if you have a witness who has come up, you have a witness of the prosecution who has come up to you he has claimed that he wants this much money and you mayve laughed it off	None
but you then met him again, youve again discussed details of the case, surely that is not appropriate behaviour for a defence lawyer with a prosecution witness.	None
RK Anand See, did I ask him to sit in the car?	None
Did I ask him to come to my office?	None
Did I ever give him a call to come to me?	None
We never called.	None
I think its a trap being laid by the NDTV people and sending the Kulkarni to me.	None
Its nothing that we have done anything.	None
Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Sonia	None
But Mr Anand, let me come back to the central point once again why should a defence lawyer and a prosecution witness be meeting and discussing the case even if its at the behest of the witness, surely as a senior defence lawyer you shouldve thrown him out and not entertained this conversation?	None
RK Anand Just listen to me now somebody comes up and talks to you, what do you do, you throw him out?	None
Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Sonia	None
But you met him again in your car?	None
RK Anand HE was saying 2.5 and I said make a demand for 5.	None
I was making a joke of him.	None
Could you not understand the language in which I said it?	None
I was laughing at that time.	None
Listen to me, he is a blackmailer, he is trying to blackmail at your instance.	None
Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Sonia Mr Anand, if you were joking the questions that we are raising as weve said many times, we have no evidence that money changed hands or didnt change hands, what we are showing you is what was caught on camera.	None
Money being discussed whether it was jokingly or not jokingly has to be investigated and two meetings between you and the key prosecution witness, that seems to be what is currently on camera, what actually happened has to be investigated.	None
But how do you justify these two meetings?	None
RK Anand	None
You are tying again to ask questions after questions.	None
I am saying that you know when he said about 2.5 crores, I laughed at him and said bloody you are joking.	None
I was smiling at him he was making a fool of himself.	None
Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Next is his response in course of the second telecast immediately following the first one	None
Following are the extracts from the exchange between the anchor and RK Anand 30th	None
May  9 PM BMW Special Barkha Dutt Mr RK Anand if you can hear me, by now you have watched over two times on NDTV.	None
The camera doesnt lie sir, u were meeting the prosecutions witness not once but twice, sir, how was this appropriate, how can you defend this sir?	None
Anand Barkha, we should talk in the right perspective.	None
One must understand that this witness is a blackmailer, we have been fighting in the High Court even today that this witness should not be examined because he has been blackmailing us for the last so many years and when I was going out of Delhi, he appeared suddenly at the airport, and starts talking to me and say should I make it 2.5 crores.	None
I laughed at him and what the hell are you talking, u demand 5 crores, Ill crossexamine you.	None
This is my first reaction to that one.	None
Barkha But Mr Anand if hes a blackmailer, why did you meet him a second time in your own car a second time outside the Delhi High Court, if hes a blackmailer?	None
Anand I have not met him in my car Im telling you, this is not correct.	None
Barkha Did u meet him a second time?	None
Anand	None
No I did not meet him Barkha Sir our investigation reveals that you met him at the Delhi airport and then again a second time conversation between you and him takes place inside a car, it may not have been your car.	None
There are two separate meetings for sure sir.	None
Anand There is no second meeting, Ive never met him.	None
I only met him once and that he came.	None
I was going out of Delhi, and somebody comes and talks to me and asks for 2.5 crores and I laughed at him that what the hell are u talking.	None
U want 2.5 crores and just see what Ive said.	None
Ill crossexamine you.	None
He said will you crossexamine me, I said yes Ill crossexamine you.	None
And then we go to the HC and tell HC that he is a blackmailer and we will not examine him.	None
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Barkha Anand, when Sunil Kulkarni met u at the airport, how correct is it for the defence lawyer to be toughing (sic. laughing) when Sunil Kulkarni raises the question of Rs 2.5 crores.	None
In response u laugh and say for that money I will crossexamine you.	None
Even as a joke is it appropriate?	None
Anand It is not a joke Im saying.	None
If somebody comes before your vision suddenly when u are going out of Delhi, and say I will demand 2.5 crores, I say what 2.5 crores, make a demand of 5 crores I will cross examine you in the court of law xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx.	None
Barkha U we (sic. have) flatly denied meeting Sunil Kulkarni, is that correct?	None
Anand Ive not met him a second time.	None
Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Barkha u think its appropriate for you to asking the prosecution witness to come and met you at your house sir?	None
Anand why what is the difficulty in meeting anyone, I dont understand?	None
Barkha	None
So according to u RK Anand Anandso long u do not influence them Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx	None
As may be seen from the above, the first response of RK Anand is to try to explain away (quite unconvincingly to anyone who might have viewed the recorded programme) what he said when Kulkarni mentioned the amount of rupees 2.5 crores.	None
He admitted that Kulkarni met him at the airport lounge.	None
He didnt deny any part of the conversation between them as shown in the programme based on the sting recordings.	None
To the anchor of the first programme, he impliedly admitted meeting Kulkarni for the second time in the car simply stating that he didnt ask Kulkarni to sit in the car and he did not ask him to come to the office.	None
But about half an hour later, to the anchor of the second programme, though admitting meeting Kulkarni at the airport lounge, RK Anand completely denied meeting him in the car or anywhere else for the second time.	None
However, as we shall see presently the denial was quite false.	None
We have gone through the transcripts of the exchange between the two anchors and RK Anand a number of times and we have also viewed the programme recorded on CDs.	None
To us, RK Anand, in his interactions with the programme anchors, appeared to be quite stunned at being caught on the camera in the wrong act, rather than outraged at any false accusations.	None
It is noted above that immediately after the telecast RK Anand sent a legal notice to NDTV threatening legal actions against them and demanding a huge sum as compensation.	Facts
NDTV gave its replay to the legal notice and thereafter RK Anand didnt pursue the matter any further.	Facts
Meeting with Kulkarni in car admitted RK Anand filed his reply affidavit in response to the notice issued by the Court on October 3, 2007.	None
In paragraph B of the affidavit he denied, each and every part of alleged tape conversation and CDs produced before the Court in response to order passed by this Court in relation to telecast of BMW exposing thereby denying each part of the conversation.	None
He further stated that the whole tape was fabricated, distorted, edited in such a manner to tarnish his image and to suit and project the TV channels story in particular manner.	None
In paragraph O of the affidavit, however, he stated as follows That the Deponent was awfully busy in Court on 8.5.2007.	None
He finished his arguments in a bride burning case at 5.45 p.m. While he was sitting in his car, Sunil Kulkarni made entry in the car.	None
The Deponent was unwilling to talk and to allow him to sit in the car.	None
The opening lines would make it clear that the Deponent never wanted to talk to Sunil Kulkarni.	None
Kulkarni Kyon office mein, ghar pe bhi mat milo Anand Yahan Kyon milto ho phir.	None
After reaching office, the deponent had meeting with clients i.e. Sanjeev Nanda and his father.	None
Lovely had come to meet Mr. Suresh Nanda.	None
All the colleagues of the deponent and Nandas were apprised of development in the car about Sunil Kulkarni.	None
After some time, the deponent left the office.	None
The deponent was informed that Lovely offered to record the conversation of Kulkarni so as to trap him.	None
The deponent was informed later that not only Lovely was successful in recording the demand of Sunil Kulkarni but Shri Bhagwan also recorded another conversation subsequent to that of Lovely.	None
The said conversation is reproduced below.	None
This is followed by a transcript of some alleged conversation between Shri Bhagwan and Kulkarni.	None
In the above quoted paragraph there is plain and clear admission in regard to the second meeting taking place in the car between RK Anand and Kulkarni on the evening of May 8, 2007.	None
The statement made on oath before the High Court thus completely falsifies his denial in the live interview with the anchor of the TV programme about the second meeting with Kulkarni in the car.	None
As to the later part of the paragraph regarding the alleged sting on Sunil Kulkarni by Shri Bhagwan, we dont have the slightest doubt that it was an afterthought and concoction.	None
Had there been such a sting recording RK Anand was duty bound to inform the High Court about it when the Criminal Revision against the trial court order summoning Kulkarni as court witness was heard on several dates in May 2007 before the telecast of the programme by NDTV.	None
He was equally duty bound to inform the trial court about Kulkarnis approaches and the sting done on him by Shri Bhagwan when Kulkarni was examined before it on May 14, 17 29.	None
Referring to sting recordings to show innocence Further, interestingly, though calling the sting recordings fabricated, manufactured, and distorted, he also relies on the very same sting recordings to make out some point or the other in his defence.	None
For example, in paragraph S of the affidavit it is stated as follows That in fact, this alleged witness Sunil Kulkarni had earlier attempted to meet the Respondent in his office.	None
It is a matter of chance that Shri Amod Kanth the then Director General of Police, Arunachal Pradesh was present with the Respondent in his office.	None
Sunil Kulkarni was rebuffed, rebuked and was asked to leave Respondents office in the presence of Shri Kanth.	None
Thereafter, Sunil Kulkarni was physically thrown out from the office of Respondent.	None
Shri Amodh Kanth also rebuked him for his conduct.	None
This fact stands corroborated by the transcript in which it has been stated by Sunil Kulkarni as under Kul mujhe koi to message nahi mil raha tha.	None
Phir panga yeh ho raha ki when u told me I dont want to discuss (mujhe koi message nahi mil raha tha phir panga yeh ho raha ki when u told me I dont want to discuss.	None
Kul beech main aap par gussa ho gaya tha.	None
(Beech me aap par gussa ho gaya tha, aap ka koi neta log hain, ek aaddmi jisne mere ko aisa kheencha tha).	None
Kul vo aapka ek neta log hain	None
ek Neta isne mereko aisa Kheecha tha (Ek neta tha	None
usne mere kko aisa kheencha tha, aisa kheencha tha, bola sahib ne milne ko manakar diya, bigar gaya, kaha bhag jao, bhag jao, aisa bola).	None
From the above transcript, it is clear that the Respondent had no intention at any time to meet the said witness.	None
He was thrown out physically from the office of Respondent.	None
He was told not to meet the Respondent as they are not interested in any one.	None
Similarly in paragraph Z10 it is stated as follows Z10The deponent has never tried or intended to influence this witness so as to interfere in the course of justice.	None
On the other hand, deponent have rebuked and rebuffed him told him not to ask for any money.	None
Rather the witness was advised to speak the truth and not to falsely implicate the Nandas.	None
Respondent has gone to the extent of telling him to have fear from God since everyone is answerable for his acts to God And again in paragraph 17 it is stated as follows 17The deponent had no intention to discuss the subject matter of the case with Sunil Kulkarni.	None
The discussion was started by Sunil Kulkarni by alleging that Kul kal kya mereko nikaal rahe ho kya311 se.	None
Anand Karoon Kulkarni nahi Kulkarni No, nahi nikalna Kulkarni nahi, nahi, mat nikalnawithdraw karva lo na aap.	None
Jab Main aapke saath ho jo marzi karne ke liya tyaar ho to yeh kay ke liye High Court main lagwa diya aapnemere upar aapko itna bhi bharosa nahin hain kyatheek hain gussa ho jata hoon main Kulkarni lekin aana hain depose karma hain.	None
The aforesaid transcript of Sunil Kulkarni would clearly indicate that he himself was suggesting that he is prepared to make any kind of statement.	None
It is not that the deponent wanted him to make a statement in a particular manner.	None
It is not that the deponent was trying to influence the witness.	None
The witness had already taken a decision to make a statement in a particular manner not at the instance of the deponent.	None
Further in Paragraph 23 23The below noted conversation would substantiate the stand of the deponent.	None
Kul kitna mango.	None
Anand chodobaat samjha karaadmi ki zindagi main aur Bhi bade kaam aate hain.	None
Aisa nahi karte	None
The whole conversation about reasonableness was in the form of an admonishment and advice so that no money is demanded.	None
If the deponent wanted to deal with the witness or influence the witness or negotiate the terms of settlement, at that point of time, the deponent could have discussed since the demand of 2.5 crores was already allegedly made by the witness but categorically telling the witness to not to talk about the money and reminding of the relations would negate the discussion about the money part in the whole transcript.	None
The reference to the utterances by Sunil Kulkarni.	None
Kul isme bachana hain usko sanjeev ko Anand kabhi kisika bura mat kiya karo.	None
Anand Kabhi kisi ka bura nahin kara karoaisa bhala karne	None
se hi Aadmi ko acha xxkisii ko jhoota nahi phasana chahiyanikal dena chahiye Anand aage jake bhi bhagwan ko jawaab dena hota hain yaar aage bhi jawaabkya fayda karnexxx Anand Bachane se phir bhi ache rehta hainphasane me	None
To bura kaam hota hainmain to kisi main interested hi nahin hoon.	None
First of all Further in paragraph 24 That during the course of conversation and in view of the past acquaintance Sunil Kulkarni had with the deponent, number of irrelevant statements were made by the witness.	None
One such part was in relation to Amodh Kanth.	None
The important conversation which came to light during the course of the talks was Uska koi taluk nahinphir bhi yeh amod kanth ke peeche kyon pada hua K.K.Paul.	None
He thus accepts the entire recordings in both the stings.	None
For, it is absurd even to suggest that the sting recordings are true and correct if those are seen as supporting his explanations (which, in any event, are quite unstatable) but are otherwise false and fabricated.	None
In a rearguard action Mr. Altaf Ahmed took us one by one through all the paragraphs in different affidavits filed by RK Anand in which the sting recordings were described as false, fabricated, doctored, morphed and manipulated.	None
But those allegations are simply not compatible with the other statements in his affidavits as noted above and his responses in regard to the sting operations at different times.	None
The denials in the affidavits are nothing more than ornamental pleas.	None
We also see no substance in the anomalies and alleged inter correlation in the sting recordings as pointed out on behalf of RK Anand on the basis of the eight minute CD which he got prepared from the materials supplied to him by the Court.	None
Along with the other materials we also viewed eight minute CD produced by RK Anand.	None
In the CD an attempt is made to show that the frames in the sting recordings some times jumped out of the sequence number and such other technical flaws.	None
The objections raised by RK Anand where fully explained by the affidavit filed by Dinesh Singh on behalf of NDTV.	None
In the affidavit it was explained 80the alleged discrepancies in the CDs produced before the Court and supplied to the appellants occurred primarily due to conversion of the recorded material from chips into CDs, via the intermediary medium of tapes.	None
Shri Singh further explains the gap occurring at certain points of the recording as due to displacement of the earplus connector i.e. the device uses to attach the button lens and the microphone with the recording device.	None
Mr. Altaf Ahmed also made the grievance that the High Court failed to consider his defence.	None
According to him NDTV had conceived the sting operation as preempted measure against Shri Anand, who was consulted in his professional capacity in connection with a matter in which NDTV in collusion with one Mrs. Sumana Sain and IRS officer was indulging in massive tax evasion.	None
The materials in support of the allegations and in particular RK Anands connection with the matter are so vague and tenuous that we dont consider it worthwhile to go into that question.	None
On a careful consideration of the materials on record we dont have the slightest doubt that the authenticity and integrity of the sting recordings was never disputed or doubted by RK Anand.	None
As noted above he kept on changing his stand in regard to the sting recordings.	None
In the facts and circumstances of the case, therefore, there was no requirement of any formal proof of the sting recordings.	None
Further, so far as RK Anand is concerned there was no violation of the principles of natural justice inasmuch as he was given copies of all the sting recordings along with their transcripts.	None
He was fully made aware of the charge against him.	None
He was given fullest opportunity to defend himself and to explain his conduct as appearing from the sting recordings.	None
The High Court viewed the microchips used in the spy camera and the programme telecast by TV channel in his presence and gave him further opportunity of hearing thereafter.	None
The sting recordings were rightly made the basis of conviction and the irresistible conclusion is that the conviction of RK Anand for contempt of court is proper legal and valid calling for no interference.	None
IU KHANS APPEAL The sting on IU Khan was done on April 28, 2007 in one of the lawyers chambers at the Patiala House court premises.	None
The video CD begins by showing Poonam Agarwal fixing the recording device and the button camera on Kulkarnis person sitting inside the car.	None
Then Kulkarni and Deepak Verma together enter the Patiala House.	None
They move around in the court premises for a long time till just before the lunch recess they are able to find IU Khan sitting in someone elses chamber.	None
The chamber seems to be quite crowded with people all the time coming and going away.	None
The first exchange of greetings between IU khan and Kulkarni as he, accompanied with Deepak Verma, enters into the chamber is not audible.	None
But then IU Khan is heard describing Kulkarni, in a general sort of introduction to those present there, as the prime witness in the BMW case, star witness a very public spirited and devoted man etc.	None
Kulkarni starts chatting with him about the summons issued to him by the court in the BMW case.	None
In the meanwhile someone else comes into the chamber.	None
IU Khan greets him loudly and starts talking to him.	None
After a while, on Kulkarnis request, both IU Khan and Kulkarni come out of the chamber and some conversation between the two takes place outside the chamber.	Facts
After the meeting is over Kulkarni and Deepak Verma together return back.	None
As the recording devices carried by them are still on the conversation that takes place between the two is naturally recorded.	None
Kulkarni does not allow Deepak Verma to go directly to the TV Channels vehicle parked outside the Court premises where Poonam Agarwal would be waiting for their return, saying that they are bound to be followed.	None
Instead, they take an autorickshaw and go to Pargati Maidan at a short distance from the court.	None
From there they contact Poonam Agarwal on mobile phone, who goes there and joins them and dewires Kulkarni.	None
Only partial transcript of the sting recording submitted to Court	None
The recording of this sting operation is more than an hour long.	None
But the transcript of this sting recording submitted to the Court by NDTV is confined only to the exchange between IU Khan and Kulkarni.	None
In the absence of the full transcript it becomes difficult and cumbersome to see what transpired between Kulkarni and Deepak Verma immediately before and after the meeting with their subject.	None
In our view that part of the sting recording was also highly relevant and important for judging the true import of the exchange that took place between Kulkarni and IU Khan.	None
We are surprised that the High Court did not notice this big omission in the transcript of the first sting and we record our disapproval of NDTV in withholding the full transcript of the sting recording.	None
Full transcript recording of IU Khans interview by TV channel on May 31, 2007 not on record Further, it is noted above that in the morning of May 31, 2007 one Anusuya Roy, a reporter from NDTV had interviewed IU Khan at his residence for his response to the programme telecast the previous evening.	None
The interview was telecast live from around 8 to 8.23 in the morning.	Facts
But that was the only time the full interview was shown and later only one statement made by IU Khan in course of the interview was incorporated in the programmes telecast in the evening of May 31.	None
What is more significant, however, is that NDTV did not present before the High Court either the full recording of the interview or its transcript and what we find on the High Court record is only the statement that was used in the programmes telecast on May 31, 2007 and that runs as follows IU Khan	None
I am not denying anything at all, I am not denying it but the interpretation, meaning and inferences which were drawn are totally wrong, unfounded and totally inconsonance (sic) with the actual record that I am producing before you.	None
Kulkarni also has used the word Bade Saheb means the big officer, high officer of the police headquarter.	None
In his deposition in the court also he had used the word Bade Saheb twice and when the explanation was sought, he explained that by bade saheb I mean senior officer of the police headquarter, it was unconnected to Mr. R.K. Anand as it has been wrongly, mischievously and calculatedly projected by you people.	None
Confusion in submitting copies of sting recording to High Court Yet again, there is serious confusion about the production of the recording of the first sting on the microchip of the spy camera carried by Kulkarni before the High Court.	None
It is noted above that on June 1, 2007 three chips and five CDs were produced before the trial court.	None
Those were returned back because in the meanwhile the proceeding was initiated by the High Court.	None
On June 2, 2007 six CDs were submitted before the High Court.	None
On that date Poonam Agarwal stated before the Registrar that one of the CDs (marked 1) was edited and the other five CDs (marked 2 to 6) were unedited.	Facts
She also said that NDTV news channel did not have any other material in connection with the sting operation in question.	Facts
On June 6, 2007 she submitted the transcripts of the recordings.	None
In the statement made on that date she said that she had earlier submitted six CDs.	None
Those CDs were duplicated from four spy camera chips which were recorded on different occasions.	None
After copies of the CDs were given to the proceedees as directed in the order dated August 7, 2007 issuing show cause notices to them, a grievance was made before the Court that they were supplied only five CDs, though the number of CDs submitted before the High Court was six.	None
It was then explained on behalf of NDTV that the contents of two CDs were copied onto a single one and thus the number of CDs was reduced from six to five.	Facts
It was of course stated that a fresh set of six CDs each would again be supplied to all the three proceedees.	None
The High Court apparently accepted the explanation given by NDTV (High Court order dated 24.9.2007).	None
But the lapse was far more serious as would appear from the affidavit dated October 1, 2007 filed by Poonam Agarwal to explain the position.	None
In her affidavit she stated that in the first sting (on IU Khan) two spy cameras were used, one carried by Kulkarni and the other by Deepak Verma.	None
The recording of the first sting was thus on two microchips one in Kulkarnis camera and other in the bag camera of Deepak Verma.	None
In the other three stings there was a single spy camera carried by Kulkarni, on each occasion having a fresh microchips.	None
Thus for all the four stings a total number of five chips were used.	None
The contents of the microchip in Kulkarnis spy camera used for the first sting (on IU Khan) were copied onto magnetic tape and then to a CD.	None
That microchip was then reformatted for other uses.	None
The other four microchips were available in their original and undisturbed condition.	None
For preparation of the programme telecast on May 30 the contents of all the five chips, including the one that was reformatted, were used.	None
However, the five unedited CDs (marked 2 to 6) that were submitted before the High Court on June 2, 2007 were copies from the four microchips that had remained in their original and undisturbed condition.	None
The sixth CD (marked as 1) was the copy of the programme that was telecast.	None
The recording on the microchip in Kulkarnis camera used for the first sting operation, though available on magnetic tape and CD was not submitted to the High Court because the microchip itself was reformatted.	None
She further stated that while supplying CDs to the noticees in pursuance to the direction of the Court, a mistake occurred in that, one of the CDs given to the noticees (sic) was not taken from the four chips but the CD which is a copy of the formatted chip containing the recording done by Mr. Kulkarni.	None
She further stated that a CD made from the mother tape of the formatted chip was being filed along with the affidavit before the High Court.	None
What follows from the affidavit may be summarised as follows (I) the conduct of NDTV before the High Court in a vary serious proceeding was quite cavalier and causal.	None
(II)	None
At the time the High Court issued show cause notices to the three proceedees it did not have before it the recording on one of the five microchips used in the sting operations.	None
(III)	None
The materials given to the proceedees along with show cause notice were not exactly the same as submitted before the High Court.	None
(IV)	None
The explanation in the form of Poonam Agarwals affidavit came on October 1, 2007 on the same day when IU Khan filed his reply affidavit in response to the show cause notice.	None
In those circumstances it was not wrong for IU Khan to state in paragraphs 14 and 15 of his memorandum of appeal as under 14	None
This finding is again against the material on record as the original chip of the button camera carried by Mr. Kulkarni was formatted by the NDTV in violation of the direction issued by the Honble Court.	None
This part of the conversation is not available in the transcript of the bag camera.	None
Because the CD of the button camera firstly cannot be relied upon as it was filed after the reply was filed by the appellant on 1.10.2007 Lapses have no effect on RK Anands case or even on case of IU Khan We have recounted here some of the noticeable lapses committed by NDTV in the proceedings that were overlooked by the High Court.	None
Having regard to seriousness of the proceeding we should have wished that it was free from such lapses.	None
But it needs to be made absolutely clear that the irregularities pointed out above were in regard to the first sting concerning IU Khan.	None
These in no way affect RK Anand or alter his position.	None
The discussions and findings recorded above in respect of RK Anand thus remains completely unaffected by the mistakes pointed out here.	None
Further, having regard to the defence taken by IU Khan the aforementioned lapses do not have any material affect on his case either.	None
But before proceeding to examine his defence and how the High Court dealt with it, it would be necessary to see what conversation is shown to have taken place in the sting recordings between Kulkarni and IU Khan.	None
THE EXCHANGE BETWEEN KULKARNI IU KHAN Khan Meet Kulkarni, he is the prime witness in the BMW case.	None
He is our star witness and he is a very public spirited and devoted man and incidentally, he was in Delhi on the way day when this unfortunate incident happened.	None
He was going on foot to the Nizamuddin Railway Station.	None
A BIT FOLLOWS THAT IS HARD TO UNDERSTAND Kulkarni Mein barbad ho gaya, sir.	None
Khan How?	None
Kulkarni This particular thing is only you and myself are aware of.	None
But I am not aware of anything, anything.	None
I dont want to go again with that particular guy.	None
I lost my mother, I dont know where my father is.	None
Im just roaming around for 8 years.	None
Ab yeh mujhe kyun bulaya gaya hai?	None
Khan Ab court ne (coughs) we dropped youcourt ne (unclear)	None
Kulkarni No, no youI think the state told you to drop, right, if Im not wrong?	None
Khan	None
These were the instructions I received from the Headquarters and thats why I got the SHO statement recorded that on the instruction of the SHO and the ACP, such and such witness has been dropped.	None
Then how can I make a statement?	None
My clients are Delhi Police.	None
Whatever instructions they will give, I will act upon it.	None
I was very keen to examine you.	None
Kulkarni Ya, I know that because I still remember, still remember.	None
Khan Inhone mera haath dabaya xxxbhi dabaya, khoob dabaya, maine kaha main kya karoo, agar individual client ho to samjha bhi lo, department hai.	None
Khan Bade Sahab se mile?	None
Nahi mile?	None
Mulakat hi nahi hooyi?	None
Kulkarni Ab yeh kya jhanjhat aur?	None
Khan Nahi nahi kuch nahi hoga, ab High Court mein unhone petition file kar di hai	None
ki	None
Kulkarni ki statement xxxxxxx.	None
Kulkarni To woh record karenge nahi na? Khan Nahi.	None
Kulkarni Pakka?	None
Khan Tum mauj karohumhumne drop kar diya, court ko kyawho is he is to say that it should be recorded.	None
Someone Investigation to court kar sakta hai, pur mode of investigation to determine nahi kar sakta.	None
Khan Exactly, they cannot decide the mode of investigation SOMEBODY ENTERS THE CHAMBER Kulkarni Khan Sahab, ek minute, chale jata hoo, mein sham to ghar pe xxxxaa jaon ga.	None
Khan Ha, ha who	None
to ana hi hai, ghar pe nahi xxx Kulkarni	None
Who to abhi dilli mein aya hoo to aya hoo, ek second.	None
Khan	None
In Delhi, youre our guest.	None
Kulkarni Inka nahi Khan Na inke nahi.	None
Khan Aapka aur hamara personal effort rapport (not clear) hai Kulkarni	None
Who to alag hi baat hai.	None
Khan Aur, bhai yaar thanda peeke jana.	None
Kulkarni Nahi thanda nahi, bus ek second khali, kyonki wahi xxxx	None
THEY COME OUT OF THE CHAMBER AND TALK Kulkarni Summons Bombay challa gaya thaa, ab waha se reject ho ke ayaa hua hai.	None
Ab loon ken na loon?	None
Baad me mere ko raat ko ghar pe (Mr. Khan cuts in) Khan Tum mere ko miloge kab, yeh batao?	None
Kulkarni Aap batao kyonki mere koSHO se meri baat hui hai.	None
Aap usko(Mr.	None
Khan cuts in) Khan Tum thehre kahan ho?	None
Kulkarni Main to thehre hoo out of Delhi.	None
Khan Out of Delhi?	None
Kulkarni Out of Delhi, Haan.	None
Khan Sham ko keh baje aaoge?	None
Kulkarni Aaj nahi aaongamein kal zarrorshamko.	None
Sunday aaram reheat hai aur Khan Sunday ko kis waqt aaoge?	None
Kulkarni Aap batao mere ko.	None
Khan Aapko suit kaunsa time karta hai?	None
Kulkarni Koi bhi.	None
Khan Saat aur aath ke darmiyan?	None
Kulkarni Hann, theek hai.	None
Khan Kalxxx Kulkarni Lekin kisi ko bhi batao mat.	None
Khan Nahi ji, sawal hi paida nahi hota yaar.	None
Kulkarni Na, na. Khan Aur tumhare liye bahut badiya scotch rakhi hui haixxxx Kulkarni Scotchlaughs Khan Bahut	None
badiya xxxx Kulkarni Acha baki sab khairyat sahib?	None
Khan Sab khairyat xx.	None
Khuda ka xxx Kulkarni Chalo, kal mulaqat hogi Kulkarni Ok, main (Mr.Khan cuts in) Khan Saat aur aath ke darmiyan Kulkarni Main, vese meri K K Paul se baat hui hai, lekin maine	None
abhi tak nahin bola	None
hoo I have not received summons at all.	None
Woh mere ko bata dena.	None
Khan Kal tum aajao Kulkarni MainHuh?	None
Woh hamare dono ki baat hogi, Khan Theek hai.	None
After this Kulkarni and Deepak Verma return back.	None
As walking along they naturally talk about the sting done by them together.	None
As we shall see presently much depends on what IU Khan meant when he asked Kulkarni whether he had met Bade Saheb.	None
As noted above IU Khan does not deny the conversation that is shown to have taken place between him and Kulkarni.	None
In his first response, that is, in the interview given to NDTV on the morning following the telecast he said that he did not deny anything at all, he did not deny (the utterances) but the inferences sought to be drawn were totally unfounded and wrong.	None
When he said Bade Saheb he meant some high officer in the police headquarter.	None
He also said that was the way Kulkarni used to refer to superior officers in the police headquarter(s) and that is how he had referred to them in his deposition before the trial court.	None
When the trial court asked Kulkarni to clarify he explained that Bade Saheb meant a superior officer of the police headquarter.	None
The words Bade Saheb, according to IU Khan, did not in any way refer to RK Anand.	None
And this was broadly his defence before the High Court.	None
High Court dealing with IU Khan Defence The High Court did not accept his defence.	None
The High Court held that there was great familiarity between IU Khan, Kulkarni and RK Anand.	None
In this regard it observed as follows We have noted above that there are several references to Mr. Khan in the conversations of Mr. Kulkarni with Mr. Anand.	None
We cannot overlook these since they suggest a tacit arrangement or at least an understanding between Mr. Khan, Mr. Anand and Mr. Kulkarni.	None
In coming to this conclusion, as is evident from the above quoted observation the High Court relied a great deal upon the conversations between Kulkarni and RK Anand (vide paragraphs 196, 197 198 of the High Court Judgment).	None
The High Court further held that when IU Khan asked Kulkarni whether he had met Bade Saheb he only meant RK Anand.	None
It rejected IU Khans stand that what he meant by the expression was a senior police officer.	None
The High Court observed that no material was produced on behalf of IU Khan in support of the statement that in course of his deposition before the trial court Kulkarni used the expression Bade Saheb to mean a senior police officer.	None
It further observed that in the sting operation, just before the conclusion of the meeting, Kulkarni had said that he had met K.K. Paul (who was then the Police Commissioner).	None
The passage referred to is as follows Kulkarni Main, vese meri K K Paul se baat hui hai, lekin maine abhi tak nahin bola	None
hoo I have not received summons at all.	None
Woh mere ko bata dena.	None
This, according to the High Court, clearly showed that Kulkarni referred to the Police Commissioner by his name and not by the expression Bade Saheb.	None
High Court further observed that for Kulkarni there was no reason to meet the senior police officers particularly when he was dropped as prosecution witness.	None
There was nothing to suggest that while in Delhi Kulkarni used to meet the senior police officers.	None
On the other hand there was sufficient evidence to show that he was very familiar with both IU Khan and RK Anand, had easy access to both of them and used to frequently meet them.	None
The High Court then took up Kulkarnis affidavit that supported IU Khans plea that by the expression he had meant some senior police officer and not RK Anand and rejected it on a number of grounds.	None
After giving the reasons for rejecting the stand of IU Khan the High Court held that Bade Saheb was none else then RK Anand observing as follows On the other hand, when we watched the recording of the events of 28th April, 2007 from the button camera, we noted that towards the end of the recording, Mr. Deepak Verma asked Mr. Kulkarni about the identity of Bade Saheb and Mr. Kulkarni responded by saying that it is Mr. Anand.	None
There is no suggestion that this part of the video recording is doctored or morphed (emphasis added)	None
The High Court further observed that as IU Khan was fully aware that Kulkarni, a prosecution witness was on highly familiar terms with a senior defence lawyer RK Anand, he was obliged to inform the prosecution about it and by not doing so he clearly failed in his duty as a prosecutor who was expected to be fair not only to his client but also to the Court.	None
His conduct was, therefore, plainly unbecoming of a prosecutor.	None
The High Court then proceeded to consider whether the conduct of IU Khan amounted to a criminal contempt of court.	None
In this regard the Court refers to the conversation between IU Khan and Kulkarni taking place outside the chamber in which a second meeting was fixed up for the following evening with IU Khan giving Kulkarni the inducement of good scotch whisky.	None
From the exchange between the two the court inferred that the extent of familiarity between the two was rather more than normal.	None
IU Khan was aware that Kulkarni was on equally, if not more familiar, terms with RK Anand.	None
Coupled with this his failure to inform the prosecution or the Court about the connection between Kulkarni and RK Anand had the potential and the tendency to interfere or obstruct the natural course of the BMW case and certainly the administration of justice, particularly when Mr. Khan himself described Mr. Kulkarni as the prime witness in the BMW case and the star witness of the prosecution.	None
Finally the court held 207.	None
Under these circumstances, we are left with no option but to hold that Mr. Khan was quite familiar with Mr. Kulkarni Mr. Khan was aware that Mr. Kulkarni was in touch with Mr. Anand Mr. Khan was not unwilling to advise Mr. Kulkarni or at least discuss with him the issue of accepting the summons sent by the trial court to Mr. Kulkarni.	None
We also have no option but to hold that Mr. Khan very seriously erred in not bringing important facts touching upon the BMW case to his clients notice, the prosecution.	None
The error is so grave as to make it a deliberate omission that may have a very serious impact on the case of the prosecution in the Trial court.	None
Consequently, we have no option but to hold Mr. Khan criminally liable, beyond a shadow of doubt, for actually interfering, if not tending to interfere with the due course of the judicial proceeding, that is the BMW case, and thereby actually interfering, if not tending to interfere with the administration of justice in any other manner.	None
Submissions on behalf of IU Khan Mr. P. P. Rao, learned Senior Advocate appearing for IU Khan mainly submitted that even if the sting recording is accepted as true, on the basis of the exchange that took place between his client and Kulkarni it cannot be said that he acted in a way or colluded in any action aimed at interfering or tending to interfere with the prosecution of the accused in the BMW case or interfering or tending to interfere with or obstructing or tending to obstruct the administration of justice in any other manner.	Arguments of Respondent
He further submitted that the findings of the High Court were based on assumptions that were not only completely unfounded but in respect of which the appellant was given no opportunity to defend himself.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court held the appellant guilty of committing criminal contempt of court referring to and relying upon certain alleged facts and circumstances that did not form part of the notice and in regard to which he was given no opportunity to defend himself.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Rao submitted that along with the notice issued by the High Court the appellant was not given all the materials concerning his case and he was thus handicapped in submitting his show cause.	Arguments of Respondent
He further submitted that the High Court erroneously placed the case of his client at par with RK Anand and convicted him because RK Anand was found guilty even though the two cases were completely different.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Rao was also highly critical of the TV channel.	Arguments of Respondent
He questioned the propriety of the sting operation and the telecast of the sting programme concerning a pending trial and involving a court witness without any information to, much less permission by the trial court or even the High Court or its Chief Justice.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Rao submitted that when Kulkarni first approached Poonam Agarwal she thought it imperative to first obtain the approval of her superiors before embarking upon the project, but it did not occur to anyone, including her superiors in the TV channel to obtain the permission or to even inform at least the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court before taking up the operation fraught with highly sinister implications.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Rao also assailed the judgment coming under appeal on a number of other grounds.	Arguments of Respondent
SUBMISSIONS CONSIDERED We have carefully gone through all the materials concerning IU Khan.	None
We have perused the transcript of the exchange between Kulkarni and IU Khan and have also viewed the full recording of the sting several times since the full transcript of the recording is not available on the record.	None
IU Khans conduct quite improper We have not the slightest doubt that the exchange between Kulkarni and IU Khan far crosses the limits of proper professional conduct of a prosecutor (especially engaged to conduct a sensational trial) and a designated Senior Advocate of long standing.	None
We are not prepared to accept for a moment that on seeing Kulkarni suddenly after several years in the company of a burly stranger (Deepak Verma) IU Khan became apprehensive about his personal safety since in the past some violent incidents had taken place in the court premises and some lawyers had lost their lives and consequently he was simply playacting and pampering Kulkarni in order to mollify him.	None
The plea is not borne out from the transcript and much less from the video recording.	None
In the video recording there is no trace of any fear or apprehension on his face or in his gestures.	None
He appears perfectly normal and natural sitting among his colleagues (and may be one or two clients) and at no point the situation appears to be out of his control.	None
As a matter of fact, we feel constrained to say that the plea is not quite worthy of a lawyer of IU Khans standing and we should have much appreciated had he simply taken the plea of an error of discretion on his part.	None
Coming back to the exchange between IU Khan and Kulkarni, we accept that the transcript of the exchange does not present the accurate picture listening to the live voices of the two (and others present in the chamber) on the CD gives a more realistic idea of the meeting.	None
We grant everything that can be said in favour of IU Khan.	None
The meeting took place without any prior appointment from him.	None
Kulkarni was able to reach him, unlike RK Anand, without his permission or consent.	None
IU Khan did not seem to be overly enthused at the appearance of Kulkarni.	None
Accosted by Kulkarni, he spoke to him out of civility and mostly responded only to his questions and comments.	None
There were others present in the chamber with whom he was equally engaged in conversation.	None
He also greeted someone else who came into the chamber far more cheerfully than Kulkarni.	None
But the undeniable fact remains that he was talking to him all the time about the BMW trial and the related proceedings.	None
Instead of simply telling him to receive the summons and appear before the court as directed, IU Khan gave reassurances to Kulkarni telling him about the revision filed in the High Court against the trial courts order.	None
He advised him to relax saying that since he had dropped him (as a prosecution witness) the court was no one to ask for his statement.	None
The part of the exchange that took place outside the chamber was worse.	None
Inside the chamber, at one stage, IU Khan seemed even dismissive of Kulkarni but on coming out he appeared quite anxious to fix up another meeting with him at his residence giving promising good Scotch whisky as inducement.	None
IU Khan would be the first person to deny any friendship or even a long acquaintanceship with Kulkarni.	None
The only common factor between them was the BMW case in which one was the prosecutor and the other was a prosecution witness, later dropped from the list of witnesses.	None
A lawyer, howsoever, affable and sociable by disposition, if he has the slightest respect for professional ethics, would not allow himself such degree of familiarity with the witness of a criminal trial that he might be prosecuting and would not indulge with him into the kind of exchange as admittedly took place between IU Khan and Kulkarni.	None
We are also not prepared to believe that in his conversation with Kulkarni, IU Khan did not mean what he was saying and he was simply trying to somehow get rid of Kulkarni.	None
The video of the sting recordings leaves no room for doubt that IU Khan was freely discussing the proceeding of BMW case with Kulkarni and was not at all averse to another meeting with him rather he was looking forward to it.	None
We, therefore, fully endorse the High Court finding that the conduct of IU Khan was inappropriate for a lawyer in general and a prosecutor in particular.	None
CRIMINAL CONTEMPT???	None
But there is a wide gap between professional misconduct and criminal contempt of court and we now proceed to examine whether on the basis of materials on record the charge of criminal contempt of court can be sustained against IU Khan.	None
The High Court held that there was an extraordinary degree of familiarity between IU Khan, Kulkarni and RK Anand and each of them knew that the other two were equally familiar with each other.	None
So far as BMW trial is concerned Kulkarni was a link between IU Khan and RK Anand.	None
IU Khan, by reason of his familiarity both with RK Anand and Kulkarni would also know about the game that was afoot for the subversion of the trial.	None
He failed to inform the prosecution and the court about it and his omission to do so was likely to have a very serious impact on the trial.	None
He was, therefore, guilty of actually interfering with due course of judicial proceeding, in the BMW case.	None
In the two sting recordings concerning RK Anand there are ample references to IU Khan to suggest a high degree of familiarity between the three.	None
But in the sting on IU Khan the only words used by him that might connect him to RK Anand through Kulkarni are Bade Saheb.	None
If Bade Saheb referred to RK Anand, the involvement of IU Khan needs no further proof.	None
The question, however, is whether that finding can be safely arrived at.	None
Now, what are the materials that might suggest that while asking Kulkarni whether he had met Bade Saheb, IU Khan meant RK Anand.	None
Apart from the piece of conversation between Deepak Verma and Kulkarni when they were returning after meeting with IU Khan, relied upon by the High Court, there is another material, for whatever its worth, that doesnt find any mention in the High Court judgment.	None
It is Kulkarnis statement in his interview recorded at the NDTV studio.	None
He said as follows He (IU Khan) directed me to Mr RK Anand is in that video you can find Bade Saheb.	None
He meant that Mr. RK Anand.	None
We mention it only because it is one of the materials lying on the record.	None
Not that we rely on it in the least.	None
Having known the conduct of Kulkarni throughout this episode as discussed in detail in the earlier part of the judgment it is impossible to rely on this statement and we dont even fault the High Court for not taking any note of it.	None
The only other positive material in this regard is the one referred to by the High Court.	None
The High Court observed that towards the end of the recording by the button camera, Mr. Deepak Verma asked Mr. Kulkarni about the identity of Bade Saheb and Mr. Kulkarni responded by saying that it is Mr. Anand.	None
But the reference by the High Court to that particular piece of conversation between Deepak Verma and Kulkarni is neither complete nor accurate.	None
We have noted earlier that the transcript submitted to the High Court by NDTV was incomplete and it covered only the exchange between Kulkarni and IU Khan.	None
If the High Court had before it the full transcript of the entire recording it might have taken a different view.	None
We have viewed the CD labelled as Button Spy cam Recording done by Sunil Kulkarni.	None
IU Khan Sting Operation a number of times and we find that on the way back after meeting IU Khan, Kulkarni was being quite voluble.	None
He spoke to Deepak Verma and gave him some instructions.	None
A part of their conversation, relevant for our purpose is as follows EXCHANGE BETWEEN KULKARNI DEEPAK	None
VERMA Kulkarni Humming some tune Kulkarni Dont go to car directly.	None
Well take an auto Deepak Verma Take an auto?	None
Kulkarni Haan.	None
Thoda sa aage chalen ge Kulkarni Aap ne suna nahin?	None
Bade Saheb se mile ya nahin?	None
Deepak Verma Haan Kulkarni Ab dekho kal you will get unclear you what you want Deepak Verma Kal aap Bade Saheb se milne ja rahe hain?	None
Kulkani Na, Haan unke ghar pe.	None
No, you dont have to come.	None
You just come and stay outside.	None
Theek hai na?	None
unclear Haan ab to aap ke samne hua sab kucchh Deepak Verma Bade Saheb woh hai, Anand?	None
Kulkarni Hmm.	None
Noise of some auto heavy vehicle engine Deepak Verma Unclear Ek baar iska Photograph leinIska photograph aaya ki nahin aaya?	None
Kulkarni Aaya.	None
Aaya, aaya.	None
Kulkarni Pukka trail hoga hamara.	None
Hundred percent Tail hoga.	None
Deepak Verma Police Waale ko kaise kah raha tha who?	None
Gaadi Dilwao yaar From the manner of speaking Kulkarni appeared to be giving the impression that everything went off according to the plan.	None
He also tended to be slightly melodramatic.	None
(He would not go to the car directly because they were bound to be followed)	None
Now, while examining what Kulkarni understood or rather what he wanted Deepak Verma to believe what was meant by Bade Saheb it is necessary to bear in mind that the whole object of the sting was to uncover the alleged unholy alliance between the defence and the prosecution.	None
It was based on the premise that the prosecution was colluding with the defence in the effort to save the accused in the BMW case.	None
In that situation for Kulkarni, who for his own reasons was anxious to get NDTVs help for doing the sting, it was natural to find out and show to Deepak Verma some link between IU Khan and RK Anand irrespective of whether or not there was, in reality, any link between the two.	None
There is no way to find out whether Kulkarni really believed that by Bade Saheb IU Khan meant RK Anand (Like everything else even on this issue he changed his stand from time to time) or he just wanted Deepak Verma to believe so.	None
But even if Kulkarni really understood Bade Saheb to mean RK Anand, that would not change the position much.	None
For our purpose it is not important what Kulkarni or Deepak Verma or any one else understood (truthfully or otherwise) by that expression.	None
One may use an expression to mean a certain thing but to the listener it may mean something quite different.	None
What is important here is to judge what IU Khan meant when he used that expression.	None
In our view, on the basis of the exchange between Kulkarni and Deepak Verma, it will be highly unsafe to hold that when IU Khan asked Kulkarni whether he had met Bade Saheb he meant RK Anand.	None
The High Court rejected IU Khans explanation that what he meant by Bade Saheb was some senior officer in the police headquarter.	None
According to IU Khan, Kulkarni was in the habit of directly approaching the superior police officers and he would refer to them by that expression.	None
In support of the plea in his reply affidavit (paragraph 12) IU Khan stated as follows Even during the course of his deposition in court Mr. S. Kulkarni had used the expression Bade Sahab while referring to the higher police officers.	None
The Ld. trial court also translated the same in English while recording the statement as higher police officers.	None
In the crossexamination Mr. S. Kulkarni has stated I had voluntarily gone to the higher police officers of the police headquarter.	None
The High Court rejected the aforesaid plea observing as follows It was further submitted that during the recording of Mr. Kulkarnis evidence on an earlier occasion, a reference to Bade Saheb was made more than once.	None
Bade Saheb was then translated and recorded in the deposition to mean senior police officers.	None
Learned counsel for Mr. Khan, however, did not produce any material to support the last submission.	None
(emphasis added)	None
Mr. P. P. Rao submitted that the approach of the High Court was quite unfair.	Arguments of Petitioner
The proceeding before the High Court was not in the nature of a suit or a criminal trial.	Arguments of Petitioner
In response to the notice issued by the Court the appellant had made a positive statement in his reply affidavit.	Arguments of Petitioner
The statement was not formally traversed by anyone.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was, therefore, no reason for the appellant to assume that he would be required to produce evidence in support of the statement.	Arguments of Petitioner
In case the High Court felt the need for some evidence in support of the averment it should have at least made it known to the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
But the High Court without giving any inkling to the appellant rejected the plea in the final judgment.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant was thus clearly denied a proper opportunity to defend himself.	Arguments of Petitioner
We find that the submission is not without substance.	Arguments of Petitioner
The proceeding before the High Court was under the Contempt of Courts Act and the High Court was not following any well known and well established format.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that situation it was only fair to give notice to the proceedees to substantiate the pleas taken in the reply affidavit by leading proper evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
It must, therefore be held that the High Court rejected a material plea raised on behalf of the IU Khan without giving him any opportunity to substantiate it.128.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, as noticed above, the High Court, for arriving at the finding that there was a high degree of familiarity among IU Khan, Kulkarni and RK Anand has repeatedly used the transcripts of the meetings between Kulkarni and RK Anand.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is indeed true that in the exchanges between Kulkarni and RK Anand there are many references to IU Khan.	Arguments of Petitioner
That may give rise of a strong suspicion, of a common connection between the three.	Arguments of Petitioner
But having regard to the charge of criminal contempt any suspicion howsoever strong cannot take the place of proof and we dont feel it wholly prudent to rely upon the exchanges between Kulkarni and RK Anand to record a finding against IU Khan.129.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, according to the High Court, the essence of culpability of IU Khan was his omission to inform the prosecution and the Court that one of its witnesses was more than an acquaintance of defence lawyer.130.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. P. P. Rao submitted that the High Court convicted the appellant for something in regard to which he was never given an opportunity to defend himself.	Arguments of Petitioner
From the notice issued by the High Court it was impossible to discern that the charge of criminal contempt would be eventually fastened on him for his failure to inform the court and the prosecution about the way Kulkarnis was being manipulated by the defence.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Rao further submitted that the reason assigned by the Court to hold the appellant guilty was based purely on assumption.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant was given no opportunity to show that, as a matter of fact, after Kulkarni met him at the Patiala House on April 28, 2007 he had informed the concerned authorities that after being summoned by the court Kulkarni was back to his old tricks.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submitted that the appellant, given the opportunity, could also show that the decision to not examine him as one of the prosecution witnesses was taken by the concerned authorities in consultation with him.	Arguments of Petitioner
We find substance in Mr. Raos submission.	Reasoning
In our considered view, on the basis of materials on record the charge of criminal contempt cannot be held to be satisfactorily established against IU Khan.	Reasoning
In our opinion he is entitled to the benefit of doubt.	Reasoning
PROCEDURE FOLLOWED BY THE HIGH COURT	None
A lot has been argued about the procedure followed by the High Court in dealing with the matter.	None
On behalf of RK Anand it was strongly contended that by only asking for the copies of the original sting recordings and allowing the original microchips and the magnetic tapes to be retained in the custody of NDTV the High Court committed a serious and fatal lapse.	None
Mr. Gopal Subramanium also took the view that though the final judgment passed by the High Court was faultless, it was nevertheless an error on its part to leave the original sting recordings in the safe custody of the TV channel.	None
On principle and as a matter of proper procedure, the Court, at the first instance, ought to have taken in its custody all the original electronic materials concerning the stings.	None
At first the direction of the High Court leaving the microchips containing the original sting recordings and the magnetic tapes with the TV channel indeed appears to be somewhat strange and uncommon but a moments thought would show the rationale behind it.	None
If the recordings on the microchips were fake from the start or if the microchips were morphed before notice was issued to the TV channel, those would come to the court in that condition and in that case the question whether the microchips were genuine or fake morphed would be another issue.	None
But once the High Court obtained their copies there was no possibility of any tampering with the microchips from that stage.	None
Moreover, the High Court might have felt that the TV channel with its well equipped studio laboratory would be a much better place for the handling and conservation of such electronic articles than the High Court Registry.	None
On the facts of the case, therefore, there was no lapse on the part of the High Court in leaving the microchips in the safe custody of the TV channel and in any event it does not have any bearing on the final decision of the case.	None
However, what we find completely inexplicable is why, at least at the beginning of the proceeding, the High Court did not put NDTV, along with the two appellants, in the array of contemnors.	None
Looking back at the matter (now that we have on the record before us the appellants affidavits in reply to the notice issued by the High Court as well as their first response to the telecast in the form of their live interviews), we are in the position to say that since the contents of the sting recordings were admitted there was no need for the proof of integrity and correctness of the electronic materials.	None
But at the time the High Court issued notices to the two appellants (and two others) the position was completely different.	None
At that stage the issue of integrity, authenticity and reliability of the sting recordings was wide open.	None
The appellants might have taken the stand that not only the sting recordings but their respective responses shown by the TV channel were fake and doctored.	None
In such an event the TV channel would have been required to be subjected to the strictest proof of the electronic materials on which its programmes were based and, in case it failed to establish their genuineness and correctness, it would have been equally guilty, if not more, of serious contempt of court and other criminal offences.	None
By all reckoning, at the time of initiation of the proceeding, the place of NDTV was along with the appellants facing the charge of contempt.	None
Such a course would have put the proceeding on a more even keel and given it a more balanced appearance.	None
Then perhaps there would have been no scope for the grievance that the High Court put the TV channel on the complainants seat.	None
And then perhaps the TV Channel too would have conducted itself in a more careful manner and the lapses as indicated above in the case of IU Khan might not have occurred.	None
THE PUNISHMENT PROHIBITION AGAINST APPEARING IN COURTS	None
We were also addressed on the validity of the High Courts direction prohibiting the two appellants from appearing before the High Court and the courts subordinate to it for a period of four months.	None
Though by the time the appeals were taken up for hearing the period of four months was over, Mr. Altaf Ahmed contended that the High Courts direction was beyond its competence and authority.	None
In a proceeding of contempt punishment could only be awarded as provided under the Contempt of Courts Act, though in a given case the High Court could debar the contemnor from appearing in court till he purged himself of the contempt.	None
He further submitted that professional misconduct is a subject specifically dealt with under the Advocates Act and the authority to take action against a lawyer for any professional misconduct vests exclusively in the State Bar Council, where he may be enrolled, and the Bar Council of India.	None
The Counsel further submitted that a High Court could frame rules under section 34 of the Advocates Act laying down the conditions subject to which an advocate would be permitted to practise in the High Court and the courts subordinate to it and such rules may contain a provision that an advocate convicted of contempt of court would be barred from appearing before it or before the subordinate courts for a specified period.	None
But so far the Delhi High Court has not framed any rules under section 34 of the Act.	None
According to him, therefore, the punishment awarded to the appellant by the High Court had no legal sanction.	None
Mr. Nageshwar Rao learned Senior Advocate assisting the Court as amicus shared the same view.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Rao submitted that the direction given by the High Court was beyond its jurisdiction.	Arguments of Petitioner
In a proceeding of contempt the High Court could only impose a punishment as provided under section 12 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court was bound by the provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act and it was not open to it to innovate any new kind of punishment in exercise of its powers under Article 215 of the Constitution or its inherent powers.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Rao submitted that a person who is a law graduate becomes entitled to practise the profession of law on the basis of his enrolment with any of the State Bar Councils established under the Advocates Act, 1961.	Arguments of Petitioner
Appearance in Court is the dominant, if not the sole content of a lawyers practice.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since, the authority to grant licence to a law graduate to practise as an advocate vests exclusively in a State Bar Council, the power to revoke the licence or to suspend it for a specified term also vests in the same body.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, the revocation or suspension of licence of an advocate has not only civil but also penal consequences hence, the relevant statutory provisions in regard to imposition of punishment must be strictly followed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Punishment by way of suspension of the licence of an advocate can only be imposed by the Bar Council, the competent statutory body, after the charge is established against the advocate concerned in the manner prescribed by the Act and the Rules framed thereunder.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court can, of course, prohibit an advocate convicted of contempt from appearing before it or any court subordinate to it till the contemnor purged himself of the contempt.	Arguments of Petitioner
But it cannot assume the authority and the power statutorily vested in the Bar Council.137.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Gopal Subramanium the other amicus, however, approached the issue in a slightly different manner and took the middle ground.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Subramanium submitted that the power to suspend the licence of a lawyer for a reason that may constitute contempt of court and at the same time may also amount to professional misconduct is a power to be exercised by the disciplinary authority i.e. the Disciplinary Committee of the State Bar Council where the concerned advocate is registered or the Bar Council of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Supreme Court has held that even it, in exercise of its powers under Article 142, cannot override statutory provisions and, assuming the position of the Disciplinary Committee, suspend the licence of a lawyer.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such a course cannot be followed even by taking recourse to the appellate powers of the Supreme Court under section 38 of the Advocates Act while dealing with a case of contempt of court (and not an appeal relating to professional misconduct as such).	Arguments of Petitioner
But approaching the matter from a different angle Mr. Subramanium submitted, it is, however, open to the High Court to make rules regulating the appearance of advocates in courts.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submitted that although the Delhi High Court has not framed any specific rules regulating the appearance of advocates, it is settled law that power vested in an authority would not cease to exist merely because rules prescribing the manner of exercise of power have not been framed.138.	Arguments of Petitioner
The contention that the direction debarring a lawyer from appearing before it or in courts subordinate to it is beyond the jurisdiction of the High Court is based on the premise that the bar is akin to revocation suspension of the lawyers licence which is a punishment for professional misconduct that can only be inflicted by the Bar Council after following the procedure prescribed under the Advocates Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The contention finds support from the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Supreme Court Bar Association vs. Union of India, (1998) 4 SSC 409.	Arguments of Petitioner
In paragraph 37 of the decision the Court observed and held as under The nature and types of punishment which a court of record can impose in a case of established contempt under the common law have now been specifically incorporated in the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 insofar as the High Courts are concerned and therefore to the extent the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 identifies the nature or types of punishments which can be awarded in the case of established contempt, it does not impinge upon the inherent powers of the High Court under Article 215 either.	None
No new type of punishment can be created or assumed.	None
In paragraphs 39 40 it observed Suspending the licence to practise of any professional like a lawyer, doctor, chartered accountant etc. when such a professional is found guilty of committing contempt of court, for any specified period, is not recognised or accepted punishment which a court of record either under the common law or under the statutory law can impose on a contemnor in addition to any of the other recognised punishments.	None
The suspension of an advocate from practise and his removal from the State roll of advocates are both punishments specifically provided for under the Advocates Act, 1961, for proven professional misconduct of an advocate.	None
While exercising its contempt jurisdiction under Article 129, the only cause or matter before this Court is regarding commission of contempt of court.	None
There is no cause of professional misconduct, properly so called, pending before the Court.	None
This Court, therefore, in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 129 cannot take over the jurisdiction of the Disciplinary Committee of the Bar Council of the State or the Bar Council of India to punish an advocate by suspending his licence, which punishment can only be imposed after a finding of professional misconduct is recorded in the manner prescribed under the Advocates Act and the Rules framed thereunder.	None
In Paragraph 57 it observed In a given case, an advocate found guilty of committing contempt of court may also be guilty of committing professional misconduct, depending upon the gravity or nature of his contumacious conduct, but the two jurisdictions are separate and distinct and exercisable by different forums by following separate and distinct procedures.	None
The power to punish an advocate by suspending his licence or by removal of his name from the roll of the State Bar Council for proven professional misconduct vests exclusively in the statutory authorities created under the Advocates Act, 1961, while the jurisdiction to punish him for committing contempt of court vests exclusively in the courts.	None
Again in paragraph 80 it observed In a given case it may be possible for this Court or the High Court, to prevent the contemnor advocate to appear before it till he purges himself of the contempt but that is much different from suspending or revoking his licence or debarring him to practise as an advocate.	None
In a case of contemptuous, contumacious, unbecoming or blameworthy conduct of an AdvocateonRecord, this Court possesses jurisdiction, under the Supreme Court Rules, itself, to withdraw his privilege to practice as an Advocateon Record because that privilege is conferred by this Court and the power to grant the privilege includes the power to revoke or suspend it.	None
The withdrawal of that privilege, however, does not amount to suspending or revoking his licence to practice as an advocate in other courts or tribunals.	None
The matter, however, did not stop at Supreme Court Bar Association.	None
In Pravin C Shah vs. K. A. Mohd.	None
Ali and Another, (2001) 8 SCC 650	None
, this Court considered the case of a lawyer who was found guilty of contempt of court and as a consequence was sought to be debarred from appearing in courts till he purged himself of contempt.	None
Kerala High Court has framed Rules under section 34 of the Advocates Act and rule 11 reads thus No advocate who has been found guilty of contempt of court shall be permitted to appear, act or plead in any court unless he has purged himself of the contempt.	None
An Advocate, notwithstanding his conviction for contempt of Court by the Kerala High Court continued to freely appear before the courts.	None
A complaint was made to the Kerala State Bar Council on which a disciplinary proceeding was initiated against the advocate concerned and finally the State Bar Council imposed a punishment on him debarring him from acting or pleading in any court till he got himself purged of the contempt of court by an order of the appropriate court.	None
The concerned advocate challenged the order of the State Bar Council in appeal before the Bar Council of India.	None
The Bar Council of India allowed the appeal and set aside the interdict imposed on the advocate.	None
The matter was brought in appeal before this Court and a two judges Bench hearing the appeal framed the question arising for consideration as follows When an advocate was punished for contempt of court can he appear thereafter as a counsel in the courts, unless he purges himself of such contempt?	None
If he cannot, then what is the way he can purge himself of such contempt?	None
The Court answered the question in paragraphs 27, 28 and 31 of the judgment as follows We cannot therefore approve the view that merely undergoing the penalty imposed on a contemnor is sufficient to complete the process of purging himself of the contempt, particularly in a case where the contemnor is convicted of criminal contempt.	None
The danger in giving accord to the said view of the learned Single Judge in the aforesaid decision is that if a contemnor is sentenced to a fine he can immediately pay it and continue to commit contempt in the same court, and then again pay the fine and persist with his contemptuous conduct.	None
There must be something more to be done to get oneself purged of the contempt when it is a case of criminal contempt.	None
The Disciplinary Committee of the Bar Council of India highlighted the absence of any mode of purging oneself of the guilt in any of the Rules as a reason for not following the interdict contained in Rule 11.	None
Merely because the Rules did not prescribe the mode of purging oneself of the guilt it does not mean that one cannot purge the guilt at all.	None
The first thing to be done in that direction when a contemnor is found guilty of a criminal contempt is to implant or infuse in his own mind real remorse about his conduct which the court found to have amounted to contempt of court.	None
Next step is to seek pardon from the court concerned for what he did on the ground that he really and genuinely repented and that he has resolved not to commit any such act in future.	None
It is not enough that he tenders an apology.	None
The apology tendered should impress the court to be genuine and sincere.	None
If the court, on being impressed of his genuineness, accepts the apology then it could be said the contemnor has purged himself of the guilt.	None
Thus a mere statement made by a contemnor before court that he apologises is hardly enough to amount to purging himself of the contempt.	None
The court must be satisfied of the genuineness of the apology.	None
If the court is so satisfied and on its basis accepts the apology as genuine the court has to make an order holding that the contemnor has purged himself of the contempt.	None
Till such an order is passed by the court the delinquent advocate would continue to be under the spell of the interdict contained in Rule 11 of the Rules.	None
More importantly, another Constitution Bench of this Court in Ex.	None
Capt. Harish Uppal vs. Union of India and Another, (2003) 2 SCC 45 , examined the question whether lawyers have a right to strike and or give a call for boycott of Court(s).	None
In paragraph 34 of the decision the Court made highly illuminating observations in regard to lawyers right to appear before the Court and sounded the note of caution for the lawyers.	None
Para 34 of the decision need to be reproduced below One last thing which must be mentioned is that the right of appearance in courts is still within the control and jurisdiction of courts.	None
Section 30 of the Advocates Act has not been brought into force and rightly so.	None
Control of conduct in court can only be within the domain of courts.	None
Thus Article 145 of the Constitution of India gives to the Supreme Court and Section 34 of the Advocates Act gives to the High Court power to frame rules including rules regarding condition on which a person (including an advocate) can practise in the Supreme Court and or in the High Court and courts subordinate thereto.	None
Many courts have framed rules in this behalf.	None
Such a rule would be valid and binding on all.	None
Let the Bar take note that unless selfrestraint is exercised, courts may now have to consider framing specific rules debarring advocates, guilty of contempt and or unprofessional or unbecoming conduct, from appearing before the courts.	None
Such a rule if framed would not have anything to do with the disciplinary jurisdiction of the Bar Councils.	None
It would be concerning the dignity and orderly functioning of the courts.	None
The right of the advocate to practise envelopes a lot of acts to be performed by him in discharge of his professional duties.	None
Apart from appearing in the courts he can be consulted by his clients, he can give his legal opinion whenever sought for, he can draft instruments, pleadings, affidavits or any other documents, he can participate in any conference involving legal discussions, he can work in any office or firm as a legal officer, he can appear for his clients before an arbitrator or arbitrators etc.	None
Such a rule would have nothing to do with all the acts done by an advocate during his practice.	None
He may even file vakalat on behalf of a client event though his appearance inside the court is not permitted.	None
Conduct in court is a matter concerning the court and hence the Bar Council cannot claim that what should happen inside the court could also be regulated by them in exercise of their disciplinary powers.	None
The right to practise, no doubt, is genus of which the right to appeal and conduct cases in the court may be a specie.	None
But the right to appear and conduct cases in the court is a matter on which the court must and does have major supervisory and controlling power.	None
Hence courts cannot be and are not divested of control or supervision of conduct in court merely because it may involve the right of an advocate.	None
A rule can stipulate that a person who has committed contempt of court or has behaved unprofessionally and in an unbecoming manner will not have the right to continue to appear and plead and conduct cases in courts.	None
The Bar Councils cannot overrule such a regulation concerning the orderly conduct of court proceedings.	None
On the contrary, it will be their duty to see that such a rule is strictly abided by.	None
Courts of law are structured in such a design as to evoke respect and reverence to the majesty of law and justice.	None
The machinery for dispensation of justice according to law is operated by the court.	None
Proceedings inside the courts are always expected to be held in dignified and orderly manner.	None
The very sight of an advocate, who is guilty of contempt of court or of unbecoming or unprofessional conduct, standing in the court would erode the dignity of the court and even corrode its majesty besides impairing the confidence of the public in the efficacy of the institution of the courts.	None
The power to frame such rules should not be confused with the right to practice law.	None
While the Bar council can exercise control over the latter, the courts are in control of the former.	None
The distinction is clearly brought out by the difference in language in Section 49 of the Advocates Act on the one hand and Article 145 of the Constitution of India and Section 34(1) of the Advocates Act on the other.	None
Section 49 merely empower the Bar Council to frame rules laying down conditions subject to which an advocate shall have a right to practise i.e. do all the other acts set out above.	None
However, Article 145 of the Constitution of India empowers the Supreme Court to make rules for regulating this practice and procedure of the court including inter alia rules as to persons practising before this Court.	None
Similarly Section 34 of the Advocates Act empowers High Courts to frame rules, inter alia to lay down conditions on which an advocate shall be permitted to practice in courts.	None
Article 145 of the Constitution of India and Section 34 of the Advocates Act clearly show that there is no absolute right to an advocate to appear in a court.	None
An advocate appears in a Court to such conditions as are laid down by the Court.	None
It must be remembered that Section 30 has not been brought into force and this also shows that there is no absolute right to appear in a court.	None
Even if Section 30 were to be brought into force control of proceedings in a court will always remain with the court.	None
Thus even then the right to appear in court will be subject to complying with conditions laid down by courts just as practice outside courts would be subject to conditions laid down by the Bar Council of India.	None
There is thus no conflict or clash between other provisions of the Advocates Act on the one hand and Section 34 or Article 145 Constitution of Indian on the other.	None
(emphasis added)	None
In both Pravin C. Shah and Ex.	None
Capt. Harish Uppal the earlier Constitution Bench decision was extensively considered.	None
The decision in Ex.	None
Capt. Harish Uppal was later followed in a three judge Bench decision in Bar Council of India vs. The High Court of Kerala, (2004) 6 SCC 311.	None
In Supreme Court Bar Association the direction prohibiting an advocate from appearing in court for a specified period was viewed as a total and complete denial of his right to practise law and the bar was considered as a punishment inflicted on him.	None
1	None
In Ex. Capt. Harish Uppal it was seen not as punishment for professional misconduct but as a measure necessary to regulate the courts proceedings and to maintain the dignity and orderly functioning of the courts.	None
We may respectfully add that in a given case a direction disallowing an advocate who is convicted of criminal contempt from appearing in court may not only be a measure to maintain the dignity and 1	None
Though in Paragraph 80 of the decision, as seen earlier there is an observation that in a given case it might be possible for this court or the High Court to prevent the contemnor advocate to appear before it till he purge himself of the contempt.	None
orderly functioning of the courts but may become necessary for the self protection of the court and for preservation of the purity of court proceedings.	None
Let us, for example, take the case where an advocate is shown to have accepted money in the name of a judge or on the pretext of influencing him or where an advocate is found tampering with the courts record or where an advocate is found actively taking part in faking court orders (fake bail orders are not unknown in several High Courts) or where an advocate has made it into a practice to browbeat and abuse judges and on that basis has earned the reputation to get a case transferred from an inconvenient court or where an advocate is found to be in the habit of sending unfounded and unsubstantiated allegation petitions against judicial officers and judges to the superior courts.	None
Unfortunately these examples are not from imagination.	None
These things are happening more frequently than we care to acknowledge.	None
We may also add that these illustrations are not exhaustive but there may be other ways in which a malefactors conduct and actions may pose a real and imminent threat to the purity of court proceedings, cardinal to any courts functioning, apart from constituting a substantive offence and contempt of court and professional misconduct.	None
In such a situation the court does not only have the right	None
but it also has the obligation cast upon it to protect itself and save the purity of its proceedings from being polluted in any way and to that end bar the malefactor from appearing before the courts for an appropriate period of time.	None
It is already explained in Ex.	None
Captain Harish Uppal that a direction of this kind by the Court cannot be equated with punishment for professional misconduct.	None
Further, the prohibition against appearance in courts does not affect the right of the concerned lawyer to carry on his legal practice in other ways as indicated in the decision.	None
We respectfully submit that the decision in ExCapt.	None
Harish Uppal vs. Union of India places the issue in correct perspective and must be followed to answer the question at issue before us.	None
Lest we are misunderstood it needs to be made clear that the occasion to take recourse to the extreme step of debarring an advocate from appearing in court should arise very rarely and only as a measure of last resort in cases where the wrong doer advocate does not at all appear to be genuinely contrite and remorseful for his act conduct, but on the contrary shows a tendency to repeat or perpetuate the wrong act(s).	None
Ideally every High Court should have rules framed under section 34 of the Advocates Act in order to meet with such eventualities but even in the absence of the Rule the High Court cannot be held to be helpless against such threats.	None
In a matter as fundamental and grave as preserving the purity of judicial proceedings, the High Court would be free to exercise the powers vested in it under section 34 of the Advocates Act notwithstanding the fact that Rules prescribing the manner of exercise of power have not been framed.	None
But in the absence of statutory Rules providing for such a course an advocate facing the charge of contempt would normally think of only the punishments specified under section 12 of the Contempt of Courts Act.	None
He may not even imagine that at the end of the proceeding he might end up being debarred from appearing before the court.	None
The rules of natural justice, therefore, demand that before passing an order debarring an advocate from appearing in courts he must be clearly told that his alleged conduct or actions are such that if found guilty he might be debarred from appearing in courts for a specific period.	None
The warning may be given in the initial notice of contempt issued under section 14 or section 17 (as the case may be) of the Contempt of Courts Act.	None
Or such a notice may be given after the proceedee is held guilty of criminal contempt before dealing with the question of punishment.	None
In order to avoid any such controversies in future all the High Courts that have so far not framed rules under section 34 of the Advocates Act are directed to frame the rules without any further delay.	None
It is earnestly hoped that all the High Courts shall frame the rules within four months from today.	None
The High Courts may also consider framing rules for having Advocates on Record on the pattern of the Supreme Court of India.	None
Suborning a witness in a criminal trial is an act striking at the root of the judicial proceeding and it surely deserves the treatment meted out to the appellant.	None
But the appellants were not given any notice by the High Court that if found guilty they might be prohibited from appearing in the High Court, and the courts subordinate to it, for a certain period.	None
To that extent the direction given by the High Court was not in conformity with the principles of natural justice.	None
But as to the consequence of that we shall deal with in due course.	None
THE QUESTION OF SENTENCE Having regard to the misdeeds of which RK Anand has been found guilty, the punishment given to him by the High Court can only be regarded as nominal.	None
We feel that the leniency shown by the High Court in meting out the punishment was qute misplaced.	None
And the view is greatly reinforced if one looks at the contemnors conduct before the High Court.	None
As we shall see presently, before the High Court the contemnor took a defiant stand and constantly tried to obstruct the proceedings.	None
THE DIVERSIONARY INTIMIDATORY TACTICS IN THE PROCEEDING Even as contempt notices were issued by the High Court, or even before it, some diversionary and even intimidatory tactics were employed to stonewall the proceeding initiated by it.	None
Kulkarnis Affidavit	None
The first in the series was an affidavit filed on August 6, 2007 by Kulkarni in regard to the stings done by him.	None
The affidavit was not called for by the Court and it was filed quite gratuitously.	None
It was a jumble of nonsense, half truths and lies.	None
Kulkarni made all conceivable and even some inconceivable allegations against NDTV in general and Poonam Agarwal in particular.	None
He stated that Poonam Agarwal had recorded his first interview on April 25, 2003 and thereafter on several other dates till the last one in the last week of May before the telecast.	None
It is not clear on whose behalf Poonam Agarwal would take his earlier interviews because she had joined NDTV only two years prior to July 2007.	None
He then alleged that Poonam Agarwal subjected him to Gobels technique (sic. Goebbelss) to make him illicit (sic. elicit) certain answers to (sic. from) RK Anand and IU Khan in a particular manner.	None
What is of significance in Kulkarnis affidavit, however, is that it anticipated what in the sting recordings might prove fatal for RK Anand and IU Khan and tried to do the ground work for their defence.	None
In regard to his meeting with IU Khan, Kulkarni said that he met and spoke to him in the manner directed by Poonam Agarwal.	None
He further said on affidavit that when IU Khan asked him if he had met Bade Saheb he implied some senior police official but it was Poonam Agarwal who forced him to say that IU Khan referred to RK Anand.	None
Now, this is exactly what IU Khan said in his interview to the TV channel and what he would say later in his show cause to the High Court.	None
He also said that as agreed between the two in the meeting of April 28, 2007, he again met IU Khan in the evening but the conversation that took place in that meeting exposed NDTV story and, therefore, that recording was withheld from being telecast.	None
Similarly, in regard to his meeting with RK Anand, Kulkarni said that he met him on being forced by Poonam Agarwal.	None
He further said on affidavit that he had mentioned the sum of rupees two and half crores to RK Anand on the direction of Poonam Agarwal.	None
He himself had neither any idea nor the intention to ask him for any money.	None
He further said that on the mention of the sum of money RK Anand was shocked and he rebuked him by making the sarcastic remark that he should ask for five crores and not only two and half crores.	None
He said that he got the message that no demand for money would be entertained.	None
The similarity between what Kulkarni said in his affidavit and what RK Anand had to say about this matter and the manner in which he would say it is unmistakable.	None
We are unable to believe that the manner in which Kulkarnis affidavit foreshadows the proceedees defence was simply coincidental.	None
It does not require much imagination to see that Kulkarni had once again switched over sides and he had joined hands with those whom he had earlier tried to trap in the stings.	None
In one of the paragraphs of the affidavit there is a ludicrous description of his meeting with Lovely.	None
It is stated that despite persistent request by him for a meeting there was no positive response from RK Anand.	None
Then, suddenly a Sardar Ji came and started talking with me.	None
In his pocket I saw some flash light beeping which alerted me that I was trapped.	None
I was upset and wanted to convey all the facts to Honble Court but Ms. Poonam Agarwal prevailed over me and dissuaded me to do the same.	None
Even this apparently absurd story was not without purpose its object was to provide for the existence of another recording, apart from his own sting, of his meeting with Lovely.	None
The recording, by Lovely, of their meeting was the second diversionary attempt in the proceeding before the High Court.	None
Another audio recording of the meeting between Kulkarni Lovely The High Court registry received an audio cassette along with a letter from one Sunil Garg.	None
In the letter it was stated that the cassette had the recording of some conversation between Lovely and Kulkarni.	None
The cassette proved to be completely blank.	None
Then on notice being issued to him Garg appeared in Court and made a statement on oath.	None
He said that Kulbir Singh alias Lovely was his friend.	None
Shortly before his death he had come to him and handed over to him to two audio cassettes saying that those contained the recordings of his conversation with Kulkarni.	None
He had earlier sent one of the two cassettes without playing it on the recorder.	None
He later came to learn from the newspaper reports the cassette was blank.	None
He then played the other cassette and found it had the recording of some conversation between his friend Lovely and someone else.	None
He recognised the voice of his friend Lovely.	None
He submitted the other cassette in the High Court.	None
We would have completely ignored Kulkarnis affidavit and Gargs audio cassettes as foolish and desperate attempts to create some defence, not worthy of any attention.	None
But there is something more to come that is impossible to ignore.	None
REQUEST FOR RECUSAL Of all the obstructive measures adopted before the High Court the most unfortunate and undesirable came from RK Anand in the form of a petition requesting Manmohan Sarin J., the presiding judge on the bench dealing with the matter, to recuse him from the proceeding.	None
This petition, an ill concealed attempt at intimidation, was, as a matter of fact, RK Anands first response to the notice issued to him by the Court.	None
He stated in this petition that he had the feeling that he was not likely to get justice at the hands of Manmohan Sarin J. He further stated alluding to some past events, that he had tried his best to forget the past and bury the hatchet but the way and the manner in which the matter was being dealt with had caused the greatest damage to his reputation.	None
He made the prayer that the recusal application should be heard in camera and the main matter be transferred to another bench of which Sarin J. was not a member.	None
Along with the petition he filed a sealed cover containing a note and the materials giving rise to the belief that he was not likely to get justice at the hands of Sarin J. The recusal petition was primarily based on the plea that he had reasonable apprehension of bias, for Sarin J. was personally hostile to him.	None
The self perceived hostility between the applicant (RK Anand) and Sarin J. dated back to 1984 when he was still a lawyer.	None
They had a quarrel then that had led to an exchange of verbal abuses.	None
In 1988 Sarin J. (still a lawyer), in his position as the Vice President of the Delhi High Court Bar Association, had moved a resolution before the Associations executive committee opposing any proposal for the applicants nomination for appointment as a judge of the Delhi High Court.	None
Sarin J., as a lawyer, had among his clients, the magazine, India Today (Living Media) and the owners of NDTV were closely associated with India Today.	None
Sarin J., as an advocate had done the cases of the applicants brothers whom he had referred to him.	None
It was stated that the judge, thus, might have been privy to some family gossip causing him to be prejudicially disposed towards the applicant.	None
The applicant had earlier sent a complaint to the Prime Minister against the Law Minister, who was one of his (applicants) political rival.	None
In the complaint, apart from the Law Minister, allegations were also made against the then Chief Justice of the High Court.	None
And in that connection it was alleged that the Chief Justice had around him a coterie of Judges that included Sarin J.	None
On the arrest of a sitting judge of the Delhi High Court by the CBI the media had gone to Sarin J. for his comments and even this, it was stated, might lead him to harbour ill will against the applicant.	None
In a civil case for damages arising from the BMW case the matter was settled between the parties (one of the victims of the accident on the one side and the family of the accused Sanjeev Nanda on the other).	None
But Sarin J. who was a member of the bench before which the matter came up for recording the settlement, did not allow it to be said in the compromise petition that the accident was caused by a truck and not by any car.	None
It showed, according to the applicant, that Sarin J. had some preconceived notion that the accident was caused by the car driven by Sanjeev Nanda.	None
The bench had appointed as amicus curiae a lawyer personally hostile to the applicant.	None
And lastly the applicant had moved the Chief Justice on the administrative side to assign the matter to some other bench.	None
In one glance, the grounds on which recusal was asked for appear fit to be rejected out of hands.	None
But the court gave the matter far greater importance than it merited, apparently because it saw a personal angle in it.	None
The petition was heard for three days before it was rejected by the order dated October 4, 2007.	None
It is a long order running into twenty seven pages authored by Sarin J. The order dealt with all the grounds advanced in support of the recusal petition and effectively showed that there was no truth or substance in any of those grounds.	None
In regard to the 1988 resolution of the Bar Association allegedly passed against RK Anand at the instance of Mr. Sarin the Court called for the Associations Register of Resolutions for the years 1988 and 1989.	None
From the Associations Register it transpired that at the relevant time Mr. Sarin was not an office bearer of the Association but was simply a member of its Executive Committee.	None
Further, there was no resolution concerning RK Anand.	None
A resolution of the nature stated in the recusal application was passed against someone from the Judicial Service.	None
It is true that one Mr. Tufail, the Joint Secretary of the Association had wished to move a resolution against RK Anand too and was given the permission to do so by the Executive Committee.	None
But he did not actually move any resolution and later said that he did not have necessary proof in support of the allegations and the matter was dropped.	None
As regards the complaint to the Prime Minister in which Sarin J. was said to be a member of the alleged coterie around the Chief Justice, Sarin J. commented that until a copy of the complaint was filed with the recusal application he was not even aware of it.	None
Having thus dealt with the rest of the allegations made in the recusal application, the order, towards its end, said something which alone was sufficient to reject the request for recusal.	None
It was pointed out that the applicant had a flourishing practice he had been frequently appearing in the court of Sarin J. ever since he was appointed as a judge and for the past twelve years was getting orders, both favourable and unfavourable, for his different clients.	None
He never complained of any unfair treatment by Sarin J. but recalled his old hostility with the judge only after the notice was issued to him.	None
In the order the concerned judge further observed The path of recusal is very often a convenient and a soft option.	None
This is especially so since a Judge really has no vested interest in doing a particular matter.	None
However, the oath of office taken under Article 219 of the Constitution of India enjoins the Judge to duly and faithfully and to the best of his knowledge and judgment, perform the duties of office without fear or favour affection or ill will while upholding the constitution and the laws.	None
In a case, where unfounded and motivated allegations of bias are sought to be made with a view of forum hunting Bench preference or browbeating the Court, then, succumbing to such a pressure would tantamount to not fulfilling the oath of office.	None
The above passage, in our view, correctly sums up what should be the Courts response in the face of a request for recusal made with the intent to intimidate the court or to get better of an inconvenient judge or to obfuscate the issues or to cause obstruction and delay the proceedings or in any other way frustrate or obstruct the course of justice.	None
We are constrained to pause here for a moment and to express grave concern over the fact that lately such tendencies and practices are on the increase.	None
We have come across instances where one would simply throw a stone on a judge (who is quite defenceless in such matters) and later on cite the gratuitous attack as a ground to ask the judge to recuse himself from hearing a case in which he would be appearing.	None
Such conduct is bound to cause deep hurt to the judge concerned but what is far greater importance is that it defies the very fundamentals of administration of justice.	None
A motivated application for recusal, therefore, needs to be dealt with sternly and should be viewed ordinarily as interference in the due course of justice leading to penal consequences.	None
The other Judge on the bench, however, it seems was unable to bear the onslaught and he took the easy way out.	None
He expressed his inability to concur with the order passed by presiding judge observing that the nature of the controversy before us pertains to my learned brother alone.	None
It revolves around a number of factual assertions, which can only be known to my learned brother personally, and which must necessarily be examined in the light of the law on the subject.	None
Therefore, I consider it inappropriate to express any opinion in the matter, one way or the other.	None
Having passed the brief separate order he declined to take any further part in the proceeding.	None
This development provided RK Anand with another opportunity to carry on his offensive further.	None
He unhesitatingly availed of the opportunity and filed an application (Crl.	None
M. 11677/2007) for clarification review of the order dated October 4, 2007 dismissing his recusal petition.	None
Review was sought primarily on the ground that the order of Sarin J. was not the order by the bench since the other judge had declined to concur with him.	None
After the other judge opted out of the bench, the Chief Justice put Lokur J. in his place.	None
Consequently, the clarification review application came before Sarin J., sitting with Lokur J., and the first thing this bench was told, and with some assertiveness too, was that it was not competent to hear the application and it could only be heard by the previous bench as it arose from an order passed by that bench.	None
The clarification review application was rejected by a long order dated November 29, 2007 authored by Lokur J. As we shall see, henceforth all substantive orders in the proceeding were written, not by the presiding judge, but by Lokur J. and the significance of it is not lost on us.	None
The application for recusal though rejected was not completely unsuccessful.	None
It left a lasting shadow on the proceeding.	None
Here, it may be noted that apart from filing an application for its clarification review before the High Court, the order rejecting the recusal application was also sought to be challenged before this Court by filing SLP (Crl) No. 7374 of 2007.	None
The SLP was, however, withdrawn on December 14, 2007.	None
Nevertheless, the challenge to the High Court order rejecting the recusal application is still not given up and paragraphs H I of the Grounds in the present Memo of appeal expressly seek to assail that order.	None
Both Mr. Salve and Mr. Subramanium strongly submitted that the appellant had plainly no respect for the court or the court proceedings.	None
Mr. Salve submitted that the recusal application was a brazen attempt to browbeat the High Court and in that attempt the appellant succeeded to a large extent since the prohibition to appear before the courts for a period of only four months could only be considered as a token punishment having regard to the gravity of his conduct.	None
Mr. Subramanium also felt strongly about the recusal application but before taking up the issue he fairly tried to give another opportunity to the appellant stating that perhaps even now the appellant might wish to withdraw the grounds in the SLP challenging the order passed by the High Court on the recusal application.	None
The appellant was given ample time to consider the suggestion but later on enquiry Mr. Altaf Ahmed stated that he had not pressed those grounds in course of his submissions exercising his discretion as the Counsel but he had no instructions to get those grounds deleted from the SLP.	None
The action of the appellant in trying to suborn the court witness in a criminal trial was reprehensible enough but his conduct before the High Court aggravates the matter manifold.	Reasoning
He does not show any remorse for his gross misdemeanour and instead tries to take on the High Court by defying its authority.	Reasoning
We are in agreement with Mr. Salve and Mr. Subramanium that punishment given to him by the High Court was wholly inadequate and incommensurate to the seriousness of his actions and conduct.	Reasoning
We, accordingly, propose to issue a notice to him for enhancement of punishment.	Reasoning
We also hold that by his actions and conduct the appellant has established himself as a person who needs to be kept away from the portals of the court for a longer time.	Reasoning
The notice would therefore require him to showcause why the punishment awarded to him should not be enhanced as provided under section 12 of the Contempt of Courts Act.	Reasoning
He would additionally showcause why he should not be debarred from appearing in courts for a longer period.	Reasoning
The second part of the notice would also cure the defect in the High Court order in debarring the appellant from appearing in courts without giving any specific notice in that regard as held in the earlier part of the judgment.	Reasoning
We have so far been considering the two appeals proper.	None
We now proceed to examine some other important issues arising from the case.	Issue
THE ROLE OF NDTV NDTV came under heavy attack from practically all sides for carrying out the stings and airing the programme based on it.	None
On behalf of RK Anand the sting programme was called malicious and motivated, aimed at defaming him personally.	None
Mr. P P Rao appearing for IU Khan questioned the propriety of the stings and the repeated telecast of the sting programme concerning a pending trial and involving a court witness.	None
Mr. Rao submitted that before taking up the sting operations, fraught with highly sinister implications, the TV channel should have informed the trial court and obtained its permission.	None
If for any reason it was not possible to inform the trial judge then permission for the stings should have been taken from the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court.	None
Also, it was the duty of that TV channel to place the sting materials before the court before telecasting any programme on that basis.	None
Mr. Gopal Subramanium submitted that this case raised the important issue regarding the nature and extent of the right of the media to deal with a pending trial.	None
He submitted that a sting operation was, by its nature, based on deception and hence, overriding public interest alone might justify its publication telecast.	None
Further, since the operation was based on deception the onus would be heavy on the person behind the sting and publication telecast of the sting materials to establish his her bona fide, apart from the genuineness and truthfulness of the sting materials.	None
In regard to sting operations bona fide could not be assumed.	None
In this case, therefore, it was the duty of the High Court to inquire into and satisfy itself whether the sting operation was a genuine exercise by the TV channel to expose the attempted subversion of the trial.	None
He further submitted that the affidavit of Poonam Agarwal was not sufficient to arrive at the conclusion that the action of the TV channel was genuine and bona fide and the matter required further enquiry.	None
Mr. Subramanium further submitted that the act of publication telecast and the contents of publication telecast, though interlinked, were still needed to be viewed separately and whether or not a publication or telecast was justified would, to a large extent, depend, as much on the contents of the publication telecast, as the act of publication telecast itself.	None
He further submitted that, in the facts of the case, the sting operation was in public interest and there was nothing objectionable there.	None
But the same cannot be said of the telecast.	None
The date on which the programme was telecast (May 30, 2007 when Kulkarnis crossexamination was still pending), the slant given to the episode by the NDTV presenters, and the way opinions were solicited from eminent lawyers, left much to be explained by the TV channel.	None
Learned Counsel submitted that a question may arise whether NDTV was justified in telecasting the programme based on the sting when they were not in a position to vouch for Kulkarnis character.	None
He, however, submitted that the TV channel must at least be given credit for transparency  it made a public disclosure, in the same telecast, that (a) Kulkarni had withdrawn his consent for the telecast (b) it did not know if any money had in fact changed hands, and (c) it could not vouch for Kulkarnis character.	None
It also gave the contemnors a chance to state their version of the story.	None
In conclusion Mr Subramanium submitted that it would be difficult to conclude that NDTV was guilty of contempt or of conducting a media trial although the slant in the telecast was regrettable overreach.	None
The other amicus Mr. N. Rao was more severe in his criticism of the telecast of the sting programme by NDTV.	None
He maintained that NDTV was equally guilty of contempt of court, though under a different provision of law.	None
Mr. Rao submitted that the programme was an instance of, what is commonly called, trial by media and it was telecast while the criminal trial was going on.	None
He submitted that in our system of law there was no place for trial by media in a subjudice matter.	None
Mr. Rao submitted that freedom of speech and expression, subject of course to reasonable restrictions, was indeed one of the most important rights guaranteed by the Constitution of India.	None
But the press or the electronic media did not enjoy any right(s) superior to an individual citizen.	None
Further, the right of free and fair trial was of far greater importance and in case of any conflict between free speech and fair trial the latter must always get precedence.	None
Mr. Rao submitted that though the law normally did not permit any precensorship of a media report concerning an ongoing criminal trial or subjudice matter, any person publishing the report in contravention of the provisions of law would certainly make himself liable to the proceeding of contempt.	None
Mr. Rao further submitted that the immunity provided under section 3 (3) of the Contempt of Courts Act was not available to the TV channel in terms of proviso (ii) Explanation (B) to subsection (3) and thus the telecast of the sting programme by NDTV clearly fell in the prohibited zone under the Act.	None
He further submitted that in such an event, a plea of larger public good was not a legal defence.	None
In support of his submission he cited several decisions of this court in (i) Saibal Kumar Gupta and Others vs. B.K.Sen and Another., 1961 3 SCR 460 (473) (ii) In Re P.C.Sen, 1969 2	None
SCR 649 (651,653,654,658) (iii) Reliance Petrochemcials Ltd. vs. Proprietors of Indian Express Newspapers, Bombay Pvt. Ltd., (1988) 4 SCC 592 pr.	None
32,34,95,38 (iv) M. P. Lohia vs. State of W. B., (2005) 2 SCC 686 pr. 10.	None
Mr. Salve learned Senior Advocate appearing for NDTV, on the other hand, defended the telecast of the programme.	None
Mr. Salve submitted that commenting on or exposing something foul concerning proceedings pending in courts would not constitute contempt if the court is satisfied that the report comment is substantially accurate, it is bona fide and it is in public interest.	None
He referred to the new section 13 in the Contempt of Courts Act substituted with effect from March 17, 2006 which is as under Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, (a) no court shall impose a sentence under this Act for a contempt of court unless it is satisfied that the contempt is of such a nature that it substantially interferes, or tends substantially to interfere with the due course of justice (b) the court may permit, in any proceeding for contempt of court, justification by truth as a valid defence if it is satisfied that it is in public interest and the request for invoking the said defence is bona fide.	None
(emphasis added) Mr. Salve submitted that in a situation of this kind two competing public interests are likely to arise one, purity of trial and the other public reporting of something concerning the conduct of a trial (that may even have the tendency to impinge on the proceedings) where the trial, for any reason, can be considered as a matter of public concern.	None
With regard to the case in hand Mr. Salve submitted that in the sting programmes there was nothing to influence the outcome of the BMW trial.	None
But even if the telecast had any potential to influence the trial proceedings that risk was far outweighed by the public good served by the programme.	None
He further submitted that in a case where two important considerations arise, vying with each other, the court is the final arbiter to judge whether or not the publication or telecast is in larger public interest how far, if at all, it interferes or tends to interfere with or obstructs or tends to obstruct the course of justice and on which side the balance tilts.	None
In support of his submission he relied upon a decision of the House of Lords in Re Lonrho plc and others, 1989 2 All ER 1100 paragraphs 7.2 and 7.3 at 1116.	None
We have already dealt with the allegations made on behalf of RK Anand while considering his appeal earlier in this judgment and we find no substance in those allegations.	None
Reporting of pending trial We are also unable to agree with the submission made by Mr. P. P. Rao that the TV channel should have carried out the stings only after obtaining the permission of the trial court or the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court and should have submitted the sting materials to the court before its telecast.	Reasoning
Such a course would not be an exercise in journalism but in that case the media would be acting as some sort of special vigilance agency for the court.	Reasoning
On little consideration the idea appears to be quite repugnant both from the points of view of the court and the media.	Reasoning
It would be a sad day for the court to employ the media for setting its own house in order and media too would certainly not relish the role of being the snoopers for the court.	Reasoning
Moreover, to insist that a report concerning a pending trial may be published or a sting operation concerning a trial may be done only subject to the prior consent and permission of the court would tantamount to precensorship of reporting of court proceedings.	Reasoning
And this would be plainly an infraction of the medias right of freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19(1) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
This is, however, not to say that media is free to publish any kind of report concerning a subjudice matter or to do a sting on some matter concerning a pending trial in any manner they please.	Reasoning
The legal parameter within which a report or comment on a subjudice matter can be made is well defined and any action in breach of the legal bounds would invite consequences.	Reasoning
Compared to normal reporting, a sting operation is an incalculably more risky and dangerous thing to do.	Reasoning
A sting is based on deception and, therefore, it would attract the legal restrictions with far greater stringency and any infraction would invite more severe punishment.	Reasoning
Sting programme whether trial by media??	None
The submissions of Mr. N. Rao are based on two premises one, the sting programme telecast by NDTV was of the genre, trial by media and two, the programme interfered or tended to interfere with or obstructed or tended to obstruct the proceedings of the BMW trial that was going on at the time of the telecast.	None
If the two premises are correct then the rest of the submissions would logically follow.	None
But are the two premises correct?	None
What is trial by media?	None
The expression trial by media is defined to mean the impact of television and newspaper coverage on a persons reputation by creating a widespread perception of guilt regardless of any verdict in a court of law.	None
During high publicity court cases, the media are often accused of provoking an atmosphere of public hysteria akin to a lynch mob which not only makes a fair trial nearly impossible but means that, regardless of the result of the trial, in public perception the accused is already held guilty and would not be able to live the rest of their life without intense public scrutiny.	None
In light of the above it can hardly be said that the sting programme telecast by NDTV was a media trial.	Reasoning
Leaving aside some stray remarks or comments by the anchors or the interviewees, the programme showed some people trying to subvert the BMW trial and the state of the criminal administration of justice in the country (as perceived by the TV channel and the interviewees).	Reasoning
There was nothing in the programme to suggest that the accused in the BMW case were guilty or innocent.	Reasoning
The programme was not about the accused but it was mainly about two lawyers representing the two sides and one of the witnesses in the case.	Reasoning
It indeed made serious allegations against the two lawyers.	Reasoning
The allegations, insofar as RK Anand is concerned, stand established after strict scrutiny by the High Court and this Court.	Reasoning
Insofar as IU Khan is concerned, though this Court held that his conduct did not constitute criminal contempt of court, nonetheless allegations against him too are established to the extent that his conduct has been found to be inappropriate for a Special Prosecutor.	Reasoning
In regard to the witness the comments and remarks made in the telecast were never subject to a judicial scrutiny but those too are broadly in conformity with the materials on the courts record.	Reasoning
We are thus clearly of the view that the sting programme telecast by NDTV cannot be described as a piece of trial by media.	Reasoning
Stings telecast of sting programmes not constituting criminal contempt Coming now to section 3 of the Contempt of Courts Act we are unable to appreciate Mr. Raos submission that NDTV did not have the immunity under subsection (3) of section 3 as the telecast was hit by proviso (ii) Explanation (B) to that sub section.	None
Section 3 of the Act insofar as relevant is as under Innocent publication and distribution of matter not contempt.	None
(1) A person shall not be guilty of contempt of court on the ground that he has published (whether by words, spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representations, or otherwise) any matter which interferes or tends to interfere with, or obstructs or tends to obstruct, the course of justice in connection with any civil or criminal proceeding pending at that time of publication, if at that time he had no reasonable grounds for believing that the proceeding was pending.	None
(2) xxx	None
A person shall not be guilty of contempt of court on the ground that he has distributed a publication containing any such matter as is mentioned in subsection (1), if at the time of distribution he had no reasonable grounds for believing that it contained or was likely to contain any such matter as aforesaid Provided that this subsection shall not apply in respect of the distribution of any publication which is a book or paper printed or published otherwise than in conformity with the rules contained in section 3 of the Press and Registration of Books Act, 1867 (25 of 1867) any publication which is a newspaper published otherwise than in conformity with the rules contained in section 5 of the said Act.	None
Explanantion.	None
For the purposes of this section, a judicial proceeding (a) is said to be pending (A) xxx (B) in the case of a criminal proceeding under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 ( 5 of 1898), or any other law where it relates to the commission of an offence, when the chargesheet or challan is filed, or when the court issues summons or warrant, as the case may be, against the accused, and in any other case, when the court takes cognizance of the matter to which the proceeding relates, and xxx (b) xxxx Section 5 provides that a fair criticism of a judicial act concerning any case which has been heard and finally decided would not constitute contempt.	None
Subsection (1) of section 3 provides immunity to a publisher of any matter which interferes or tends to interfere with, or obstructs or tends to obstruct the course of justice in any civil or criminal proceeding if he reasonably believed that there was no proceeding pending.	None
A subsection (3) deal with distribution of the publication as mentioned in subsection (1) and provides immunity to the distributor if he reasonably believed that the publication did not contain any matter which interfered or tended to interfere with, or obstructed or tended to obstruct the course of justice in any civil or criminal proceeding.	None
The immunity provided under subsection (3) is subject to the exceptions as stated in the proviso and explanations to the subsection.	None
We fail to see any application of section 3(3) of the Contempt of Courts Act in the facts of this case.	None
In this case there is no distribution of any publication made under subsection (1).	None
Hence, neither subsection (3) nor its proviso or explanation is attracted.	None
NDTV did the sting, prepared a programme on the basis of the sting materials and telecast it at a time when it fully knew that the BMW trial was going on.	None
Hence, if the programme is held to be a matter which interfered or tended to interfere with, or obstructed or tended to obstruct the due course of the BMW case then the immunity under subsection (1) will not be available to it and the telecast would clearly constitute criminal contempt within the meaning of section 2 (c) (ii) (iii) of the Act.	None
But can the programme be accused of interfering or tending to interfere with, or obstructing or tending to obstruct the due course of the BMW case.	None
Whichever way we look at the programme we are not able to come to that conclusion.	None
The programme may have any other faults or weaknesses but it certainly did not interfere with or obstruct the due course of the BMW trial.	None
The programme telecast by NDTV showed to the people (the courts not excluded) that a conspiracy was afoot to undermine the BMW trial.	None
What was shown was proved to be substantially true and accurate.	None
The programme was thus clearly intended to prevent the attempt to interfere with or obstruct the due course of the BMW trial.	None
STINGS TELECAST OF STING PROGRAMMES SERVED IMPORTANT	None
PUBLIC CAUSE Looking at the matter from a slightly different angle we ask the simple question, what would have been in greater public interest to allow the attempt to suborn a witness, with the object to undermine a criminal trial, lie quietly behind the veil of secrecy or to bring out the mischief in full public gaze?	None
To our mind the answer is obvious.	None
The sting telecast by NDTV was indeed in larger public interest and it served an important public cause.	None
We have held that the sting programme telecast by NDTV in no way interfered with or obstructed the due course of any judicial proceeding, rather it was intended to prevent the attempt to interfere with or obstruct the due course of law in the BMW trial.	None
We have also held that the sting programme telecast by NDTV served an important public cause.	None
In view of the twin findings we need not go into the larger question canvassed by Mr Salve that even if the programme marginally tended to influence the proceedings in the BMW trial the larger public interest served by it was so important that the little risk should not be allowed to stand in its way.	None
Excesses in the telecast We have unequivocally upheld the basic legitimacy of the stings and the sting programmes telecast by NDTV.	None
But at the same time we must also point out the deficiencies (or rather the excesses) in the telecast.	None
Mr. Subramanium spoke about the slant in the telecast as regrettable overreach.	None
But we find many instances in the programme that cannot be simply described as slants.	None
There are a number of statements and remarks which are actually incorrect and misleading.	None
In the first sting programme telecast on May 30, 2007 at 8.00 pm the anchor made the opening remarks as under Good Evening, an NDTV expose, on how the legal system may have been subverted in the high profile BMW case.	None
In 1999 six people were run over allegedly by a BMW driven by Sanjeev Nanda a young, rich industrialist but 8 years later every witness except one has turned hostile.	None
Tonight NDTV investigates did the prosecution, the defence and the only witness not turned hostile Sunil Kulkarni collude The anchors remarks were apparently from a prepared text since the same remarks were repeated word by word by another anchor as introduction to the second telecast on the same day at 900 pm.	None
Further, in the 9 oclock telecast after some brief introductory remarks, clips from the sting recordings are shown for several minutes and a commentator from the background (probably Poonam Agarwal) introduces the main characters in the BMW case.	None
Kulkarni is introduced by the commentator in the following words Sunil Kulkarni, a passerby, who allegedly saw the accident but inexplicably dropped as witness by prosecution.	None
They claim he had been bought by the Nandas.	None
This despite the fact that he is the only witness who still says the accident was caused by a black car with two men in it one of them called Sanjeev.	None
This statement does not find place in the manuscript of the telecast furnished to the court and can be found only by carefully watching the CD of the telecast submitted before the court.	None
We are again left with the feeling that NDTV did not submit full and complete materials before the court and we are surprised that the High Court did not find it amiss In the first statement Kulkarni is twice described as the only witness in the BMW case who after eight years had not turned hostile.	None
The statement is fallacious and misleading.	None
Kulkarni was not being examined in the court as prosecution witness and, therefore, there was no question of his being declared hostile by the prosecution.	None
He was being examined as a Court witnesses.	None
Nevertheless, the prosecution was crossexamining him in detail in course of which he was trying to sabotage the prosecution case.	None
The second statement is equally, if not more, fallacious.	None
In the second statement it is said that Kulkarni was inexplicably dropped as a prosecution witness.	Facts
We have seen earlier that Kulkarni was dropped as a prosecution witness for good reasons summed up in the Joint Commissioners report to the trial court and there was nothing inexplicable about it.	Facts
In the second statement it is further suggested that the prosecutions claim that Kulkarni was bought over by the accused was untrue because he was the only witness who still said that the accident was caused by a black car with two men in it, one of them being called Sanjeev.	None
It is true that in his deposition before the court Kulkarni said that the accident was caused by a black car but he resiled from his earlier statements made before the police and the magistrate in a more subtle and clever way than the other two prosecution witnesses, namely, Hari Shankar Yadav and Manoj Malik.	None
Departing from his earlier statements he said in the court that he heard one of the two occupants of the car addressing the other as Sanch or sanz (and not as Sanjeev).	Facts
Further, though admitting that Sanjeev Nanda was one of the occupants of the car, he positively denied that he got down from the driving seat of the car and placed someone else on the driving seat of the car causing the accident.	Facts
Thus the damage to the prosecution case that he tried to cause was far more serious than any other prosecution witness.	None
It is not that NDTV did not know these facts.	None
NDTV was covering the BMW trial very closely since its beginning and was aware of all the developments taking place in the case.	None
Then why did it introduce the programme in this way, running down the prosecution and presenting Kulkarni as the only person standing upright while everyone else had fallen down?	None
The answer is not far to seek.	None
One can not start a highly sensational programme by saying that it was prepared with the active help of someone whose own credibility is extremely suspect.	None
The opening remarks were thus designed to catch the viewer and to hold his her attention, but truth, for the moment at least was relegated to the sidelines.	None
It is indeed true that later on in the programme facts concerning Kulkarni were stated correctly and he was presented in a more balanced way and Mr. Subramanium wanted to give NDTV credit points for that.	None
But the impact and value of the opening remarks in a TV programme is quite different from what comes later on.	None
The later corrections were for the sake of the record while the introductory remarks had their own value.	None
Further, on the basis of the sting recordings NDTV might have justifiably said that IU Khan, the Special Prosecutor appeared to be colluding with the defence (though this court found that there was no conclusive evidence to come to such a finding).	None
But there was no material before NDTV to make such allegation against the prosecution as a whole and thus to run down the other agencies and people connected with the prosecution.	None
There are other instances also of wrong and inappropriate choice of words and expressions but we need not go any further in the matter.	None
Another sad feature is its stridency.	None
It is understandable that the programme should have started on a highly sensational note because what was about to be shown was really quite shocking.	None
But the programme never regained poise	None
and it became more and more shrill.	None
All the interviewees, highly eminent people, expressed their shock and dismay over the state of the legal system in the country and the way the BMW trial was proceeding.	None
But as the interview progressed, they somewhat tended to lose their self restraint and did not pause to ponder that they were speaking about a subjudice matter and a trial in which the testimony of a court witness was not even over.	None
We are left with the feeling that some of the speakers allowed their passions, roused by witnessing the shocking scenes on the TV screen, to get better of their judgment and made certain very general and broad remarks about the countrys legal system that they might not have made if speaking in a more dispassionate and objective circumstances.	None
Unfortunately, not a single constructive suggestion came from anyone as to how to revamp the administration of criminal justice.	None
The programme began on negative note and remained so till the very end.	None
Conduct of NDTV in proceeding before High Court In the earlier part of the judgment some of the glaring lapses committed by NDTV in the proceeding before the High Court are already recounted.	None
Apart from those one or two other issues need to be mentioned here that failed to catch the attention of the High Court.	None
It seems that at the time the sting operations were carried out people were actually apprehensive of something of that kind.	None
Vikas Arora, Advocate had stated in his complaint (dated April 19, 2007) about receiving such a threat from Poonam Agarwal.	None
NDTV in its reply dated April 26, 2007 had denied the allegations in the complaint, at the same time, declaring its resolve to make continuous efforts to unravel the truth.	None
At the same time Poonam Agarwal was planning the stings in her meetings with Kulkarni.	None
As a matter of fact, the first sting was carried out on IU Khan just two days after giving reply to Aroras complaint.	None
Further, from the transcript of the first sting carried out on RK Anand on May 6, 2007 it appears that he too had expressed some apprehension of this kind to which Kulkarni responded by saying that he did not have money enough to eat how could he do any recording of anyone.	None
(It is difficult to miss the irony that the exchange took place while RK Anand was actually being subjected to the sting).	None
It thus appears that at that time, for some reason, the smell of sting was in the air.	None
In those circumstances we find it strange that in the affidavits filed on behalf of NDTV there should be absolutely no reference to Vikas Aroras complaint.	None
In the earlier part of the judgment we have examined the affidavits filed by Poonam Agarwal and found that she states about all the aspects of the sting operations in great detail.	None
But surprisingly those affidavits do not even refer to, much less deal with the complaint of Vikas Arora despite the striking similarity between the threat that was allegedly given to him and his senior IU Khan and the way the sting operation was actually carried out on IU Khan.	None
There is another loose end in the whole matter.	None
Kulkarnis sting meeting with IU Khan had ended with fixing up another meeting for the following Sunday at the latters residence.	None
(It was the setting up of this meeting that is primarily the basis for holding him guilty of misconduct as the Special Public Prosecutor).	None
One should have thought that this meeting would surely take place because it provided a far better opportunity for the sting.	None
With good Scotch whisky flowing it was likely that the planners of the stings would get more substantial evidences of what they suspected.	None
But we are not told anything about this meeting whether it took place or not?	None
If it took place what transpired in it and whether any sting recording was done?	None
If it did not take place what was the reason for not keeping the appointment and giving up such a good opportunity.	None
Here it may be noted that Kulkarni also in his affidavit filed before the High Court on August 6, 2007 stated that as arranged between them he again met IU Khan in the evening but the sting recording of that meeting was withheld by NDTV because that falsified their story.	None
Kulkarni, as was his wont, might be telling lies but that was an additional reason for NDTV to clarify the issue regarding the second meeting between the two.	None
The next meeting between Kulkarni and IU Khan that was fixed up in the sting meeting on April 28, 2007 might or might not have taken place but there can be little doubt that they met again between April 28, 2007 and May 31, 2007 (the day following the first sting telecast) when Kulkarni gave IU Khan the certificate that he had accepted the summons on his advice (which was submitted by IU Khan before the trial court when he withdrew from the case).	None
The affidavits filed on behalf of NDTV are completely silent on these aspects.	None
These omissions (and some similar others) on the part of NDTV leave one with the feeling that it was not sharing all the facts within its knowledge with the court.	None
The disclosures before the Court do not appear to be completely open, full and frank.	None
It would tell the court only so much as was necessary to secure the conviction of the proceedeeswrong doers.	None
There were some things that it would rather hold back from the court.	None
We would have appreciated the TV channel to make a fuller disclosure before the High Court of all the facts within its knowledge.	None
Having said all this we would say, in the end, that for all its faults the stings and the telecast of the sting programme by NDTV rendered valuable service to the important public cause to protect and salvage the purity of the course of justice.	None
We appreciate the professional initiative and courage shown by the young reporter Poonam Agarwal and we are impressed by the painstaking investigation undertaken by NDTV to uncover the Shimla connection between Kulkarni and RK Anand.	None
We have recounted above the acts of omission and commission by NDTV before the High Court and in the telecast of the sting programme in the hope that the observations will help NDTV and other TV channels in their future operations and programmes.	None
We are conscious that the privately run TV channels in this country are very young, no more than eighteen or twenty years old.	None
We also find that like almost every other sphere of human activity in the country the electronic news media has a very broad spectrum ranging from very good to unspeakably bad.	None
The better news channels in the country (NDTV being one of them) are second to none in the world in matters of coverage of news, impartiality and objectivity in reporting, reach to the audience and capacity to influence public opinion and are actually better than many foreign TV channels.	None
But that is not to say that they are totally free from biases and prejudices or they do not commit mistakes or gaffes or they some times do not tend to trivialise highly serious issues or that there is nothing wanting in their social content and orientation or that they maintain the same standards in all their programmes.	None
In quest of excellence they have still a long way to go.	None
A private TV channel which is also a vast business venture has the inherent dilemma to reconcile its business interests with the higher standards of professionalism demands of profession.	None
The two may not always converge and then the TV channel would find its professional options getting limited as a result of conflict of priorities.	None
The media trips mostly on TRPs (television rating points), when commercial considerations assume dominance over higher standards of professionalism.	None
It is not our intent here to lay down any reformist agenda for the media.	None
Any attempt to control and regulate the media from outside is likely to cause more harm than good.	None
The norms to regulate the media and to raise its professional standards must come from inside.	None
ROLE OF THE LAWYER	None
The other important issue thrown up by this case and that causes us both grave concern and dismay is the decline of ethical and professional standards among lawyers.	None
The conduct of the two appellants (one convicted of committing criminal contempt of court and the other found guilty of misconduct as Special Prosecutor), both of them lawyers of long standing, and designated Senior Advocates, should not be seen in isolation.	None
The bitter truth is that the facts of the case are manifestation of the general erosion of the professional values among lawyers at all levels.	None
We find today lawyers indulging in practices that would have appalled their predecessors in the profession barely two or three decades ago.	None
Leaving aside the many kinds of unethical practices indulged in by a section of lawyers we find that even some highly successful lawyers seem to live by their own rules of conduct.	None
We have viewed with disbelief Senior Advocates freely taking part in TV debates or giving interviews to a TV reporter anchor of the show on issues that are directly the subject matter of cases pending before the court and in which they are appearing for one of the sides or taking up the brief of one of the sides soon after the TV show.	None
Such conduct reminds us of the fictional barrister Rumpole, the Old Hack of Bailey, who self deprecatingly described himself as an old taxi plying for hire.	None
He at least was not bereft of professional values.	None
When a young and enthusiastic journalist invited him to a drink of Dom Perignon, vastly superior and far more expensive than his usual plonk, Chbteau Fleet Street, he joined him with alacrity but when in the course of the drink the journalist offered him a large sum of money for giving him a story on the case why he was defending the most hated woman in England, Rumpole ended the meeting simply saying In the circumstance I think it is best if I pay for the Dom Perignon We express our concern on the falling professional norms among the lawyers with considerable pain because we strongly feel that unless the trend is immediately arrested and reversed, it will have very deleterious consequences for administration of justice in the country.	None
No judicial system in a democratic society can work satisfactorily unless it is supported by a bar that enjoys the unqualified trust and confidence of the people, that share the aspirations, hopes and the ideals of the people and whose members are monetarily accessible and affordable to the people.201.	Reasoning
We are glad to note that Mr. Gopal Subramanium, the amicus fully shared our concern and realised the gravity of the issue.	Reasoning
In course of his submissions he eloquently addressed us on the elevated position enjoyed by a lawyer in our system of justice and the responsibilities cast upon him in consequence.	Reasoning
His Written Submissions begin with this issue and he quotes extensively form the address of Shri M C Setalvad at the Diamond Jubilee Celebrations of the Banglore Bar Association, 1961, and from the decisions of this Court in Pritam Pal vs. High court of Madhya Pradesh, 1993 Supp (1) SCC 529 (observations of Ratnavel Pandian J.) and Sanjeev Datta, In Re, (1995) 3 SCC 619 (observations of Sawant J. at pp 634635, para 20).202.	Reasoning
We respectfully endorse the views and sentiments expressed by Mr. M.C. Setalvad, Pandian J. and Sawant J. Here we must also observe that the Bar Council of India and the Bar Councils of the different states cannot escape their responsibility in this regard.	None
Indeed the Bar council(s) have very positively taken up a number of important issues concerning the administration of justice in the country.	None
It has consistently fought to safeguard the interests of lawyers and it has done a lot of good work for their welfare.	None
But on the issue of maintaining high professional standards and enforcing discipline among lawyers its performance hardly matches its achievements in other areas.	None
It has not shown much concern even to see that lawyers should observe the statutory norms prescribed by the Council itself.	None
We hope and trust that the Council will at least now sit up and pay proper attention to the restoration of the high professional standards among lawyers worthy of their position in the judicial system and in the society.	None
This takes us to the last leg of this matter.	None
THE LARGER ISSUE BMW TRIAL GETTING OUT OF HAND Before laying down the records of the case we must also advert to another issue of great importance that causes grave concern to this Court.	None
At the root of this odious affair is the way the BMW trial was allowed to be constantly interfered with till it almost became directionless.	Reasoning
We have noted Kulkarnis conduct in course of investigation and at the commencement of the trial the fight that broke out in the court premises between some policemen and a section of lawyers over his control and custody the manner in which Hari Shankar Yadav, a key prosecution witness turned hostile in court the curious way in which Manoj Malik, another key witness for the prosecution appeared before the court and overriding the prosecutions protest, was allowed to depose only to resile from his earlier statement.	Reasoning
All this and several other similar developments calculated to derail the trial would not have escaped the notice of the Chief Justice or the judges of the Court.	Reasoning
But there is nothing to show that the High Court, as an institution, as a body took any step to thwart the nefarious activities aimed at undermining the trial and to ensure that it proceeded on the proper course.	Reasoning
As a result, everyone seemed to feel free to try to subvert the trial in any way they pleased.205.	Reasoning
We must add here that this indifferent and passive attitude is not confined to the BMW trial or to the Delhi High Court alone.	Reasoning
It is shared in greater or lesser degrees by many other High Courts.	Reasoning
From experience in Bihar, the author of these lines can say that every now and then one would come across reports of investigation deliberately botched up or of the trial being hijacked by some powerful and influential accused, either by buying over or intimidating witnesses or by creating insurmountable impediments for the trial court and not allowing the trial to proceed.	Reasoning
But unfortunately the reports would seldom, if ever, be taken note of by the collective consciousness of the Court.	Reasoning
The High Court would continue to carry on its business as if everything under it was proceeding normally and smoothly.	Reasoning
The trial would fail because it was not protected from external interferences.	Reasoning
Every trial that fails due to external interference is a tragedy for the victim(s) of the crime.	Reasoning
More importantly, every frustrated trial defies and mocks the society based on the rule of law.	Reasoning
Every subverted trial leaves a scar on the criminal justice system.	Reasoning
Repeated scars make the system unrecognisable and it then loses the trust and confidence of the people.	Reasoning
Every failed trial is also, in a manner of speaking, a negative comment on the States High Court that is entrusted with the responsibility of superintendence, supervision and control of the lower courts.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, high time for the High Courts to assume a more proactive role in such matters.	Reasoning
A step in time by the High Court can save a criminal case from going astray.	Reasoning
An enquiry from the High Court Registry to the concerned quarters would send the message that the High Court is watching it means business	Reasoning
and it will not tolerate any nonsense.	Reasoning
Even this much would help a great deal in insulating a criminal case from outside interferences.	Reasoning
In very few cases where more positive intervention is called for, if the matter is at the stage of investigation the High Court may call for status report and progress reports from police headquarter or the concerned Superintendent of Police.	Reasoning
That alone would provide sufficient stimulation and pressure for a fair investigation of the case.	Reasoning
In rare cases if the High Court is not satisfied by the status progress reports it may even consider taking up the matter on the judicial side.	Reasoning
Once the case reaches the stage of trial the High Court obviously has far wider powers.	Reasoning
It can assign the trial to some judicial officer who has made a reputation for independence and integrity.	Reasoning
It may fix the venue of the trial at a proper place where the scope for any external interference may be eliminated or minimized.	Reasoning
It can give effective directions for protection of witnesses and victims and their families.	Reasoning
It can ensure a speedy conclusion of the trial by directing the trial court to take up the matter on a daytoday basis.	Reasoning
The High Court has got ample powers for all this both on the judicial and administrative sides.	Reasoning
Article 227 of the Constitution of India that gives the High Court the authority of superintendence over the subordinate courts has great dynamism and now is the time to add to it another dimension for monitoring and protection of criminal trials.	Reasoning
Similarly Article 235 of the Constitution that vests the High Court with the power of control over subordinate courts should also include a positive element.	Reasoning
It should not be confined only to posting, transfer and promotion of the officers of the subordinate judiciary.	Reasoning
The power of control should also be exercised to protect them from external interference that may sometime appear overpowering to them and to support them to discharge their duties fearlessly.	Reasoning
In light of the discussions made above we pass the following orders and directions.1.	Decision
The appeal filed by IU Khan is allowed and his conviction for criminal contempt is set aside.	Decision
The period of four months prohibition from appearing in Delhi High Court and the courts subordinate to it is already over.	Decision
The punishment of fine given to him by the High Court is set aside.	Decision
The Full Court of the Delhi High Court may still consider whether or not to continue the honour of Senior Advocate conferred on him in light of the findings recorded in this judgment.2.	Decision
The appeal of RK Anand is dismissed subject to the notice of enhancement of punishment issued to him as indicated in paragraph 165 of the judgment.	Decision
He is allowed eight weeks time from the date of service of notice for filing his showcause.3.	Decision
Those of the High Courts which have so far not framed any rules under section 34 of the Advocates Act, shall frame appropriate rules without any further delay as directed in paragraph 147 of the judgment.4.	Decision
Put up the appeal of RK Anand after the showcause is filed.	Decision
