 Uday Umesh Lalit, J. Leave granted.	None
This appeal arises out of final judgment and order dated 16.02.2018 passed by the National Consumers Disputes Redressal Commission (the National Commission, for short) in First Appeal No.182 of 2014.	Issue
On 27.03.2007 the appellant purchased one V olvo Hydraulic Excavator for a sum of Rs.49,75,000/ with V AT amounting to Rs.1,99,000/, the total purchase value thus being Rs.51,74,000/. Immediately after the purchase said Hydraulic Excavator was insured with the respondent vide Contractor, Plants Machinery Insurance Policy bearing number 150719225001168.	Facts
The insurance policy thereafter stood renewed.	Facts
For the period 22.07.2009 to 21.07.2010, the sum insured was Rs.46,56,600/ on payment of premium of Rs.33,700/.	Facts
The column regarding coverage mentioned the year of make of said Excavator as 2007.	Facts
Under the caption PROVISIONS, the policy contained following stipulations SUM INSURED It is a requirement of this insurance that the sum insured shall be equal to the cost of replacement of the insured property by new property of the same kind and same capacity, which shall mean its replacement cost including freight, dues and customs duties if any and erection costs.	Facts
BASIS OF INDEMNITY  In cases where damage to an insured item can be repaired the Company will pay expenses necessarily incurred to restore the damaged machine to its condition immediately prior to the accident loss plus the cost of dismantling and reerection incurred for the purpose of effecting the repairs as well as ordinary freight to and from a repairshop, customs duties and dues if any, to the extent such expenses have been included in the sum insured.	Facts
If the repairs are executed at a workshop owned by the insured, the Company will pay the cost of materials and wages incurred for the purpose of the repairs plus a reasonable percentage to cover overhead charges.	Facts
No deduction shall be made for depreciation in respect of parts replaced, except those with limited life, but the value of any salvage will be taken into account.	None
If the cost of repairs as detailed hereinabove equals or exceeds the actual value of the machinery insured immediately before the occurrence of the damage, the settlement shall be made on the basis provided for in (b) below.	Facts
In cases where an insured item is totally destroyed the Company will pay the actual value of the item immediately before the occurrence of the loss, including costs for ordinary freight, erection and customs duties if any, provided such expenses have been included in the sum insured, such actual value to be calculated by deducting proper depreciation form the replacement value of the item.	Facts
The Company will also pay any normal charges for dismantling of the machinery destroyed but the salvage shall be taken into account.	None
Any extra charges incurred for overtime, nightwork, work on public holiday, express freight, are covered by this insurance only if especially agreed to in writing.	None
In the event of the Makers drawing, patterns and core boxes necessary for the execution of a repair, not being available, the Company shall not be liable for the cost of making any such drawings, patterns and core boxes.	None
The cost of any alteration, improvements or overhauls shall not be recoverable under this Policy.	None
The cost of any provisional repairs will be borne by the Company if such repairs constitute part of the final repairs, and do not increase the total repair expenses.	None
If the sum insured is less than the amount required to be insured as per ProvisionI herein above, the Company will pay only in such proportion as the sum insured bears to the amount required to be insured.	Reasoning
Every item, if more than one, shall be subject to this condition separately.	None
The Company will make payments only after being satisfied, with the necessary bills and documents, that the repairs have been effected or replacement have taken place, as the case may be.	None
The Company may, however, not insist for bills and documents in case of total loss where the insured is unable to replace the damaged equipment for reasons beyond their control.	Facts
In such a case claims can be settled on Indemnity Basis.	Facts
Said Hydraulic Excavator was hired and was to be used at a different location.	Facts
The appellant duly intimated the change of location.	Facts
On 30.06.2010 the Hydraulic Excavator was badly damaged in a fire while it was at such changed location.	Facts
An FIR was lodged on 01.07.2010 with the local police and the respondent was also immediately intimated about the damage and was requested to survey the damage and settle the claim.	Facts
On 07.07.2010 a surveyor came to be appointed by the respondent to survey and assess the loss and damage.	Facts
Though the survey was undertaken, the claim of the appellant was not getting settled and as such reminders were sent by the appellant on 18.08.2010 and 10.02.2011.	Facts
Thereafter, on 13.04.2011 the appellant was intimated that the loss was assessed by the surveyor at Rs.25,24,273/. The relevant portion from the report of the surveyor Cunningham Lindsey was to the following effect  GROSS LOSS Both types of claim settlement possibilities viz.	Facts
in Partial Loss and Constructive Total Loss basis were explored.	Facts
Finally, it was established that PL i.e. repairing of the whole excavator will involve much higher than its insured value.	Facts
Hence, we have considered it as case of Constructive Total Loss.	Facts
Considering the above, the Gross Loss comes around Rs.5,100,000.00, which is the present new replacement cost of same type and capacity of excavator.	Facts
Refer attached quotation for new machine.	None
MARKET V ALUE OF LOSS Since procurement, i.e. 27 th March 2007 and the date of loss i.e. 30 th June 2010 the subject excavator was in operation for 3 years and 3 months.	Facts
As such, considering the life of such excavator as 10 years, the depreciation for 3 years and 3 months works out to 32.5 .	Facts
Hence, the depreciated value or Market Value of the excavator is Rs.3,442,500.00 SALV AGE REALISATION	Facts
The matter of salvage was first discussed with the insured, who refused to retain the same.	Facts
Immediately, we informed all the details of the affected machine to the insurer for appropriate action on the salvage disposal through their concerned department.	Facts
As a result of the same, the insurer vide their mail dated 21 st February 2011, confirmed that they had recovered Rs.650,000 from the subject excavator, which we opine to be extremely fair and reasonable considering the extent of damage to the excavator and remoteness of the location of loss.	Facts
ASSESSED LOSS Rs.2,792,500.00 (as net of salvage) UNDER INSURANCE	None
The present new replacement cost of an excavator of same type and capacity is Rs.5,100,000.00, whereas the sum insured taken for the same is of Rs.4,656,000.00.	Facts
On comparing those two, it is worked out that the property is under insured by 8.71.	None
ADJUSTED LOSS Rs.2,549,273.25 (as net of under insurance) DEDUCTIBLE For Individual Value over Rs.25 lakhs upto Rs.50 lakhs Rs.25,000.00 (Flat Excess) for claims arising out of perils other than AOG perils.	None
NET ADJUSTED LOSS Rs.2,524,273.00 (as net of policy excess) RECOMMENDATION We recommend payment of the net adjusted amount of Rs.2,524,273 under Policy No.1507192215001168 in full discharge of the claim subject to Agreed Bank Clause.	None
The appellant being aggrieved, filed case No.CC/18/11 before the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, West Bengal (the State Commission, for short).	Facts
The appellant submitted that the Excavator was a total loss and that he was entitled to the insured amount of Rs.46,56,600/ along with interest 12 p.a. and compensation as claimed in the complaint.	Facts
During the pendency of the matter, the appellant placed on record the report of a surveyor appointed by him.	Facts
Said surveyor had assessed the loss on two counts, namely loss assessed on repairing basis at Rs.94,64,357.70 and on total loss basis at Rs.41,90,940.00.	Facts
The relevant portion from the report of said surveyor named Subbiah Jeyakarthigesan was as under  LOSS ASSESSED ON REPAIRING BASIS Rs.9,464,357.70 (Rupees Ninety four lacs sixty four thousand three hundred fifty seven seventy only).	Facts
chart UNDER INSURANCE	None
In my opinion the under insurance in this case will not be applicable as the total machine has been totally burnt.	Facts
The machine has been insured for Rs.46,56,600.00 which is after application of depreciation from the period of purchase to the last renewal of the insurance policy, as such I have not applied any under insurance in this case.	Facts
The State Commission allowed the complaint.	Facts
The relevant portions of its order dated 04.12.2013 are as under  Thirdly, the loss assessed by the Surveyor appointed by the insurance company has taken into consideration the depreciation value 32 of the original purchase value of Rs.51,74,000/ only, but the premium as on 7 th July 2009 was made after fixing depreciation value.	None
It is quite reasonable that the depreciation value, as pointed out by the surveyor appointed by the insured in reply to question No.8 of the OP, that the depreciation has been applied by the OP at the time of renewal of policy and depreciation can be applied only once, only from the period from the date of renewal of insurance to the date of accident.	None
Again, in reply to question No.9 of the OP, it has been held that under insurance 8.71 is incorrect as the insurance company has put in their own value at the time of renewing the policy without obtaining the proposal form from the owner of the excavator machine.	None
We also agree with the view taken by the surveyor appointed by the insured as stated in his reply to question No.10 of the OP that salvage wreck is the property of the insurance company and it cannot be forced upon the owner of the damaged machine.	None
Ordered That the complaint be and the same is allowed on contest against O.P.Nos. 1 2 who are hereby directed to pay a sum of Rs.41,90,940/ (Forty one lakh ninety thousand nine hundred and forty only) with interest Rs.8 p.a.	Facts
from the date of filing of the claim.	Facts
The said OPs. are also directed to pay a sum of Rs.1,00,000/ (One lakh only) as compensation for harassment, mental agony and financial loss, apart from another sum of Rs.5,000/ (Five thousand only) as costs.	Facts
The entire amount shall be paid by OP Nos.1 2 within 45 days from the date of this order in default whereof, interest 9 p.a. shall be payable till full realisation.	Facts
The respondent, being aggrieved filed First Appeal No.182 of 2014 which was partly allowed by the National Commission vide its judgment and order dated 16.02.2018.	Facts
The National Commission held as under The Insurance Company is responsible to indemnify the loss on the basis of the replacement of the damaged machine in the same condition at which it was at the day of the accident.	Facts
In the present case, though IDV of Rs.46,56,000/ was mentioned in the policy and was agreed between the parties, however, if the new machine is available for Rs.51,00,000/ then on that basis the same machine of 3.25 years age could be available on the approximate price being arrived at by deducting the depreciation for 3.25 years from the current price of the new machine.	Facts
Obviously, the insurance Company shall go for this price for replacement as this is less than the IDV .	Facts
On this basis, the surveyor has calculated depreciated price of the new machine fit for replacement as Rs.34,42,500/ after applying depreciation of 10 p.a.	Facts
since the purchase of the machine on the current price of new machine till the date of accident.	None
The National Commission further observed that the salvage value to the tune of Rs.6,50,000/, which was realized by the respondent could not have been deducted from the aforesaid sum of Rs.34,42,500/. The National Commission, thus directed the respondent to pay a sum of Rs.34,17,500/ for settlement of the insurance claim of the appellant.	Facts
It was found that since the respondent was willing to settle the matter for Rs.25,42,273/, the respondent would be liable to pay interest on the differential amount of Rs.8,93,227/ 8 p.a.	Facts
The decision of the National Commission is presently under appeal.	Facts
We heard Mr. Soumya Roop Sanyal, learned Advocate for the appellant and Mr. Joy Basu, learned Senior Advocate for the respondent.	None
The appellant contended that it was a case of a total loss as accepted by both the surveyors and going by the sum insured as agreed by the parties, the appellant was entitled to Rs.46,56,000/. It was submitted that the Insurance Company was well aware that the Excavator was of 2007 make and after deducting appropriate depreciation the value that was arrived at for the purposes of cover of insurance was Rs.46,56,600/. Countering said submission, the respondent submitted that despite stipulation of such amount as sum insured, the Insurance Company would not be disentitled in the present case from contending that the actual value after suffering appropriate depreciation ought to be one that was indicated by its surveyor.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was placed upon the decision of this Court in Sikka Papers Limited v. National Insurance Company Limited and others (2009)7 SCC 777 .	Arguments of Respondent
It is common ground that as a result of fire, the Excavator was a total loss and the insured would be entitled to the replacement cost of the Excavator.	None
The point, however, is what is the amount or value that the insured is entitled to.	None
The policy in question indicates that the year of make of the Excavator was 2007 while the policy was for the period 22.07.2009 to 21.07.2010.	None
The parties were aware that the Excavator was purchased in the year 2007 for Rs.51.74 lakhs.	None
If the contract mentioned the sum insured to be Rs.46,56,600/ the parties must be deemed to be aware about the significance of that sum and the fact that it represented the value of the Excavator as on the date when the coverage was obtained.	None
In this regard the conclusion arrived at and the observations made in Dharmendra Goel v. Oriental Insurance Company Limited (2008) 8 SCC 279 are noteworthy.	None
In that case a vehicle was bought in the year 2000 and the relevant period of coverage was 20022003.	None
The vehicle met with an accident.	None
The surveyor found it to be a total loss which was assessed at Rs.1,80,000/. In an action instituted in the Consumer Forum, the National Commission had granted compensation at said level of Rs.1,80,000/ with interest.	None
Questioning such assessment, the insured was in an appeal and submitted, inter alia, that he was entitled to the sum insured, namely, Rs.3,54,000/. Paragraphs 5 and 7 of the decision bring out the principle that the Insurance Company having accepted the value of the vehicle to be Rs.3,54,000/, was bound by that value.	None
Said paragraphs 5 and 7 were as under We have heard the learned counsel for the parties and have gone through the record very carefully.	None
The facts as narrated above remain uncontroverted.	None
Admittedly, the accident had happened on 1092002 during the validity of the insurance policy taken on 1322002 insuring the vehicle for Rs 3,54,000 on a premium of Rs 8498.	None
It is also the admitted position that the vehicle had been declared to be a total loss by the surveyor appointed by the Company though the value of the vehicle on total loss basis had been assessed at Rs 1,80,000.	None
We are, in the circumstances, of the opinion that as the Company itself had accepted the value of the vehicle at Rs 3,54,000 on 1322002, it could not claim that the value of the vehicle on total loss basis on 1092002 i.e. on the date of the accident was only Rs 1,80,000.	None
It must be borne in mind that Section 146 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 casts an obligation on the owner of a vehicle to take out an insurance policy as provided under Chapter XI of the Act and any vehicle driven without taking such a policy invites a punishment under Section 196 thereof.	None
It is, therefore, obvious that in the light of this stringent provision and being in a dominant position the insurance companies often act in an unreasonable manner and after having accepted the value of a particular insured good disown that very figure on one pretext or the other when they are called upon to pay compensation.	None
This take it or leave it attitude is clearly unwarranted not only as being bad in law but ethically indefensible.	None
We are also unable to accept the submission that it was for the appellant to produce evidence to prove that the surveyors report was on the lower side in the light of the fact that a price had already been put on the vehicle by the Company itself at the time of renewal of the policy.	None
We accordingly hold that in these circumstances, the Company was bound by the value put on the vehicle while renewing the policy on 1322002.	None
Mr. Basu, learned Senior Advocate, however relied upon the decision of this Court in Sikka Papers (supra).	None
In that matter a diesel generating set purchased in the year 1997 for Rs.45 lakhs was insured for Rs.35 lakhs for the period from 08.04.1999 to 07.04.2000.	None
Said diesel generating set broke down.	None
The complainant demanded what it had paid i.e. Rs.25 lakhs for the repairs but the insurer, relying upon the report of the Surveyor, did not agree.	None
According to the Surveyor the net loss was Rs.14,45,000/. But the Surveyor found that the generating set was under insured and as such the figure of net loss that was assessed ought to suffer deduction of 25.71.	None
The net assessed loss was, therefore, at the level of Rs.10,47,491/.	None
This Court raised two questions Whether the insurer was justified in accepting report dated 1552000 submitted by the surveyor who had assessed the loss of Rs.14,45,000/ after deducting about Rs.10,55,000/ from Rs.25,00,000/ i.e. actual amount paid by the complainant for repairing the diesel generating set?	None
Whether the insurer was justified in deducting an amount of Rs.3,71,509.50 (25.71) as under insurance from the loss assessed at Rs.14,45,000/ by the surveyor in its report dated 1552000?	None
As regards first question, this Court found that insurer would not be liable in respect of wearing out of machinery from normal use or exposure and the cost of replacement of insured property by new property of the same kind and same capacity would be subject to the exception that repair or replacement would not extend to the machinery or parts which had undergone normal wear and tear.	None
With regard to the second question, on facts it was found that there was an element of under insurance and the surveyor was justified in deducting 25.71.	None
We do not see how the decision in Sikka Papers (supra) could be of any relevance in the present matter.	Reasoning
The cases of under insurance stand on a completely different footing.	Reasoning
In such cases the Insurance Company stands denied of appropriate premium.	Reasoning
If the sum insured is, in any way, lesser than the real value of the subject matter of insurance, and if there be cases of partial replacement or partial loss, it is well accepted that the Insurance Company is entitled to proportionate deduction representing the proportion of undervaluation.	Reasoning
It is this facet of the matter which weighed with the Court in Sikka Papers (supra) in affirming the surveyors report in so far as 25.71 deduction was concerned.	Reasoning
Even in the present matter under the caption Provisions, the stipulation in para 2 is to the effect that if the sum insured is less than the amount required to be insured .	Reasoning
the company will pay only in such proportion as the sum insured bears to the amount required to be insured.	Reasoning
It is not the case of the Insurance Company that there was any under insurance in the present matter.	Reasoning
On the other hand, the contention is that as against the sum insured which was Rs.46,56,600/ the depreciated value was Rs.34,42,500/. So according to the Insurance Company, if at all it was a case of over insurance.	Reasoning
If we go by the idea of receipt of premium, then the Insurance Company had received more than what according to it the real value would have justified.	Reasoning
It is precisely in this set of facts that the question in the present matter arises.	Reasoning
If both the sides, with their eyes open, had arrived at a particular figure to be the real value of the subject matter of insurance, is it open to any party to dispute said sum and contend that the real value was something different from what was declared by the parties to be the sum insured.	Reasoning
One may understand cases where there is nondisclosure of material facts which may go to the root of the matter and as such the sanctity of the agreement itself may get affected.	Reasoning
But if both the parties had agreed and arrived at an understanding, which understanding was otherwise not vitiated by any misrepresentation, fraud or coercion, the parties must be held bound by stipulation of such figure.	Reasoning
This was the idea and the underlying principle in Dharmendra Goel (supra)	Reasoning
The relevant stipulation in the present case, namely clause (b) of Provision Basis of Indemnity speaks of calculation of actual value by deducting proper depreciation.	Reasoning
The Surveyor of the Insurance Company has worked the figure of depreciation by starting with the figure of Rs.51 lakhs as the cost of a new Excavator and then deducting 32.5 by way of depreciation assuming the life of Excavator to be 10 years.	Reasoning
In his assessment, therefore, the stipulation of the figure of Rs.46,56,600/ on the day the contract was entered into, had no significance.	Reasoning
Was he right and justified and how could he assume the life of the Excavator to be 10 years?	Reasoning
If that was the understanding between the parties, the figure of sum insured could have been different.	Reasoning
If the surveyor was calculating the depreciation from the day when the policy was entered into till the date when the accident occurred, such exercise could certainly be justified.	Reasoning
But the exercise undertaken was in the nature of not only considering the depreciation post the policy but even including the period prior thereto.	Reasoning
That exercise was already undertaken by the parties and in their assessment the real value of the Excavator as on the day when the policy was taken out was Rs.46,56,600/. In the face of such agreement and understanding, the surveyor could not have calculated depreciation for a period prior to the date of policy or contract.	Reasoning
The purport of aforesaid clause was to arrive at proper valuation as on the day when there was total destruction.	Reasoning
He could have undertaken the exercise post the date of policy to assess the real value of the insured property as on the date when the fire actually took place.	Reasoning
And for such purposes, the assessment must start with the amount described as sum insured on the day when the contract was entered into.	Reasoning
It was not open to the Surveyor or to the Insurance Company to disregard the figure stipulated as sum insured.	None
The loss had to be assessed in the present case, keeping said figure in mind.	Reasoning
Having considered the entire matter, in our view, except in cases where the agreement on part of the Insurance Company is brought about by fraud, coercion or misrepresentation or cases where principle of uberrima fide is attracted, the parties are bound by stipulation of a particular figure as sum insured.	Reasoning
Therefore, the surveyor and the Insurance Company were not justified in any way in questioning and disregarding the amount of sum insured.	Reasoning
Further depreciation, if any, can always be computed keeping the figure of sum insured in mind.	Reasoning
The starting figure, therefore, in this case had to be the figure which was stipulated as sum insured.	Reasoning
Since Excavator, after the policy was taken out was used for eleven months, there must be some reasonable depreciation which ought to be deducted from the sum insured.	Reasoning
The surveyor appointed by the insured was right in deducting 10 and in arriving at the figure of Rs.41,90,940/.	Reasoning
The other issue which weighed with the surveyor appointed by the Insurance Company regarding deduction of salvage value was rightly answered by the National Commission and as such does not require any elaboration.	Reasoning
We, thus, find that the assessment made by the State Commission was quite correct and that made by the National Commission was completely incorrect.	Decision
We, therefore, allow this appeal, set aside the decision of the National Commission and restore the judgment and order passed by the State Commission.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
