 Kuldip Singh, J. The East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act, 1949 (the Act)  prior to 1956  permitted a landlord to evict his tenant from a non residential building the ground of bona fide requirement for his own use, however, the said right of the landlord was taken away by the East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction (Amendment) Act, 1956 (Punjab Act 29 of 1956) (the amendment) which came into force on September 24, 1956.	Facts
Before us the constitutional validity of the Amendment has been challenged.	Issue
A writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India challenging the Amendment was dismissed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in limine.	Issue
This appeal, by way of special leave is against the order of the High Court.	Facts
The nonresidential premises in dispute was given on rent by the appellants father to the predecessorininterest of respondent2.	Facts
After the death of appellants father in the year 1953 the appellant, who was in Government service, became owner of the shop.	Facts
The appellant retired from service in 1986.	Facts
According to the appellant he is a Registered Medical Practitioner under the Homeopath system of medicines.	Facts
While he was in service his employer granted him permission in 1976 to practice as Homeopath Physician after office hours.	Facts
It is the case of the appellant that he intends to start practice as Homeopath Physician and for that purpose he bona fide requires the shop in dispute for his personal use and occupation.	Facts
The relevant provisions of the Act prior to the amendment were as under Section 13  Eviction of Tenants.	None
(3)(a).	None
A landlord may apply to Controller for an order directing the tenant to put the landlord in possession in case of a nonresidential building or rented land, if (a) he requires it for his own use (b) he is not occupying in the Urban Area concerned for the purpose of his business any other such building or rented land as the case may be (c) has not and vacated such a building or rented land without sufficient cause after the commencement of this Act, in the Urban Area concerned.	None
The amendment was enforced by the notification dated September 24, 1956.	None
The impugned provisions of the amendment are as under Short title  This Act may be called the East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction (Amendment) Act, 1956.	None
Amendment of section 13 of East Punjab Act III of 1949.  	None
In clause (a) of sub section (3) of section 13 of the East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act, 1949, hereinafter referred to as the principal Act  (i) (a) (b) (ii) (a) In subclause (ii) the words a nonresidential building or shall be omitted.	None
In Subparagraph (b), the words building or and the words as the case may be shall be omitted.	None
In subparagraph (c), the words a building or shall be omitted.	None
(iii) In sub clause (iv), for the words any building, where they first occur, the words (any residential building) shall be substituted.	None
In the second proviso, for scheduled or nonresidential building or rented land, the words (a residential building or rented land) shall be substituted.	None
After the enforcement of the amendment the Provisions of the Act are as under (3) (a) A landlord may apply to Controller for an order directing the tenant to put the landlord in possessions.	None
in case of (X X X) rented land, if.	None
(a) he requires it for his own use (b) he is not occupying in the urban area concerned for the purpose of his business any other such 2 (X X X) rented land 3 (X X X) and (c) had not vacated such 4 (X X X) rented land without sufficient cause after the commencement of this Act, in the urban area concerned.	None
It is thus obvious that prior to the coming into force of the amendment a landlord could seek eviction of his tenant from a nonresidential premises for his bona fide requirement but the amendment has taken away the said right of the landlord.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant has vehemently contended that the above quoted provisions of the amendment are violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
The precise argument is that the classification of the buildings into residential and nonresidential  created by the amendment  has no reasonable nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further contended by the learned counsel that the taking away of the landlords right to seek eviction of his tenant, from a nonresidential premises, on the ground of his bona fide requirement, is wholly arbitrary and as such is hit by Article 14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
The scope of Article 14 has been authoritatively laid down by this Court in innumerable decisions including.	None
Budhan Choudhary v. State of Bihar, (1956) 1	None
SCR 1045, Ram Krishana Dalmia v. Justice S.R. Tendolkar, (1959 SCR 279 ), U.P. Electric Power and Supply Company Limited v. State of U.P., (1969) 1 SCC 817 , Mohd.	None
Hanif Quareshi v. State of Bihar, (1959 SCR 629 ).	None
To be permissible under Article 14 of the Constitution a classification must satisfy two conditions namely (i) that the classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes person or things that are grouped together from others left out of the group and (ii) that differentia must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Statute in question.	Reasoning
The classification may be founded on different basis, but what is necessary is that there must be a nexus between the basis of classification and the object of the Act under consideration.	Reasoning
The statement of objects and reasons of the Act is as under Statement of objects and Reasons of the East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act, 1949 (Act 3 of 1949).	None
Under Article 6 of the India (Provisional Constitution) Order 1947, any law made by the Governor of the Punjab by virtue of section 93 of the Government of India Act, 1935, which was in force immediately before the 15th August, 1947, is to remain in force for two years from the date on which the Proclamation ceased to have effect, viz., the 14th August, 1947.	None
A Governors Act will, therefore, cease to have effect on the 14th August, 1949.	None
It is desired that the Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act, 1947 (Punjab Act No. VI of 1947), being a Governors Act, be reenacted as a permanent measure, as the need for restricting the increase of rents of certain premises situated within the limits of urban areas and the protection of tenants against mala fide attempts by their landlords to procure their eviction would be there even after the 14th August, 1949.	None
In order to achieve the above object, a new Act incorporating the provisions of the Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act, 1947 with necessary modification is being enacted.	None
It is obvious from the objects and reasons quoted above that the primary purpose for legislating the Act was to protect the tenants against the mala fide attempts by their landlords to procure their eviction.	None
Bona fide requirement of a landlord was, therefore, provided in the Act  as originally enacted  a group to evict the tenant from the premises whether residential or nonresidential.	Reasoning
The statement of objects and reasons of the amendment was in the following words Statement of Objects and Reasons of the East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction (Amendment) Act (Act 29 of 1956).  	None
Under the Ajmer Marwar Rent Control Act, 1947, tenants of urban property cannot be ejected except from residential buildings and that too for bona fide personal use.	None
This Act applies to Delhi city also where tenants of commercial or industrial premises cannot be ejected on the ground of personal use.	None
In the Punjab, however, such tenants can be ejected on various grounds including that of personal use.	None
This entails a great hardship on such tenants.	None
The provision allowing eviction on the ground of personal use has been misused by certain landlords and there have been any complaints and representations on behalf of the tenants to amend the East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act, 1947.	None
It is, therefore, considered necessary that the tenants of nonresidential property in the Punjab should at least be placed at par with tenants of such property in Delhi and other urban areas covered by the Delhi Ajmer Act.	None
Two reasons have been given from bringing the amendment.	None
It is stated that eviction from nonresidential building on the ground of bona fide requirement of the landlord entails a great hardship on such tenants.	None
The second reason given is that the provision regarding eviction on the ground of personal use has been misused by certain landlords.	None
Support is sought from the fact that in the State of Delhi and other urban areas covered by the Delhi Ajmer Act, there were similar provisions.	None
It would be useful to have a look at the provisions of the Act.	None
Section 2(a) defines building as any building or part of a building let for any purpose whether being actually used for that purpose or not, including any land, godowns, outhouses, or furniture let therewith, does not include a room in a hotel, hostel or boarding house.	None
Section 2(d) defines non residential building as building being used solely for the purpose of business or trade.	None
Residential building under Section 2(g) means any building which is not a nonresidential building.	None
Section 3 permits the State Government to exempt any particular building or rented land or any class of buildings or rented lands from the provisions of the Act.	None
Sections 4, 5 and 6 provide for fixation, increase etc. of fair rent.	None
Section 11 provides that no person shall convert the residential building into a non residential building except with the permission in writing of the Controller.	None
Then comes the crucial Section 13 regarding the eviction of tenants.	None
Section 13(2)(i) enables the landlord to evict the tenant for nonpayment of rent.	None
Section 13(2)(ii)(a) and (ii) (b) provide for the eviction of a tenant on the grounds of subletting and misuse of the premises.	None
Clause (iii) of Section 13(2) makes the tenant liable to eviction when he continues such acts as are likely to impair materially the value and utility of the building or rented land.	None
Clauses (iv) and (v) of Section 13(2) permit the eviction of the tenant on the grounds of nuisance and when he ceases to occupy the building for a period of four months without reasonable cause.	None
Subsection 3 of section 13 provides for eviction of the tenant from the residential premises on the ground of bona fide requirement of the landlord.	None
It is not necessary to refer to other provisions of the Act.	None
The Scheme of the Act, unmistakably aims at regulating the conditions of tenancy, controlling the rents and preventing unreasonable and mala fide eviction of tenants of the residential and nonresidential buildings.	Reasoning
For the advancement of these objects, tenants are invested with certain rights and landlords are subjected to certain obligations.	Reasoning
These rights and obligations are attached to the tenants and the landlords of all buildings, residential or nonresidential.	Reasoning
None of the main provisions of the Act, to which we have referred, make any serious distinction between residential and nonresidential buildings.	Reasoning
The provisions of the Act, prior to the amendment, were uniformly applicable to the residential and nonresidential buildings.	Reasoning
The amendment, in the year 1956, created the impugned classification.	Reasoning
The objects and reasons of the Act indicate that it was enacted with a view to restrict the increase of rents and to safeguard against the mala fide eviction of tenants.	Reasoning
The Act, therefore, initially provided  confirming to its objects and reasons  bona fide requirement of the premises by the landlord, whether residential or nonresidential, as a ground of eviction of the tenant.	Reasoning
The classification created by the amendment has no nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the Act.	Reasoning
To vacate a premises for the bona fide requirement of the landlord would not cause any hardships to the tenant.	Reasoning
Statutory protection to a tenant cannot be extended to such an extent that the landlord is precluded from evicting the tenant for the rest of his life even when he bona fide requires the premises for his personal use and occupation.	Reasoning
It is not tenants but the landlords who are suffering great hardships because of the amendment.	Reasoning
A landlord may genuinely like to let out a shop till the time he bona fide needs the same.	Reasoning
Visualise a case of a shopkeeper (owner) dying young.	Reasoning
There may not be a member in the family to continue the business and the widow may not need the shop for quite some time.	Reasoning
She may like to let out the shop till the time her children growup and need the premises for their personal use.	Reasoning
It would be wholly arbitrary a situation like this  to deny her the right to evict the tenant.	Reasoning
The amendment has created a situation where a tenant can continue in possession of a nonresidential premises for life and even after the tenants death his heirs may continue the tenancy.	Reasoning
We have no doubt in our mind that the objects, reasons and the scheme of the Act could not have envisaged the type of situation created by the amendment which is patently harsh and grossly unjust for the landlord of a nonresidential premises.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the respondents contended that a tenant occupying nonresidential premises and the one occupying residential premises belong to two different classes under the Act and as such no fault can be found with the amendment.	Arguments of Respondent
Assuming that the classification exists, it has no nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the Act.	None
Tenants of both kinds of buildings need equal and same protection of the beneficial provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
Neither from the objects and reasons of the Act nor from the provisions of the Act it is possible to discern any basis for the classification created by the amendment.	Reasoning
This Court in Rattan Arya etc. v. State of Tamil Nadu , 1986(2) RCR 328(SC) 1986(2)	None
SCR 596 struck down Section 13(ii) of the Tamil Nadu buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960 as violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India on the ground that the distinction made by it between the tenant of a residential building and the tenant of a nonresidential building based on the rent paid by the respective tenants had no reasonable nexus to the object sought to be achieved by the Act.	None
A Constitution Bench of this Court in Gian Devi Anand v. Jeevan Kumar and others, 1985(1) RCR 459(SC)	None
1985(2) SCC 683 observed as under  Before concluding, there is one aspect on which we consider it desirable to make certain observations.	None
The owner of any premises, whether residential or commercial, let out to any tenant, is permitted by the Rent Control Acts to seek eviction of the tenant only on the grounds specified in the Act, entitling the landlord to evict the tenant from the premises.	None
The restrictions on the power of the landlords in the matter of recovery of possession of the premises let out by him to a tenant have been imposed for the benefit of the tenants.	None
In spite of various restrictions put on the landlords right to recover possession of the premises from a tenant, the right of the landlord to recover possession of the premises from the tenant for the bonafide need of the premises by the landlord is recognised by the Act, in case of residential premises.	None
A landlord may let out the premises under various circumstances.	None
Usually a landlord lets out the premises when he does not need it for own use.	None
Circumstances may change and a situation may arise when the landlord may require the premises let out by him for his own use.	None
It is just and proper that when the landlord requires the premises bonafide for his own use and occupation , the landlord should be entitled to recover the possession of the premises which continues to be his property in spite of his letting out the same to a tenant.	None
The Legislature in its wisdom did recognise this fact and the legislature has provided that bona fide requirement of the landlord for his own use will be a legitimate ground under the Act for the eviction of his tenant from any residential premises.	None
This ground is, however, confined to residential premises and is not made available in case of commercial premises.	None
A landlord who lets out commercial premises to a tenant under certain circumstances may need bona fide the premises for his own use under changed conditions on some future date should not in fairness be deprived of his right to recover the commercial premises.	None
Bona fide need of the landlord will stand very much on the same footing in regard to either class of premises, residential or commercial.	None
We, therefore, suggest that Legislature may consider the advisibility of making the bona fide rquirement of the landlord a ground of eviction in respect of commercial premises as well.	None
In Gian Devis case the question for consideration before the Constitution Bench was whether under the Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958, the statutory tenancy in respect of commercial premises was heritable or not.	Reasoning
The Bench answered the question in the affirmative.	Reasoning
The above quoted observations were made by the Bench keeping in view that hardship being caused to the landlords of commercial premises who cannot evict their tenants even on the ground of bona fide requirement for personal use.	Reasoning
The observations of the Constitution Bench bona fide need of the landlord will stand very much on the same footing in regard to either class of premises, residential or commercial fully support the view, we have taken, that the classification created by the amendment has no reasonable nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the Act.	Reasoning
We, therefore, hold that the provisions of the amendment, quoted in earlier part of the judgment, are violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India and are liable to be struckdown.	Reasoning
We allow the appeal, set aside the impugned judgment of the High Court, declare above said provisions of the amendment as constitutionally invalid and as a consequence restore the original provisions of the Act which were operating before coming into force of the amendment.	Decision
The result is that a landlord under the Act, can seek eviction of a tenant from a nonresidential building on the ground that the requires it for his own use.	Decision
The parties to bear their own costs.	Decision
