 Arijit Pasayat, J. Challenge in this appeal is to the judgment rendered by a Division Bench of the J K High Court at Jammu dismissing the appeal filed by the appellant under Section 17 of the JK Consumers Protection Act, 1988 (in short the Act).	Issue
Challenge in the said appeal was to the order dated 9.11.1998 passed by the JK State Consumer Redressal Commission (in short the Commission) on a complaint filed by respondent no.1.	Issue
In the complaint appellant and respondent no.2 were impleaded as the opposite parties.	Issue
The factual background in a nutshell is as follows Respondentcomplainant filed a compliant before the Commission seeking a direction to the appellant herein to take back the Maruti car back and repay an amount of Rs.1,97,460.37 being the cost of the car supplied to him, along with interest at the rate of 18 per cent with effect from 27.11.1996, as the car was defective.	Facts
He also sought compensation for the loss at his place of work and coaching charges approximately Rs.60,000/ Rs.1,00,000/ towards mental agony, physical deterioration and emotional stress, Rs.15,000/ for his trip to Karnal on the mistaken direction of the appellant and also Rs.2,500/ towards the costs of litigation and legal consultation.	Facts
Respondent No.1 complainant had purchased a Maruti Car on 27.11.1996 from the appellant through its authorized dealer, respondent No.2 herein, on payment of Rs.1,97,460.37 as sale price.	Facts
After delivery of the car, the complainant noticed that the clutch of the car was not functioning properly as it developed unusual noise jerks on running of the engine.	Facts
The defect was brought to the notice of respondent No.2, whose engineer after examining the defect told the complainant that the clutch is behaving erratically because of the new engine and it will automatically adjust become defect free after covering some mileage.	Facts
But it did not happen that way and on the other hand problem increased.	Facts
He again reported to respondent No.2 whereupon he was assured that the defect will disappear after the first service which was done on 19.12.1996.	Facts
But the defect continued.	Facts
The complainant again approached respondent No.2 and was told that the engine will have to be brought down to locate the trouble which the engineers failed to pin point.	Facts
The complainant objected to it as the defect had developed within the warranty period and approached the Head Office (Marketing) of the appellant at Gurgaon.	Facts
He wrote letter dated 19.2.1997 bringing to the appellants notice about the inherent manufacturing defect in the car and requested for its replacement.	Facts
The appellant vide its letter dated 5.3.1997, advised the complainant to take the car to Modern Automobiles, Karnal, for getting the needful done.	Facts
He took the car to Karnal on 10.3.1997.	Facts
But the said concern did not test the vehicle on the ground that the same had been delivered by respondent No.2 who was responsible and can repair the vehicle.	Facts
The complainant came back to Jammu.	Facts
On 13.3.1997 the appellant conceded to have wrongly advised the complainant to take the car to Karnal and asked him to again approach respondent No.2 at Jammu.	Facts
On 21.3.1997 Mr. H.S. Chahal, Senior Engineer, Regional Office, Chandigarh, examined the car but the defect could not be removed which continued to give trouble.	Facts
The matter was again reported to the appellant and the complainant again visited respondent No.2 on 17.4.1997 but had to return with persisting defect.	Facts
On 21.4.1997 the complainant addressed a letter to the ChairmancumManaging Director of the appellantcompany about the manufacturing defect in the car sold to him and requested for its replacement.	Facts
No reply to the said letter was received.	Facts
The complainant suffered financial loss not only because of the callous and careless attitude of the appellant but also on account of the appellant having sold defective car to the complainant, defects whereof could not be removed thereby leaving him to face emotional stress, mental agony and to drive the defective car posing a risk to his life .With these grievances complainant approached the Commission.	Facts
Respondents filed their replies before the Commission stating therein that their obligation under the warranty was only to repair or replace any part found to be defective.	Facts
The appellant and its authorized dealer (Respondent No.2) have attended to the vehicle during the warranty period free of charges and had carried out necessary repairs and replacement of the components on 21.3.1997 to the satisfaction of the complainant.	Facts
The vehicle was again inspected on 29.5.1997 and the complainant was advised to leave the vehicle at the workshop of the dealer of the appellant at Jammu for inspection and carrying out necessary repairs to which the complainant did not agree.	Facts
The correspondence between the parties has not been denied by the appellant and their dealer (Respondent No.2).	Facts
The appellant has claimed that it is not under any obligation to take back the Maruti car or repay the sale price to the complainant.	Facts
The High Court held that the warranty condition relied upon by the appellant did not warrant interpretation that only the defective part was to be replaced and not the car itself.	Facts
Reference was made to certain observations in the Corpus Juris Secundrum Volume 77 page 1198.	Facts
It was held that the booklet containing warranty clearly indicates promise of service and replacement with certain conditions.	Facts
It was observed that the Commission was justified in its conclusion that the appellant had agreed to replace the vehicle and had admitted that there was manufacturing defect in the concerned part.	Facts
Reliance was also placed on a decision of this Court in Tata Engineering Locomotive Co. Ltd. v. Gajanan Y. Mandrekar (1997(5) SCC 507).	Facts
Therefore, the appellant was directed to replace the car or repay the amount received by it as sale price with interest 18 p.a.	Facts
w.e.f.	Facts
27.11.1996 with costs awarded by the Commission.	Facts
In support of the appeal, learned counsel for the appellant submitted that both the Commission and the High Court erred in holding that there was an admission to replace the car and or admission of any manufacturing defect.	Arguments of Petitioner
The warranty condition clearly refers to the replacement of the defective part and not of the car.	Arguments of Petitioner
Observations made in the Corpus Juris Secundrum had been read out of context.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was stated that at the most the Commission and the High Court could have asked for the replacement of the defective part or to pay the cost thereof.	Arguments of Petitioner
7. Learned counsel for the respondent no.1 supported the orders of the Commission and the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The obligation under clause (3) of the Manual reads as under Marutis Warranty Obligation If any defect(s) should be found in a Maruti Vehicle within the term stipulated above, Marutis only obligation is to repair or replace at its sole discretion any part shown to be defective with a new part of the equivalent at no cost to the owner for parts or labour, when Maruti acknowledges that such a defect is attributable to faculty material or workmanship at the time of manufacture.	None
The owner is responsible for any repair or replacement which are not covered by this warranty.	None
The Commission and the High Court have relied on so called admission of the appellant in para 3 of the objections filed before the Commission.	None
In various documents, more particularly letter dated 19.2.1997 written by respondent no.1 to the appellant, it is clearly stated that appellant had indicated that downing of the engine was necessary to trace the problem.	None
There was no agreement to replace the engine system.	None
Additionally, it is not disputed by learned counsel for the respondent no.1 that when appellant had asked the vehicle to be brought for the aforesaid purpose the respondent no.1 had not done so.	None
To infer that there was any manufacturing defect in the said background is without any foundation.	None
In Corpus Juris Secundrum the observations to which reference was made by the High Court read as follows On a sale of a motor vehicle by a manufacturer to dealer there may be an implied warranty that it is reasonably fit for, or adapted to, the uses for which it is made and sold and such a warranty is not excluded by the silence of the contract of sale as to warranties.	Reasoning
The principles stated above can never be doubted.	Reasoning
But what is relevant in the case at hand is that the warranty conditions were specially stated.	Reasoning
This is not a case of silence of a contract of sale as to warranty.	Reasoning
Therefore, the High Court was not justified in directing replacement of the vehicle.	Reasoning
But on the peculiar fact of the case relief to the respondent no.1 has to be moulded.	None
In almost a similar case certain directions were given in Jose Phillip Mampillil v. Premier Automobiles Ltd. (2004 (2) SCC 278) .	None
In line with what has been stated in the aforesaid case, we direct as follows (1) On respondent no.1 taking the vehicle in question to the authorized service centre of the appellant at Jammu within three weeks, the defective part that is clutches assembly shall be replaced.	Decision
Respondent no.1 shall not be required to pay any charge for the replacement.	Decision
In addition, respondent no.1 shall be entitled to receive a consolidated sum of Rs.50,000/ (rupees fifty thousand only) from the appellant for cost of travel to Karnal which admittedly was wrongly advised by the appellant, for the inconvenience caused to respondent no.1 on account of the acts of the appellant and the respondent no.2 and the cost of litigation.	Decision
The appeal is allowed to the aforesaid extent.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
