 Gajendragadkar, J.1.	None
This group of consolidated appeals has come before this Court with a certificate granted by the High Court at Bombay under Art.	Facts
133 of the Constitution the certificate shows that according to the High Court the amount of the value of the subjectmatter in dispute involved in these consolidated appeals exceeds Rs. 20,000 and they raise a substantial question of law.2.	Facts
The 385 appellants concerned in these 20 appeals are employees in the Watch and Ward department of various textile mills in Ahmedabad.	Facts
They had filed 20 applications between July 22, 1953 to October 6, 1953, before the authority under the Payment of Wages Act (hereinafter called the authority) and had claimed overtime wages for the period between January 1951 to December 1951 and JuneJuly 1953.	Facts
These applications were accompanied by another set of 20 applications in which they prayed for condonation of delay made in putting forward the claim for overtime wages under the second proviso to S. 15(2) of the Payment of Wages Act (4 of 1936) (hereinafter called the Act).	Facts
The authority considered the case made out by the appellants for condonation of delay and held that they had failed to prove sufficient cause for not making their applications within the prescribed period.	Facts
The appellants then moved the High Court at Bombay under Arts.	Facts
226 and 227 of the Constitution.	Facts
Then applications also failed and were dismissed.	Facts
Then the appellants moved the High Court for a certificate, and a certificate was granted to them.	Facts
It is with this certificate that they have come to this Court.3.	Facts
It is necessary at first to set out the circumstances under which the appellants have made their claim for overtime wages in their present applications.	None
Section 59 of the Factories Act, 1948 (63 of 1948) which came into force on September 23, 1948, provides for the payment of extra wages for overtime to persons who are workers as defined by S. 2(1) of the Act.	None
It is common ground that the appellants are not workers under the said section and so they did not claim any of the benefits conferred on workers by the provisions of the Factories Act.	None
The Bombay Shops and Establishments Act, 1948 (Bombay Act 79 of 1948) came into force in the State of Bombay on January 11, 1949 and it is not denied that the appellants are employees under S. 2(6) of the said Act.	None
Section 70 of this Act provides for the application of S. 59 of the Factories Act to all employees working in factories like the appellants, but the words used in s. 70 are not very clear and the effect of its provisions was a matter of doubt which was finally resolved by the decision of this Court in the case of B. P. Hira, Works Manager, Central Railway, Parel, Bombay, etc. v. C. M. Pradhan, Civil Appeals Nos. 131 to 304 of 1957 D  851959 (AIR 1959 SC 1226 ).	None
It is because the true effect of this section was not appreciated by the appellants that the present difficulty has arisen.4.	None
Not knowing that they were entitled to the benefits of the relevant provisions of the Factories Act by virtue of S. 70 of the Bombay Shops and Establishments Act.	None
the representative union of the appellants raised an industrial dispute by a notice on September 20, 1949, claiming some of the amenities provided by the Factories Act (Ref.	None
(1C)	None
No. 192 of 1949).	None
While delivering its award on this reference on November 25, 1950, the Full Bench of the Industrial Tribunal observed that the employees did not appear to be covered by the Factories Act and on that basis it awarded to them a ninehour day, two holidays per month and a limited provision for overtime wages.	None
It is clear that this award proceeded on the assumption that the relevant provisions of the Factories Act did not apply to the appellants.	Reasoning
On May 2, 1952, the appellate decision delivered by the Chief Judge of the Court of Small Causes in the case of Ruby Mills vide Bombay Labour Gazette dated January 1953.	Reasoning
Vol. 32, No. 5, p. 521, however, construed S. 70 of the Bombay Shops and Establishments Act and held that the employees falling under the provisions of the said section were entitled to claim overtime wages under S. 59 of the Factories Act.	Reasoning
In other words, this decision for the first time properly construed S. 70 of the Bombay Act and held that the said section in substance extended the provisions of S. 59 of the Factories Act to the employees covered by S. 70.5.	Reasoning
When the appellants union came to know about this decision it moved the Minister of Labour, Bombay, on 30101952, and requested him to persuade the Ahmedabad Mills to extend the benefits of the Factories Act to their Watch and Ward staff on 1111952, the union received a reply from the Minister stating that he had drawn the attention of the Factories Department to the judgment in the Ruby Mills case, vide Bombay Labour Gazette dated January 1953, Vol. 32, No. 5, P. 521 (supra).	None
Thereafter the secretary of the union requested the Chief Inspector of Factories, Ahmedabad, to enforce the above decision in Ahmedabad.	None
Subsequent correspondence followed between the union, the factory authorities and the Mill Owners Association, Ahmedabad.	None
In May, 1953, the Mill Owners Association accepted the position that the appellants were covered by the Factories Act, and in July 1953 the appellants were for the first time paid for overtime at the rate provided under the Factories Act.	None
Some mills paid the overtime wages with effect from January 1953, some from May 1953 and some from July 1953.6.	None
In August 1953 the secretary of the new union, which the appellants had joined in the meanwhile, wrote to the employers requesting them to pay overtime wages for the prior period and when this request did not receive a sympathetic response from the employers the present applications were filed before the authority making a claim for overtime wages for the period already mentioned.7.	None
In their applications for the condonation of delay the appellants alleged that they had bona fide believed that neither the Factories Act nor the Bombay Shops and Establishments Act applied to the Watch and Ward staff, and so they had moved the industrial court for redress of their grievances.	Arguments of Petitioner
The step thus taken by the appellants shows that in asserting their rights they were exercising due diligence and care.	None
The employers entitled to claim overtime wages only in May 1953, and then the appellants tried to negotiate with them for the payment of the overtime wages claimed in the present applications.	None
It is on these grounds that the appellants prayed that the delay made in presenting the claim should be condoned.8.	None
This claim was resisted by the employers on two grounds it was urged by them that the main ground alleged by the appellants for claiming condonation of delay amounted to a plea of ignorance of law and that ignorance of law cannot be a sufficient cause under the relevant proviso.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also contended that no sufficient or satisfactory reason had been given by the appellants for the delay made by them in filing the present applications subsequent to 251952, when S. 70 of the Bombay Act had been authoritatively considered by the appellate court in the case of Ruby Mills (Vide Bombay Labour Gazette dated January 1953, Vol. 32, No. 5, P. 521) (supra), and so the employers argued that the appellants were not entitled to ask for condonation of delay.9.	Arguments of Respondent
The authority upheld both these contentions raised by the employers.	None
It considered the judicial decisions cited before it and held that even if the appellants were ignorant of the rights that they got under S. 70 of the Bombay Act such ignorance of law cannot be said to be a sufficient cause.	None
It also examined the conduct of the appellants subsequent to the date of the decision in the Ruby Mills case (Vide Bombay Labour Gazette dated January 1953, Vol. 32, No. 5, P. 521) (supra), and held that the said conduct did not justify the appellants claim that they were acting bona fide and with due diligence in asserting their rights.	None
In dealing with this latter question the authority observed that the appellants did not specify when they came to know about the decision in the case of Ruby Mills (Vide Bombay Labour Gazette dated January 1953, Vol. 32, No. 5, P. 521) (supra), and no satisfactory explanation had been given by them as to why, immediately after coming to know of the said decision, they did not move the authority.	None
The authority also examined the correspondence that passed between the parties after the decision in the Ruby Mills case (Vide Bombay Labour Gazette dated January 1953, Vol. 32, No. 5, P. 521) (supra), and found that the appellants were even then claiming the benefit of the Factories Act prospectively and not retrospectively.	None
In the absence of any affidavit explaining the conduct of the appellants after 251952, when the Ruby Mills case (Vide Bombay Labour Gazette dated January 1953, Vol. 32, No. 5, P. 521) (supra), was decided, the authority came to the conclusion that the inaction of the appellants was not at all satisfactorily explained, and so no sufficient cause could be said to have been shown by them to justify the condonation of delay.	Issue
As a result of these two findings the authority refused to excuse delay, and so the claim made by the appellants for overtime wages for a period beyond the prescribed period of limitation was rejected.10.	None
When this decision was challenged by the appellants before the High Court by their petitions under Arts.	None
226 and 227 apparently the only point urged before the High Court was that the authority was in error in holding that an error of law cannot be a sufficient cause under the relevant proviso to S. 15 (2) of the Act.	None
It does not appear that the attention of the High Court was drawn to the second finding made by the authority, and so, that aspect of the matter has not been considered in the judgment of the High Court.	None
Dealing with the point raised before it the High Court agreed with the view taken by the authority, and held that ignorance of law cannot constitute a sufficient cause.	None
Ignorance of law, observed the High Court, is ignorance of the rights of a party which the law confers upon him, whereas mistake of law is mistake in establishing those rights by, for instance, going to one forum instead of another.	None
The High Court has observed that in cases where there is a mistake of law courts have almost uniformly taken the view that the time taken up by asserting the rights in a wrong court or a wrong forum should be excused, and in coming to this conclusion they had been largely influenced by the principle underlying S. 14 of the Limitation Act.	None
That is how the petitions filed by the appellants in the High Court were dismissed.11.	None
Before dealing with the merits of the contentions raised by Mr. Phadke in the present appeals it is necessary to read the relevant provisions of S. 15 of the Act.	None
Section 15 (1) provides for the appointment of the authority to hear and decide for any specified area all claims arising out of deductions from the wages, or delay in payment of the wages of persons employed or paid in the area.	None
Subs.	None
(2) provides inter alia that if any deduction has been made from the wages of an employed person contrary to the provisions of the Act or any payment of wages has been delayed, such person may apply to such authority for a direction under subs.	None
(3).	None
It is under this subsection that the present applications have been made.	None
The first proviso to subs.	None
(2) prescribes limitation, and says that every such application shall be presented within six months from the date on which the cause of action accrued.	None
It is the second proviso with which we are directly concerned in the present appeals.	None
This proviso lays down further that any application may be admitted after the said period of six months when the applicant satisfies the authority that he had sufficient cause for not making the application within such period.	Arguments of Petitioner
The principal question which has been agitated in the High Court and before the authority was whether ignorance of law can be said to constitute sufficient cause within the meaning of this proviso.12.	None
Mr. Phadke contends that this proviso confers wide discretion on the authority and Legislature has deliberately not circumscribed or regulated in any manner the exercise of the said discretion.	Arguments of Petitioner
He concedes that it has to be exercised judicially but he protests against the imposition of any rigid rule, or, as he called it, selfdenying ordinance, by which the authority would invariably refuse to treat ignorance of law as falling within the expression sufficient cause under the proviso.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him there is no rule in India that ignorance of law cannot be a sufficient cause for explaining the delay made in instituting legal proceedings and he strongly urged that even if such a rule applies to ordinary legal proceedings it would be singularly inappropriate in the interpretation of the provisions of welfare legislation like the Act.13.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this argument Mr. Phadke has invited our attention to the decision of the House of Lords in Hyman v. Rose, 1912 AC 623, as well as the decision of this Court in Namdeo Lokman Lodhi v. Narmadabai, 1953 SCR 1009 at p. 1027	Arguments of Petitioner
(AIR 1953 SC 228 at p. 234).	Arguments of Petitioner
Both these decisions dealt with the question of the discretion vested in the courts to grant relief against forfeiture, and Mr. Phadkes argument was that the relevant words used in that behalf in conferring discretion on the courts have been construed in their widest denotation and are similar to those in the proviso with which we are concerned and so the same construction should be adopted in interpreting it.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has also strongly relied on the decision of the Privy Council in Brij Indar Singh v. Kanshi Ram, 44 Ind App 218 (AIR 1917 PC 156), where their Lordships have considered the trend of judicial decisions in India which interpreted S. 5 of the Indian Limitation Act, 1908, and have observed that there appeared to be a uniform practice in the Indian High Courts under which a mistake in law was in proper cases treated as sufficient cause for excusing delay.	Arguments of Petitioner
Now if the matter were entirely open, said Lord Dunedin in delivering the judgment of the Board,inasmuch as a mere mistake in law is not per se sufficient reason for asking the court to exercise its discretion under S. 5, there would be a good deal to be said in argument in favour of making the rule universalBut the matter is not open.	Arguments of Petitioner
To interfere with a rule which after all is only a rule of procedure which has been laid down as a general rule by Full Benches in all the Courts of India, and acted on for many years, would cause great inconvenience, and their Lordships do not propose so to interfere.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Phadke argues that this decision is an authority for the proposition that in a proper case a mistake of law or ignorance of law may constitute a sufficient cause under S. 5 of the Limitation Act, and, according to him, the same principle should apply in construing the proviso in question.	Arguments of Petitioner
We do not propose to deal with this argument because, as we will presently point out, we have come to the conclusion that the appellants would fail even if we were to uphold Mr. Phadkes present contention.14.	None
As we have already noticed the authority has held against the appellants on two grounds, one that ignorance of law cannot be a sufficient cause, and second that, even if it was, in fact the appellants had not explained the delay made by them in making the present applications after they knew of the decision in the case of Ruby Mills (Vide Bombay Labour Gazette dated January 1953, Vol. 32, No. 5, P. 521) (supra), on 251952.	Issue
This latter conclusion is a finding on a question of fact and its propriety or validity could not have been challenged before the High Court and cannot be questioned before us in the present appeals.	None
Unfortunately it appears that the attention of the learned judges of the high Court was not drawn to this finding otherwise they would have considered this aspect of the matter before they proceeded to deal with the interesting question of law raised before them.15.	Issue
Mr. Phadke fairly conceded that he could not effectively challenge the finding of the authority that no satisfactory explanation had been given for the delay in question.	Arguments of Petitioner
He, however, argued that the said finding would not affect the final decision because, according to him, once it is held that ignorance of law can be a sufficient cause, then the period until 251952, would be covered by the appellants ignorance about the true scope and effect of the provisions of S. 70 of the Bombay Shops and Establishments Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
This position may be conceded.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is true that the true effect of the said section was not appreciated by either the workmen and their union or the employers or the authorities under the Factories Act, or even by the industrial courts.	Arguments of Petitioner
But the question still remains whether the appellants are not required to explain the delay made by them after 251952.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Phadke says that it is not necessary for his clients to explain this delay.	Arguments of Petitioner
His argument is that what the relevant proviso really means is that if sufficient cause has been shown for not making the application within the prescribed period of six months then the application can be made any time thereafter.	Arguments of Petitioner
The statutory bar created by the prescribed limitation is removed once it is shown that there was sufficient cause for not making the application within the said period and once that bar is removed, there is no further question of limitation and the applicant cannot be called upon to explain the subsequent delay.	Arguments of Petitioner
That is the effect of the argument urged by Mr. Phadke on the relevant proviso.16.	Arguments of Petitioner
This argument is substantially founded on the decision of the Court of Appeal in Lingley v. Thomas Firth and Sons, Ltd. (1921) 1 KB 655.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case the court had to construe the words reasonable cause used in proviso (b) to S. 2, subs.	None
(1) of the Workmens Compensation Act, 1906 (6 Edw. 7, C. 58).	None
Section 2 (1) prescribes a limitation of six months for the making of a claim for compensation arising out of an accident caused to the workman falling within its purview, and proviso (b) lays down that the failure to make a claim within the period above specified shall not be a bar to the maintenance of such proceedings if it is found that the failure was occasioned by mistake, absence from the United Kingdom or other reasonable cause.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the case of Lingley, 19211 KB 655 (supra), the claim had been admittedly made beyond the period of six months and within a couple of months thereafter an application for arbitration for compensation was filed.	Arguments of Petitioner
The County Court Judge was satisfied that there was reasonable cause within S. 2, subs.	None
(1) for the applicants failure to make a claim within the prescribed period, and he held that when once the bar to the proceedings had been surmounted by the establishment of reasonable cause, there was no further limited period within which the claim must be made.	Arguments of Petitioner
Accordingly compensation was awarded to the applicant.	Arguments of Petitioner
The employer appealed against this award and his appeal was allowed.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Court of Appeal reversed the finding of the County Court Judge on the first point, and held that for the applicants failure to make the claim within six months she had not shown any reasonable cause, and that naturally led to the reversal of the award.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even so, in considering the question of the construction of S. 2 (1), proviso (b), the learned judges observed that if sufficient cause had been established by the applicant she would have succeeded in obtaining compensation, because they agreed that, if the bar imposed by the statutory period of six months prescribed for the making of the claim had been raised, the claim of the applicant could not be subjected to any further bar of limitation.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is this view on which Mr. Phadke relies, and he contends that the same principle should be applied in construing the relevant proviso to S. 15 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection Mr. Phadke has invited our attention to three Indian decisionsJ. Hogan v. Gafur Ramzan, 35 Bom LR 1142 (AIR 1934 Bom 28 ), Salamat v. Agent, East Indian Railway, ILR (1938) 2 Cal 52 at p. 58 (AIR 1938 Cal 348 at p. 351 and Kamarhatti Co. Ltd. v. Abdul Samad, 19521 Lab LJ 490 at p. 492 (AIR 1953 Cal 74 at p. 75).	Arguments of Petitioner
These decisions were concerned with claims for compensation made under S. 10 of the Workmens Compensation Act, VIII of 1923, the first two under S. 10 as it stood prior to its amendment in 1938, and the last one under the said section as it was amended in 1938.	Arguments of Petitioner
It may be added that all the three decisions purport to adopt the view taken by the Court of Appeal in the case of Lingley, 19211 KB 655 (supra).17.	Arguments of Petitioner
Now in order to appreciate the effect of the decision in the case of Lingley, 19211 KB 655 (supra), it would be relevant to emphasise that in that case the Court of Appeal was really giving effect to an earlier decision of the House of Lords in Powell v.	Reasoning
Main Colliery Co. Ltd.	Reasoning
1900 AC 366, and, as the judgments of all the learned judges indicate, they were following the said decision with some reluctance.	Reasoning
In the case of Powell, 1900 AC 366 (supra), the House of Lords had held that the claim for compensation specified in S. 2 (1) of the English Act does not mean initiation of the proceedings before the tribunal by which compensation is to be assessed, but a notice of claim of compensation sent to the workmans employer.	Reasoning
In other words, according to that decision, the limitation of six months prescribed by S. 2(1) applies to the notice of claim which a workman has to give to his employer it had no reference to the proceedings which a workman would institute before the tribunal claiming to recover the said compensation.	Reasoning
The notice of claim had to be served on the employer within six months after the date of the accident, and after serving such notice proceedings had to be initiated before the tribunal claiming compensation.	Reasoning
The effect of the two English decisions, therefore, is that if a workman shows sufficient cause for the delay made by him in serving the notice of claim on the employer there was no question of calling upon him to explain any further delay made by him in instituting the proceedings before the tribunal for the recovery of compensation.	Reasoning
In fact, for the institution of such proceedings there was no statutory limitation at all.18.	Reasoning
Let us now turn to S. 10 of our Workmens Compensation Act.	Reasoning
Section 10(1) as it originally stood prescribed a period of six months for the making of the claim for compensation.	Reasoning
It also required that notice of the accident had to be given as soon as practicable after the happening thereof and before the workman had voluntarily left the employment in which he was injured.	Reasoning
The second proviso to S. 10 (1) lays down that the Commissioner may admit and decide any claim to compensation notwithstanding that the notice had not been given or the claim had not been instituted in due time as provided by the subsection if he is satisfied that the failure so to give notice or to institute the claim as the case may be was due to sufficient cause.	Reasoning
It appears that in construing the material terms of this proviso it was thought that the position under the proviso was similar to the position under the proviso (b) of S. 2 (1) of the English Act.	Reasoning
It is open to argument whether that is really	Reasoning
so	Reasoning
but, in any case, after S. 10 was amended in 1938 the position is clearly different and distinguishable from the position of the English section.	Reasoning
The relevant proviso under the amended section lays down that a Commissioner may entertain and decide any claim for compensation in any case notwithstanding that notice has not been given, or the claim has not been preferred before it in due time as provided by S. 10, subs.	Reasoning
(1) if he is satisfied that the failure so to give the notice or prefer the claim as the case may be was due to sufficient cause.	None
It is significant that S. 10 (1) requires the notice of accident to be given as soon as practicable and the claim to be preferred before the Commissioner within six months.	Reasoning
This period has subsequently been enlarged to a period of one year but that is another matter.	Reasoning
Thus the position under S. 10 as amended clearly is that the six months limitation has been prescribed for preferring the application for compensation before the Commissioner and so there can be no anology between the limitation thus prescribed and the limitation prescribed by S. 2 (1) of the English Act.	Reasoning
With respect, we may add that in the case of Kamarhatti Co., Ltd. 19521 Lab LJ 490 (AIR 1953 Cal 74 ) (supra), where the learned judges held that the decision in Lingleys case 19211 KB 655 (supra), was applicable to the case before them, their attention was not drawn to the material change made by the amendment of S. 10 of the Indian Act.	Reasoning
But the view expressed by the court in that case on the point of law is clearly obiter.	Reasoning
The actual decision was that no sufficient cause had been shown by the claimant even on the liberal construction of the proviso, and so the order directing the employer to pay compensation to his workmen was set aside.	Reasoning
Thus it would be clear that the decisions on which Mr. Phadke founds his argument were concerned with a statutory provision as to limitation which is essentially different from the provision made by the proviso with which we are concerned.19.	Reasoning
The proviso with which we are concerned has prescribed the limitation of six months for the institution of the application itself, and so the principle laid down in Lingleys case 19211 KB 655 (supra), can have no application to the question which we have to decide.	Reasoning
Indeed, the present proviso is in substance similar to the provision in S. 5 of the Limitation Act, and Mr. Phadke has fairly conceded that there is consensus of judicial opinion on the question of the construction of S. 5.It cannot be disputed that in dealing with the question of condoning delay under S. 5 of the Limitation Act the party has to satisfy the court that he had sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal or making the application within the prescribed time, and this has always been understood to mean that the explanation has to cover the whole of the period of delay (Vide Ram Narain Joshi v. Parmeswar Narain Mahta, ILR 30 Cal 309 (PC).Therefore the finding recorded by the authority that the appellants have failed to establish sufficient cause for their inaction between 251952, and the respective dates on which they filed their present applications is fatal to their claim.	Reasoning
That is why we think it unnecessary to consider the larger question of law which Mr. Phadke sought to raise before us.20.	Reasoning
We would like to add that the learned AttorneyGeneral had raised a preliminary objection against the validity of the certificate granted by the High Court in the present appeals.	Reasoning
He wanted to urge that the High Court was in error in considering the total value of the consolidated appeals for the purpose of granting certificate under Art.	Reasoning
133.	Reasoning
We have, however, not thought it necessary to consider this argument.21.	Reasoning
The result is the appeals fail and are dismissed.	Decision
The respondent has fairly not pressed for his costs, and so we direct that the parties should bear their own costs in this Court.	Decision
No order as to court fees.22.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	Decision
