Dipak Misra, J.	None
In this batch of appeals, by special leave, the appellants have assailed the legal tenability of separate orders dated 01.12.2011 passed in Writ Petition No. 9017 of 2010 which relates to the writ petition filed by Manganese Ore India Ltd. and M.P. No. 2821 of 1988, M.P. No. 3827 of 1993 and W.P. No. 3103 of 1994 preferred by Hindustan Copper Limited.2.	Issue
As the commonality of controversy centres around interpretation of the terms mineral and processing under the definition of mine as defined under Explanation (b) of PartB of Madhya Pradesh Electricity Duty Act, 1949 (for brevity, the Act), we shall enumerate the scheme of the Act and the various litigations that have taken place and thereafter advert to the facts in each case.	Issue
For brevity and to avoid repetition, we have initially referred to the litigation and different orders passed in the case of Hindustan Copper Limited.	Issue
The erstwhile Central Provinces and Berar Legislative Assembly had enacted the CP and Berar Electricity Duty Act, 1949 which was adopted in the State of Madhya Pradesh and has come to be known as the Madhya Pradesh Electricity Duty Act, 1949.	Facts
The Preamble to the Act as amended by the State Legislature provides that it is an Act for the levy of duty on sale or consumption of electrical energy.	Facts
Section 3(1) of the Act accordingly provides for levy of duty on sale or consumption of electrical energy.	Facts
It stipulates that subject to the exceptions specified in Section 3A, every distributor of electrical energy and every producer shall pay every month to the State Government at the prescribed time and in the prescribed manner a duty calculated at the rates specified in the table below on the units of electrical energy sold or supplied to a consumer or consumed by himself for his own purposes or for purposes of his township or colony, during the preceding month.	Facts
The table to Section 3(1) prescribes different rates of duty depending for the purpose for which the electrical energy is sold.	Facts
PartB of the table provides for different rates of duty for the electrical energy sold, supplied or consumed for the purposes therein.	Facts
Item 3 to the said table reads as follows Mines (other than captive 40 mines of cement industry)	None
The numeral 40 comes under the heading rate of duty as percentage of the electricity tariff per unit.	None
The Explanation (b) to Section 3(1) defines mine as under Explanation .(b)	Facts
Mine means a mine to which the Mines Act, 1952 (No. 35 of 1952) applies and includes the premises or machinery situated in or adjacent to mine and used for crushing, processing, treating or transporting the mineral.	Facts
It is necessary to state here that Hindustan Copper Limited had filed a Writ Petition to strike down the provision of Section 3 and the Table PartB Item 4 (which is now Item No. 3 after 1995 amendment) and Explanation (b) which contains extended definition of mines as ultra vires the Constitution.	Facts
As the factual matrix would reveal, the High Court dismissed the Writ Petition by placing reliance on State of M.P. v. Birla Jute Mfg. Co. Ltd., (1995) 4 SCC 603.	Facts
The matter travelled to this Court which eventually formed the subject matter of Civil Appeal Nos. 324850 of 1998.	Facts
A twoJudge Bench of this Court in Hindustan Copper Ltd. v. State of M.P. and others, (2004) 12 SCC 408 taking note of certain facts opined that the main controversy that was required to be examined by the High Court was as to how the word mines is to be understood as contained in clause (b) of the Explanation under Item 4 of the Table contained in Section 3 of the Act.	Facts
This Court took note of the contentions of the appellant therein that the activities carried on by it do not fall within the meaning of the word adjacent area and further the approach of the respondents was selective and discriminatory.	Facts
As the submissions raised were not dealt with by the High Court but it proceeded to dispose of the case without examining the facts in greater details in regard to either the activities carried on at different places by the appellant or as to how in the context of the facts of the case and having due regard to the provisions, the word adjacent should be construed, the Court remitted the Writ Petition to the High Court by stating so Under the circumstances, we consider it just and appropriate that the High Court should examine afresh the contentions advanced on behalf of the parties, having due regard to the materials placed on record and in the context of the provisions of the Act touching the controversy.	Facts
Since we are taking a view to remit the case to the High Court, we do not wish to express one way or the other on the merits of the respective contentions urged by the parties.	Facts
After the remit, the High Court heard the Writ Petition and dismissed the same.	Facts
The order passed by the High Court was assailed in appeal, by special leave, in Civil Appeal No. 6725 of 2008.	Facts
In the second round, the twoJudge Bench stated the facts in detail which are to the effect that the appellant therein is engaged in extraction of copper ore, by open cast mining process involving drilling and blasting the ore in the open pit mine, the ore in the form of boulders are transported to the primary crusher (situated at a distance of 2.53 km from the mine), where it is crushed into pebbles pieces and such crushed ore is then carried on a conveyor to a secondary crusher (situated at about 5 km from the mine) for further crushing into smaller pebbles.	Facts
After the said stage, small pieces pebbles are then carried by a conveyor to the Concentrator Plant (situated at 5.5 km from the mine).7.	Facts
This Court further proceeded to state the facts adumbrated as projected by the appellant before the High Court.	Facts
It was asserted that In the Concentrator Plant, the ore is milled into powder in the ball mills.	Facts
Such powder mixed with water is carried in the form of slurry to floatation cells.	Facts
In the floatation cells, the slurry is subjected to froth floatation process and the copper concentrate is removed and dried in vacuum driers and stored in concentrate storage sheds.	Facts
The tailing pumps are at a distance of 8 km.	Facts
A large quantity of water is required for the Concentrator Plant for being used in milling.	Facts
Water is also required for the factory township.	Facts
The required water is pumped from the mines through pumps located at an intake well (situated at a distance of 10 km from the mine).	Facts
From the intake well, water is pumped to water treatment plant (situated at a distance of 6 km from the mine).5.	Facts
According to the appellant, its activities consist of two distinct parts.	Facts
First is mining, that is, drilling, blasting and collecting of ore which is carried on at mine pit.	Facts
This activity is carried on in the mine area registered under the Mines Act, 1952.	Facts
The second is processing, which is carried on at the primary crusher, the secondary crusher and the Concentrator Plant.	Facts
The processing (manufacturing) part of the activities are carried on in the factory area.	Facts
The primary crusher, the secondary crusher, the ball mill, the Concentrator Plant, the tailing pumps, the intake well and the water treatment plant are situated away from the mine, at distances varying from 2.5 km to 10 km and are registered separately as a factory under the provisions of the Factories Act, 1948.	Facts
The open pit mine (mining area) and the processing plants machineries (factory area) are all situated in a large tract of land taken on mining lease from the State Government.	None
The twoJudge Bench adverted to the chronology of the case and noted that the principal grievance of the appellant therein pertains to the definition of mine the effect of which is to make processing a part of mining and the prescription of a higher rate of duty for mines (that is composite activity of mining and processing), while prescribing a lesser rate for other categories of industries.	None
That apart, the Court taking note of the fact that classification of factories into two categories (a) those which are adjacent to a mine and used for crushing, processing, treating and transporting the mineral and (b) other factories is permissible.	Facts
It was urged on behalf of the appellant that the expression adjacent to the mines is vague and ambiguous that leads to discriminatory treatment by the authorities.	Facts
Further, its processing plant, that is, the primary crusher, the secondary crusher, the ball mill, the Concentrator Plant, the tailing pumps, the intake well and the water treatment plant are not situated adjacent to its mine and therefore could not be treated as mine for the purpose of levy of electricity duty.	Facts
The Court also took note of the issues framed by the High Court after the order of remit on the earlier occasion.	Facts
The said issues read as follows Whether prescribing different rates of tax for processing plant and machinery adjacent to a mine (factory falling within the extended definition of mine), and other factories is discriminatory and arbitrary and therefore violative of Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution of India?(ii) Whether definition of the word mine in Explanation (b) in the Table under Section 3 of the Act, gives unguided discretion to authority under the Act to decide what is adjacent to a mine and therefore invalid.?(iii) Whether use of the words adjacent to a mine would mean only the premises or machinery abutting to or adjacent to the mine, and not premises or the plant machinery situated at a distance of about 2.5 to 6 km?(iv)	Facts
Whether the State had applied different yardsticks in charging duty to petitioner and in charging duty to Bhilai Steel, Balco, Manganese Ore India Ltd. and thereby practised discrimination?	Facts
It is imperative to state here that a contention was advanced by the appellant therein that the High Court had not considered the real issues and the questions formulated for determination did not cover the actual issues and disputes involved.	None
The Court proceeded to state the controversy in following terms The Act was amended by the M.P. Electricity Duty (Amendment) Act, 1986 (in short the Amendment Act).	Facts
Different rates of duty are provided in Part B.	Facts
In the said Part, clause (4) relates to the mines other than the captive mines of cement factory and the rate is 50 paise per unit of energy.	Facts
Explanation (b) defines mine as follows(b) mine means a mine to which the Mines Act, 1952 ( 35 of 1952) applies and includes the premises or machinery situated in or adjacent to a mine and used for crushing, processing, treating or transporting the mineral.22.	Facts
It was submitted that the entry relating to mines refers to processing, treating or transporting the mineral.	Facts
According to the learned Solicitor General the stress is on the expression mineral.	Facts
It was pointed out that the appellant is manufacturing copper concentrate which is not a mineral and it is not doing mining so far as it is covered by clause (7) for other industries not covered under the above categories where the rate is 5 paise per unit of energy.	Facts
Essentially the submission is that the Explanation only relates to mining or minerals.	Facts
What is excisable is copper concentrate because there is a process of manufacturing involved.	Facts
It is seen that Points (iii) and (iv) formulated by the High Court for determination are really relevant.	Facts
But the points have not been correctly formulated to cover the actual essence of the dispute.	Facts
The correct question would be as followsWhether copper concentrate is a mineral and whether Explanation to Part B of the Act applies even though manufacturing process is involved to bring it into existence?	Facts
In view of the aforesaid, this Court set aside the impugned judgment and remanded the matter to the High Court for fresh consideration of the question framed permitting the parties to place material in support of their respective stands.10.	None
After the remand, before the High Court it was contended that mineral is something which grows in the mine and is capable of being won or extracted so as to be subjected to the better or precious use.	Facts
It was further contended that copper ore is extracted at the mine pit and then it is subjected to processing whereafter copper ore becomes copper concentrate which is a different commodity which is an excisable product.	Facts
On that basis, it was urged that copper concentrate is not a mineral and consequently, Explanation (b) to PartB of Section 3 of the Act will not apply.	Facts
Reliance was placed on State of W.B. v. Kesoram Industries Ltd. and others, (2004) 10 SCC 201 and Uranium Corporation of India Ltd., Bihar v. Collector of Central Excise, Patna, 1985 (19) ELT 609.	Facts
On behalf of the State, it was urged that copper concentrate is a mineral regard being had to the definition contained in Section 2(jj) of the Mines Act, 1952 (for short, the 1952 Act) as well as Schedules I and II appended to the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957.	Facts
The Division Bench was commended to the authority in V.P. Pithupitchai and another v. Special Secretary to the Govt.	Facts
of T.N., (2003) 9 SCC 534 and the decision of the Division Bench of the High Court in Stone Crusher Owners Association and other v. M.P. Electricity Board and others, MP No. 673/1993.	Facts
On behalf of the respondents, the competent authority of the M.P. Electricity Board contended that the copper ore does not cease to be a mineral merely because it is subjected to the stated processing and therefore the copper concentrate does not lose its identity as a mineral.	Facts
It was further submitted that even though the copper ore is subjected to processing yet its chemical structure does not change by placing reliance on the decision in Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation of India Ltd. v. Union of India and others, (1972) 2 SCC 620.	Facts
11.	Facts
The High Court considering the rivalised submissions at the Bar, came to hold that the State has the authority to pick and choose districts, objects, persons, methods and even rates for taxation if it does so reasonably and for the said purpose placed reliance on East India Tobacco Co. v. State of Andhra Pradesh, AIR 1962 SC 1733 .	Facts
It further opined that while latitude is available to the legislature in the matters of classification of objects, persons and things for purposes of taxation and it has to be so having regard to the complexities involved in the formulation of taxation policy.	Facts
To express the said opinion, the High Court placed reliance on Elel Hotels and Investments Ltd. v. Union of India, (1989) 3 SCC 698 AIR 1990 SC 1664 and Govt.	Facts
of A.P. v. P. Laxmi Devi, 2008(2) R.C.R.(Civil)	Facts
561 2008(2)	Facts
Recent Apex Judgments (R.A.J.) 475 (2008) 4 SCC 720.	Facts
Thereafter it referred to subjectandobject rule and in that regard reproduced a passage from Principles of Statutory Interpretation 11, and commended itself to the authorities in Tarlochan Dev Sharma v. State of Punjab Ors., 2001(3) R.C.R.(Civil) 809 (2001) 6 SCC 260 and Union of India v. Harjeet Singh Sandhu, 2001(2) S.C.T 1018 (2001) 5 SCC 593.	None
After stating the legal proposition in the aforesaid manner, the High Court ruled that the 1949 Act is an enactment meant to provide for levy of duty on sale or consumption of electrical energy and the Act has been enacted in exercise of power under item 48 (b) List II of the Government of India Act, 1953 which corresponds to Entry 53 of List II of the VIIth Schedule of the Constitution of India, namely, tax on consumption or sale of electricity.	Facts
It referred to Section 3 of the Act and the definition of the term mine and deduced that electricity duty under the Act is a tax which is levied on sale of consumption of electricity and further proceeded to state that if the table appended to Section 3 of the Act is seen, the classification for the purpose of levy of electricity duty is based on the purpose for which the electrical energy is sold or consumed and the classification table for the purpose of levy of duty.	Facts
Dealing with the facet of classification, the High Court observed that Justice G.P. Singh, 12th Edn., Page 349350	None
The classification made under Section 3 of the Act has a clear nexus with the object sought to be achieved, namely, raising revenue by grouping different types of industries and prescribing different rates of duty depending upon the nature of the industry.	Facts
The highest rate of electricity duty is prescribed by the legislature in its wisdom for the mining industry.	Facts
The object of prescribing the highest rate of electricity duty appears to tax the person industry exploiting the nature wealth which is nonrenewable.	Facts
The exploiter has been required to contribute more, so that such contribution is, hopefully, utilized for the welfare of the people to whim such natural wealth belongs.	None
After so stating, it adverted to the anatomy of the definition of the term mine and observed that the expression creates a legal fiction and, therefore, the definition will embrace only what is comprised within the ordinary meaning of mine part, together with what is mentioned in the inclusive part of the definition and, therefore, as per well settled rules of statutory interpretation has to be read with regard to subject and object of the Act.	Facts
The Court proceeded to state that the object of the Act is to raise revenue by prescribing rate of duty and the highest rate of duty is prescribed for mining industries as it is exploiting the natural wealth which is nonrenewable, therefore, it must pay higher rate of duty which can be utilized for meeting the essential expenditures by the State Government.	Facts
Thereafter, the High Court held Taking into account the fact that the expression mine creates a legal fiction and if the word mineral is read subject to the context and object of the Act, it is graphically clear that wide meaning has to be given to expression mineral.	Facts
If the copper ore is converted to copper concentrate by processing, it only enriches content of copper in the copper concentrate and it does not cease to be mineral merely on its conversion from copper to copper concentrate.	Facts
In view of the preceding analysis, in our considered opinion copper concentrate is a mineral as defined in explanation (b) to Part B of Section 3 of the Act and, therefore, the explanation (b) to Part B of Section 3 of the Act applies to it.	Facts
Besides copper concentrate is the end product.	Facts
What is crushed, processed, treated or transported is not copper concentrate but the ore.	Facts
The electricity in question is being consumed for such crushing, processing, treating or transportation.	Facts
Dwelling upon the word adjacent and the argument raised pertaining to discrimination between industries located in close proximity of the mine and other industries carrying on the same activity, namely, crushing, processing, treating or transportation, which are not located in such close proximity of the mine, the Division Bench opined that The word adjacent does not mean adjoining or abutting, but has a wider connotation, and would include close proximity such being in the same locality.	Facts
This proposition is not disputed, and therefore, it is not necessary to refer to the case law cited for the meaning of the word adjacent.	Facts
In reply the learned Additional Advocate General submits that this differentiation is justified because the increased overheads such as transportation costs have been considered for not subjecting the far away industries to higher tax.	Facts
When the matter was listed for hearing, Mr. Mukul Rohtagi, learned Attorney General appearing for the Manganese Ore India Ltd. and Mr. P.P. Rao, learned senior counsel appearing for Hindustan Copper Ltd. urged that the High Court has fallen into grave error by imposing the electricity duty on the basis of the definition engrafted under Explanation (b) to Section 3(1) of the 1949 Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended by Mr. Rohtagi that manganese order is a mineral under the Mines Act, 1952 but ferro manganese is not a mineral because the said mineral is converted into alloy and ceases to be a mineral.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. P.P. Rao, learned senior counsel submitted that copper is a mineral but copper concentrate does not contain any character of a mineral and, therefore, the duty has to be charged at the rate of 8 and not at the rate of 40.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Saurabh, learned counsel for the State, per contra, contended that the definition is an inclusive one and hence, when the mineral is processed for the purpose of conversion to alloy, duty at the rate of 40 is leviable.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the State would submit that the view expressed by the High Court is absolutely defensible.	Arguments of Respondent
The thrust of the matter is whether the aforesaid activity after the mineral i.e. ore has been mined would be covered by the word processing used in the Explanation B to Item 3(1) which defines the term mine.	Issue
Mine as per the said explanation means a mine as to which the Mines Act, 1952 applies.	None
The word mine as defined in the Mines Act, 1952 reads as follows (j) mine means any excavation where any operation for the purpose of searching for or obtaining minerals has been carried on, and includes(iiv) (v) all conveyors or aerial ropeways provided for the bringing into or removal from a mine of minerals or other articles or for the removal of refuse therefrom(vi) all adits, levels, machinery, railways, tramways and sidings in or adjacent to and belonging to a mine(vii) all protective works being carried on in or adjacent to the mine The word minerals as defined in the Mines Act, 1952 reads as follows (jj) minerals mean all substances which can be obtained from the earth by mining, digging, drilling, dredging, hydraulicking, quarrying or by any other operation and includes mineral oils (which in turn include natural gas and petroleum).	Facts
Mining would comprehend every activity by which the mineral is extracted or obtained from earth irrespective of whether such activity is carried on at the surface or in the bowel, but it must be an activity for winning a mineral.	Reasoning
For the purpose of Item 3 mine to which electrical energy is sold, supplied or consumed, it would include machinery or premises situated in the adjacent to the mine, provided the electricity is used for crushing, processing, treating or transporting the minerals.	Reasoning
The word mineral used in the aforesaid Explanation under the Act would have reference to the mineral which is mined and is then crushed, processed, treated or transported.	Reasoning
The word processing used in the Explanation has to be interpreted in the context and for the purpose of the said item.	Reasoning
Process can be given either a wide or a narrow meaning.	Reasoning
In the context in which it is used in the Explanation, we are disposed to think that it must be given a meaning which emerges when we apply the rule of noscitur a sociis which means that the meaning of the word is to be judged by the company it keeps.	Reasoning
See Rohit Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd. v. Collector of Central Excise, (1990) 3 SCC 447 .	Reasoning
The rule of noscitur a sociis has been applied and accepted in Ahmedabad Pvt.	Reasoning
Primary Teachers Association v. Administrative Officer Ors., 2004(1) S.C.T. 667 (2004) 1 SCC 755.	Reasoning
We would prefer to construe the said word in the Explanation with reference to the words before and after for the word processing used therein.	Reasoning
The word processing herein, we think, should be interpreted and understood with the associated words crushing and treating.	Reasoning
The word processing is susceptible of the meaning keeping in view the word crushing and treatment used before and afterwards.19.	Reasoning
We are absolutely conscious that noscitur a sociis rule is not applied when the language is clear and there is no ambiguity, which according to us does exist and perceptible in the Explanation in question.	Reasoning
A very broad and a wide definition of the term processing if applied, would include manufacture of a new or distinct product.	Reasoning
Manufacture normally involves a series of processes either by hand or machine.	Reasoning
If a restricted construction is not applied it would create and give rise to unacceptable consequences.	Reasoning
It is not the intent to treat and regard manufacturing activities as processing.	Reasoning
Manufacturing, as is understood, means a series of processes through different stages in which the raw material is subjected to change by different operations.	Reasoning
For different between process and manufacturing see CIT v. Tara Agency, (2007) 6 SCC 429 , Orient Paper and Industries v. State of M.P. and Anr., (2006) 12 SCC 468 and Aspinwall Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Ernakulam, (2001) 7 SCC 525.	Reasoning
The words crushing, treating and transporting are words of narrower significance and the word processing used between these words should not be given a very wide meaning, for the legislative intent, according to us, is narrower.	None
The word processing would take its meaning in the cognate sense.	None
In other words, the general word processing will be restricted to the sense conveyed by the words crushing, treating and transporting.	None
The intent being that electricity tariff payable in respect of mining activities would include the mine itself, all machinery situated or located in the mine or in a premises adjacent to the mine wherein crushing, processing, treatment or transportation of the minerals as mined is undertaken.	None
The word processing herein would mean those processes with the help of hands or machineries connected and linked to mining activity.	None
It would not include process by which a new or different article other than the one which has been mined, is produced.	None
It relates and signifies the composite activity of mining and processing.	None
The intent is not to include processes which would lead to creation of a different commodity as known in the commercial world for otherwise even manufacturing activity would get covered, whereas manufacturing unit is liable to pay electricity tariff at a lower rate.	None
The intent and purpose is certainly not to compel and force a manufacturing unit being set up at an acceptable distance from the mine, for the manufacturing unit adjacent to the mine would have to pay electricity tariff at a higher rate.	None
Pertinently, a manufacturing unit set up by another entity, whether adjacent to the mine or not, would pay a lower tariff.	None
Such absurdity and irrationality has to be avoided.	None
In the present context, we would, therefore, hold processing would mean activities in order to make the mineral mined marketable, saleable and transportable, without substantially changing the identity of the mineral, as mined.	None
When there is a substantial change at the mineral mined and the process results in a different commodity being produced or transforming and completely changing the mineral, it would fall outside the scope of the word processing.	None
The restricted construction will also be acceptable in view of the use of the word mineral in the end of the Explanation.	None
The word mineral in the Explanation is the product which was mined and is put to crushing, processing, treatment and transporting the mineral.	Reasoning
In other words, mineral means mineral which was mined and not a new product created by using or processing the mineral mined.	None
Be it noted, learned counsel for the appellants would submit that the metals and minerals available in the earth are rarely found in the pure forms and degree of purity that the ultimate users demand.	None
They are intimately mixed, physically or chemically and often both, with other substances.	Arguments of Petitioner
For use, the good must be separated from the worthless substances.	Arguments of Petitioner
The sum total of the treatments to which the ores are subjected to in order to separate and discard their worthless fractions by essentially physical means is called Ore Dressing.	Arguments of Petitioner
The various modes of Ore Dressing include handpicking, sorting, screening, washing, jigging, magnetic separation, crushing, grinding, etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this process, there is no change in the chemical composition and properties of mined mineral, before and after processing dressing to make it saleable.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is important to point out that mineral dressing is a subject matter of Mineral processing.	Arguments of Petitioner
As distinguished from the above, manufacturing of an alloy, etc. is a subject matter of Metallurgy and is a part of Metallurgical branch of engineering.	None
Ore Dressing is defined as the processing of raw mineral to yield a marketable mineral by such means that do not destroy the chemical identity of the minerals.	None
On the other hand, an alloy like the Ferro Manganese Alloy is a result of a manufacturing method which involves Electro thermic smelting in case of the appellant which ultimately changes the chemical identity of manganese ore resulting into ferromanganese alloy.	None
This method requires manganese ore as one of the raw materials for the manufacture of Ferro Manganese Alloy.	None
Ferro Alloy is defined as an alloy of iron with a sufficient amount of some element or element such as manganese, silicon, chromium or vanadium as a means of introducing these elements into iron and steel.	None
Customarily, Ferro alloys are identified or designated by the principal base metals present in them.	None
The names of Ferro alloys are abbreviated by using chemical symbols, e.g., FeMn, FeSi and FeCr standing for Ferro Manganese, Ferro Silicon and Ferro Chromium, respectively.	None
Manufacturing of Ferro manganese alloy involves the use of manganese ore as a raw material which is subjected along with other raw material (Dolomite, Iron Ore, Coke, Coal and Carbon Paste), to Electro thermic smelting.	None
The manufacturing of Ferro Manganese by Electro thermic smelting is a continuous smelting with the electrodes submerged deep into the charge.	None
The smelting includes the stages as follows preheating of the materials, drying and removal of volatiles, reduction of oxides, and smelting of the metal and slag.	None
The same reasoning and manufacturing processing is required to create copper concentrate, a new and different commercial product.	None
It is not the mineral as mined.	None
It is urged that Ferromanganese is an alloy and is not a mineral.	Arguments of Petitioner
The same is an alloy of manganese and iron and is not available in natural form.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is manufactured in the ferromanganese plant of the appellant  Manganese Ore India Ltd. by using raw materials LIKE manganese ore, iron, coal, coke, dolomite, etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further contended that the appellant, Manganese Ore India Ltd. has, within its manganese ore mine area, an Integrated Manganese Beneficiation Plant (IMB Plant) as also a Ferro Manganese Plant (FMP).	Arguments of Petitioner
Following is the seriatim in which the mining processing manufacturing takes place First Stage The appellant mines manganese ore from its mines.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is a levy of electricity duty on the appellants consumption of electricity during mining at 40, which the appellant is not disputing.b.	Arguments of Petitioner
Second State Such mines manganese ore is processed by removal of impurities in the appellants Integrated Manganese Beneficiation Plant (IMB Plant).	Arguments of Petitioner
During this process the cleaning of mineral takes place by various methods to remove impurities and foreign contents for the enrichment of the manganese content and during this process, the manganese mineral remains a mineral.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is a levy of electricity duty on the appellants consumption of electricity of IMB Plant at 40, which the appellant is not disputing.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is relevant to note that 95 to 98 of such processed manganese ore is sold in open market.	Arguments of Petitioner
Remaining is then sent as a raw material to the appellants Ferro Manganese Plant (FMP).c.	Arguments of Petitioner
Third State	Arguments of Petitioner
At the Ferro Manganese Plant, raw materials like, processed manganese ore (for which 40 electricity duty is already paid by IMB Plant), iron ore, coke, dolomite, coal, carbon, etc., are by way of a manufacturing process through a furnace, blended into a completely new product commercially known and sold in the market as ferromanganese alloy which is a different product with different chemistry and, through smelting in furnace.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is nothing but a manufacturing activity, where raw materials like manganese ore, iron ore, coke, dolomite, coal, carbon, etc are completely consumed exhausted.	Arguments of Petitioner
To bring to the Ferro Manganese Plant of the appellant within the meaning of mine, the State has argued before this Court that the Ferro Manganese Plant is being used for crushing, processing, treating or transporting the mineral, that is, manganese ore.	Arguments of Respondent
This is clearly unsustainable as the appellant is neither crushing or processing or treating or transporting manganese ore but rather using it as one of the raw materials and consuming the same while manufacturing ferromanganese alloy.	Arguments of Respondent
The state of crushing, treating, processing, etc. of the manganese ore (mineral) was in the IMB Plant (second stage), where the appellant is paying electricity duty at 40.	Arguments of Respondent
The same rate cannot be applied in the Ferro Manganese Plant (the third stage) as it cannot be taken to be within the meaning of mine for the aforesaid reason.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the appellants would contend that in numerous decisions, this Court has reiterated that if a new substance is brought into existence or if a new or different article having a distinctive name, character or use results from particular processes, such process or processes would amount to manufacture.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the case of Gramophone Co. of India Ltd. v. Collector of Customs, Calcutta, (2000) 1 SCC 549 , this Court held The term manufacture is not defined in the Customs Act.	None
In the allied Act, namely the Central Excise Act, 1944 also, the term manufacture is not to be found defined though vide clause (f) of Section 2 an inclusive definition is given of the term manufacture so as to include certain processes also therein.12.	None
Manufacture came up for the consideration of the Constitution Bench in Ujagar Prints v. Union of India (1989) 3 SCC 488.	None
It was held that if there should come into existence a new article with a distinctive character and use, as a result of the processing, the essential condition justifying manufacture of goods is satisfied.	None
The following passage in the Permanent Edition of Words and Phrases was referred to with approval in Delhi Cloth and General Mills, AIR 1963 SC 791 at p. 795Manufacture implies a change, but every change is not manufacture and yet every change of an article is the result of treatment, labour and manipulation.	None
But something more is necessary and there must be transformation a new and different article must emerge having a distinctive name, character or use.13.	None
In a series of decisions to wit, Decorative Laminates (India) (P) Ltd v. CCE, (1996) 10 SCC 46 , Union of India v. Parle Products (P) Ltd. 1994 Supp.	None
(3) SCC 662, Laminated Packings (P) Ltd v. CCE, (1990) 4 SCC 51 and Empire Industries Ltd. v. CCE, (1985) 3 SCC 314 the view taken consistently by this Court is that the moment there is transformation into a new commodity commercially known as a distinct and separate commodity having its own character, use and name whether it be the result of one process or several processes, manufacture takes place the transformation of the goods into a new and different article should be such that in the commercial world it is known as another and different article.	None
Prerecorded audio cassettes are certainly goods known in the market as distinct and different from blank audio cassettes.	None
The two have different uses.	None
A prerecorded audio cassette is generally sold by reference to its name or title which is suggestive of the contents of the audio recording on the cassette.	None
The appellant is indulging in a mass production of such prerecorded audio cassettes.	None
It is a manufacturing activity.	None
The appellants activity cannot be compared with a person sitting in the market extending the facility of recording any demanded music or sounds on a blank audio cassette brought by or made available to the customer, which activity may be called a service.	None
The Tribunal was not right in equating the appellants activity with photoprocessing and holding the appellant a service industry.	None
In Aspinwall Co. Ltd. (supra) this Court has held as follows The word manufacture has not been defined in the Act.	None
In the absence of a definition of the word manufacture it has to be given a meaning as is understood in common parlance.	None
It is to be understood as meaning the production of articles for use from raw or prepared materials by giving such materials new forms, qualities or combinations whether by hand labour or machines.	None
If the change made in the article results in a new and different article then it would amount to a manufacturing activity.14.	None
This Court while determining as to what would amount to a manufacturing activity, held in CST v. Pio Food Packers, 1980 Supp.	None
SCC 174 that the test for determination whether manufacture can be said to have taken place is whether the commodity which is subjected to the process of manufacture can no longer be regarded as the original commodity, but is recognized in the trade as a new and distinct commodity.	None
It was observed (SCC p. 176, para 5)Commonly manufacture is the end result of one or more processes through which the original commodity is made to pass.	None
The nature and extent of processing may vary from one case to another, and indeed there may be several stages of processing and perhaps a different kind of processing at each stage.	None
With each process suffered, the original commodity experiences a change.	None
But it is only when the change, or a series of changes, take the commodity to the point where commercially it can no longer be regarded as the original commodity but instead is recognized as a new and distinct article that a manufacture can be said to take place.15.	None
Adverting to facts of the present case, the assessee after plucking or receiving the raw coffee berries makes it undergo nine processes to give it the shape of coffee beans.	None
The net product is absolutely different and separate from the input.	None
The change made in the article results in a new and different article which is recognized in the trade as a new and distinct commodity.	None
The coffee beans have an independent identity distinct from the raw material from which it was manufactured.	None
A distinct change comes about in the finished product.16.	None
Submission of the learned counsel for the Revenue that the assessee was doing only the processing work and was not involved in the manufacture and production of a new article cannot be accepted.	None
The process is a manufacturing process when it brings out a complete transformation in the original article so as to produce a commercially different article or commodity.	None
That process itself may consist of several processes.	None
The different processes are integrally connected which results in the production of a commercially different article.	None
If a commercially different article or commodity results after processing then it would be a manufacturing activity.	None
The assessee after processing the raw berries converts them into coffee beans which is a commercially different commodity.	None
Conversion of the raw berry into coffee beans would be a manufacturing activity.	None
This Court in ServoMed Industries Pvt. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Central Excise, 2015 (6) SCALE 137 has held as under 27.(1) Where the goods remain exactly the same even after a particular process, there is obviously no manufacture involved.	None
Processes which remove foreign matter from goods complete in themselves and or processes which clean goods that are complete in themselves fall within this category.27.(4) Where the goods are transformed into goods which are different and or new after a particular process, such goods being marketable as such.	None
It is in this category that manufacture of goods can be said to take place.	None
Thus, the Ferro Manganese Plant, being a unit involved in manufacturing of ferromanganese alloy as opposed to a unit involved in crushing, treating, processing, etc. of manganese ore, cannot be treated within the extended definition of mine within the Explanation (b) of Part B of Table of Rates of Duty to Section 3(1) of the Act.	Reasoning
The Executive Engineer and Chief Electrical Inspector, Government of Madhya Pradesh, vide its letter dated 06.02.2005 to the Superintendent Engineer and Deputy Electrical Inspector, Government of Madhya Pradesh, had confirmed as under On spot inspection it is confirmed that, Ferro Manganese Plant does not come in the Mining Area and Electricity Duty 8 being charged at present by the M.P. State Electricity Board is proper.	None
The Ferromanganese Alloy so manufactured by the appellant using the mineral Manganese at its Ferromanganese plant is an entirely different product from its mineral raw material both physically and even chemically.	Reasoning
Moreover, unlike Manganese ore a ferromanganese alloy can never be found in the natural state and it has to be manufactured from the manganese ore and other minerals only.	Reasoning
The same logic applies to copper concentrate as a different and distinct product comes into existence.31.	Reasoning
Thus analyzed, we find that in both the cases, the different products in commercial parlance have emerged.	Decision
Hence, we are inclined to think that the principle of noscitur a sociis has to be applied.	Decision
As a logical corollary, tariff has to be levied as meant for manufacturing unit.	Decision
Therefore, the analysis made by the High Court is not correct and, accordingly, the judgments rendered by it deserve to be set aside and we so direct.	Decision
However, during this period if any amount has been paid by the appellants to the revenue, the same shall be adjusted towards future demands.32.	Decision
Consequently, appeals are allowed.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
