 	None
Das J.1.	None
This appeal arises out of a suit filed by the appellants on 211941, in the Court of the Subordinate Judge, Asansole.	None
That suit came to be filed in circumstances which may now be stated shortly.2.	None
A suit had been instituted by one Kumar Dakhineswar Malia against Rameswar Malia, Rani Bhaba Sundari and others for partition of the Searsole Raj Estate.	Facts
One Bhagabati Charan Mitra was appointed receiver of that estate in that suit.	Facts
On 1081908, the said receiver with the permission of the Court which had appointed him as receiver granted two mining leases, each for 999 yearsone in respect of 5/16 share of the Malias in Mouza Monohar Bahal and the other in respect of 230bighasin village March Kotato a firm then carrying on business under the name and style of Laik Banerjee and Company.	Facts
On the same day, the said receiver with like permission mortgaged these properties to the said firm as security for the due repayment of the loan of Rs. l00,000 advanced by that firm.	Facts
The Malias joined the receiver in executing the aforesaid leases and the mortgage.	Facts
As a result of these transactions the firm of Laik Banerjee and Company became the lessees for 999 years of the two properties as well as the mortgagee of the lessors interest in the same.	Facts
By diverse processes not necessary to be detailed, the appellants have become the successorsininterest of the mortgagors and the respondent Deva Prasanna Mukerjee has become the successor in interest of the mortgagee under the mortgage of 1081908.3.	Facts
On 3131999, Deva Prasanna filed suit No. 78 of 1922 for enforcing the mortgage of 1908.	None
Preliminary decree was passed in the last mentioned suit on 3171928, and a final decree for sale was made on 2621929.	Facts
In execution of this final decree, the mortgaged properties were sold at a court sale and were purchased by Deva Prasanna at and for Rs. 59,000.	Facts
This sale was confirmed by the Court on 3061931.	Facts
A large sum remaining still due to Deva Prasanna, be applied for, and on 30101935, obtained a personal decree to Rs.1,17,179.06 against Raja Pramatha Nath Malia who had by inheritance acquired the lessors interest and become the borrower.4.	Facts
In 1936, Deva Prasanna started execution case No. 118 of 1936 for execution of the personal decree and attached certain properties alleging that the same belonged to the Raja.	Facts
The exact date of the attachment does not appear from the printed record.	Facts
The Raja as Sibait of a certain deity and his two sons, the appellants before us, objected to the attachment of these properties and filed a claim case.	Facts
Negotiations for settlement started and eventually, on 3011937, a petition (Ex. 2) was filed in the executing Court stating as follows The judgment debtor having made special requests to the decreeholder for an amicable settlement of the aforesaid execution case, the decreeholder has agreed to the same.	Facts
But some time is required to settle the talks and all the terms etc.	Facts
The judgment debtor has paid to the decreeholder the costs of this execution amounting to Rs.76.14/ 0, and he having made requests for this execution case struck off for the present on keeping the attachment in force, the decreeholder has agreed to it.	Facts
It is therefore prayed that under the circumstances aforesaid, the Court may be pleased to strike off this execution case keeping the attachment in force.5.	Facts
Neither the original nor and certified copy of the order made on that date by the executing Court on the above petition is forthcoming but the parties have definitely agreed that the order is substantially and correctly entered in column 20 of EX.	Facts
F which is a certified copy of extract from the Register of applications for executions of decrees relating to execution case No. 118 of 1936.	Facts
The heading of column 20 is Date on which execution case was finally disposed of and purport of final order.	None
The entry in column 20 under that head is Decreeholder admits receipt of Rs. 76/14/. as costs of this case from the judgmentdebtor.	Facts
The execution case is dismissed for nonprosecutionthe attachment already effected in this case continuing.3011937.The entry under column 11 of that very exhibit reads as follows Claim case automatically drops as the execution case is dismissed.	Facts
It is, therefore, rejected without any sort of adjudication.3011937.6.	None
In May 1937, the Searsole Raj Estate came under the charge of the Court of Wards.	None
By a Kobala executed with the permission of the Board of Revenue, Raja Pramatha Nath Malik and his two sons Kumars Pashupati Nath Malia and Kshitipati Nath Malia represented by Kumar Kshitipati Nath Malia as the Manager of the Searsole Raj Wards Estate conveyed a property known as Senapati Mahal to Deva Prasanna in full settlement of his claim under the personal decree against the Raja.	Facts
By an agreement of even date, Deva Prasanna agreed to reconvey Senapati Mahal to the Kumars if he was paid Rs. 90,000 within two years from that date.	Facts
Senapati Mahal originally belonged to the Raja but had been transferred by him to his two sons.	Facts
A creditor, however, had filed a suit under S. 53, T. P. Act challenging that transfer and had actually got a decree declaring that transfer as fraudulent and void as against the creditors of the Raja.	Facts
An appeal was filed by the Kumars which was pending at the date of the Kobala of 411931 and, in the circumstances, it was considered safer to join the Raja in the last mentioned Kobala in favour of Deva Prasanna.7.	Facts
On 961939 a petition was filed in the Court of the Subordinate Judge, Asansole, on behalf of Deva Prasanna as the decreeholder.	Facts
It was headed Money Execution case No. l18 of 1936.	Facts
The relevant portions of this petition were as follows That the above execution case was disposed of on 3011937 with the attachment of the properties subsisting since then the decree put into execution in the above case has been adjusted after remission of a large amount of interest by the out and out sale of certain properties by a registered Kobala dated 411939	Facts
So there is no longer any need of the said attachment remaining subsisting.	Facts
It is, therefore, prayed that the attachment may be withdrawn.8.	None
On the same day the following order was made on that petition Heard learned pleaders for the parties.	None
They jointly ask me to cancel the attachment (existing by special order) in Money Ex. 118 of 1936 though that case was dismissed.	Facts
Order.	Facts
The said attachment is cancelled and the decree in question is recorded as adjusted as stated by learned pleader for the decree holder and pleader of the judgementdebtor according to the adjustment mentioned but not detailed in this petition of today.	Facts
Make necessary notes and send this petition to the District Record Room.	Facts
In the remarks Col. No, 22 in Ex.	Facts
F the following entry was made The said attachment is cancelled and the decree in question is recorded as adjusted as stated by learned pleader for the D. H and the pleader of the judgmentdebtor according to the adjustment mentioned but not detailed in this petition of to day.	Facts
Dated 261939.9.	None
The Raja died in August 1940 leaving the two appellants as his sons and legal representatives.	None
The Bengal Money Lenders Act, 1940 (Bengal Act x of 1940) hereinafter called the Act came into fores on 191940.	Facts
On 211941 the appellants who, as the legal representatives of the Raja, became borrowers within the meaning of the Act filed the suit out of which the present appeal has arisen.10.	Facts
The suit was filed by the appellants against the respondent under S. 36 of the Act praying for reopening the transactions and taking accounts and for release from all liabilities in excess of the limits specified by law.	Facts
In short, they asked the Court to give them relief by exercising the powers given to the Court by S. 36 of the Act.	Facts
There was also a prayer for reconveyance of the Senapati Mahal.	Facts
The respondent filed his written statement setting up a variety of defences founded on merits as well as on legal pleas in bar.	Facts
On 8 51941 the Subordinate Judge settled the issues and fixed 961941 for a preliminary hearing of the suit and particularly of such of the issues as have been based on the pleas in bar.	Facts
Eventually, the case was taken up for preliminary hearing on 491941 and by his judgment delivered on 89l94l the learned Subordinate Judge dismissed the suit on issue N0.	Facts
2 which was as follows Does the plaint disclose a valid cause of action for the suit ?	Facts
The appellants preferred an appeal to the High Court at Calcutta.	Facts
Although the High Court (R. C. Mitter and K. C. Chunder JJ.) did not accept all the reasoning on which the learned Subordinate Judge had based his decision, they, however, agreed that the appellants could get no relief as the decrees in suit N0.	Facts
78 of 1922 could not be reopened, as they were not passed in a suit to which this Act applies and consequently dismissed the appeal.	Facts
The appellants have now come up on appeal before us after having obtained a certificate from the High Court under S. 110, Civil P. C.11.	Facts
Learned advocate appearing in support of this appeal before us has contended that the High Court was in error in holding that the decrees in Suit No. 78 of 1999 were not liable to be reopened under the second proviso to S. 56 11).	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned advocate for the respondent while joining issue on this point also raised a point which, however, did not find favour with the High Court, namely, that the respondent as a bona fide assignee for value of the mortgage debt was protected by sub s. (5) of S.36.	Arguments of Respondent
It is quite clear that if either of the two points is decided against the appellants, this appeal must fail.12.	None
The main provisions of S. 86 (1) are in the following terms Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, if in any suit to which this Act applies, or in any suit brought by a borrower for relief under this section, whether heard ex parte or otherwise, the Court has reason to believe that the exercise of one or more of the powers under this section will give relief to the borrower, it shall exercise all or any of the following powers as it may consider appropriate, namely, shall(a) reopen any transaction and take an account between the parties(b) notwithstanding any agreement, purporting to close previous dealings and to create new obligations, reopen any account already taken between the parties (c) release the borrower of all liability in excess of the limits specified in cls.	None
(1) and (2) of S. 30(d) if anything has been paid or allowed in account on or after the first day of January 1939, in respect of the liability referred to in cl.	None
(c), order the lender to repay any sum which the Court considers to be repayable in respect of such payment or allowance in account as aforesaid(e) set aside either wholly or in part or revise or alter any security given or agreement made in respect of any loan, and if the lender has parted with the security, order him to indemnify the borrower in such manner and to such extent as it may deem just.13.	None
It will be noticed (a) that the provisions of this section apply notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, (b) that the powers conferred on the Court or to be exercised either in any suit to which this Act applies or in any suit brought by a borrower for relief under the section and (c) that the Court is called upon to exercise all or any of the powers conferred on it by the section if the Court has reason to believe that the exercise of one or more of the powers will give relief to the borrower.	None
In the present case the borrowers have instituted a substantive suit for relief under S. 36 and, therefore, if there was nothing also in the section and the Court had the requisite belief, the Court could exercise all or any of the powers and give relief to the borrowers in terms of the prayers of the plaint.	None
There are, however, two proviso to subs.	None
(1) of S.36.	None
The relevant portion of the second proviso is expressed in the words following Provided that in exercise of these powers the Court shall not(i) (ii) do anything which affects any decree of a Court, other than a decree in a suit to which the Act applies which was not fully satisfied by the first day of January 1989, or .The proviso makes it quite clear then in exercise of the powers the Court cannot reopen or otherwise affect a decree of a Court unless such decree is one which was passed in a suit to which this Act applies and which was not fully satisfied by 111939.	None
In the light of the decision of the Full Bench of the Calcutta High Court inMrityunjay Mitra v. Saris Chandra,I. L. R. (1944) 9 Cal.	None
376 48 Cal.	None
W. N. 861, which was approved by the Privy Council inJadu Nath Roy v. Kshitish Chandra,76 Ind. App. 179, it has not been contended, in view of the fact that the personal decree for the balance remained unsatisfied on 111939, that the decrees in Suit No. 78 of 1922 were fully satisfied within the meaning of the above proviso.	None
Therefore, the only thing that remains to be ascertained is whether the decrees were passed in a suit to which this Act applies.	None
Section 2 (22) of the Act is as follows 2.	None
In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,(22) Suit to which this Act applies means any suit or proceeding instituted or filed on or after 111939, or pending on that date and included a proceeding in execution(a) for the recovery of a loan advanced before or after the commencement of this Act(b) for the enforcement of any agreement entered into before or after the commencement of this Act, whether by way of settlement of account or otherwise, or of any security so taken, in respect of any loan advanced whether before or after the commencement of this Act or(c) for the redemption of any security given before or after the commencement of this Act in respect of any loan advanced whether before or after the commencement of this Act.	None
14.	None
The words instituted or filed on or after the first day of January 1939 or pending on that date have been read and understood as qualifying the words any suit or proceeding in the beginning of the definition as well as the words proceeding in execution occurring further down (see per Spens C. J. inBank of Commerce Ltd. v. Amulya Krishna,1944 F. C. R. 126 A. I. R (31) 1944 F. C. 18.)	None
Accordingly, it has been held inRam Kumar De v. Abhoya Pada,46 Cal.	None
W. N. 557 A. I. R. (29)1942 Cal. 441, that where a decree is such that the suit in which it was passed had terminated before 111919 and no proceeding in execution was started or was actually pending on or after that date it is not a decree in a suit to which this Act applies and cannot be reopened.	None
The same view was upheld by it Special Bench of the Calcutta High Court inAparna Kumari v. Girish Chandra,48 Cal.	None
W. N. 406, which overruled two earlier decisions to the contrary.	None
The construction put upon S. 2 (22) by the Special Bench and the reasons given by them appear to us to be wellfounded.	None
In the case now before us, the Suit No. 78 of 1929 was instituted and all the three decrees were passed long before the specified date.	None
The only question that has therefore, to be considered is whether any proceeding in execution was pending on or after that date.	None
The answer to this question will depend on the true meaning and effect of the orders made by the executing Court (i) on 3011937 and (ii) on 261939.15.	None
As to (i)It is not disputed that the order of 3011937 was made under O. 21, R. 57 as amended by the Calcutta High Court Order 21, R. 57 is expressed in the following terms Where any property has been attached in execution of a decree but by reason of the decree holders default the Court is unable to proceed further with the application for execution, it shall either dismiss the application or for any sufficient reason adjourn the proceedings to a future date.	None
Upon the dismissal of such application the attachment shall cease.	None
The marginal note of the rule is determination of attachment.	None
The reason why R. 57 was introduced in the Code of 1908 has been explained by Rankin C. J. inShibnath Singh v. Saberuddin Ahmad,56 Cal.	None
416 at pp. 421, 422, as follows Rule 57 of O. 21 was a new provision introduced in 1908.	None
It is evident from the language of the rule itself, and it is still more evident from the circumstances under which it was passed, that it was intended to provide a remedy for the grievance or inconvenience which is apt to arise, where, after an attachment in execution, the application for execution cannot further be proceeded with by reason of the decreeholders default.	None
This was, and still is, a very common case.	None
The decreeholder makes some informal arrangement to give the judgmentdebtor time without obtaining full satisfaction of the decree the application for execution is not further prosecuted it is not withdrawn neither party attends.	None
In these circumstances, the object of the rule is to say that the Court must make either an order for adjournment or an order of dismissal.	None
The reason why it was necessary to require the Court, if it did not adjourn a proceeding to a definite date, to dismiss the application for execution formally and definitely can be amply illustrated from the decided cases.	None
In the absence of a definite order of dismissal the files of the Courts became encumbered with a number of applications for execution which were waterlogged and derelict, and a practice arose whereby such applications were ordered to be struck off.	None
This was a practice not justified by the Code and in cases where attachments in execution had already been entered, the question arose whether the effect of an order striking off was that the attachment made upon application for execution was itself struck off or whether it remained notwithstanding such an order.	None
Many other awkward and important questions arose out of this practice and the object of R. 51 was to ensure that this illogical and inconvenient practice should be stopped.	None
Applications for execution were to be definitely dismissed if they were not adjourned to a future date.	None
The object of the last sentences in R. 57 is to settle the question whether, when the application in execution is dismissed, any attachment, made under that application should fail to the ground or should subsist, and the legislature has provided that it is to fall to the ground.16.	None
The new rule thus introduced left two distinct courses open to the executing Court in the situation envisaged by the rule.	None
Each course had its advantage as well as its disadvantage.	None
Thus the adjournment of the execution proceedings kept the attachment alive without any special direction.	None
While the adoption of this course helped bona fide arrangement between the decree holder and the judgmentdebtor as to the time and manner of satisfaction of the decree it was calculated also to encourage desultory proceedings resulting in undesirable congestion in the files of the executing Court by keeping alive so many execution proceedings.	None
On the other hand, while the dismissal of an application in the circumstances mentioned in the rule had the merit of preventing a congestion of the file by finally disposing of the application by a final order, it has calculated to discourage decreeholders from giving even reasonable accommodation to the judgmentdebtor on account of the destruction of the attachment which left the judgmentdebtor free to deal with the property to the detriment of the decreeholder after the attachment ceased.	None
It was evidently with a view to preserve the advantage of a dismissal and at the same time to avoid the disadvantage of the rigid rule of cesser of the attachment that the Calcutta High Court amended R. 57 by adding the words unless the Court shall make an order to the contrary at the end of the last sentence of that rule.	None
The rule thus amended leaves three courses open to the executing Court in case it finds it difficult to proceed with the execution case by reason of the default of the decreeholder.	None
It may (1) adjourn the proceedings for good reason which will automatically keep the attachment alive or (2) simply dismiss the application which will automatically destroy the attachment or (3) dismiss the application but specifically keep alive the attachment by an express order.	None
The rule, as amended, therefore, contemplates three distinct forms of order, any one of which may be made by the Court in the circumstances mentioned in the rule.	None
The question before us is as to the category in which the order made on 3011937 in execution Case No. l18 of 1936 falls.17.	Issue
It will be recalled that the order of 3011937 was made on and petition (EX. 2) filed on that day in execution case No. l18 of 1936.	None
Great stress was laid by learned Advocate for the appellants on the words struck off for the present occurring in the body of that petition.	None
It will be noticed that those words formed part of the request of the judgmentdebtor which was being recited in the petition.	None
In the actual prayer portion the decreeholder did not use the words for the present but only asked the Court to strike off the execution case keeping the attachment in force.	None
Further apart from what the parties wanted, the Court made its intention clear in the very order that it passed and which is entered in column 20 of Ex.	None
F. The Court regarded the willingness of the decree holder to enter into long and protracted negotiation with the judgmentdebtor as evidence of unwillingness on the part of the decreeholder to diligently prosecute the execution proceedings and accordingly dismissed the execution case for nonprosecution but thought fit to expressly keep alive the attachment.	None
It is quite obvious that the Court made an order of the third kind mentioned above.	Reasoning
The three forms of order permissible under R. 57 as amended by the High Court are quite distinct and independent of each other and there is no room for their overlapping.	Reasoning
If the mere continuation of attachment will automatically convert an express order of dismissal of the execution application which is a final order into an order of adjournment which is not a final order then there was no point in the High Court taking the trouble of amending R. 57 at all.	Reasoning
The Court could by simply adjourning the proceedings automatically continue the attachment without any express direction in that behalf.	Reasoning
The fact that the Court gave an express direction that the attachment should continue clearly indicates that the Court intended to make a final order of dismissal.	Reasoning
Again, the heading of column 20 in Ex.	Reasoning
F clearly indicates that only a final order is to be entered in that column.	Reasoning
The fact that the order was entered in that column affords some justification for the conclusion that the Court made a final order of dismissal.	Reasoning
That the claim case was automatically dropped is yet another indication that the execution case was at an end.	Reasoning
The fact that the judgment debtor had paid the full costs of the execution case is also a feature which goes to show, to a certain extent at any rate if not decisively, that the execution proceeding was finally disposed of by the order.	Reasoning
The following endorsement appears on the petition (Ex. 2 (a), dated 961939 Heard learned pleaders for the parties.	Reasoning
They jointly ask me to cancel the attachment (existing by special order) in Money Ex. 118 of 1936 though that case was dismissed.	Facts
This endorsement also clearly shows that the Court itself understood that the order that it made on 3011937 was a final order of dismissal and that the attachment had been continued by a special order.	None
On a consideration of all these matters I have not the least doubt in my mind that the order of 3011937 was in form and in substance a final order of dismissal of the execution case No. 118 of 1936 and that the attachment was continued by a special order such as is contemplated and authorised by the amendment made by the Calcutta High Court in R. 57.	Reasoning
Learned Advocate for the appellants contended that if the execution case came to an end the attachment could not be left hanging in the air.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no substance in this argument.	None
Ordinarily, an attachment is supported by an execution case and if the execution case is simply dismissed the attachment must fall with it.	Reasoning
But R. 57, as amended, expressly empowers the Court to dismiss an execution application but at the same time to keep alive the attachment by a special order.	Reasoning
That is what was done in this case.	Reasoning
Here the attachment does not, to use the expression of the learned Advocate for the appellants, hang in the air.	Reasoning
It rests upon the solid foundation of a special order which R. 57, as amended in terms authorises the Court to make.	Reasoning
The continuance of the attachment, in the circumstances, needs no execution proceeding to support it.	Reasoning
Take the case of an attachment before judgment.	Reasoning
Under O. 38, R. 11 where after an order of attachment before judgment a decree is passed in favour of the plaintiff it is not necessary upon an application for execution of such a decree to apply for reattachment of the property.	Reasoning
It means that the attachment continues and the judgmentdebtor cannot deal with the property to the disadvantage of the decreeholder.	Reasoning
After the decree is passed, the attachment continues but nobody will say that although there has been no application for the execution of the decree at any time by the decree holder there is, nevertheless, an execution proceeding pending merely because the attachment continues.	Reasoning
Here also the attachment subsists and rests only upon the terms of O. 38, R. 11 and without any proceeding.	Reasoning
Such attachment cannot be called a proceeding in execution, for none was even initiated after the decree was passed.	Reasoning
In my judgment, the order of 3011931, was a final order which brought the execution Case No. 118 of 1936 to an end and the attachment continued, not because there was a pending execution proceeding but because a special order was made under O. 21, R. 51 as amended by the High Court.18.	Reasoning
As to (ii).	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Advocate for the appellants then contended that the petition (Ex. 2a) dated 2 61939 amounted to a proceeding in execution and as that was instituted and was pending after 111939 the proceedings came within the definition in S. 9 (22) of a suit to which this Act applies.	Arguments of Petitioner
I do not think this argument is sound The petition (Ex. 2a) was not really an application at all.	Arguments of Petitioner
See Shri Prokash Singh v. The Allahabad Bank Ltd.33 Cal.	Arguments of Petitioner
W. N. 267 A. I. R. (16) 1929 P. C.19.	None
In substance, it was nothing but a certification by the decreeholder of the satisfaction of the decree.	Reasoning
The mere fact that the document was in the form of a petition could not convert which was really the usual certifying procedure into a proceeding in execution for recovery of a loan or for enforcement of any agreement.	Reasoning
It was purely an intimation given to the Court by the decreeholder that the decree had been satisfied out of Court and the prayer for withdrawal of the attachment was merely consequential and would follow as a matter of course on full satisfaction of the decree being recorded.	Reasoning
The order made on that petition also shows that the decree was recorded as adjusted and the attachment was cancelled.	Reasoning
In my judgment, that petition (Ex. 2a) was not an application such as would initiate a proceeding in execution for any of the purposes mentioned in cls.	Reasoning
(a) or (b) or (c) of S. 2 (22) of the Act.20.	Reasoning
For reasons stated above, the decrees sought to be reopened were not decrees made in a suit to which this Act applies.	Decision
Suit No. 78 of 1929 was neither instituted on or after 111939, nor was it pending on that date, all the three decrees having been passed long before that date.	Decision
Nor was any proceeding in execution such as is contemplated by S. 2 (22) instituted or pending on or after that date.	Decision
The execution Case No. 118 of 1936 was at an end on 3011937 and the petition of 261939 was not an application at all and was certainly not a proceeding in execution within the meaning of S. 2 (22) of the Act.	Decision
This conclusion is sufficient to dismiss this appeal and it is not necessary for us to consider the other question raised by the respondent on the strength of S. 36 (5) of the Act and I express no opinion on that question.21.	Decision
The result is that this appeal must stand dismissed with costs and I order accordingly.	Decision
Kania CJ.22.	None
I agree.	None
Patanjali Sastri J.23.	None
The facts bearing on the dispute in this appeal are fully stated in the judgment of my brother Das which I have had the advantage of reading and it is unnecessary to recapitulate them here.24.	None
The appellant mortgagor seeks in these proceedings the reliefs provided by the Bengal Money lenders Act, 1940, (hereinafter referred to as the Act) in respect of a decreedebt payable by him.	None
The respondent who represents the submortgagee decreeholder invokes the protection of two exemptions contained in the Act (1) Section 36 (1) Proviso (ii) which exemptsinter aliaany decree other than a decree in a suit to which this Act applies which was not fully satisfied by the first day of January 1939.	None
This raises a dispute as to whether the respondents decree was passed in a suit to which the Act applies.	None
(2) Section 36 (5) which exemptsthe rights of any assignee or holder for value if the Court is satisfied that the assignment to him wasbona fideand that he had not received the notice referred to in cl.	None
(a) of Subs.	None
(1) of S. 28.This raises the question whether a sub mortgagee is an assignee within the meaning of the Act.25.	None
On the first question, a suit to which this Act applies is defined in S. 2 (22) as meaning any suit or proceeding instituted or filed on or after 11 1939, or pending on that date and includes a proceeding in execution for (among other things) the recovery of a loan advanced before or after the commencement of this Act.	None
This definition has been construed as requiring that the proceeding in execution referred to therein should be pending on 111939 and the question accordingly arises whether the order of the executing Court dated 3011937, which purported to dismiss the respondents execution case for nonprosecution while continuing the attachment already effected, terminated the proceeding in execution which had resulted in the attachment.	None
It was said that the order was wade in accordance with O. 21, R. 57, Civil P. C., as amended by the Calcutta High Court and must, therefore, be taken to have been intended to put an end to the execution proceeding altogether.	None
I am not satisfied that such was the result of the dismissal.	None
The amendment which added the words unless the Court shall make an order to the contrary at the end of the Rule envisages a dismissal of an application for execution while at the same time continuing a subsisting attachment.	None
The dismissal of 3011937 must, therefore, be taken to be a dismissal of the execution application then before the Court and cannot be taken, to have any wider operation.	None
On the other hand the continuance, in express terms, of the attachment notwithstanding the dismissal, indicates that the proceeding which had resulted in the attachment was kept alive to be carried forward later on by sale of the attached property.	None
Attachment itself is a proceeding in execution and, so long as it subsists, the proceeding in execution can well be regarded as pending.	None
In Inreclagetts Estate Fordham v. Clagett,(1882) 20 Ch. D. 637 Jessel M. R. declared that a pending matter in any Court of justice means one in which some proceeding may still be taken.	None
The attachment was cancelled by the Court only on 261939 when the decree in question was recorded as adjusted and then, and not before could execution of the decree be properly considered to have terminated.	None
In this view, a proceeding in execution was pending on 111939, and the respondents decree must be taken to have been passed in a suit to which this Act applies, with the result that the respondents claim to exemption under proviso (ii) to subs.	None
(1) of S. 36 of the Act must fail.26.	None
I am, however, of opinion that the respondents claim to recover his decreedebt is protected under S. 36(5).	None
There is no question here but that the submortgage to the respondents predecessor in title was bona fide.	None
Nor could he have received the notice referred to in cl.	None
(a) of subs.	None
(1) of S. 28 as the transaction took place long before the Act was passed.	None
It is not disputed that S. 36 (5) applies to preAct debts.	None
(See Renula Bose v. Manmatha Nath72 Ind. App. 156.)	None
The only question, therefore, is whether the respondent as submortgagee is an assignee within the meaning of subs.	None
(5) of S.27.	None
The learned Judges in the Court below held that he was not, following an earlier decision of their own Court in Promode Kumar Roy v Nikhil Bhusan,50 Cal.	None
W. N. 407.	None
That decision, however, was reversed by the Privy Council in Promode Kumar Roy v. Nikhil Bhusan Mukhopadhya.76 Ind. App. 74, where their Lordships dealt with the question now before us in the following terms It was suggested, in the judgment of Mitter J. (with which Waight J. agreed), and in the argument for the respondents that if a submortgagee were an assignee within S. 36, subs.	None
5 of the Act, certain difficulties and anomalies would result.	None
Their Lordships cannot agree with this suggestion.	None
They express no view as to the position which arises if the submortgage contains only a charge on the original mortgage debt, but when it contains an assignment of that debt, and of all the rights of the mortgagee, the position appears to be free from difficulty.	None
Belief can be given to the original mortgagor as against the original mortgagee under S. 86, but such relief must not affect the rights of the assignee by way of submortgage.	None
To take an imaginary case by way of illustration, let it be assumed that the amount due on the original mortgage, for principal and interest at the original rate, is Rs. 1,000, and the sum due on the sub mortgags by assignment, for principal and interest at the original rate, is Rs. 500, Let it further be assumed that if relief could be given, and were given, under S. 36 as against both mortgagee and submortgagee, the sums due to them respectively would be Rs. 800 and Rs. 400.	None
By reason of subs.	None
5 the sub mortgagees rights cannot be affected.	None
He can therefore, as assignee of the mortgage debt, claim his full Rs. 500, as against both mortgagor and original mortgagee.	None
But if the Court gives the mortgagor relief as against the original mortgagee, the mortgagor will only be liable to pay to the original mortgagee Rs. 300, the balance of the reduced debt after paying the submortgagee in full.	None
As to contention (b), it is impossible to read subs (5) of S. 36 as referring only to an assignee of a mortgage decree.	None
The words and that he had not received the notice referred to in cl.	None
(a) of subs.	None
(1) of S. 28make	None
it plain that an assignee of a mortgage debt is within the subsection, since S. 28,subs (1) is concerned only with assignment of debts.	None
(pp. 8384).28.	None
The submortgage here in question also contains an assignment of the debt due under the original mortgage debt and of the entire interest of the original mortgagee.	None
After reciting their original mortgage, the mortgagees proceed to state in the deed of submortgage We mortgage all that is at present due and that will in future become due to us, the first, second, third and fourth parties, on account of the said one lakh of rupees together with interest and the entire interest under the mortgage taken by us on the basis of the said Indenture in respect of five annas share of the said Niskar Mouza Monoharbahal and in respect of sixteen annas of the surface and underground rights in the said Mouza Marichkota and we make over the said Deed of Indenture to you.	None
The decision referred to above is, therefore, directly in point find rules the present case.29.	None
It was suggested that the said decision was inconsistent with the earlier decisions of the same tribunal in Ram Kinkar Banerjee v. Satya Charan Srimani,66 Ind. App.	None
50 and Jagadamba Loan Co. v. Roja Shiba Prasad Singh,68 Ind. App. 67.	None
Stress was laid upon the expression all the right of the mortgagee user by their Lordships in the passage quoted above, and it was pointed out that in the earlier decisions they held that in India a legal interest remained in the mortgagor even when the mortgage was in the form of an English mortgage, and that the interest taken by the mortgagee was not an absolute interest.	None
This proposition, it was said, implied that in a submortgage all the rights of the original mortgagee are act assigned to the submortgagee and that the mortgagee still retains a legal interest in the original mortgage.	None
This is a rather superficial view of the matter.	None
In the earlier cases their Lordships were considering the quantum of interest transferred by a mortgagor to a mortgagee in a mortgage of lease hold interest for the purpose of determining whether or not there was privity of estate between the landlord and the mortgagee.	None
If the mortgage could operate as an assignment of the entire interest of the mortgagor in the lease, the mortgagee would be liable by privity of estate for the burdens of the lease.	None
If, on the other hand, it operated only as a partial assignment of the mortgagors interest, no such result would follow.	None
It was in determining that issue that their Lordships held that no privity of estate arose in India because a legal interest remained in the mortgagor and the interest taken by the mortgagee was not an absolute interest.	None
These cases had no bearing on the question which arose in Promode Kumar Roy v. Nikhil Bhusan Mukhopadhya,76 Ind.	None
App.74 and arises in the present case, as to whether a submortgagee becomes as assignee of the mortgage debt and of the mortgagees right to recover the debt from the original mortgagor.	None
The Act affords relief to certain classes of debtors by curtailingpro tanto the rights of the creditor, subject to certain exceptions in regard to assignments of loans.	None
In such a context the only relevant consideration could be whether the assignment is such as to establish a debtor and creditor relation between the assignee and the debtor so as to bring the case within the purview of the Act.	None
If the submortgagee obtained, by virtue of the submortgage, the right to sue the original mortgagor for recovery of the mortgage debt, that would seem sufficient to make him an assignee within the meaning of the Act.	None
It was from this point of view that the question as to the nature of the right transferred to a submortgagee under his submortgage was considered in Promode Kumar Roy v. Nikhil Bhusan Mukhopadhya,76 Ind. App. 74 as it has to be considered in the present case, and the reference to the submortgage containing an assignment of all the rights of the mortgagee must, in that context, be understood with reference to the sufficiency of the right assigned to enable the sub mortgagee to sue the original mortgagor in his own right, so as to bring the relevant provisions of the Act into play as between them.	None
The reservation made by their Lordihips in the case of a submortgage containing only achargeon the original mortgage is significant and supports this view.	None
I do not consider, therefore, that there is any inconsistency between Promode Kumar Roy v. Nikhil Bhusan Mukhopadhya, 76 Ind. App.	None
74 and the earlier decisions, and even if there be any such inconsistency it has no relevance to the present case.30.	None
In the result I agree that the appeal fails and should be dismissed with costs.31.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
