 Alagiriswami, J.1.	None
These matters have been argued twice, once by Mr. K. Sen on behalf of the petitioners in W. P. Nos. 112, 391394 of 1971 and again by Mr. N. A. Palkhiwala on behalf of the petitioners in W. P. Nos. 330331 and 382387 of 1974.	Facts
The question that arises in all these petitions is the constitutional validity of the Taxation Laws (Extension to Union Territories) (Removal of Difficulties) Order 2 of 1970 issued under clause 7 of the Taxation Laws (Extension to Union Territories) Regular 1963 by which the Indian Incometax Act war extended, with certain amendments, to the Union Territories of Goa, Deman and Diu with effect from April 1, 1963.	Facts
Clause 7 of that Regulation, which is relevant for our purposes, reads as follows7.	None
If any difficulty arises in giving effect in any Union Territory to the visions of any Act, or of any rule, notification or order made or issued thereunder, the Central Government may, by general or special order published in the Official Gazette, make such provisions or give such directions as appear to it to be expedient or necessary for the removal of the difficulty.2.	Facts
Under the law in force in the former portuguese territories of Goa, Daman and Diu incometax was levied at a certain percentage of the gross receipts of an assessee.	Facts
No allow in the nature of depreciation was permitted m computing the gross income.	Facts
Under CL (ii) of Section 32 (1) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1961 depreciation is allowed in the case of buildings, machinery, plant or furniture at such percentage on the written down value thereof as may be prescribed.	Facts
Written down value is defined in Section 43 (6) as follows(6)	None
Written down value means(a) in the case of assets acquired in the previous year, the actual cost to the assessee (b) in the case of assets acquired before the previous year, the actual cost to the assessee less all depreciation actually allowed to him under this Act, or under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), or any Act repealed by that Act, or under any executive orders issued when the Indian Incometax Act, 1886 (II of 1886), was in force  (Proviso omitted)  	None
It would be noticed at once that even if depreciation was allowable under the Portuguese Incometax Law, when it was in force in the former Portuguese territories, clause (b) above will not apply as that law was not repealed by the Indian Incometax Act, 1961 or the Indian Incometax Act, 1822 or any Act repealed by that Act or under any executive orders issued when the Indian Incometax Act 1886 was in force.	None
As was pointed out by this Court in its decisions in Commr. of Incometax Hyderabad v. Dewan Bahadur Ramgopal Mills Ltd., 19612 SCR 318 (AIR 1961 SC 338 ) and the Straw Products Ltd. v. I. T. O. A. Ward.	Arguments of Respondent
Bhopal, 19682 SCR 1 (AIR 1968 SC 579 ), this is one difficulty to remove which a Difficulties Removal Order would have had to be issued.	None
When we put the question of Mr. Palkhivala as to what would happen if such an order to remove difficulties was not issued, he maintained that even so the assessees in these cases would have been entitled to the benefit of clause (b).	None
I am not sure that he is right but it is unnecessary to decide that question.3.	None
Be that as it may, I shall now discuss the question based on the relevant provisions of law.	None
Clause (a) deals with a case of the acquisition of the assets in the previous year, in which case the actual cost is itself taken as the written down value.	None
In the case of the assets acquired before the previous year the actual cost less all depreciation actually allowed is the written down value.	None
Now what happens if under the law applicable to the territory in question no depreciation was allowable at all?	None
It stands to reason and commonsense that in such a case the written down value of the asset in question on the date the Indian Incometax Act 1961 becomes applicable to that territory should be related to realities and not be wholly unrelated to them or notional.	None
The provisions regarding written down value and allowance of depreciation under the Indian Incometax Law proceeds on the basis of depreciation allowed year by year with the result that the written down value goes down year after year and similarly the depreciation, as was pointed out by this Court in Ramgopal Mills case (1961) 2	None
SCR 318 (AIR 1961 SC 338 ) (supra) in the following wordsThe basic and normal scheme of depreciation under the Indian Incometax Act is that it decreases every year, being a percentage of the written down value which in the first year is the actual cost and in succeeding years actual cost less all depreciation actually allowed under the Incometax Act or any Act repealed thereby etc.	Facts
If, therefore, because there was no provision under the Incometax law applying to the former Portuguese territories providing for depreciation the written down value of an asset is taken as the actual cost even after many years of its acquition it would mean putting the in those territories at an advantage compared to the assessees in the rest of India More important, it assessees would not accord with realities and would not be in accordance with the scheme of depreciation under the Indian Incometax Act.	None
It is, therefore, necessary to devise some method by which both can be put on the same footing and the normal scheme of depreciation under the Indian Incometax Act made applicable to them.	None
It cannot be argued that a certain plant and machinery purchased 10 years earlier and now worth half its original value should still be taken to be worth its original cost and depreciation allowed on that basis.	None
It is not as though such a problem arises for the first time.	None
In the case dealt with in the Ramgopal Mills case (1961) 2	None
SCR 318 (AIR 1961 SC 338 ) the Hyderabad Incometax Act, which was applicable to the case before the Indian Incometax Act was extended to the Hyderabad area, had come into force in 1357F and had been in force for three years.	None
In the assessment for those three years depreciation allowance was given to it on the basis of the written down value of its assets in accordance with the provisions of clause (c) of Sec. 12 (5) of the Hyderabad Incometax Act.	None
That clause provided that in the case of assets acquired before the previous year and before the commencement of the Act, the written down value would be the actual cost to the assesses less(i) depreciation at the rates applicable to the assets calculated on the actual cost for the first year since acquisition and for the next year on the actual cost diminished by the depreciation allowance for one year and so on, for each year upto the commencement of the Act,and (ii) depreciation actually allowed to the assessee on such assets for each financial year after the commencement of the Act.	None
Now this is exactly what is proposed to be done in the case of the former Portuguese territories by the impugned order.4.	None
For an appreciation of the actual situation that arises let us take some concrete figures.	None
Suppose in the Hyderabad case the assets concerned had been purchased for Rs. l00.00 three years before the Hyderabad Incometax Act came into force and depreciation was ten per cent.	None
At the end of the first year the written down value would be Rs. 90.00, at the end of the second year Rs. 81.00 and at the end of the third year Rs. 72.90.	None
It was this Rs. 72.90 that was taken into account for the purpose of working out the depreciation allowable under the Hyderabad Incometax Act in the first year when that Act came into force.	None
On this basis the written down value of the assets at the end of the first year after the Hyderabad Incometax Act came into force would be Rs. 65.61, at the end of the second year Rs. 59 (more or less), at the end of the third year Rs. 59.10, that is, when the Indian Incometax Act was extended to the Hyderabad area When the Indian Incometax Act was extended to Hyderabad area a Difficulties Removal Order was first issued in these terms in 1950Computation of aggregate depreciation allowance and written down valueIn making any assessment under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, all depreciation actually allowed under any laws or rules of a Part B State relating to Income tax on profits of business, shall be taken into account in computing the aggregate depreciation allowance referred to in sub clause (c) of the proviso to clause (vi) of subsection (2) and the written down value under clause (b) of subsection of s. 10 of the said Act.	None
Taking advantage of the presence of the words all depreciation actually allowed in this order the assessee argued that only the depreciation allowed after the Hyderabad Incometax Act came into force should be taken into account for the purpose of arriving at the written down value for the purposes of the Indian Incometax Act.	None
That was on the basis that the depreciation allowance calculated for the three years before the Hyderabad Income tax Act came into force was not depreciation actually allowed because in those years there was no incometax assessment and there was no question of any depreciation being allowed.	None
In other words what the assessee said was that taking the original cost at Rs.	None
100.00 the depreciation actually allowed during the three years during which the Hyderabad Incometax Act was in force, that is, Rs. 72.80 minus Rs. 6561 (Rs. 7. 29), Rs. 65.61 minus Rupees 59.00 (Rs. 6.61 and Rs. 59.00 minus Rs. 58.10 (Rs. 5.90), that is Rs. 19.80, should be deducted from the actual cost for arriving at the written down value for the purposes of Indian Incometax Act and that Rs. 80.20 (Rs. 100.00 minus Rs. 19.80) should be taken to be the written down value instead of the figure of Rs. 53.10.	None
In order to get over this difficulty an explanation was added to the Removal of Difficulties Order in 1953 in the following wordsExplanation  For the purpose of this paragraph, the expression all depreciation actually allowed under anylaws or rules of a Part B State means and shall be deemed to have always meant the aggregate allowance for depreciation taken into account in computing the written down value under any laws or rules of a Part B State or carried forward under the said laws or rules.(There was another similar explanation added in 1956 but for the purposes of the argument in this case that is not very relevant).	None
It was the validity of this second order adding the explanation that was questioned In dealing with the argument that no difficulty arose in giving effect to the provisions of the Act so as to justify the issuance of the Difficulties Removal Order and the Explanation thereto this Court first dealt with the difficulty caused by the fact of the earlier Incometax law not having been repealed by the Indian Incometax Act 1922 etc. and that difficulty having to be removed by the issuance of a Difficulties Removal Order and then made the observation which we have extracted earlier about the basic and normal scheme of depreciation under the Indian Incometax Act and then went on to point outIf, however, depreciation actually allowed under the Hyderabad Incometax Act was taken into account in computing the aggregate depreciation allowance and the written down value, an anomalous result would follow as in the present case, namely depreciation allowance to be allowed to the assessee in the accounting year under the Indian Incometax Act would be more than what was allowed in previous years under the Hyderabad Incometax Act.	None
This would create a disparity and be against the scheme of the Indian Incometax Act.	None
It was, therefore, necessary to explain paragraph 2 of the Removal of Difficulties Order, 1950, to assimilate or harmonise the position regarding depreciation allowance, and the explanation added in 1953 or 1956 was obviously intended to remove the difficulty arising out of that disparity or disharmony.	None
In effect it means in terms of the example which we have given earlier that instead of the written down value being taken to be Rs. 53.10 when the Indian Incometax Act was extended to Hyderabad the assessee wanted Rs. 80.20 to be taken as the written down value and that was why this Court pointed out that the depreciation allowed to the assessee in the accounting year under the Indian Incometax Act would be more than what was allowed under the Hyderabad Incometax Act and that this would create a disparity and be against the scheme of the Indian Incometax Act.	None
This decision is exactly to the point.	None
The effect of the argument on behalf of the petitioners would be, taking it that in Goa also the asset had been acquired for Rs. 100.00 six years before the Indian Incometax Act l961 was extended to that area and the rate of depreciation was also ten per cent, that instead of the written down value being Rs. 53.10 it will be Rs. 100.00, exactly the price at which the asset was acquired six years earlier, even though its value now might be much less.5.	None
Mr. Palkhivala relied completely on the decision in Straw Products case (1968) 2	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 1 (AIR 1968 SC 579 ) in support of his argument that in exercise of the powers under clause 7 the impugned order could not be made.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case when the Indian Incometax Act was extended to the State of Bhopal a Removal of Difficulties Order was issued in 1949 similar to the one introduced in Hyderabad in the first instance in 1950.	None
When it was argued then on the basis of the use of the words depreciation actually allowed that only such depreciation could be taken into account a second Removal of Difficulties Order was issued in l962 which added an explanation in the following termsExplanation.	None
For the purpose of this paragraph, the expression all depreciation actually allowed under any laws or rules of a Merged State means and shall be deemed always to have meant(a) the aggregate allowance for depreciation taken into account in computing the written down value under any laws or rules in force in a merged State or carried forward under the said laws or rules, and(b) in cases where income had been exempted from tax under any laws or rules in force in a merged State or under any agreement with a Ruler, the depreciation that would have been allowed had the income not been so exempted.	None
That was because the Ruler of Bhopal had earlier exempted the income of the assessee from incometax and there was therefore no question of any depreciation allowance having been made or any written down value having to be calculated.	None
When the matter came up before this Court, this Court held that whatever difficulty there was removed by the 1949 order and thereafter there was no further difficulty to be removed.	None
We shall quote the exact wordsSection 6 of the Act 67 of 1949 authorises the Central Government to make provisions or to give directions as may appear to be necessary for removal of difficulties which had arisen in giving effect to the provisions of any Act, rule or order extended by Section 3 to the merged States.	None
By the application of the Indian Incometax Act to the merged States a difficulty did arise in the matter of determining the depreciation allowance under Section 10 (2) (vi).	None
That difficulty was removed by the enactment of the Taxation Laws (Merged States) (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 1949.	None
Even by that order all depreciation actually allowed under any laws or rules of a merged State relating to income.tax was to be taken into account in computing the aggregate depreciation allowance.	Reasoning
Thereafter there survived no difficulty in giving effect to the provisions of the Indian Incometax Act or the rules or orders extended by Section 8 to the merged States.	None
To sum up the power conferred by Section 6 of Act 67 of 1949 is a power to remove a difficulty which arises in the application of the Incometax Act to the merged States it can be exercised in the manner consistent with the scheme and essential provisions of the Act and for the purpose for which it is conferred.	None
The impugned Order which seeks, in purported exercise of the power, to remove a difficulty which had not arisen was, therefore, unauthorised.	None
That was the ratio of that decision.	None
This Court specifically did not think it necessary to determine to what extent, if any, it would be open to the Central Government by an order issued in exercise of the power conferred by Section 6 of Act67 of 1949 to make provision which is inconsistent with the.	None
provisions of the Indian Incometax Act.	None
It did not hold that the l962 order was inconsistent with the provision of the Indian Incometax Act.	None
It did consider the decision in Ramgopal Mills case (1981) a SCR 318 (AIR 1961 SC 338 ).	None
After referring to the Explanation added to the Removal of Difficulties Order this Court pointed outThis Court.	None
held that by the Removal of Difficulties Order, 1950 an anomalous result followed, and the depreciation allowance allowed to the assessee under the Indian Incometax Act was more than the depreciation allowance under the Hyderabad Incometax Act, and it was necessary to issue the Removal of Difficulties Order, 1958.	None
In the view of the Court, in that case the condition precedent to the exercise of the power did exist.	None
Thus, it did not dissent from the decision in Ram gopal Mills case.	None
By implication it held that decision as a good one.	None
That is exactly the position here.	None
It was, therefore, open to the Central Government in exercise of its powers under Clause 7 to issue the impugned order.	None
It only brings it into line with the scheme of the Indian Income tax Act.	None
Otherwise, as I mentioned earlier, the assessees in Goa, Daman and Diu would be at an advantage compared to the assessees in the rest of India.6.	None
The only contention of any substance which was urged against this was that under the scheme of the Indian Incometax Act it was open to the assessee to carry forward the depreciation for any length of time if he had sustained any loss and it would now be very difficult, if not impossible, for the assessee to produce all the accounts of earlier years to show the losses which he had incurred, the depreciation he was entitled to and which he can carry forward.	Arguments of Petitioner
I do not consider that it is an impossibility.	None
If it is difficult it is not a difficulty which cannot be solved as the Hyderabad example shows.	None
Assessees are expected to and would have maintained accounts at least for the purpose of the Incometax Act which was in force in the former Portuguese territories, though that Act was a simple one and not as complex as the Indian Incometax Act.	None
What is necessary for working out the impugned order is to know whether there was a profit or a loss and as the cost of acquisition of the assets, in respect of which depreciation allowance is claimed, should also be available it should not be very difficult to calculate the depreciation and arrive at the written down value as on the date when the Indian Incometax Act was extended to former Portuguese territories.	None
To accede to the claim of the assessees that the original value of the assets should be taken down to value, however long they might have been used, means that they get an advantage not merely in the first year in which the Indian Incometax Act was applied to those territories.	None
In terms of the example I have given earlier in the first year instead of the 10 per cent out of the writen down value of Rs. 53.10, that is Rupees 5.30, being allowed as the depreciation it will be Rs. 10.	None
In the second year it will be Rs. 9.00 instead of Rs. 4.77.	None
In the third year it will be Rs. 8.10 as against Rs. 4.30 and so on.	None
I can see no justification either on principle or on the wording of the statute to allow the assessees any such concession.	None
Whatever I have stated earlier would be sufficient to show that the impugned order is not in excess of the delegated powers but merely carries out the purpose of the delegation.7.	None
It only remains to deal with the further contention raised that the order is given retrospective effect and that is not valid.	None
This contention is best answered in the words of this Court in Ramgopal Mills case (1961) 2	None
SCR 318 (AIR 1961 SC 338 ) thusSection 12(in this case Cl.	None
7)by the very nature of its intent and purpose confers on the Central Government power to make an order to remove a difficulty which has already arisen, and the power to remove the difficulty must necessarily include the power to remove the difficulty from time to time it arose.	None
The Central Government has, therefore, the power to make an order or give a direction so as to remove the difficulty from the very beginning, and that is what the notification of 1956(in this case the notification of 1970)does.7A. I would, therefore, dismiss these writ petitions.	None
The Judgment of Ray, C. J. and Mathew, Goswami and Sarkaria, JJ. was delivered by8.	None
Sarkaria, J.These writ petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution raise a question with regard to the validity of the 2nd Proviso to Cl (S) of the Taxation (Extension to Union Territories)(Removal of Difficulties) Order 2 of 1970.	None
The first five petitions of 1971 were argued earlier by Shri Ashok Sen and the rest have been argued now by Shri N. A. Palkhiwala.	None
They are being disposed of by a common judgment.9.	None
The petitioners are carrying on business in the Union Territories of Goa, Daman and Diu. Respondents 1 and 2 are the Union of India and the Incometax Officer, respectively.10.	None
Goa, Daman and Diu are erstwhile Portuguese territories which became a part of the Union of India on and from December 19,1961.	Facts
Thereupon, the President of India in exercise of powers under Article 240 of the Constitution promulgated the Taxation Laws (Extension to Union Territories) Regulation III of 1963 (for short, the Regulation).	Facts
By clause (3) of this Regulation, amongst other laws, the Indian Incometax Act, 1961 (for short, the Act) was extended to the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu with effect from April 1, 1963 subject to certain modifications, one of which was the insertion of Section 294A in the Act.	Facts
Section 294A gave power to the Central Government to make exemption, reduction or modification in respect of incometax to avoid hardship or anomaly or to remove difficulty in the application of the Act to any assessee in the Union Territories of Dadra Nagar Haveli, Goa, Daman and Diu etc.	Facts
The power granting the exemption etc. was exercisable before March 31,1967.we are not concerned with the section because the impugned order was not made under it.11.	Facts
By clause (4) of the Regulation, the laws in force in the Union Territory corresponding to the Acts specified in the Schedule, stand repealed from April 1, 1963.12.	Facts
Clause (7) providesIf any difficulty arises in giving effect in any Union Territory to the provisions or any Act, or of any rule, notification or order made or issued thereunder, the Central Government may, by general or special order published in the Official Gazette, make such provisions or give such directions as appear to it to be expedient or necessary for the removal of the difficulty.13.	Facts
On November 8,1970 the Central Government in purported exercise of its powers under clause (7) of the Regulation promulgated the Taxation Laws (Extension to Union Territories) (Removal of Difficulties) Order No. 2 of 1970 (hereinafter called the 1970 Order), the material part of which runs thusWhereas certain difficulties have arisen in giving effect to the provisions of the incometax Act, 1961 in the Union Territories of Goa, Daman, Diu therefore the Central Government hereby makes the following order (1) (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of April 1963.(3) Computation of aggregate depreciation allowable and written down valueIn making any assessment under the Incometax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) all depreciation actually allowed under the local laws shall be taken into account in computing the aggregate of all deductions in respect of depreciation referred to in clause (1) of subsection (2) of S. 34, and the written down value under subclause (2) of Cl.	None
(6) of S. 43 of the said ActProvided that where in respect of any asset, depreciation has been allowed for any year both in the assessment made under the local law and in the assessment made under the Incometax Act, 1886, the greater of the two sums allowed shall only be taken into account,Provided further that where in respect of any period no depreciation was actually allowed under the local law or the depreciation actually allowed cannot be ascertained, depreciation in respect of that period shall be calculated at the rate for the time being in force under the Incometax Act, 1961 or under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, or any Act repealed by that Act or under any executive orders, issued when the Indian Incometax Act, 1886 was in force, as the case may be, and the depreciation so calculated shall be deemed to be the depreciation actually allowed under the local law.14.	Facts
As clarified by the Explanation, local law in relation to the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu means the Portuguese law relating to tax on income as in force immediately before April 1, 1963.	Facts
In these territories, there was in force a Portuguese law relating to levy of tax, the scheme of which was entirely different from that of the Indian Incometax Act.	Facts
Under that law there was no provision for granting depreciation allowance the net profits and gains of the business were not calculated and the tax was levied at a certain percentage on the gross income or turnover of the business, irrespective of whether the assessee had made profits or suffered losses.15.	Facts
After the extension of the Act to Goa, Daman and Diu.	Facts
the petitioners were assessed under the Act for several assessment years from 196465 onwards.	Facts
In each of the completed assessments, the assessee was allowed depreciation of the assets used by him for his business, on the basis of written down value under Cl.	Facts
(b) of Section 43 (6) read with Section 32.	Facts
For the assessment year 196465 the written down value was taken as the actual cost of the assets to the assessee since no depreciation was actually allowed to him earlier.	Facts
In each of the succeeding annual assessments the written down value was progressively reduced by deducting the depreciation actually allowed in the preceding year from the actual cost of the assets.16.	Facts
In the light of the 2nd Proviso to clause (3) of the 1970 Order, the past completed assessments in the case of these petitioners are being revised.	Facts
In consequence, the written down value of the assets for calculating the depreciation allowance  even for the first time when the petitioners were assessed under the Act, would not be the actual cost of the assets to the assessee, but a far lower sum with proportionate increase in the petitioners liability to tax since the assessment year 196465.17.	Facts
In the case of petitioners in Writ Petitions 330331 of 1971, the Respondent (Incometax Officer) has already revised the assessment for the year 196566.	Facts
and reduced the depreciation allowed in view of the 1970 Order and in the result raised a higher demand.	Facts
He has, however, kept that demand in abeyance till the decision of these petitions, wherein the validity of the 2nd Proviso (hereinafter called the impugned Proviso) to clause (3) of the 1970 Order is in question.18.	Facts
Section 2 (24) (i) of the Act defines income to include profits and gains.	None
Section 28 (i) makes the profits and gains of any business or profession which was carried on by the assessee at any time during the previous year chargeable to incometax.	None
Section 29 requires that the income referred to in Section 28 shall be computed in accordance with the provisions including those for deductions contained in Sections 30 to 48A.Since the tax is chargeable on profits and gains and not on gross receipts, the profits to be assessed must be the real profits computed, subject to the special requirements of the Act in accordance with the ordinary principles of commercial accounting.	None
It follows that if the deduction of a particular item from the incomings of the business, or profession is neither expressly covered by the aforesaid sections, nor prohibited expressly or by necessary implication by those provisions, it can be allowed under Section 28 (1) provided on ordinary commercial principles, it is a proper item to be debited against the incoming in ascertaining the profits and gains property socalled  see Badri Das Daga v. Commr. of Incometax, (1958) 34 ITR 10 (AIR 1958 SC 783 ) and Commr. of Incometax v. Plymaun, (1982)	None
46 ITR 649 (SC).19.	None
We have alluded to these general principles for a proper perspective.	None
Deductions by way of depreciation allowance, with which we are directly concerned, have been specifically recognised and dealt with in Sections 32, 34 and 43 (6) of the Act.20.	None
Section 32 adopts two methods in allowing depreciation.	None
In the case of oceangoing ships depreciation is allowed, year after year, at the fixed prescribed percentage on the original cost of the asset to the assessee (Sec. 3a (I) (i) ).	None
This has been called the straightline method.	None
In the case of nonocean going ships and buildings, machinery, plant or furniture, the prescribed percentage of depreciation is to be computed on the basis of written down value of the asset (Section 32 (1) (ii) ).	None
This is known as the written down value method.	None
Both these methods seek to ensure that the aggregate of the depreciation allowances granted, year after year, does not exceed hundred per cent of the original cost of the asset.	None
In the straightline method, however, the entire depreciation is written off sooner than in the written down value method, if the figures of actual cost of the asset and the prescribed percentage are the same in either case.21.	None
Subsection (2) of S. 32 allows the carry forward of unabsorbed depreciation allowance to any subsequent year without any timelimit, where such nonabsorption is owing to there being no profits or gains chargeable for the previous year or owing to the profits or gains being less than the allowance.	None
Depreciation loss under Section 32 (2) thus, to a large extent, stands on the same footing as other business losses.22.	None
An assessee claiming depreciation of assets has to show that such assets areownedby him and were used by him in the account year for the purpose of his business, the profits of which are being charged (Section 32 (i)).	None
Further, the total of all deductions in respect of depreciation under Section 32 (i) of the Act or under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 (for short, the 1922 Act) or under any Act repealed by that Act, made year after year, should not, in any event, exceed the actual cost of the assets to the assessee (Section 34 (2) (i) ).23.	None
The definition of actual cost is to be found in Section 43 (1) and that of writtendown value in Section 43 (6) The latter defines it to mean(a) in the case of assets acquired in the previous year, the actual cost to the assessee.(b) in the case of assets acquired before the previous year, the actual cost to the assessee less all depreciationactually allowedto him under this Act or under the 1922 Act or any Act repealed by that Act, or under any executive orders issued when the Indian Incometax Act, 1886 was in force.(emphasis supplied)24.	None
The pivot of the definition of writtendown value is the actual cost of the assets.	Reasoning
Where the asset was acquired and also used for the business in the previous year, such value would be its full actual cost and depreciation for that year would be allowed at the prescribed rate on such cost.	Reasoning
In subsequent year, depreciation would be calculated on the basis of actual cost less depreciation actually allowed.	Reasoning
The key word in Cl.	Reasoning
(b) is actually.	Reasoning
It is the antithesis of that which is merely speculative, theoretical or imaginary.	Reasoning
Actually contraindicates a deeming construction of the word allowed which it qualifies.	Reasoning
The connotation of the phrase actually allowed is thus limited to depreciationactually taken into account or granted and given effect to,i. e. debited by the Incometax Officer against the incomings of the business in computing the taxable income of the assessee it cannot be stretched to mean notionally allowed or merely allowable on a notional basis.25.	Reasoning
Of course, any depreciation carried forward under Section 32 (2) is, in view of Explanation 3 to Section 43 (6) considered as depreciation actually allowed.	Reasoning
But such is not the case here.26.	Reasoning
From the above conspectus, it is clear that the essence of the scheme of the Indian Incometax Act is, that depreciation is allowed, year after year, on theactual costof the assets as reduced by depreciationactually allowedin earlier years.	Reasoning
It follows, therefore, that even in the case of assets acquired before the previous year, where in the past no depreciation was computed, actually allowed or carried forward, for no fault of the assessee,the writtendown value may under clause (b) of S. 43 (6), also, be the actual cost of the assets to the assessee.27.	Reasoning
Relying on the ratio of this Courts decision in (1968)	None
2	None
SCR 1 (AIR 1988 SC 579), learned Counsel for the petitioners have pressed these points into argument (1)	None
The arising of a difficulty in giving effect to the Indian Incometax Act or rules etc., made thereunder is a condition precedent to the invocation of the power under Cl.	None
(7) of the Regulation, and since the existence of that condition had not been established as an objective fact, the Central Government had no power to promulgate the impugned Proviso.	None
It is stressed that the Act has been applied all these years since its extension in April, 1963 to these Territories without any difficulty.(2)	None
The power under clause (7) of the Regulation can be exercised only in a manner consistent with the scheme and essential provisions of the Act.	None
The impugned proviso seeks to amend and change the scheme and basic provisions of the Act inasmuch as it provides, inconsistently with Sections 43 (6) and 32 of the Act, for determining the writtendown value on the basis of a notional depreciation in cases in which no depreciation was actually allowed.	None
(3) In any case, it would be impossible to work the impugned Proviso.28.	None
Mr. Nariman, learned Additional SolicitorGeneral, submits, in reply, that difficulties had arisen in the application of the provisions of the Act in the matter of allowing depreciation to assessees in these Union Territories.	Arguments of Respondent
But for the impugned provisions, it is contended, such assessees would not have been entitled to claim depreciation allowance either under clause (a) or under clause (b) of Section 43 (6) read with Section 32 of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Clause (a) could not apply to these cases because the assets were acquired before the year immediately preceding April 1, 1963.	Arguments of Respondent
Clause (b) would not cover their case because, firstly, under the scheme of the Act, the writtendown value of assets acquired several years earlier cannot be taken as their full actual cost, and, secondly, the Portuguese law, under which they were formerly assessed, was not repealed by the Indian Income tax Act, but by the Regulation.	Arguments of Respondent
It is argued that in Section 43 (6) read with S. 32, there is an implied prohibition against allowing depreciation on the actual cost of the assets which were not acquired in the previous year.	Arguments of Respondent
This difficulty says the Counsel, had to be removed to enable the petitioners to claim just depreciation allowance.	Arguments of Respondent
If it is assumedproceeds the argumentthat Section 43 (6) is applicable to the case of these assessees and the depreciation has to be calculated on the original full cost of the assets despite their being old and worn out by use over the years, such a course would be wholly divorced from realities, and give the assessees in Goa, Daman and Diu an undue advantage over the assessees in India.	Arguments of Respondent
This resultant disparity, it is urged, was a difficulty and the impugned Proviso removes it by bringing the assessees in the former Portuguese Territories at par with the assessees who had suffered taxation under the Act.29.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Counsel further maintains that the decision in Straw Products case (1968)	Arguments of Respondent
2 SCR 1 (AIR 1968 SC 579 ) does not advance the case of the petitioners, rather it supports the Revenue.	Arguments of Respondent
In this connection, Counsel has invited our attention to the observations of this Court at pp. 8 and 13 of the Report in Straw Products case (supra) to the effect that by the application of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, to the merged States a difficulty did arise in the matter of determining the depreciation allowance under Section 10 (2) (vi) which corresponds to Section 32 (1) (ii) of the 1961 Act, and that this difficulty was removed by the Taxation Laws Merged States Removal of Difficulties Order 1949.30.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further contended that once it was found that such a difficulty had arisen, the Central Government could in the legitimate exercise of its powers under clause (7) of the Regulation, remove the same by providing that allowances, where they were not actually allowed, should be deemed to have been allowed for the purpose of depreciation in prior years.	Arguments of Respondent
On this point reliance has been placed on Commr. of Incometax, Madhya Pradesh v. Straw Products, (1966) 2	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 881 at p. 887 (AIR 1966 SC 1113 at p. 1116) and Commr. of Incometax Hyderabad v. Dewan Bahadur Ram Gopal Mills Ltd., (1961) 2	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 318 at pp.	Arguments of Respondent
325 and 326 (AIR 1961 SC 338 at p. 341).31.	Arguments of Respondent
Since both sides rely, more or less, on the decision of this Court in (1968) 2	None
SCR 1 (AIR 1968 SC 579 ) (supra) and the other two authorities cited have also been noticed therein, it will be appropriate to examine the same in detail.32.	None
The assessee therein was a Company formed in 1937 in Bhopal State, and was exempted by the Ruler of that State from payment of all taxes for a period of ten years expiring on October 31, 1948.	None
The State of Bhopal merged with India on August 1, 1949.	None
The Taxation Laws (Extension to Merged States and Amendment) Act 67 of 1949, which replaced the earlier Ordinance 21 of 1949, extended with effect from April 1, 1949, to the merged States, amongst other Acts, the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 and by S. 7, the laws in force in the merged States corresponding to the extended Act stood repealed.	None
Section 6 contained a removal of difficulty clause which was substantially the same as clause 7 of the Regulation in the present case.	None
Section 6 providedIf any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of any Act, rule or order extended by Section 3 to the merged States, the Central Government may, by order, make such provisions or give such directions as appear to it to be necessary for removal of the difficulty.33.	None
The Central Government in exercise of its power under clause (8) of Ordinance 21 of 1949 (which corresponds to Section 6 of Act 67 of 1949) issued the Taxation Laws (Merged States) (Removal of difficulty) Order, 1949, clause (2) of which providedIn making any assessment under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, all depreciation actually allowed under any laws or rules of a merged State relating to incometax and supertax, shall be taken into account in computing the aggregate depreciation allowance referred to in subclause (c) of the Proviso to clause (vi) of subsection (2) and the written down value under clause (b) of subsection (5) of S. 10 of the said ActProvided that where in respect of any asset, depreciation has been allowed for any year both in the assessment made in the merged State and in British India, the greater of the two sums allowed shall only be taken into account.34.	Facts
According to clause (2) of the above Order, in computing the profits and gains of the business carried on by the assessee for determining the tax payable by it for the assessment year 1949 50, depreciation allowed under Section 10 (2) (vi) of the 1922 Act was taken as a percentage of the original cost to the assessee of the assets used by it for its business, and in the four subsequent years the written down value of the assets admissible for depreciation was determined on that basis.	None
The Incometax Officer then revised the assessments in respect of the assessment years 195253 and 195354 and recomputed its taxable income on the footing that since the commencement of the business the assessee must he deemed notionally to have been allowed depreciation under the Bhopal Incometax Act.	None
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Incometax Appellate Tribunal disagreed with the Incometax officer and restored the original assessment.	None
On a reference made by the Appellate Tribunal, the High Court held in favour of the assessee.	None
The Incometax Commissioner appealed to this Court.	None
During the pendency of that appeal, the Central Government in exercise of its power under Section 6 of the Act 67 of 1949 issued an Order called the Taxation Laws (Merged States) (Removal of Difficulties) Amendment Order, l962, adding this Explanation to the order of 1949Explanation  For the purpose of this paragraph, the expression all depreciation actually allowed under any laws or rules of a Merged State means and shall be deemed always to have meant(a) the aggregate allowance for depreciation taken into account in computing the written down value under any laws or rules in force in a merged State or carried forward under the said laws or rules, and(b) in cases where income had been exempted from tax under any laws or rules in force in a merged State or under any assessment with a Ruler the depreciation that would have been allowed had the income not been so exempted.35.	None
This Court held in (1966) 2	None
SCR 881 (AIR 1966 SC 1113 ) (supra) that the expression actually allowed in the Removal of Difficulties Order 1949, meant allowance actually given effect to, but by virtue of the Explanation, added by the aforesaid Order of 1962, the correct basis for computing the written down value of the depreciable assets for the relevant period was the one adopted by the Incometax Officer.	None
This Court then declined to examine the challenge to the validity of the (Removal of Difficulties) Amendment Order, 1962, for the reason that an authority or court administering the Act cannot permit a challenge to be raised against the vires of the Act.36.	None
The assessee thereafter challenged the vires of the 1962 Order by a writ petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution.	None
The Petition was dismissed and the assessee appealed to this Court on a certificate granted by the High Court.	None
The Court first examined clause (2) of the Removal of Difficulties Order of 1949, which corresponds to the unchallenged part of paragraph (3) of the 1970 Order, and held it to be valid on the ground that since the Incometax Acts of the merged States had not been repealed by the 1922 Act, a difficulty had arisen in taking into account all depreciation actually allowed under any laws or rules of a merged State relating to Incometax for the purpose of computing the aggregate depreciation allowance referred to in subclause (c) of the Proviso to Section 10 (2) (vi) of the 1922 Act, and that the 1949 Order did no more than removing this difficulty37.	None
The Court then proceeded to examine the challenge to the validity of subclause (b) of the Explanation added by the 1982 Order.	None
In this connection, contentions (1) and (2) canvassed in that case were precisely the same which have now been raised before us on behalf of the petitioners Both these contentions were accepted by the Court and, as a result, the aforesaid subclause (b) of the Explanation was struck down.	None
In that context, Shah, J. (as he then was) speaking for the Bench constituted by seven learned Judges, observed Exercise of the power to make provisions or to issue directions as may appear necessary to the Central Government is conditioned by the existence of a difficulty arising in giving effect to the provisions of any Act, rule or order.	None
The section does not make the arising of the difficulty a matter of subjective satisfaction of the Government it is a condition precedent to the exercise of power and existence of the condition, if challenged, must be established as an objective fact.38.	None
The Court held that after the promulgation of the 1949 Order no difficulty survived or arose in giving effect to the provisions of Section 10 of the 1922 Act.	None
In that connection, it was observedIt is impossible, on the words used in Section 10 (5), clause (b) read with the 1949 Order, to hold that the written down value of the assessee in a merged state could not be determined and with a view to remove that difficulty the impugned Order was promulgated.	None
The fact that the assets were acquired by a person at a time when he was not an assessee under the Indian Incometax Act or under the State Act will not disable him, when he is assessed to tax on the profits of the business, from claiming the benefit of the depreciation allowance on those assets if used for the purpose of the business.(emphasis added)39.	None
The Court noted that the impugned provision of the 1962 Order seeks to alter the connotation of the expression depreciation actually allowed.	None
It then, towards the end, concludedTo sum up the power conferred by Section 6 of Act 67 of 1949 is a power to remove a difficulty which arose in the application of the Indian Incometax Act to the merged States it can be exercised in the manner consistent with the scheme and essential provisions of the Act and for the purpose for which it is conferred.	None
The impugned Order which seeks in purported exercise of the power, to remove a difficulty which had not arisen was, therefore, unauthorised.40.	None
A comparative study of Explanation (b) in the 1962 Order, which was being challenged in Straw Products case (1968) 2 SCR 1 (AIR 1968 SC 579 ) and the second Proviso to clause (3) of Order 2 of 1970, which is the target of attack from the petitioners side in the instant case, reveals a striking similarity between the two impugned provisions.	None
There, the 1962 Order envisaged cases of assessees from a merged State who had not been actually allowed depreciation of the assets because of their being exempted by the Ruler of that State from payment of incometax.	None
In the case in hand, also, the impugned proviso seeks to cover the case of an assessee, who before the merger of these Territories in the Union of India, had not been allowed depreciation because the law by which he was governed was not a law imposing incometax properly socalled, but one levying a tax on the gross turnover of the business, irrespective of profits or losses, and, as such, did not recognise any claim to depreciation.	None
Further, in both the cases, the impugned provisions seek to change the essence of the definition of written down value and scheme of the Indian Incometax Act relating to depreciation allowance, by substituting depreciation fictionally allowed for depreciation actually allowed.	None
This, the Court held, the Central Government was not competent to do under the garb of removing a difficulty which was not proved to have arisen.41.	None
In Straw Products case (1968) 2	None
SCR 1 (AIR 1968 SC 579 )	Reasoning
it was averred in the writ petition by the assessee that no difficulty had arisen in giving effect to the provisions of the Indian incometax Act 1922, and as such, there was no question of the exercise of any power under Section 6 of the Merged States Act for the purpose of passing the impugned Order of 1962.	None
This allegation was denied by the Respondents, and it was contended on their behalf that the arising of a difficulty in the enforcement of the Incometax Act was a matter for subjective satisfaction of the Government.42.	None
Precisely similar pleas have been taken in the affidavits of the parties in the present case (vide W. Ps. 112, 391394 of 1971).	None
The position here is very much the same as was in Straw Products case (1968) 2	None
SCR 1 (AIR 1968 SC 579 ) (supra).Here also, the Respondents plea, in substance, is that there is a deficiency or omission in the provisions of Sections 32 and 43 (6) of the (1961) Act and unless the deficiency or omission was supplied, it would be difficult for the Central Government to collect tax and allow depreciation to assessees like the petitioners to the same extent or at the same rate at which it has been collected from or allowed to assessees who have throughout been assessed under the Indian Incometax Act.43.	None
This raises two questions (1) Is this a difficulty within the contemplation of clause (7) of the Regulation?	Issue
(2) Is the Central Government in the exercise of its power under that clause competent to supply a deficiency or casus omissus of this nature?44.	Issue
For reasons that follow, the answers to both these questions must be in the negative.45.	None
For a proper appreciation of the points involved, it is necessary to have a general idea of the nature and purpose of a removal of difficulty clause and the power conferred by it on the Government.46.	None
To keep pace with the rapidly increasing responsibilities of a welfaredemocratic State, the legislature has to turn out a plethora of hurried legislation, the volume of which is often matched with its complexity.	None
Under conditions of extreme pressure, with heavy demands on the time of the legislature and the endurance and skill of the draftsman, it is well nigh impossible to foresee all the circumstances to deal with which a statute is enacted or to anticipate all the difficulties that might arise in its working due to peculiar local conditions or even a local law.	None
This is particularly true when Parliament undertakes legislation which gives a new dimension to socioeconomic activities of the State or extends the existing Indian laws to new territories or areas freshly merged in the Union of India.	None
In order to obviate the necessity of approaching the legislature for removal of every difficulty, howsoever trivial, encountered in the enforcement of a statute, by going through the timeconsuming amendatory process, the legislature sometimes thinks it expedient to invest the Executive with a very limited power to make minor adaptations and peripheral adjustments in the statute, for making its implementation effective, without touching its substance.	None
That is why the removal of difficulty clause, once frowned upon and nicknamed as Henry VIII Clause in scornful commemoration of the absolutist ways in which that English King got the difficulties in enforcing his autocratic wild removed through the instrumentality of a servile Parliament, now finds acceptance as a practical necessity, in several Indian statutes of postindependence era.47.	None
Now let us turn to clause (7) of the Regulation.	None
It will be seen that the power given by it is not uncontrolled or unfettered.	None
It is strictly circumscribed and its use is conditioned and restricted The existence or arising of a difficulty is the sine qua non for the exercise of the power.	None
It this condition precedent is not satisfied as an objective fact, the power under this clause cannot be invoked at all.	None
Again, the difficulty contemplated by the clause must be a difficulty arising ingiving effect to the provisions of the Act and not a difficulty arising aliunde, or an extraneous difficulty.	None
Further, the Central Government can exercise the power under the clause only to the extent it is necessary for applying or giving effect to the Act etc., and no further.	None
It may slightly tinker with the Act to round off angularities, and smoothen the joints or remove minor obscurities to make it workable, but it cannot change, disfigure or do violence to the basic structure and primary features of the Act.	None
In no case, can it, under the guise of removing a difficulty, change the scheme and essential provisions of the Act.48.	None
The above principles, particularly the distinction between a difficulty which falls within the purview of the Removal of Difficulty Clause and one which falls outside it, finds ample illustration in the 1949 Order and the impugned provision of the 1962 Order which came up for consideration in Straw Products case (1968) 2	None
SCR 1 (AIR 1968 SC 579 ) (supra).	None
Excepting the reference to the corresponding provision of the 1922 Act, the language of the 1949 Order was the same as that of the unimpugned part of clause (3) of Order 2 of 1970 in the present caste.	None
The 1949 Order related to the removal of a difficulty which had arisen in giving effect to the provisions of Section 10 (2) (vi) Proviso (c) and S. 10 (5) (b) of the 1922 Act, corresponding to Section 34 (2) (i) and Section 43 (6) (b) of the Act of 1961.	None
This difficulty had arisen because the incometax laws of the merged States were not repealed by the Indian Incometax Act but by the Taxation Laws (Extension to Merged States and Amendment) Act 67 of 1949.	None
Owing to this, the depreciation actually allowed under the laws of the merged States could not be taken into account in computing the aggregate depreciation allowance referred to in subsection (2) (vi), Proviso (c) or the written down value under clause (b) of subsection (5) of S. 10 of the 1922 Act.	None
If this difficulty had not been removed, anomalous results would have followed.	None
The written down value of the assets acquired before the previous year would have been taken as the original cost of the assets without deduction of the depreciation actually allowed in the past under the State laws.	None
This would have given to the assessees in the merged States, a benefit, inconsistently with the scheme of Section 10 of the 1922 Act, exceeding in the aggregate even the original cost of the assets.49.	None
The 1949 Order removed this difficulty.	None
In terms, it did no more than directing that if under the incometax laws of a merged State any depreciation was actually allowed, it was to be taken into account in ascertaining the written down value of the assets.	None
Far from sup. planting or changing the essence of the essential provisions of the Act relating to depreciation and written down value, it gave effect, life and meaning to them.50.	None
The observations in Straw Products Ltd.s case (1968) 2 SCR 1 (AIR 1968 SC 579) (supra) to the effect, thatby the extension of the Incometax Act, 1922, the rules and the orders made thereunder to the areas of the merged States, undoubtedly numerous difficulties arose and it was, therefore, necessary to devise machinery for removing those difficulties on which Shri Nariman relies were made by this Court in the context of the 1949 Order.	Arguments of Respondent
They did not relate to the then impugned provision of the 1962 Order.51.	None
The 1962 Order, Explanation (b), is an instance of an Order foreign to the Removal of Difficulty Clause.	None
The socalled difficulty which was sought to be removed by that Order was not a difficulty of the kind contemplated by that clause, because it did not, in fact, arise in the application or enforcement of the Incometax Act, but dehors it.	None
No difficulty in implementing the scheme of the 1922 Act read with the 1949 order existed as an objective fact.52.	None
The l962 Order, Explanation (b), purported to substitute in Section 10 (5) (b) of the 1922 Act (as adopted by the 1949 Order) depreciation notionally allowed for depreciation actually allowed.	None
This the Central Government was not competent to do under that clause because depreciation actually allowed was the linchpin of the statutory definition of writtendown value.	None
Indeed, the 1962 Order sought to amend the essential provisions of the Incometax Act in an attempt to collect tax which in the opinion of the Central Government, the taxpayer could and should pay but  to recall the words of this Court  which has not been imposed by adequate legislation.	None
In the present cases, also, the impugned Provise of the 1970 Order seeks to do the same thing by raising the taxable income of the assessee, inconsistently with the scheme of the Act of 1961.53.	None
Although the language of the impugned Proviso in the present case is not identical with that of Explanation (b) of the 1962 Order in (1968) 2	None
SCR 1  (AIR 1968 SC 579 ) (supra), yet the sum substance and the device for replacing depreciation actually allowed by depreciation fictionally allowed are the same.54.	None
True, that under the income.	Reasoning
tax law of the merged State, depreciation was allowable, and 1962 Order, Explanation (b) was intended to cover cases where no depreciation was actually allowed on account of the exemption of the assessee from tax under a State law or a rule or under an agreement with the Ruler of a merged State (whose word was law)	Reasoning
whereas in the instant case depreciation was not allowed because it was not computed under the Portuguese Law.	Reasoning
But this is a distinction without a difference.	Reasoning
As noticed already, the Portuguese law was not a law imposing tax on net income.	Reasoning
That law levied tax on grossreceipts and not on the profits and gainsof a business.	Reasoning
It would not be wrong to say that before the merger, in these territories, there was no income tax in the sense the tax is understood under the Indian Incometax Act.	Reasoning
In principle, therefore, there would be no difference between a case where one person is exempted from incometax under the law, and a case where all are exempted, there being no incometax law.55.	Reasoning
We are unable to accept the contention that but for the impugned Proviso, the provisions of Section 32 and Section 43 (6) (b) of the l961 Act on its extension to Goa, Daman and Diu could not be given effect to and applied to the assessees in those territories.	Reasoning
There could be no difficulty in computing the writtendown value of the assets that had been acquired by the petitioners before the previous year, under clause (b) of Section 43 (6).	Reasoning
Since no depreciation was, in fact, allowed to the petitioners in the past under the Portuguese law in the first assessment under the Indian Incometax Act, the written down value would, under this clause (b) work out to be the actual cost of the assets less nil.	Reasoning
Thereafter, in each succeeding year the depreciation actually allowed in the preceding year would be deducted causing yearly diminution of the written down value with consequent decrease in the depreciation allowed on that basis.	Reasoning
Exactly, this was the manner in which the written down value of the assets of the petitioners has been computed and depreciation allowed for several assessment years from l96465 onwards.	Reasoning
This itself demonstrates that there was no difficulty in applying the aforesaid provisions to the cases of these assessees.56.	Reasoning
We find no merit in the argument that the impugned Proviso brings about equality of treatment among different assessees in India.	Reasoning
The law on the point was declared by this Court in Straw Products Ltd.s case (1968) 2	Reasoning
SCR 1 (AIR 1968 SC 579 ) about seven years back.	Reasoning
If that decision did not correctly interpret the intendment of the Legislature, the Parliament would have nullified its effect by legislation.	Reasoning
As a result, no assessee in the Territories of the erstwhile Part B States and merged States has suffered the disadvantage of depreciation being deducted on notional basis in determining the written down value, when in fact, no depreciation had been actually allowed under the former local laws.	Reasoning
Similarly, no assessee in British India suffered such fictional deduction of depreciation when it had not been actually allowed earlier.	Reasoning
The impugned Proviso, therefore, far from ensuring parity of treatment puts the assessee in these Union Territories in a rosy position than the assessees in the rest of India.57.	Reasoning
We may now notice this Courts decision in (1961) 2	None
SCR 318 (AIR 1961 SC 338 ) (supra), relied upon by Shri Nariman.	None
The facts of that case were that prior to January 29, 1950, when the erstwhile State of Hyderabad was merged in the Union of India, the respondent company therein was assessed to income tax under the Hyderabad Incometax Act, by which depreciation allowance was granted to it on the basis of the written down value of its assets in accordance with clause (c) of Section 12 of that Act.	None
After the merger, the Hyderabad Incometax Act was repealed, and by Sections and 12 of the Finance Act 1950, the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, was extended to that area.	None
Under the Removal of Difficulty Clause i. e. Section 12 of the Finance Act, the Central Government on December 2, 195(), issued the Removal of Difficulties Order, 1950.	None
Paragraph 2 of the Order provided that in making any assessment under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, all depreciation actually allowed under any laws or rules of Part B State shall be taken into account in computing the aggregate depreciation allowance referred to in proviso (c) to Section 10 (2) (vi) and the written down value under Section 10 (5) (b) of the said Act.	None
For the assessment year l95152 the respondent company was assessed for the first time under the 1922 Act, and on the basis of pare 2 of the 1950 Order, it claimed depreciation allowance by working out the value of the assets at their inception and deducting therefrom such depreciation as was allowed for the three assessment years in which it was assessed under the Hyderabad Incometax Act.	None
The matter was brought to this Court and while it was pending here, on May 8, 1956, the Central Government issued another Order under Section 12 of Finance Act, 1950, ret enacting and adding this Explanation to the aforesaid para 2For the purpose of paragraph 2, the expression depreciation actually allowed under any laws or rules of a Part B State means and shall be deemed to have always meant the aggregate allowance for depreciation taken into account in computing the written down value under any laws or rules of a Part B State or carried forward under the said laws or rules.58.	None
The Company challenged the validity of Para.	None
2 of the Order, particularly the Explanation inter alla on the ground that it was ultra vires the powers conferred on Central Government by Section 12 of the Finance Act 1950.	None
This Court upheld the validity of the impugned provision.	None
Therein, it was manifest that in applying the provisions of Section 10 (5) (b) of the 1922 Act to the assesses from Hyderabad (a Part B State), there was an initial difficulty because the Hyderabad Incometax Act had been repealed not by the 1922 Act but by the Finance Act, 1950.	None
This difficulty could be validly removed by making an Order under Section 12 of the Finance Act, 1950 Attempt to remove it by issuing the 19.50 Order did not completely achieve its object.	None
In its application that Order led to an anomalous result, namely, the written down value of the assets and the allowance to be allowed on its basis to the assessee in the accounting year on first assessment under the Indian Incometax Act, would be more than, what it was allowed in previous years under the Hyderabad Incometax Act.	None
It was to remove this difficulty and to harmonise the position as to depreciation with the scheme of the Indian Incometax Act that the impugned Explanation was added by the 1956 Order.59.	None
It will be seen that under the Hyderabad Incometax Act, depreciation allowance had actually been allowed to the assessees on the basis of written down value calculated according to the mechanism provided in that Act.	None
After the promulgation of the 1950 Order, the only difficulty that remained was caused by the different rates at which depreciation had actually been taken into account and allowed under the Hyderabad Incometax Act.	None
The Explanation added by the 1956 Order, in effect, did no more than explaining that in paragraph 2 of 1950 Order, all depreciation actually taken into account by the Incometax Officer in computing the written down value under the Hyderabad Incometax Act means all depreciation actually allowed.60.	None
As has been said already and it needs to be said again, the words depreciation actually allowed in Section 43 (6) (b) connote depreciation that has actually been taken into account and given effect to by the Incometax authorities in the computation of the profits and gains of the business in assessing incometax for earlier years.	None
The said Explanation did not change that basic connotation, it only clarified it.	None
Thus, in issuing the 1950 Order and the 1956 Order, adding the Explanation, the Central Government in that case, did not overstep the limits of the power delegated to it under Section 12 of the Finance Act, 1950.	None
The impugned provision in the D. B. Ram Gopal Mills case (1961) a SCR 318 (AIR 1961 SC 338 ) (supra) corresponds to clause (2) and Explanation (a) thereto of the 1949 Order and the substantive part of clause (3) of the 1970 Order it is not analogous to the impugned Proviso in the instant case.61.	None
The situation before us is materially different.	Reasoning
Here, no depreciation was ever computed or actually allowed to the assessees under the Portuguese Law.	Reasoning
Indeed, under that law the tax was levied not on net income but on gross turnover of the business.	Reasoning
There was, strictly speaking, no assessment of tax on real profits and gains of a business, the tax being levied on gross receipts on ad hoc basis.	Reasoning
Allowing or taking into account depreciation of assets was out of question in that process of assessment.	Reasoning
In the case in hand, the impugned Proviso seeks to introduce a new concept of calculating depreciation.	Reasoning
By replacing depreciation actually allowed with depreciation deemed to have been allowed by a fiction of law, even where no depreciation was at all allowed under any law outside the taxation territories, it, in effect, attempts to change the fundamental scheme of the Act.62.	Reasoning
D. B. Ramgopal Mills case (1961) 2	None
SCR SIB (AIR 1961 SC 338 ) (supra) was noticed, explained and distinguished in Straw Products Ltds case (1968)	None
2 SCR 1 (AIR 1968 SC 579 ) (supra).	None
It was observed that the former did not support the view that the arising of a difficulty is a matter for the subjective satisfaction of the Central Government.	None
The precedent case is not in pari materia with D. B. Ram Gopal Mills case.	None
It is in line with (1968) 2	None
SCR 1 (AIR 1968 SC 579 ) and the ratio of the latter decision and the observations made therein with regard to the then impugned Order of l962 apply with full force to the impugned Proviso in the instant case.63.	None
In the light of what has been said above, we accept contention (1) and (2) advanced on behalf of the petitioners.64.	Reasoning
Be that as it may, the last contention canvassed by Mr. Palkhiwala is a clincher.	Arguments of Petitioner
The argument is that the impugned Proviso is not workable, because under the Portuguese law there was no tax on income at all.	Arguments of Petitioner
These, Territories were merged with India on December19.1961 and the Indian Incometax Act was extended to these Territories from April 1, 1963.	Arguments of Petitioner
During this interregnum, it is contended, there was no law either Portuguese or Indian, under which the income of those prior years could be computed.	Arguments of Petitioner
If there is a loss, or profit is inadequate to absorb the depreciation, the latter can be carried forward without limit of time.	Arguments of Petitioner
Owing to the absence of any tax law during the aforesaid interregnum, proceeds the argument, the petitioners would not have the benefit of carryforward of depreciation from any year prior to l963, and, thus, the impugned Proviso instead of removing any difficulty, would create serious difficulties and legal complications.65.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is a good deal of force in this contention.66.	None
It has been noticed earlier that the tax imposed under the Portuguese law was, in reality, a turnover tax and not a tax on the income of a business.	Reasoning
The levy was exacted on gross receipts, irrespective of loss or profit.	Reasoning
Thereafter, during the interregnum between December 19, 1961 and April 1, 1963, there was in force no law authorising the levy of incometax in these Territories.	Reasoning
We have also seen that under the Act an assessee is entitled to carryforward unabsorbed depreciation in case of loss or inadequate profits without any timelimit (Section 32 (2)).	Reasoning
For ensuring this right to an assessee, assessments for ascertaining losses or insufficiency of profits of his business, since the acquisition and use of the assets by him will have to be made.	Reasoning
In the Indian Incometax Act as extended to these Union Territories, there is no provision for making assessment in respect of those past years.	Reasoning
Therefore a Goa assessee who made losses and suffered depreciation of his assets will never get the benefit of such carryforward, as no machinery exists for determining inadequacy of profits or the factum of losses in those years which is a condition precedent to carry forward of depreciation.	Reasoning
Retrospective assessments for this purpose, going back to a period prior to 1963 could have been made, if at all, under a law made by Parliament and not under an executive fiat.	Reasoning
In the absence of such law it is impossible to work the Proviso without riding roughshod over the rights of the assessees to have their unabsorbed depreciation relating to pre1963 period, carried forward.	Reasoning
Viewed from this angle, the impugned Proviso would, in the implementation of the Act, create difficulties rather than removing them.67.	Reasoning
For the foregoing reasons, we allow these petitions and declare that the 2nd Proviso to clause (3) of the Taxation Laws (Extension to Union Territories (Removal of Difficulties) Order 2 of 1970, is ultra vires the Central Government when exercising the powers under clause (7) of Regulation III of 1963 and the Revenue authorities are not entitled to levy tax on the basis of the depreciation allowance computed in.	Decision
accordance with the said Proviso in the Order.	Decision
The respondents shall pay the costs of the petitioners.68.	None
Petitions allowed.	None
