 Kapur, J.1.	None
This is an appeal by special leave against a judgment and order of the High Court of Bombay.	Issue
The assessee Her Highness Maharani Kesarkunverba Saheb, the Raj Mata of Morvi State, is the appellant and the Commissioner of Incometax Bombay, North, is the respondent.	None
The question that arises for decision is whether the annual cash allowance paid to the appellant in circumstances stated below falls within Paragraph 15 (1) (i) of the Part B States (Taxation Concessions) Order, 1950 (hereinafter referred to as the Order) and is therefore exempt from incometax.2.	None
The appellant was receiving from the Morvi State since 1922 an allowance called Jiwai (maintenance allowance).	Facts
By a Resolution dated September 26, 1947 passed by His Highness Lukhdhirji of Morvi, the husband of the appellant, it was resolved that a sum of Rs. 5,000/ per month be paid to the appellant and provision be made for the amount by the Treasury Office in the Budget in the same manner as before.	Facts
On January 21, 1948 His Highness Lukhdhirji abdicated and his son His Highness Mahendra Singhji succeeded to the rulership.	Facts
The covenant for the formation of Kathiawar States Union was signed on January 23, 1948.	Facts
On February 26, 1948 a Resolution was passed by the son of the appellant granting a village, Mota Dehisara, to the appellant.	Facts
The relevant portion of this Resolution was as follows From ancient times there has been a tradition in our family to grant a village to the Maharani for her enjoyment in order to maintain her status and dignity.	Facts
However, since a village remains to be granted accordingly to our revered mother, AkhandSauBhagyawanta Kesar Kunverba Sahib as the Maharani, it is resolved to grant her the village of Mota Dahisara, under (our) control and having the area and boundaries as per annexures hereto.	Facts
We resolve to grant the said village, for enjoyment to our Maharani, Shri Vijaykunver of Rangpur, after the lifetime of our mother Kesar Kunverba Sahib in accordance with the above tradition.	Facts
A formal grant was made on March 16, 1948 which was as follows In order to preserve permanently your status and dignity the village of Mouje Mota Dahisara . . .	Facts
.	Facts
is hereby granted to you as a gift in pursuance of the immemorial tradition of this State . . . . . .	Facts
The said village and the land etc., thereof have been granted to you in order to maintain your status and dignity as the Queen Mother as stated above.	Facts
You may enjoy the same in peace exclusively.	Facts
On your death the right of enjoyment of the entire rights, together with the restrictions mentioned in the present writing shall vest in our Akhand Saubhagvanta Maharani Shri Vijay Kunvar of Rangpur.	Facts
On March 20, 1948 the State of Morvi became a part of the Saurashtra Union.	Facts
The Government of Saurashtra refused to continue the maintenance allowance or to recognise the grant of the village Mota Dahisara to the appellant.	Facts
She then made certain representations and after some conferences and some discussion a copy of the order of the Political Department was sent to the appellant in which it was stated that the village would be resumed and an amount calculated on the basis of average revenue of the village for 3 years would be paid to her as cash allowance for lifetime.	Facts
To this the appellant took objection and her son the Maharaja of Morvi also wrote a letter to the Rajpramukh of Saurashtra stating that the village had been illegally resumed and that her Jiwai had also been stopped.	Facts
To this the Rajpramukh replied on May 19, 1949 saying that it had been decided that the village would be resumed and a cash allowance in lieu thereof would be paid to the appellant for life and he advised the Maharaja of Morvi not to press the claim as put forward in his letter and also that the appellant should accept the resumption of the village and agree to take a cash allowance instead.	Facts
The appellant then wrote a latter to the Rajpramukh on May 26, 1949 in which she insisted that she should continue to have the village.	Facts
On November 19, 1949 the appellants husband wrote to the Regional Commissioner, Mr. Buch, stating that he and her son, the Ruler, had with difficulty persuaded the appellant to accept Rs. 5,000/ a month and not to insist on anything more.	Facts
The following extract from the letter is rather important and is therefore quoted Most ladies are sentimental and she is no exception, and says her Abru would go if she loses her village, so we suggested that if she gets the income of the village, whatever it may be and any amount over and above that will be given to her as Jiwai, making a total of Rs. 60,000/ a year with this she can say she got both the things and her prestige will not suffer.	Facts
On March 30, 1950 the Government of Saurashtra passed a Resolution that in pursuance of the decision taken at the Jamnagar Conference the grant of the village Mota Dahisara would be resumed and in lieu thereof a cash annuity of Rs. 35807/ would be paid.	Facts
The appellant was also granted Jiwai as Raj Mata of Rs. 24,193  per annum and thus a sum of Rs. 60,000/ per annum i.e. Rs. 5,000/ per mensem, was continued to be paid to the appellant.	Facts
On June 19, 1950 the grant of the village was cancelled.	Facts
The Incometax Officer held the whole of Rs. 60,000/ to be liable to incometax because in his view the appellant received that sum in exchange for two assets  right to the old maintenance allowance and the right to enjoy income from the village during her lifetime.3.	None
On appeal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner the amount of Rs. 35,807/ was held to be liable to tax and not the sum of Rs. 24,193/.	None
An appeal was then taken to the Incometax Appellate Tribunal which held that the entire sum was exempt from incometax and supertax, as it fell within Paragraph 15 (1)(i) of the Order.	Facts
The Tribunal said In the circumstances of the case stated above, it appears to us that the entire sum of Rs. 60,000/ is exempt from incometax and supertax.	Facts
If you look at the substance of the transaction, it means that the assessee was granted a maintenance allowance of Rs.	Facts
60,000/.	None
The assessee wanted somehow or other to be associated with the village Mota Dahisara.	Facts
To her it was a question of prestige.	Facts
Again the cash annuity of Rs. 35,807/ was given to the assessee in lieu of the village Mota Dahisara.	Facts
The village was granted to her for the purpose of maintaining the assessees status and reputation as the Raj Mata.	Facts
In other words, the village was given to her for her maintenance.	Facts
At the instance of the respondent the following question was referred under S. 66(1) of the Incometax Act to the High Court Whether there was material for the Tribunal to hold that the sum of Rs. 35,807/ granted to the assessee was a maintenance allowance exempt within the meaning of Paragraph 15(1)(i) of the Part B States (Taxation Concessions) Order, 1950 ?	Facts
Which was reframed by the High Court as follows Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case the sum of Rs. 35,807/ granted to the assessee was a maintenance allowance exempt within the meaning of Paragraph 15(1)(i) of the Part B States (Taxation Concessions) Order, 1950 ?	Facts
The High Court held that Rs. 35,807  and Rs. 24,193/ were two distinct heads of cash annuities, the former in lieu of village Mota Dahisara and the latter by way of Jiwai i.e. maintenance.	Facts
It was of the opinion that the appellant was granted Jiwai (maintenance) of Rs. 5,000/ per month by her husband as from September 1947.	Facts
It also held that the grant of the village was not by way of maintenance.	Facts
After taking into consideration the several documents, that is, the grant, the letter of the appellants son dated March 23, 1949 to the Rajpramukh of Saurashtra, the letter dated November 19, 1949, of the appellants husband to Mr. Buch and the Resolution of the Government dated March 30, 1950, the High Court held that under the Resolution of the Saurashtra Government the appellant was given a cash annuity of Rs. 35,807/ in lieu of the village and not by way of maintenance.	Facts
Against this judgment, the appellant has come to this Court in appeal by special leave.4.	Facts
The controversy between the parties is confined to the nature of the grant of the village made to the appellant.	None
The appellant contended that the grant of the village was as much maintenance as was the cash allowance which had been made to her before, and therefore it fell within the exemption under paragraph 15(1)(i) of the Order which is as follows Any income falling within the following classes shall be exempt from incometax and supertax and shall not be included in the total income or total world income of the person receiving them (i) any sum which the widow or the mother of a person who was the Ruler of an Indian State receives as her maintenance allowance out of public revenue.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent on the other hand submitted that the words of the resolution dated February 26, 1949 and of the grant and particularly the following recitals therein From ancient times there has been a tradition in our family to grant a village to the Maha Rani for her enjoyment in order to maintain her status and dignityshowed that the grant of the village was not by way of maintenance but merely to maintain a tradition of the family for keeping up the status and dignity of the appellant, and this, it was submitted, was fortified by the letter of the appellants husband dated November 19, 1949, where His Highness stated that the appellants Abru (prestige) would go if she were to lose the village.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference in this connection was also made to the appellants letter dated May 26, 1949, wherein she insisted that the village should not be taken away from her as this would be unreasonable, arbitrary and contrary to the spirit of the covenant.5.	Arguments of Respondent
In our opinion the contention of the appellant is well founded.	Reasoning
The Tribunal has found after going into all the documents including the document containing the words to maintain her status and dignity and the letter of the appellants husband to Mr. Buch which mentioned the work Abru that the grant of the village was by way of maintenance and merely because the appellants relations wanted a facesaving device by splitting up the total amount payable per year it would not change the nature of the transaction nor would it change the grant of maintenance made to the appellant into something else.	Reasoning
The grant of the village was as much by way of maintenance as was the cash allowance called Jiwai.	Reasoning
Maintenance must vary according to the position and status of a person.	Reasoning
It does not only mean food and raiment.6.The appellant was the wife of a ruling prince and at the time the grant of the village was made, she was the Raj Mata and therefore neither the use of the words status and dignity nor the reference to ancient usage could in any way change the nature of the grant.	None
It is true that the appellant was anxious to retain the village because that gave her the satisfaction of having agricultural land which would be a tangible asset providing her a sure source of income but merely because she wanted the village and in the Resolution of March 30, 1950, mention is made of a sum in lieu of income from the village, the nature of the grant which in this case was by way of maintenance would not change.7.	None
The question which was referred to the High Court was whether there was material to hold that the sum of Rs.	None
35,807/ was maintenance allowance, but the High Court reformulated this question and after going into various documents it came to a conclusion different from that of the Tribunal and it reversed the findings of the Tribunal and answered the question in a manner suggestive of an appellate rather than advisory jurisdiction.	None
In our opinion the High Court could not go behind the findings of the Tribunal.	Reasoning
Even on the question as reformulated what the High Court had to decide was whether on the facts found the sum of Rs. 35,807/ granted to the appellant was maintenance within paragraph 15(1)(i) of the Order.	Reasoning
The Tribunal had found that the appellant had a maintenance allowance since 1922 and the grant of the village was also by way of maintenance.	Reasoning
On these findings the answer to the question clearly was that the sum of Rs. 35,807/ was maintenance falling within the paragraph abovementioned.8.	None
Counsel for the respondent tried to support the High Court on the ground that what the High Court had done was that it examined the Resolution of March 30, 1950, along with the documents which led to it and thus it construed a document of title.	Arguments of Respondent
But the Resolution of March 30, 1950, must be construed in the background of the facts and circumstances which led up to it.	Reasoning
So construed the inescapable conclusion is that the village having been granted by way of maintenance, the sum of Rs. 35,807/ was also maintenance allowance.9.	Reasoning
In our view the High Court was in error in holding that Rs.	None
35,807/ was not by way of maintenance and therefore was not exempt from taxation under paragraph 15(1)(i) of the Order.	None
We, therefore, allow this appeal, set aside the order of the High Court and answer the question in favour of the appellant.	Decision
The appellant will have her costs in this Court and in the High Court.10.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
