 Gajendragadkar, J.1.	None
This appeal by special leave arises from an industrial dispute between the respondent.	Facts
British Overseas Airways Corporation, New Delhi, and the appellants, its workmen.	Facts
This dispute had reference to the demands made by the appellants under eight different heads and it was referred by the Chief Commissioner, Delhi, for adjudication to the industrial tribunal, Delhi.	Facts
On 1 August 1958, the industrial tribunal pronounced its award, dealing with all the items of dispute.	Facts
The respondent felt aggrieved by some directions in the award, whereas the appellants were dissatisfied with some other directions.	Facts
Both parties field applications for special leave to appeal against the respective portions of the award by which they were aggrieved.	Facts
The application preferred by the respondent was dismissed whereas on the application preferred by the appellants leave has been granted limited to the question of overtime wages.	Facts
That is hoe in the present appeal, we are concerned with the directions issued by the tribunal under the head overtime wages.2.	Facts
The tribunal has held that the respondent is entitled to fix fortyeight hours per week as the normal duly hours and on that basis, it has ordered that every employee shall be entitled to overtime payment for working beyond his normal duty hours and the hourly rate for such payment shall be calculated on the basis of fortyeight hours a week.	Facts
Sri Sastri for the appellants contends that the tribunal was in error in fixing the normal working hours per week at fortyeight hours.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contends that the existing normal working hours were below fortyeight and so there was no justification for raising the normal workload in a way the tribunal had done.3.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connexion, Sri Sastri referred us to the fact that it was common ground between the parties that under the existing arrangements, the employees of the respondent were classified into three categories, one of which worked for thirtysix hours, the other thirtynine hours and the last fortytwo hours.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first category consisted of employees in the accounts, scale, press liaison assistants, despatch, secretaries, stenographers and typists.	Arguments of Petitioner
This category was nonrostered.	None
The second category which consisted of the rostered staff included those employees in reservations, traffic, operations, engineering, was concerned with communications and cargo as well as peons.	Arguments of Petitioner
The argument was that there was no justification for increasing the normal weekly hours of work and the change effected in the existing arrangement should, therefore, be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
In dealing with this argument, it is necessary to bear in mind certain distinguishing features of the work carried on by the appellants under the respondents employment.	Reasoning
The head office of the respondent corporation is in England and all its units in the servant countries of the world are controlled by a board in England.	Reasoning
The conditions in which its staff has to work and the way in which airlines have to be operated differ widely from those in other industries, particularly in factories, shops and offices.	Reasoning
The staff which handles aircraft, their passengers and cargo are not engaged in a continuous process of manufacture as in a factory nor are they continuously at the roster duty.	Reasoning
It is well known that though the aircraft scheduled time of arrival and departure is known in advance, owing to vagaries of weather and technical defects which the aircraft are liable to disclose from time to time, dislocation in the schedule is caused several times.	Reasoning
That is why it is only for about threefourths of an hour before arrival and for a like period after the departure of an aircraft the staff has to do such work as is available to be done, but otherwise the members of the staff have to stand by.	Reasoning
Even after the aircraft arrives it is detained for repair work if a mechanical trouble is disclosed and this work may last sometimes as long as twentyfour hours.	Reasoning
That is the reason why unlike in other establishments, the problem of regulating the hours of work of the respondents employees becomes complicated particularly a small aircraft station like Delhi.4.	Reasoning
In this connexion, Galpin who was the manager of the respondent since January 1945 and had been in charge of the respondents establishment in Delhi since 1948 when it was opened, has given evidence.	None
He has stated that prior to 1954, there was no stipulation precisely defining the normal duty hours of the employees.	None
It was in 1954 that the respondent stipulated timings and from 1 November 1954, it began to pay overtime wages.	Reasoning
There is no serious dispute about the existing normal working hours in a week.	None
But Galpin had stated that when the overtime payment system was introduced, overtime was paid to the employees if they worked beyond the existing normal weekly hours applicable to their category, but the calculation for the payment of overtime wages was made on the basis of fortheight hours a week.	None
Galpin also stated that the respondent was doing its best to make its employment attractive and offered such facilities to its employees as appeared reasonable to it.	None
He has added that lately, airport staff have to go back from the town office to their homes on account of delay in the arrival of planes sometimes the delay is as much as four or five hours the staff required for duty have to stand by because their duty depends on the movement of aircraft the respondent does not pay them separately for that stand by, because it pays them comprehensive wages taking in to account the special features of the service expected from the respondents employees if there is a gap in time between the duty for one place and the duty for the next place, the respondent allows those hours to be counted as duty hours, provided the gap is nor more than four hours if the gap is greater, the staff are given transport to go to their homes.5.	None
It is in the light of all these features of the service expected of the appellants that we have to consider the question as to whether the tribunal was right in fixing the weekly hours of work at fortyeight.	Reasoning
It is clear that until 1954 there was no occasion to prescribe the weekly hours as such because the extent and volume of the work did not justify any such fixation.	None
Sometimes, employees in the three respective categories were not required to do as much weekly work as was regarded as normal.	Reasoning
Sometimes, if the work was heavier and the vagaries of the arrival or departure of the aircraft imposed additional burden, the normal working hours were exceeded.	Reasoning
Until 1954, no question of payment of overtime wages arose.	Reasoning
In 1954, the respondent started paying overtime wages in the manner already indicated.	Reasoning
Therefore, the question as to whether in fixing fortyeight hours as the normal working hours in a week, the tribunal has committed an error must be judged not so much by a reference to the existing normal working weekly hours but by a reference to the principles which generally apply to the fixation of weekly working hours.	Reasoning
In our opinion, judged in that way, it would be difficult to sustain the argument of the appellants that fortyeight hours in a week is either unduly reasonable to exercise.	None
That is why we do not think that the general argument urged by the appellants that the existing working hours should be standardized can be accepted.	Reasoning
However, there is one point which the appellants are entitled to succeed.	Reasoning
We have already referred to the fact that one category of the staff which works at the office has always been working thirtysix hours in a week and Galpin had, in fact, fairly stated in his evidence that when the respondent arranged for payment of overtime wages.	Reasoning
It was specially mentioned by it that the office staff should get overtime wages, it was specially mentioned by it that the office staff should get overtime after thirtysix hours of work, whereas other staff should get overtime after fortyeight hours of work.	Reasoning
In other words, Galpin did not seriously suggest in his evidence not did the respondent contend before the tribunal that the office staff which was working thirtysix hours in a week should be required to work fortyeight hours in a week.	None
Indeed, Sri Sen for the respondent has fairly conceded before us that he does not press for that part of the award which has prescribed fortyeight hours as weekly working hours for the staff which may be called the officer staff.	Arguments of Respondent
This staff, as we have already mentioned, consists of accounts, sales, press liaison assistances, despatch, secretaries, stenographers and typists.	None
The only point which calls for our decision in respect of this staff is whether the overtime wages should be calculated on the basis of fortyeight working hours in a week or thirtysix hours.	None
Sri Sen faintly suggested that it would be Sri Sen faintly suggested that it would be better in the interest of uniformity that fortyeight working hours should be adopted as the basis for calculating overtime when members of the said staff worked for more than thirtysix hours in a week.	None
We do not think that this argument can be sustained.	None
If thirtysix hours are prescribed as the working hours in a week for this staff, then overtime wages must be calculated on that basis itself.	None
There would be no justification for adopting fortyeight hours as the basis in that behalf.	None
Therefore, we modify the award in respect of this point by directing that the staff falling in the first category should work for thirtysix hours in a week and overtime payable to this staff should be calculated on that basis.	Reasoning
The next point raised is in regard to the spreadover.	None
The tribunal has held that the claim made by the appellants in respect of spreadover cannot be upheld, except in regard to such employees of the corporation at Delhi who may be governed by the Factories Act.	Reasoning
Whether or not any employees are governed by the Factories Act need not be and cannot be considered in the present proceedings.	Reasoning
If there are any who fall in that category, they would be governed by the provisions of the Factories Act.	Reasoning
In rejecting the appellants claim in that behalf, the appellants claim in that behalf, the tribunal has considered the distinctive features of the service rendered by the appellants to the respondent.	Reasoning
It has observed that the respondent has been exempted wholly from the Delhi Shops and Establishments Act which prescribes a spreadover and that all airlines are similarly exempted.	Reasoning
Before the tribunal, the appellants appear to have contended that the spreadover of duty should not exceed a period of ten hours on any day from the time of resumption of duty and that the day should be calculated from the time an employee resumes his duty.	Reasoning
This argument is obviously untenable.	Reasoning
The day being with the midnight and ends with the midnight and it is on that footing, that the calculation must inevitable be made.	Reasoning
The only grievance which Sri Sastri seriously made against the present arrangement was that an employee may occasionally have to report for duty thrice within twentyfour hours and that he said, was extremely unreasonable.	Reasoning
We were, however, told by Sri Sen that since February 1961, the respondent has introduced a method of distributing duties amongst its employees in such a manner that nobody is required to make three trips to join his duties and even two trips within twentyfour hours are not usual.	Reasoning
This position was conceded by the appellants.	Reasoning
Sri Sen assured us that it was intended to continue the present arrangement to avoid inconvenience to the employees.	Reasoning
Since arranging shifts in the way the respondent has introduced them in Calcutta is impracticable in New Delhi because of insufficiency of work, the present arrangement introduce by the respondent appears to meet the grievance made by Sri Sastri under this head.	Reasoning
Therefore, we do not see any reason to interfere with the order passed by the tribunal rejecting the appellants claim for spreadover.	None
In regard to the payment of overtime for working on holidays and weekly off days, there is a small point on which correction has to be made in the award.	None
The tribunal has ordered that the employees shall be entitled to payment for overtime for working on weekly holidays and on holidays, as mentioned is Employment Regulation 6, and as already found above in Para.	Reasoning
66.6.	Reasoning
This is likely to create some doubt as to whether what is required to be paid is at two or one and a half times.	Reasoning
The regulation to which the sentence in the award refers provides for the payment at one and a half rates though what the tribunal obviously intended is the payment at twice the rate.	Reasoning
The reference to Para.	Reasoning
66 is an oversight, for Para.	Reasoning
66 where the rate prescribed is twice the rate and not one and a half times.	None
Sri Sen has conceded that there is a mistake which has crept in through oversight and the same can be corrected.7.	None
That leaves only one question to be considered and it has reference to the retrospective operation of the award from 1 April 1954 to 31 October 1954.	None
The tribunal has directed that the overtime wages should be paid to the appellants at the rate prescribed by the award from 1 November 1954, but for the period between 1 april 1954 to 31 October, 1954, the said wages should be paid at one and a half times.	Reasoning
Sri Sastri contends that this rate should also be the age as from the 1 November 1954.	Reasoning
We are not impressed by this argument.	Reasoning
It is significant that earn the first demand for overtime wages was made by the appellants by Ex. M1 on 13 or 14 January 1955, no claim was expressly made for a period prior to the date of the demand.	Reasoning
However, during the course of negotiations.	Reasoning
Galpin had said that he would be prepared to pay overtime from 1 April 1954 and the tribunal has held him bound by the said promises, though the offer when it was made by Galpin was not accepted by the appellants.	Reasoning
That being the basis of the direction fort the payment of overtime wages from 1 April 1954 to 31 October 1954, it is but fair that the rate should be the same as was promised by Galpin then.	Reasoning
Galpin has then told the employees that as from 1 April 1954, respondent would pay from them overtime in the same way in which it was paid to the workmen in Calcutta.	Reasoning
Therefore, no grievance can be made against the order passed by the tribunal in that behalf.	Reasoning
The result is, the appeal substantially fail and the award passed by the tribunal is confirmed except for the two modifications directed in this judgment.	Decision
In the circumstances of the case, parties shall bear their own costs.	Decision
