 K. SIKRI, J. Two writ petitions were filed in the High Court of Gujarat under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.	Facts
One writ petition was filed by a single person (respondent herein) who had been awarded contract for one year to extract, collect, gather and remove ordinary sand from river Tapi falling within certain area at village Amboli, Taluka Kamrej, Surat.	Facts
The sand being a mine and mineral, it is the State Government which is empowered to grant such leases.	Facts
After the excavation of sand, a part there of was subjected to further processing by addition of fly ash and the other part was sold as sand outside the State of Gujarat.	Facts
Second petition was filed by ten petitioners (respondents in the second appeal).	Facts
They are in the business of processing ordinary river sand after buying it from leaseholders.	Facts
The process involves washing, cleaning and mixing fly ash to convert it into ISZone2 Sand, which is then sold in 50 kg.	Facts
Bags under a brand name.	Facts
These respondents supply that sand to builders in the State of Maharashtra.	None
As is clear from the aforesaid facts, sand, after processing, is sold outside the State of Gujarat.	Facts
The challenge laid in the writ petitions was against the Resolution No. GMR1020101SCHH dated May 04, 2010 whereby all leaseholders, stockists, traders and exporters were prohibited from exporting ordinary sand excavated from the areas in the State of Gujarat to other States within the country or other countries by transporting such sand outside the State or the country.	Facts
When these writ petitions were pending consideration, the Government of Gujarat issued a Notification on June 11, 2010 thereby amending the Gujarat Minor Mineral Rules, 1966 by making the Gujarat Minor Mineral (Amendment) Rules, 2010 with the insertion of Rule 44BB, with immediate effect.	Facts
This amendment was done in purported exercise of powers conferred under Section 15 read with Section 23C of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (hereinafter referred to as the MMDR Act).	Facts
By way of Rule 44BB, movement of sand beyond the border of the State of Gujarat was prohibited.	Facts
Rule 44BB reads as under No movement of sand shall be allowed beyond the border of the State.	Facts
In case any vehicle is found transporting sand to the neighbouring State, even with authorized royalty pass or delivery challan, it shall be treated as violation of the Act and the Rules made thereunder and the penal provisions as specified therein shall be applicable.	Facts
Within two months thereafter, i.e. on August 26, 2010, the State of Gujarat also notified the Gujarat Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 2010 so as to repeal the Gujarat Minor Mineral Rules, 1966.	None
Rule 71 of the new Rules was to the same effect as Rule 44BB and the same is as under Rule 71.	Facts
Prohibition to transport sand beyond border.	Facts
No movement of sand shall be allowed beyond the border of the State.	Facts
In case any vehicle is found transporting sand to the neighbouring State even with authorized royalty pass or delivery challan, it shall be treated as violation of the Act and the rules made thereunder and the penal provisions, except compounding, as specified therein shall be applicable.	Facts
This led the respondents to amend the writ petitions thereby incorporating challenge to Rule 44BB of Amendment Rules as well as Rule 71 of the Concession Rules.	None
The High Court has, vide impugned judgment, allowed the writ petitions and struck down the aforesaid Rules as ultra vires on the ground that the rule making power of the State Government does not empower and cannot be stretched to empower the State Government to make Rules directly prohibiting movement of mineral so as to impinge upon the freedom guaranteed by Article 301 of the Constitution.	Facts
It may be noted here itself that a Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in C. Narayana Reddy and etc. v. Commissioner of Panchayat Raj and Rural Employment, A.P., Hyderabad and others AIR 2004 AP 234 had taken a contrary view.	Facts
Likewise, the Madras High Court had also decided this issue vide its judgment dated April 27, 2009 in D. Sivakumar v. Government of Tamil Nadu by taking similar view as that of the Andhra Pradesh High Court.	Facts
In the impugned judgment, the Gujarat High Court has, however, differed with the Andhra Pradesh and Madras High Courts.	Facts
Having regard to the conflicting opinion of the High Courts, leave was granted in this matter.	Facts
This is how the instant appeals came to be heard finally by this Court.	Facts
Before proceeding further, we would like to recapitulate, in broad, the scheme of the MMDR Act insofar as it relates to regulating minor minerals are concerned and the powers that are delegated by the Central Government to the State Governments in respect of minor minerals.	None
In this very hue, we also propose to take note of the relevant provisions of the MMDR Act.	None
The MMDR Act is enacted by Parliament to provide for the regulation of mines and development of minerals under the control of the Union, i.e. the Central Government.	None
Section 2 provides a declaration to this effect with the stipulation that it is expedient in the public interest that Union should take under its control, the regulation of mines and development of minerals, to the extent provided in the Act.	None
It is for this reason the Union took control insofar as regulation of mines and development of minerals is concerned.	None
In order to exercise this control, no reconnaissance or mining operations in any area are allowed by any person except with the permission of the Central Government.	None
Even transportation or storage is prohibited otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of the MMDR Act and the Rules made thereunder (Section 4).	None
Section 13 of the MMDR Act empowers the Central Government to make rules in respect of minerals.	None
It follows from the above that as far as minor minerals are concerned, limited powers are given to the State Government inasmuch as under Section 15 of the MMDR Act the State Government is authorised to make rules in respect of minor minerals.	None
Relevant portions of this Section read as under Power of State Governments to make rules in respect of minor minerals.	None
The State Government may by notification in the Official Gazette make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions in respect of minor minerals and for purposes connected therewith.	None
(1A)	None
In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely xx xx xx	None
(d) the terms on which, and the conditions subject to which and the authority by which quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions may be granted or renewed xx	None
xx xx	None
(o) any other matter which is to be, or may be prescribed.	None
xx	None
xx	None
xx	None
There was an amendment to this Act by way of Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Amendment Act, 1999 (No. 38 of 1999) which became effective from December 18, 1999.	None
By this Amendment Act, Section 4(1A), Section 23A and Section 23C were inserted.	None
We would like to reproduce these sections along with the Statement of Objects and Reasons which prompted the Legislature to insert these provisions STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS The Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957 provides for the regular and development of minerals other than petroleum and natural gas.	None
Consequent upon the decisions taken in the Conference of the State Ministers Secretaries of Mines and Geology held in December, 1996, a Committee under the Chairmanship of the then Secretary, Ministry of Mines was constituted in February, 1997 to, inter alia, make recommendations regarding delegation of powers to the State Governments relating to grant and renewal of prospecting licences and mining leases and other related approvals and to suggest measures to reduce delay in this regard, review of the existing laws and procedures governing the regulation and development of minerals to make them more compatible with the changed policies and measures for prevention of illegal mining.	None
The Committee in his report made wide ranging recommendations in the area of delegation of powers to the State Governments, procedural simplifications, etc. which will go a long way to mitigate the problems faced by the States and the prospective investors while, at the same time, keeping the interests of the mining industry in particular and the national interest, in general, in tact.	None
After careful consideration of the recommendations of the Committee, the Government has decided to amend the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1946.	None
Some of the more important amendments to be made are as follows xx	None
xx	None
xx	None
A new provision is proposed to be inserted in the Act prohibiting transportation or storage or anything causing transportation or storage of any mineral except under the due provisions of the Act, with a view to preventing illegal mining.	None
Further, the Act is proposed to be amended to cover the breach of the provisions of the proposed new provision of the Act to be punishable.	None
It is also proposed to insert a new provision to provide for anything seized under the Act as liable for confiscation under court orders.	None
A new section is proposed to be inserted to empower the State Governments to make rules for preventing illegal mining, transportation and storage of minerals and for purposes connected therewith.	None
Section 4(1A)	None
No person shall transport or store or cause to be transported or stored any mineral otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder.	None
Section 23C The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for preventing illegal mining, transportation and storage of minerals and for the purposes connected therewith.	None
In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following mattes, namely (a) establishment of checkposts for checking of minerals under transit (b) establishment of weighbridges to measure the quantity of mineral being transported (c) regulation of mineral being transported from the area granted under a prospecting licence or a mining lease or a quarrying licence or a permit, in whatever name the permission to excavate minerals, has been given (d) inspection, checking and search of minerals at the place of excavation or storage or during transit (e) maintenance of registers and forms for the purposes of these rules (f) the period within which and the authority to which applications for revision of any order passed by any authority be preferred under any rule made under this section and the fees to be paid therefor and powers of such authority for disposing of such applications and (g) any other matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed for the purpose of prevention of illegal mining, transportation and storage of minerals.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in section 30, the Central Government shall have no power to revise any order passed by a State Government or any of its authorised officers or any authority under the rules made under subsections (1) and (2).	None
As noted above, the impugned Rules are made in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 23C of the MMDR Act.	None
Further, as Section 14 categorically states that provisions of Section 5 to 13 are not applicable in respect of minor minerals, rule making power of the Central Government contained in Section 13 does not extend to minor minerals.	None
It is in this context Section 15 gives power to the State Government to make rules in respect of minor minerals.	None
The State Government, thus, is given power under Section 15.	None
It is also given power under Section 23C.	None
A perusal of Sections 15 and 23C in relation to the aforesaid discussion would clearly suggest that the power of the State Government to make rules is restricted to (a) making rules for grant of quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions in respect of minor minerals and for the purposes connected therewith and (b) making rules for preventing illegal mining, transportation and storage of minerals and for the purposes connected therewith.	None
In the aforesaid context, question arose before the High Court as to whether in exercise of such powers delegated by the Legislature upon the State Government, could the State Government make a rule to the effect that the sand which is a minor mineral would not be allowed to be taken beyond the borders of the State of Gujarat and making such movement as punishable offence.	Issue
According to the High Court, delegation of powers to the State Government under the aforesaid provisions does not include or envisage restriction on interState trade, commerce and intercourse which shall be free.	None
Thus, the impugned rules are held to be ultra vires the provisions of Section 15 and 23C of the MMDR Act.	None
They are also held to be violative of Article 301 of the Constitution.	None
Relevant discussion on this aspect by the Gujarat High Court in the impugned judgment runs as under As seen earlier, the provisions of section 4(1A) and section 23C were simultaneously added by the amendment of 1999, with the objective of prohibiting transportation or storage of any mineral, except in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the Rules made in that behalf, with a view to preventing illegal mining.	None
Prohibition or restriction of interState trade of any mineral was neither intended nor provided or envisaged either expressly or by necessary implication.	None
On the other hand, delegation of powers to make rules either in section 15 or in section 23C of the Act is not couched in general terms as in section 18.	None
Section 18 exclusively empowers the Central Government to make such rules as it thinks fit for the purpose of conservation and development of minerals in the whole country.	None
Apart from delegation of such powers couched in wider terms, the Central Government is specifically authorized to make rules for regulation of excavation or collection of minerals from any mine as well as for storage of minerals.	None
As against that, the State Government is empowered to make rules, in respect of all minerals, for regulation of minerals being transported from the area granted under a prospecting licence or a mining lease or a quarry licence or a permit.	None
The context and the composite scheme of the Act contained in the provisions of sections 4(1A), 15, 18, 21 and 23C clearly indicate that the delegation of power to regulate or make rules for transportation or storage of minerals, including minor minerals, does not empower and cannot be stretched to empower the State Government to make rules directly prohibiting movement of minerals so as to impinge upon the freedom guaranteed by Article 301 of the Constitution.	None
In fact, the State Government has admittedly made the Gujarat Mineral (Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation and Storage) Rules, 2005 in exercise of the powers conferred by section 23C of the Act for regulating transport, possession and storage of minerals in the State and those rules are not under challenge.	None
Although it is not significant, in light of the view being taken herein about validity of the impugned rules, it needs to be noted that the part of new Rule 71 taking away the facility of compounding is apparently repugnant to section 23A of the Act.	None
And, if validity of the impugned rules cannot be upheld, the impugned resolution cannot stand without the support of any legal, executive or legislative authority.	None
We may also, at this stage, refer to the reasoning given by the High Courts of Andhra Pradesh and Madras in support of their view, which is in conflict with the view taken by the Gujarat High Court.	None
The judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court proceeds to decide the issue in the following manner Sector 23C of the Act authorises the State Government to make rules not only for the purpose of preventing illegal mining but also for transportation and storage of minor minerals, which power would imply that even after the minor mineral has been mined, the power is conferred on the State Government to frame Rules for such mined minor mineral as regards its storage and or its transportation and also to frame rules to see that no illegal mining activity is carried on.	None
Subclauses (a) to (g) of Clause (2) of Section 23C are illustrative of the matters, which are covered under the rule making power.	None
Sub section (2) says that in particular and without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred under Section 23C, rules may provide for all or any of the said matters.	None
Sub clause (c) itself say that regulations can be framed of mineral being transported from the area granted under the licence or a mining lease.	None
Rules can be framed on any of the matters including transportation of the excavated mineral.	None
Section 23C is the source of power under which Rule 9W can be said to have been framed by the State Government.	None
We have to keep in mind that the Parliament passed the Amendment Act, 1999 (Act No. 38 of 1999) thereby inserting Section 23C in the Principal Act after the decision of the Supreme Court in Kavery Chettys case (supra).	None
By the said provision, power was specifically conferred on the State Government to make rules for preventing illegal mining, transportation and storage of minerals.	None
The State Government has framed the Rules thereafter.	None
Thus, there is ample power with the State Government to frame Rules regarding transportation of the excavated minor mineral, which would include restriction on the transport of the said minor mineral beyond the limits of the State borders.	None
In this view of the matter, the challenge to Rule 9W is without any substance.	None
Likewise, the Madras High Court has proceeded to discuss the issue as follows Definition of the word Regulation Shri V.T. Gopalan has contended that the word regulation mentioned in Section 23C of the Act should not be construed to mean prohibition.	None
He further contended that a total prohibition is impermissible in law, violative of Article 19(1)(g) and, therefore, the impugned rule is liable to be declared as bad in law.	None
We are of the opinion that the word regulation has no fixed connotation.	None
The said word will have to be given wider meaning when the public interest is involved.	None
In the judgment reported in (1981) 2 SCC 205 (State of Tamil Nadu v. Hind Stone), the Honble Supreme Court has held as follows One of the arguments pressed before us was that Section 15 of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act authorised the making of rules for regulating the grant of mining leases and not for prohibiting them as Rule 8C sought to do, and, therefore, Rule 8C was ultra vires Section 15.	None
Wellknown cases on the subject right from Municipal Corporation of the City of Toronto v. Virgo and AttorneyGeneral for Ontario v. Attorney General for the Dominions up to State of U.P. v. Hindustan Aluminium Corporation Ltd. were brought to our attention.	None
We do not think that regulation has that rigidity of meaning as never to take in prohibition.	None
Much depends on the context in which the expression is used in the statute and the object sought to be achieved by the contemplated regulation.	None
It was observed by Mathew, J. in G.K. Krishnan v. State of Tamil Nadu	None
The word regulation has no fixed connotation.	None
Its meaning differs according to the nature of the thing to which it is applied.	None
In modern statutes concerned as they are with economic and social activities, regulation must, of necessity, receive so wide an interpretation that in certain situations, it must exclude competition to the public sector from the private sector.	None
More so in a welfare State.	None
It was pointed out by the Privy Council in Commonwealth of Australia v. Bank of New South Wales and we agree with what was stated therein that the problem whether an enactment was regulatory or something more or whether a restriction was direct or only remote or only incidental involved, not so much legal as political, social or economic consideration and that it could not be laid down that in no circumstances could the exclusion of competition so as to create a monopoly, either in a State or Commonwealth agency, be justified.	None
Each case, it was said, must be judged on its own facts and in its own setting of time and circumstances and it might be that in regard to some economic activities and at some stage of social development, prohibition with a view to State monopoly was the only practical and reasonable manner of regulation.	None
The statute with which we are concerned, the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, is aimed, as we have already said more than once, at the conservation and the prudent and discriminating exploitation of minerals.	None
Surely, in the case of a scarce mineral, to permit exploitation by the State or its agency and to prohibit exploitation by private agencies is the most effective method of conservation and prudent exploitation.	Reasoning
If you want to conserve for the future, you must prohibit in the present.	Reasoning
We have no doubt that the prohibiting of leases in certain cases is part of the regulation contemplated by Section 15 of the Act.	None
Similarly, in (2000) 8 SCC 655 (Quarry Owners Assocation v. State of Bihar) it has been held that the word regulation will have to be given a wide interpretation taking into consideration of social, economic and political justice.	None
We are of the opinion that while deciding as to whether the prohibition is reasonable, the Court has to take into consideration the greater public and social interest as against the fundamental right of the citizen.	None
In (2003) 7 SCC 59 (Indian Handicrafts Emporium v. Union of India), the Honble Supreme Court has held that prohibition of trade in ivory does not offend Article 19(1)(g) and the same is a reasonable restriction under Article 19(6) of the Constitution.	None
It is also to be noted only sand is prohibited from taking outside the State in view of the overwhelming public interest.	None
Therefore, we are of the opinion that the definition of the word regulation is wide enough to cover the prohibition and movement of minerals outside the State.	None
xx xx	None
xx	None
Environmental Perspective	None
The said rule has been introduced in view of the attempt made by the dealers of sand and contractors of building to transport the sand purchased from the Government outside the State.	None
According to the Government, the said rule has been made in public interest and also taking into consideration of the hardship that caused to the consumers in the State of Tamil Nadu as well as the high rate of urbanisation in the State.	None
In the counter affidavit, it is also stated by the Government that illegal, unaccounted sand is also transported outside the State.	None
It is well known that sand in the present form has already undergone various changes over thousands of years.	None
As found by the Expert Committee, due to over exploitation and indiscriminate mining of river sand, the environment and the ecosystem got very much affected.	None
The Expert Committee has also found out that the indiscriminate mining has resulted in deepening of the river beds, widening of the rivers, damage of civil structures, depletion of ground water table, degradation of ground quality, damage to the rivers system and reduction of biodiversity.	None
Therefore, what is important is to use the barest minimum of sand for developmental activities.	None
If the sand is allowed to be transported due to the demands in various places outside the State it would only increase the demand for more sand.	None
This in turn would affect the environment seriously.	None
Hence, one has to see the impact on the natural resources.	None
Whether it is authorized or not, legal or illegal what is important is the conservation and protection of the environment.	None
The right to clean environment is a guaranteed fundamental right under Article 21.	None
Article 48 A of the Constitution speaks about protection and improvement of environment and Article 51(A) of the Constitution deals with the fundamental duties to protect and improve the natural environment including forest, lakes, rivers and wild life.	None
The Honble Supreme has held in (2003) 7 SCC 589 (Indian Handicrafts Emporium v. Union of India) that the implementation of Directive principle is within the expression of restriction in the interest of general public.	None
Hence, we hold that from the environmental perspective also the impugned rule has to be sustained.	None
The Court also took aid of the doctrine of public trust as enunciated in State of Tamil Nadu v. Hind Stone and Others (1981) 2 SCC 205 as well as T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad v. Union of India and Others (2006) 1 SCC 1 .	None
Mr. Pritesh Kapur, learned counsel appearing for the State of Gujarat submitted in the first instance that scope of language used in Section 15(1) of the MMDR Act was extremely wide as per which the Parliament had delegated to the States entire power to make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions in respect of minor minerals and for purposes connected therewith.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, this Court, by a series of judgments, settled the following propositions The power to regulate under Section 15(1) is plenary and the Parliament has delegated to the States complete control over the subject matter, namely, minor minerals, especially in view of the fact that power has been conferred for all purposes connected with the regulation of the minor minerals.	Arguments of Petitioner
This power is not exhausted by the grant and continues to control activities even post grant.	Arguments of Petitioner
In respect of minor minerals, Parliament has not retained any control under the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Historically as well as under the 1957 Act, complete control over minor minerals has been delegated by Parliament to the State Government since these minerals have always been viewed as being important for local development.	None
To support the above plea, he invited the attention of this Court to the judgment in D.K. Trivedi Sons and Others v. State of Gujarat and Others 1986 Supp SCC 20 wherein this Court considered the power of the State Governments to make rules under the said Section 15 to enable them to charge dead rent and royalty in respect of leases of minor minerals granted by them and to enhance the rates of dead rent and royalty during the subsistence of such leases a power exercised by the State to govern conditions subsequent to the grant of the lease.	Arguments of Petitioner
After tracing the legislative history in respect of minor minerals, it was observed that by virtue of the Act the whole of the field was taken over by Parliament and thereafter all powers in respect of minor minerals had been delegated to the State Governments.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Court also observed, inter alia, that the power to regulate minor minerals under Section 15 is extremely wide that control over minor minerals fell exclusively within the domain of the State Governments that minor minerals have historically been viewed by the Legislature, both pre and post Independence, as being for the use of local areas and local purposes and it is left to the State Governments to prescribe such restrictions as they think fit by rules made under Section 15(1).	Arguments of Petitioner
18.	None
From the above judgment, his line of action was that if the power of regulation permits the States to utilise the minor minerals for the benefit of the State through its own agency, it would necessarily also encompass the power to ensure that even private parties utilise the sand within the State as a condition of the lease.	Reasoning
Furthermore, the argument that subsection (1) of Section 15 is for regulating the grant of leases and other mineral concessions in respect of minor minerals and that rules under that subsection can be made only with respect to the time when such leases or concessions are granted and not with respect to any point of time subsequent thereto, was specifically considered and rejected in the case of D.K. Trivedi Sons.	Reasoning
Mr. Kapur also argued that a three Judge Bench of this Court in Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited v. National Thermal Power Corporation Limited and Others (2009) 6 SCC 23 has reiterated the view that the power of regulation conferred upon an authority is not spent or exhausted with the grant of permission.	None
He relied upon the judgments in Hind Stone and K. Ramanathan v. State of Tamil Nadu and Another (1985) 2 SCC 116 wherein this Court reiterated that the word regulate must be given the widest amplitude.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that in K. Ramanathans case this Court was considering the validity of an order issued by the State Government under the Essential Commodities Act banning the transport of paddy outside the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that context, this Court has observed that 19At the same time, the power to regulate carries with it full power over the thing subject to regulation and in absence of restrictive words, the power must be regarded as plenary over the entire subjectThe power to regulate implies the power to check and may imply the power to prohibit under certain circumstances, as where the best or only efficacious regulation consists of suppression xx xx	None
xx	None
23One of the ways in which such regulation or control over the production, supply and distribution of, and trade and commerce in, an essential commodity like foodstuffs may be exercised is by placing a ban on interState or intraState movement of foodstuffs to ensure that the excess stock of foodstuffs held by a wholesale dealer, commission agent or retailer is not transported to places outside the State or from one district to another with a view to maximise the procurement of such foodstuffs from the growers in the surplus area for their equitable distribution at fair prices in the deficit areas.	None
The placing of such ban on export of foodstuffs across the State or from one part of the State to another with a view to prevent outflow of foodstuffs from a State which is a surplus State prevents the spiral rise in prices of such foodstuffs by artificial creation of shortage by unscrupulous tradersThese are nothing but regulatory measures.	None
Mr. Kapur further submitted that the above observations and the expansive interpretation given to the power of regulation in both the aforesaid cases have been approved by a Constitution Bench of this Court in U.P. Cooperative Cane Unions Federations v. West U.P. Sugar Mills Association and Others (2004) 5 SCC 430 .	Arguments of Petitioner
In this case, the Constitution Bench was considering the competence of the State Government to fix the State advised price for purchase of sugarcane by an occupier of a sugar factory over and above the minimum price fixed by the Central Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
The relevant section, i.e. Section 16, also provided merely a power of regulation and the power to provide for terms and conditions and did not grant the power to fix prices.	Arguments of Petitioner
Discussing that aspect, it was observed as under Regulate means to control or to adjust by rule or to subject to governing principles.	None
It is a word of broad impact having wide meaning comprehending all facets not only specifically enumerated in the Act, but also embraces within its fold the powers incidental to the regulation envisaged in good faith and its meaning has to be ascertained in the context in which it has been used and the purpose of the statute.	None
On the basis of the aforesaid judgments, submission of Mr. Kapur was that this Court has consistently held that power to regulate was of widest amplitude and, therefore, it would encompass power to regulate the movement of minor minerals as well, including the condition not to transport the excavated sand outside the State of Gujarat in the lease itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that this Court in State of Tamil Nadu v. M.P.P. Kavery Chetty (1995) 2 SCC 402 held that there is no power conferred upon the State Government under the MMDR Act to exercise control over the minor minerals after they have been excavated.	Arguments of Petitioner
His submission was that this is the only judgment which has taken discordant note and while deciding this, the earlier judgment in D.K. Trivedi Sons was not brought to the notice of the Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Another submission of Mr. Kapur was that power to frame such a rule can be traced to Section 15(1A)(d) of the MMDR Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
This section empowers the State Government to impose conditions in a mining lease and, therefore, would include the power to impose all such conditions as flown from the ownership of the minerals.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since it is the State Government which is the owner of the minerals and the minerals that vest in it, as held in Amritlal Nathubhai Shah and Others v. Union Government of India and Another (1976) 4 SCC 108 , while granting the licence, it can put conditions pertaining to movement and flow of such minerals as well.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also took support from the following observations in Monnet Ispat and Energy Limited v. Union of India and Others (2012) 11 SCC 1 86The judgment of this Court in Amritlal Nathubhai Shah establishes the distinction between the power of reservation to exploit a mineral as its own property on the one hand and the regulation of mines and minerals development under the 1957 Act and the 1960 Rules on the other.	Arguments of Petitioner
The authority of the State Government to make reservation of a particular mining area within its territory for its own use is the offspring of ownership and it is inseparable therefrom unless denied to it expressly by an appropriate law by the 1957 Act that has not been done by Parliament.	Arguments of Petitioner
Setting aside by a State of land owned by it for its exclusive use and under its dominance and control, in my view, is an incident of sovereignty and ownership.	None
23.	None
in any case, argued Mr. Kapur, power to frame the impugned rule is conferred by Section 23C of the MMDR Act as well.	None
According to him, it would be erroneous to contend that the word illegal occurring in Section 23C (1) must qualify the words transportation and storage as well.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any event, there are no such qualifying words in subsection (2)(c) which grants a power without prejudice to subsection (1).	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the two sub sections must be construed independently and neither can cut down the width of the other.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also argued that while construing a similar power to regulate transport of forest produce, this Court upheld a rule prohibiting transport beyond the borders of the State in the case of State of Tripura and Others v. Sudhir Ranjan Nath (1997) 3 SCC 665 in the following words The object of the Act is to preserve and protect the forest wealth of the country and to regulate the cutting, removal, transport and possession of the forest produce in the interest of the States and their people.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is for achieving the above purpose that the Act provides for declaration of reserve forests, formation of village forests and declaration of protected forests.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is for achieving the very purpose that the Act vests, in the Government, control over forest and lands not being the property of the Government and controls even the collection and movement of drift and stranded timber.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not a taxing enactment but an enactment designed to preserve, protect and promote the forest wealth in the interests of the nation.	Arguments of Petitioner
It must necessarily take within its fold catering to the needs of the people of the State and that is what subrule (8) provides.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion, therefore, subrule (8) of Rule 3 is perfectly valid.	None
Last submission of Mr. Kapur was that once it becomes clear that power to regulate minor minerals conferred upon the State Government would include power to regulate its movements as well, there was no question of treating the same as violative of Article 301 of the Constitution.	None
For this purpose, he relied upon certain judgments of this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Referring to the case of Hind Stone, he submitted that in that case the Court specifically held that regulatory measures or measures imposing compensatory taxes for the use of trading facilities do not come under the purview of restrictions contemplated by Article 301.	Arguments of Petitioner
Likewise, according to him, in Sudhir Ranjan Naths case, this Court had held that once a provision made by the State as the delegate of Parliament to carry out the purposes of the Act is saved by Article 302, it will not be hit by Article 301.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such a rule, therefore, would not offend the principle of federalism.	Arguments of Petitioner
Having regard to the fact that it is the Union which can regulate and control the minerals in this country and States exercise power of minor minerals as delegates of the Union, this Court had deemed it fit to issue notice of these proceedings to Union of India as well in order to elicit its stand on this issue.	Reasoning
The Union of India has filed its reply, taking a specific stand that there is no such power to frame rule like 44BB of the 1966 Rules or Rule 71 of the 2010 Rules.	Reasoning
Ms. Madhavi Divan, learned Additional Solicitor General, appeared for Union of India and pitched the case to even a higher level.	Arguments of Respondent
Her argument was that there is no such power even with the Union of India to frame rules of the nature impugned in these proceedings as these would be offensive of Article 301 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, under no circumstances, such a power can vest with the State Government.	Arguments of Respondent
She argued that Section 15 which empowers the State Government to make rules in respect of minor minerals does not extend to the regulation of already excavated minor minerals under the terms and conditions of a mining lease.	Arguments of Respondent
This is made clear by the three Judge Bench in M.P.P. Kavery Chetty wherein this Court upheld the striking down of rules made by the State Government to fix minimum price for the sale of granite after its excavation.	Arguments of Respondent
The Court emphatically held that the State Government had no power under Section 15 of the MMDR Act to exercise to control over minor minerals after they had been excavated.	Arguments of Respondent
The power under Section 15 was restricted and did not empower the State to control the sale or sale price of minor minerals once they had been mined.	Arguments of Respondent
The latter judgment has been followed in another three Judge Bench judgment in K.T. Varghese Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
v. State of Kerala Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
(2008) 3 SCC 735 .	Arguments of Respondent
In the latter case, one of the impugned conditions of the license was that minerals could be sold only within the State of Kerala, that too for domestic and agricultural purposes.	Arguments of Respondent
The same was found impermissible.	Arguments of Respondent
She also submitted that there is no conflict whatsoever between the judgments of this Court in Amritlal Nathubhai Shah and D.K. Trivedi Sons on the one hand and M.P.P. Kavery Chetty on the other.	Arguments of Respondent
Her contention was that in Amritlal Nathubhai Shah, while it was emphatically stated that the State Government is the owner of minerals within its territory and minerals vest in it, this was held in the context of a challenge to the reservation by the State Government of certain areas of exploitation of bauxite in the public sector.	Arguments of Respondent
Private parties challenged the notification to that effect and the Central Government to whom they applied for revision held that the minerals vested in the State Government which was its owner and that the State Government had the inherent right to reserve any area for exploitation in the public sector.	Arguments of Respondent
She did not quarrel with such a proposition.	Arguments of Respondent
However, her caveat was that this was a matter where there were no leases in favour of private parties but rather the private parties were petitioning the government for the grant of leases.	None
Likewise, in D.K. Trivedi Sons, this Court held that minor minerals are used mostly in local areas and for local purposes while minerals other than minor minerals are those necessary for industrial development on a national scale.	None
She submitted that it is totally different proposition.	Arguments of Respondent
She also pointed out that in the said case the finding that the State Government could enhance dead rent even during the subsistence of a lease has no application in the present case.	Arguments of Respondent
Such observations of this Court in D.K. Trivedi Sons were in the context of enhancement of dead rent which is collected as a fixed amount in consideration for the grant of the lease by the lessor apart from royalty and is incidental to the regulation and development of mines and minerals which is avowed object of the MMDR Act as stated in its Preamble.	Arguments of Respondent
But, in the present case, what is sought is a blanket prohibition of the sale of minor minerals beyond the borders of the State of Gujarat.	Arguments of Respondent
She argued that on the other hand, both M.P.P. Kavery Chetty and K.T. Varghese were matters wherein what was sought to be controlled post grant of lease was the sale of the excavated minerals.	Arguments of Respondent
Such restrictions were found to be beyond the powers granted to the State as a delegate of Parliament and were accordingly struck down.	None
The learned Additional Solicitor General also rebutted the argument of the appellants that power to regulate would encompass power to restrict the movement beyond the State.	Arguments of Respondent
She argued that while it is well settled that the expression regulation has many shades of meaning and can refer to prohibition (Sudhir Ranjan Nath and Hind Stone), the issue in the present case is whether a prohibition on the transportation of legally mined materials can be imposed under the provisions of the MMDR Act.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no doubt that a prohibition can be imposed on mining under certain circumstances or on the grant of leases under the aforesaid Act but not on transportation de hors illegal mining.	None
In this hue, the learned ASG submitted that Section 23C was inserted with specific object to curb illegal mining.	None
Therefore, the words transportation and storage occurring therein would take their colour from the expression illegal mining on the principle of noscitur a sociis.	Arguments of Respondent
That was clear from the Statement of Objects and Reasons as well.	Arguments of Respondent
On the aforesaid basis, Ms. Divan submitted that the High Court rightly concluded that there was lack of power with the State Government to make such a provision which could neither be traced to Sections 15, 15(1A) or 23 of the MMDR Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Additional Solicitor General additionally argued that there was no question of public interest as well.	None
On this aspect, her contention was that Parliament was wholly conscious of the environmental concerns impacted on account of mining activity, which concern is reflected in Section 4A of the MMDR Act.	Arguments of Respondent
This provision provides for termination of prospecting licenses or mining leases on account of expediency in the interest of, inter alia, reservation of the natural environment and conservation of mineral resources.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, Section 18 provides that it shall be the duty of the Central Government to take all such steps as may be necessary for the conservation and systematic development of minerals in India and for the protection of environment by preventing or controlling any pollution which may be caused by prospecting mining operation.	Arguments of Respondent
In this regard, the Central Government is empowered to make rules as it thinks fit.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, there are specific provisions empowering the Central Government to make rules in respect of conservation of minerals in the interest of the environment.	Arguments of Respondent
Ms. Divan also argued that the impugned rules are violative of Article 301 of the Constitution as they seek to fetter the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse.	Arguments of Respondent
Highlighting the purpose behind Part XIII of the Constitution which starts with Article 301, she emphasised that it was to achieve economic integration.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, balancing development and economic equality of the country is equally vital facet of economic integration, stressed the learned Additional Solicitor General.	Arguments of Respondent
She referred to various judgments of this Court on the aforesaid aspects and concluded her submissions with the submission that the conclusion of the High Court in the impugned judgment was correct on this aspect as well.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. D.N. Ray, Advocate, appeared on behalf of the private respondents and made his submissions almost on the same lines as argued by the learned Additional Solicitor General.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, it is not necessary to repeat the same.	Arguments of Respondent
We have give our due consideration to the arguments advanced by the counsel for the parties on both sides.	None
From the subject matter of these appeals as well as arguments noted above, it clearly follows that the main issues that arise for consideration are as under (a) Whether the impugned rules framed by the State of Gujarat as a delegate of Parliament are beyond the powers granted to it under the MMDR Act?	Issue
In other words, whether the impugned rules are ultra vires Sections 15, 15A and 23C of the MMDR Act?	Issue
(b) Whether the impugned rules are violative of Part XIII of the Constitution of India?	None
The appellants have submitted that Section 15 gives such a power.	Arguments of Petitioner
Subsection (1) of Section 15 empowers the State Government to make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases, mining leases or other concessions in respect of minor minerals and for the purposes connected therewith.	Arguments of Petitioner
This power of regulation pertains to granting of leases.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the submission of Mr. Kapur that the expression regulating is of widest amplitude and would, therefore, confer power to make the rules of the nature made herein.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has referred to various judgments of this Court wherein the expression regulating has been explained.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has also submitted that in any case under Section 15(1A) such a power is there and this provision has to be read independent of Section 15(1).	None
It is difficult to accept the aforesaid contention in view of the judgments of this Court in M.P.P. Kavery Chetty and K.T. Varghese.	Reasoning
In those judgments, it has been categorically held that power of the State Government under Section 15 of the MMDR Act does not include control over minor minerals after they are excavated.	Reasoning
Following observations from the said judgment are extracted herein The High Court quashed Rules 8D and 19B principally on the ground that Section 15 of the said Act gave no power to the State Government to frame rules to regulate internal or foreign trade in granite after it had been quarried.	None
Section 15 also did not empower the State Government to frame rules to enable a State Government company or corporation to fix a minimum price for granite.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant State submitted that Rules 8D and 19B were valid having regard to the Preamble of the said Act and Section 18 thereof.	None
He submitted that the rulemaking power of the State under Section 15(o) was wide enough to encompass Rules 8D and	None
19B.	None
The said Act is enacted to provide for the regulation of mines and the development of minerals under the control of the Union.	None
Section 2 of the said Act declares that it is expedient in the public interest that the Union should take under its control the regulation of mines and the development of minerals to the extent provided in the said Act.	None
Section 13 empowers the Central Government to make rules for regulating the grant of prospecting licences and mineral leases in respect of minerals and for purposes connected therewith.	None
Subsection (1) of Section 15 empowers the State Government to make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases, mining leases and other mineral concessions in respect of minor minerals and for purposes connected therewith.	Arguments of Petitioner
Subsection (1A) of Section 15 states that such rules may provide for the matters set out therein, namely, the person by whom and the manner in which an application for a quarry lease, mining lease and the like may be made the fees to be paid therefor the time and the form in which the application is to be made the matters which are to be considered where applications in respect of the same land are received on the same day the terms and conditions on which leases may be granted or regulated the procedure in this behalf the facilities to be afforded to leaseholders the fixation and collection of rent and other charges and the time within which they are payable the protection of the rights of third parties the protection of flora the manner in which leases may be transferred the construction, maintenance and use of roads, power transmission lines, etc. on the land the form of registers to be maintained reports and statements to be submitted and to whom and the revision of any order passed by any authority under the said Rules.	None
Clause (o) of subsection (1A) read any other matter which is to be or may be prescribed .	None
Section 18 of the said Act states that it shall be the duty of the Central Government to take all such steps as may be necessary for the conservation and systematic development of the environment by preventing or controlling any pollution which may be caused by prospecting or mining operations.	Arguments of Respondent
Rules 8D and 19B empower the State Government or its officers or a State Government company or corporation as the State Government may direct to control the sale by every permitholder of quarried granite or other rock suitable for ornamental or decorative purposes.	None
They also empower the State Government or its officers or a State Government company or corporation, as the case may be, to fix the minimum price for the sale thereof.	None
The object, as is shown by the terms of Government Order No. 214 dated 1061992, quoted above, is to conserve and protect granite resources.	None
It is difficult to see how granite resources can be protected by controlling the sale of granite after its excavation and fixing the minimum price thereof.	None
There is no power conferred upon the State Government under the said Act to exercise control over minor minerals after they have been excavated.	None
The power of the State Government, as the subordinate rulemaking authority, is restricted in the manner set out in Section 15.	None
The power to control the sale and the sale price of a minor mineral is not covered by the terms of clause (o) of sub section (1A) of Section 15.	None
This clause can relate only to the regulation of the grant of quarry and mining leases and other mineral concessions and it does not confer the power to regulate the sale of already mined minerals.	None
Likewise, the condition of license granted by the State of Kerala to the effect that it could be sold only within the Sate, that too for domestic and agricultural purposes, was struck down in the following words The appellants complaint is that certain conditions in the form of restrictions have been incorporated while issuing the licences.	None
One of such conditions which the appellants attack is that the minerals permitted to be stocked were to be purchased only from authorised quarrying permitholders on that behalf.	None
Another condition is that they are permitted to sell the minerals only within the State of Kerala, that too for domestic and agricultural purposes.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellants complaint is that as far as cooperative societies are concerned, they are not saddled with any such restrictions imposed in the case of the appellants.	None
Thus, according to the appellants, there is a clear discrimination between the cooperative societies and the individuals in the matter of restrictions imposed in the licences granted to them.	None
Apart from that there is no legal sanction for such restrictions.	None
Argument of Mr. Kapur that M.P.P. Kavery Chetty did not consider the earlier judgment in D.K. Trivedi Sons is misplaced.	Reasoning
In this behalf, we entirely agree with the learned Additional Solicitor General that judgment in D.K. Trivedi Sons and other judgments cited by Mr. Kapur are clearly distinguishable as the context and the subject matters in those cases were entirely different.	Reasoning
It is not necessary to point out the differences in two sets of cases, as we entirely agree with the argument of Ms. Divan in drawing the distinction between the two and pointing out that there is no conflict whatsoever.	Reasoning
She is right that the two sets of cases can be read harmoniously.	None
In the cases of Amritlal Nathubhai Shah, D.K. Trivedi Sons and Hind Stone, the measures in question had a direct nexus with the grant or the refusal to grant a lease.	Reasoning
In the instant appeals, which concern the sale of already excavated minerals that belong to the lessee, a prohibition by the State Government on sale thereof outside the State is not permissible under the MMDR Act.	Reasoning
In the case of Hind Stone, this Court succinctly stated the scope and ambit of the MMDR Act, highlighting that the Act is aimed at the conservation and the prudent and discriminating exploitation of minerals.	Reasoning
Following passage from the said judgment shows that as a method of regulation, prohibition is clearly permissible, provided, however, that it has a direct nexus with the conservation, exploitation and excavation of minerals 10The statue with which we are concerned, the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, is aimed, as we have already said more than once, at the conservation and the prudent and discriminating exploitation of minerals.	Reasoning
Surely, in the case of a scarce mineral, to permit exploitation by the State or its agency and to prohibit exploitation by private agencies is the most effective method of conservation and prudent exploitation.	Reasoning
If you want to conserve for the future, you must prohibit in the present.	Reasoning
We have no doubt that the prohibiting of the leases in certain cases is part of the regulation contemplated by Section 15 of the Act.	None
On the other hand, the prohibition on the transport or sale of the already mined minerals outside the State has no direct nexus with the object and purpose of the MMDR Act which is concerned with conservation and prudent exploitation of minerals.	None
Insofar as Section 23C of the MMDR Act is concerned, it was inserted by the Amendment Act of 1999 with the objective to prevent illegal mining.	None
That is clearly spelled out in the Statement of Objects and Reasons.	None
We may reproduce a portion thereof again A new provision is proposed to be inserted in the Act prohibiting transportation or storage or anything causing transportation or storage of any mineral except under the due provisions of the Act, with a view to preventing illegal mining.	None
Further, the Act is proposed to be amended to cover the breach of the provisions of the proposed new provision of the Act to be punishable.	None
It is also proposed to insert a new provision to provide for anything seized under the Act as liable for confiscation under court orders.	None
A new section is proposed to be inserted to empower the State Governments to make rules for preventing illegal mining, transportation and storage of minerals and for purposes connected therewith.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
It is in this context the words transportation and storage in Section 23C are to be interpreted.	None
Here the two words are used in the context of illegal mining.	Reasoning
It is clear that it is the transportation and storage of illegal mining and not the mining of minor minerals like sand which is legal and backed by duly granted license, which can be regulated under this provision.	Reasoning
Therefore, no power flows from this provision to make rule for regulating transportation of the legally excavated minerals.	Reasoning
As far as Issue No. (b) above is concerned, we are also of the considered opinion that the impugned rules violate Part XIII of the Constitution as the effect thereof is to fetter the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse under Article 301 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Under this Article, the expression freedom must be read with the expression throughout the territory of India.	Reasoning
Under Article 302, Parliament may impose restrictions on the freedom of trade, commerce or intercourse between one State and another as may be required in the public interest.	Reasoning
The expression public interest may include a regional interest as well.	Reasoning
However, Article 302 is qualified by Article 303 which prohibits Parliament and the State Legislatures from making any law that gives preference to one State over another or discriminates between one State and another.	Reasoning
Situations of scarcity are to be dealt with by Parliament under Article 302(2).	Reasoning
The power of State Legislature to impose reasonable restrictions on the freedom of trade, commerce or intercourse, as may be required in the public interest, requires such a Bill or amendment to be moved in the State Legislature only after receiving previous sanction from the President.	Reasoning
The President, being the head of the State and the guardian of the federation, must be satisfied that such a law is indeed required and, thus, acts as a check on the promotion of provincial interests over national interest.	Reasoning
Going by the aforesaid scheme of this Chapter, it becomes apparent that when there are such restrictions on a State Legislature, then the State Government could not have imposed such a prohibition under a statute whose object is to regulate mines and mineral development, and not trade and commerce per se.	Reasoning
That apart, we find force in the submission of the learned Additional Solicitor General that Part XIII of the Constitution is a code on checks and balances on the legislative power intended to achieve the objective of economic integration of the country.	None
This was emphasised in Video Electronics Pvt.	Reasoning
Ltd. Anr.	Reasoning
v. State of Punjab Anr.	Reasoning
(1990) 3 SCC 87 wherein this Court held In our opinion, Part XIII of the Constitution cannot be read in isolation.	None
It is part and parcel of a single constitutional instrument envisaging a federal scheme and containing general scheme conferring legislative powers in respect of the matters relating to List II of the Seventh Schedule on the States.	Reasoning
It also confers plenary powers on States to raise revenue for its purposes and does not require that every legislation of the State must obtain assent of the President.	Reasoning
Constitution of India is an organic document.	Reasoning
It must be so construed that it lives and adapts itself to the exigencies of the situation, in a growing and evolving society, economically, politically and socially.	Reasoning
The meaning of the expressions used there must, therefore, be so interpreted that it attempts to solve the present problem of distribution of power and rights of the different States in the Union of India, and anticipate the future contingencies that might arise in a developing organism.	Reasoning
Constitution must be able to comprehend the present at the relevant time and anticipate the future which is natural and necessary corollary for a growing and living organism.	Reasoning
That must be part of the constitutional adjudication.	Reasoning
Hence, the economic development of States to bring these into equality with all other States and thereby develop the economic unity of India is one of the major commitments or goals of the constitutional aspirations of this land.	Reasoning
For working of an orderly society economic equality of all the States is as much vital as economic unity.	None
Freedom of movement of goods, services and the creation of a common market must be understood contextually and as necessary for creating an economic union.	None
It is also rightly contended by all the respondents that balanced development of the country is an equally vital facet of economic integration.	None
No doubt, Part XIII permits some forms of differentiation, for example, to encourage a backward region or to create a level playing field for parts of the country that may not have reached the desired level of development.	Reasoning
In this context, Part XIII envisions a twofold object (i) facilitation of a common market through ease of trade, commerce and intercourse by erasing barriers and (ii) Regulations (or restrictions) which may have the effect of differentiating between States or regions which may be necessary not only in emergent circumstances of scarcity etc. or but even for development of economically backward regions or otherwise justified in the public interest.	Reasoning
That Part XIII is not about freedom alone but is a code of checks and balances, intended at achieving economic unity and parity.	Reasoning
Such a desired objective for economic integration through checks and balances was also articulated in Video Electronics Pvt.	Reasoning
Ltd.	None
Economic unity is a desired goal, economic equilibrium and prosperity is also the goal.	Reasoning
Development on parity is one of the commitments of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Directive principles enshrined in Articles 38 and 39 must be harmonised with economic unity as well as economic development of developed and under developed areas.	Reasoning
In that light on Article 14 of the Constitution, it is necessary that the prohibitions in Article 301 and the scope of Article 304(a) and (b) should be understood and construed.	Reasoning
Constitution is a living organism and the latent meaning of the expressions used can be given effect to only if a particular situation arises.	Reasoning
It is not that with changing times the meaning changes but changing times illustrate and illuminate the meaning of the expressions used.	Reasoning
The connotation of the expressions used takes its shape and colour in evolving dynamic situations.	Reasoning
A backward State or a disturbed State cannot with parity engage in competition with advanced or developed States.	Reasoning
Even within a State, there are often backward areas which can be developed only if some special incentives are granted.	Reasoning
If the incentives in the form of subsidies or grant are given to any part of (sic or) units of a State so that it may come out of its limping or infancy to compete as equals with others, that, in our opinion, does not and cannot contravene the spirit and the letter of Part XIII of the Constitution.	Reasoning
However, this is permissible only if there is a valid reason, that is to say, if there are justifiable and rational reasons for differentiation.	Reasoning
If there is none, it will amount to hostile discrimination.	None
In order to justify any preference or discrimination under Article 303, a scarcity of goods would have to be made out.	Reasoning
It is a matter of record that the Study Groups report on which reliance is placed by the appellant focuses on the need to restrict the export of sand outside India and not within India.	Reasoning
In any case, nothing prevents the appellant from restricting the quantum of sand being excavated.	Reasoning
However, once the appellant State permits sand to be excavated, neither can it legally restrict its movement within the territory of India nor is the same constitutionally permissible.	Reasoning
Likewise, there is no restriction on the State importing sand from other states.	Reasoning
If it is the case that the demand of any State is not being met, it may purchase sand from other states.	Reasoning
In any event, the market will dictate trade in sand inasmuch as it may make no business sense for mining company to transport and sell its sand in a far away destination after incurring large costs on transportation.	Reasoning
We, thus, answer both the questions against the appellants.	None
As a result, we do not approve the view of Andhra Pradesh High Court and Madras High Court.	Decision
Rather, we affirm the impugned judgment of the Gujarat High Court and dismiss these appeals.	Decision
