SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J. The Electricity Act, 2003 (hereinafter referred to as the said Page 1 of 84Act) provides for Central and State Regulatory Commissions.	None
Insofar as the appointment of the Chairperson of these Commissions is concerned, the relevant provisions stipulate that the Chairpersonmaybe a Judge of a High Court for the State Commission, a Judge of the Supreme Court or the Chief Justice of a High Court for the Central Commission.	None
The common question, which arises for consideration in these appeals is whether the expressionmayshould be read asshall, i.e., whether it is mandatory to have a judicial mind presiding over these Commissions in the form of a Judge.	None
The Division Bench of the Madras High Court vide judgment dated 7.2.2014 took the view in respect of the challenge laid to the selection process of the Chairman of the Tamil Nadu State Electricity Commission that there was no such mandatory requirement though there was an option to appoint a Judge.3.	Facts
The Division Bench of the Gujarat High Court in a similar case in respect of the appointment of a Chairperson of the Gujarat State Regulatory Commission vide impugned order dated 8.10.2015 opined that it was so mandatory.4.	Facts
The aforesaid judicial conflict being before this Court, the Page 2 of 84challenges laid in different States were transferred to this Court through Transfer Petitions vide order dated 3.11.2015.	Facts
The Union of India, as also some of the State Commissions are arrayed on the one side to canvas for an interpretation of the provision as it reads, while on the other side, are consumers, activists and some affected parties, who canvassed the importance of the State Regulatory Commissions and the nature of functions it performs, to establish that a Judge alone should preside over these Commissions.	None
We do not see the necessity of going into individual facts nor were the pleas advanced on that basis before us.	None
The submissions have been based on the provisions of the said Act and the legal pronouncements dealing with the issue of the mandatory requirement of certain Commissions to be headed by a judicial mind.	None
The Act The said Act came into force on 10.6.2003 on publication in the Gazette.	None
The Act seeks to consolidate the laws relating to generation, transmission, distribution, trading and use of electricity.	None
The Preamble to the said Act states as under An Act to consolidate the laws relating to generation, Page 3 of 84transmission, distribution, trading and use of electricity and generally for taking measures conducive to development of electricity industry, promoting competition therein, protecting interest of consumers and supply of electricity to all areas, rationalisation of electricity tariff, ensuring transparent policies regarding subsidies, promotion of efficient and environmentally benign policies, constitution of Central Electricity Authority, Regulatory Commissions and establishment of Appellate Tribunal and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.	None
The detailed Statement of Objects Reasons mentions that the Electricity Supply Industry in India was governed by the Indian Electricity Act, 1910, the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 and the Electricity Regulatory Commission Act, 1998.	None
The State Electricity Boards constituted under the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 failed to perform on account of various factors inter alia fixation of appropriate tariff and the crosssubsidies reached unsustainable levels.	None
The Electricity Regulatory Commission Act of 1998 was an endeavour to distance the Government from determination of tariffs by having independent regulatory commissions.	None
Part X of the said Act deals with matters relating to Regulatory Commissions their constitution, powers and functions, etc.	None
Sections 76 77 of the said Act are concerned with the constitution of the Page 4 of 84Central Commission and the qualifications for appointment of Members of the Central Commission.	None
The provisions are similar to the appointment of the Members and Chairperson of the State Commissions except to the extent that while the relevant subsection provides that the Central Governmentmayappoint the Chairperson from amongst persons who is, or has been a Judge of the Supreme Court or the Chief Justice of a High Court in the case of the Central Commission, in the case of State Commissions, the provision states that the State Governmentmayappoint any person as the Chairperson from amongst persons who is, or has been, a Judge of a High Court.	None
Section 78 of the said Act deals with the constitution of the Selection Committee to recommend Members, while the functions of the Central Commission are specified in Section 79 of the said Act.	None
Section 80 of the said Act provides for establishment of a Central Advisory Committee with the Chairperson of the Central Commission being the ex officio Chairperson of the Central Advisory Committee.	None
This Committee is to advise the Central Commission on major questions of policy quality, continuity and extent of service provided by the licensees compliance by the licensees with the conditions and Page 5 of 84requirements of their licence protection of consumer interest electricity supply and overall standards of performance by utilities (Section 81 of the said Act).	None
Section 82 of the said Act is in respect of constitution of State Commission while Section 84 prescribes the qualifications for appointment of Chairperson and Members of State Commissions.	None
Section 85 of the said Act provides for constitution of Selection Committee to select Members of State Commission and Section 86 prescribes the functions of State Commission.	Reasoning
Similar to the Central Advisory Committee, the State Advisory Committee can be constituted under Section 87 of the said Act with similarity of functions under Section 88 of the said Act.	None
The relevant provisions, which will have to be referred to are being reproduced hereunder Section 84.	None
Qualifications for appointment of Chairperson and Members of State Commission.	None
(1) The Chairperson and the Members of the State Commission shall be persons of ability, integrity and standing who have adequate knowledge of, and have shown capacity in, dealing with problems relating to engineering, finance, commerce, economics, law or management.	None
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1), the State Government may appoint any person as the Chairperson from amongst persons who is, or has been, a Judge of a High Court Page 6 of 84Provided that no appointment under this subsection shall be made except after consultation with the Chief Justice of that High Court.	None
(3) The Chairperson or any other Member of the State Commission shall not hold any other office.	None
(4) The Chairperson shall be the Chief Executive of the State Commission.	None
Section 85.	None
Constitution of Selection Committee to select Members of State Commission.	None
(1) The State Government shall, for the purposes of selecting the Members of the State Commission, constitute a Selection Committee consisting of (a) a person who has been a Judge of the High Court.	None
Chairperson (b) the Chief Secretary of the concerned State .Member	None
(c) the Chairperson of the Authority or the Chairperson of the Central Commission Member Provided that nothing contained in this section shall apply to the appointment of a person as the Chairperson who is or has been a Judge of the High Court.	None
(2) The State Government shall, within one month from the date of occurrence of any vacancy by reason of death, resignation or removal of the Chairperson or a Member and six months before the superannuation or end of tenure of the Chairperson or Member, make a reference to the Selection Committee for filling up of the vacancy.	None
(3) The Selection Committee shall finalise the selection of the Chairperson and Members within three months from the date on which the reference is made to it.	None
Page 7 of 84(4)	None
The Selection Committee shall recommend a panel of two names for every vacancy referred to it.	None
(5) Before recommending any person for appointment as the Chairperson or other Member of the State Commission, the Selection Committee shall satisfy itself that such person does not have any financial or other interest which is likely to affect prejudicially his functions as such Chairperson or Member, as the case may be.	None
(6) No appointment of Chairperson or other Member shall be invalid merely by reason of any vacancy in the Selection Committee Functions of State Commission.	None
(1) The State Commission shall discharge the following functions, namely (a) determine the tariff for generation, supply, transmission and wheeling of electricity, wholesale, bulk or retail, as the case may be, within the State Provided that where open access has been permitted to a category of consumers under section 42, the State Commission shall determine only the wheeling charges and surcharge thereon, if any, for the said category of consumers (b) regulate electricity purchase and procurement process of distribution licensees including the price at which electricity shall be procured from the generating companies or licensees or from other sources through agreements for purchase of power for distribution and supply within the State (c) facilitate intraState transmission and wheeling of electricity (d) issue licences to persons seeking to act as transmission licensees, distribution licensees and electricity traders with respect to their operations within the State Page 8 of 84(e) promote cogeneration and generation of electricity from renewable sources of energy by providing suitable measures for connectivity with the grid and sale of electricity to any person, and also specify, for purchase of electricity from such sources, a percentage of the total consumption of electricity in the area of a distribution licensee (f) adjudicate upon the disputes between the licensees and generating companies and to refer any dispute for arbitration (g) levy fee for the purposes of this Act (h) specify State Grid Code consistent with the Grid Code specified under clause (h) of subsection (1) of section 79 (i) specify or enforce standards with respect to quality, continuity and reliability of service by licensees (j) fix the trading margin in the intraState trading of electricity, if considered, necessary (k) discharge such other functions as may be assigned to it under this Act.	None
(2) The State Commission shall advise the State Government on all or any of the following matters, namely (i) promotion of competition, efficiency and economy in activities of the electricity industry (ii) promotion of investment in electricity industry (iii) reorganisation and restructuring of electricity industry in the State Page 9 of 84(iv) matters concerning generation, transmission, distribution and trading of electricity or any other matter referred to the State Commission by that Government (3) The State Commission shall ensure transparency while exercising its powers and discharging its functions.	None
(4) In discharge of its functions, the State Commission shall be guided by the National Electricity Policy, National Electricity Plan and tariff policy published under section 3.	None
We may note a distinction between the Members of the Central Commission and the State Commissions inasmuch as Section 77 dealing with the appointment of Members of Central Commission provides as under Qualifications for appointment of Members of Central Commission.	None
(1) The Chairperson and the Members of the Central Commission shall be persons having adequate knowledge of, or experience in, or shown capacity in, dealing with, problems relating to engineering, law, economics, commerce, finance or management and shall be appointed in the following manner, namely (a) one person having qualifications and experience in the field of engineering with specialisation in generation, transmission or distribution of electricity (b) one person having qualifications and experience in the field of finance (c) two persons having qualifications and experience in the field of economics, commerce, law or management Provided that not more than one Member shall be appointed Page 10 of 84under the same category under clause (c).	None
However, for appointment of a Member for State Commission, there is no such limitation on the number of Members from a particular field though it does state that such Members should have adequate knowledge and shown capacity in, dealing with problems relating to engineering, law, economics, commerce, finance or management.	None
Sub section (2) of both Sections 77 and Section 84 are similar except for the person to be appointed.	None
Thus, irrespective of the provisions in sub section (1) of Section 84 stipulating the fields from which the Members will have to be appointed, subsection (2) begins with a notwithstanding clause stating that the State Governmentmayappoint any person as the Chairperson from amongst those, who have been, or is a Judge of the High Court.	None
The proviso to subsection (2) stipulates that no appointment under subsection (2) shall be made except after consultation with the Chief Justice of that High Court.	None
This, in fact, recognizes the preeminence and requirement of consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court in case of appointment of a Judge as the Chairperson of a State Commission.	None
For the Central Commission, the consultation is with the Chief Justice of Page 11 of 84India, because the appointment envisaged is of a Judge of the Supreme Court or the Chief Justice of a High Court.	None
The Selection Committee under Section 85 of the said Act for selecting Members of the State Commission is to be headed by a Judge of the High Court but once again the proviso states that this would not be applicable to the appointment of a person as the Chairperson who is or has been a Judge of the High Court.	Reasoning
The effect of this is that, in case the person to be appointed as Chairperson to the State Commission is a Judge, necessary consultation will have to be with the Chief Justice of the High Court as per the proviso to Section 84(2).	None
It may be noticed that under Section 78 of the said Act, insofar as the Selection Committee to recommend Members of the Central Commission is concerned, the Chairperson of the Selection Committee has to be a Member of the Planning Commission incharge of the energy sector.	None
Once again, the proviso to Section 78 makes an exception to the appointment of a person as a Chairperson of the Central Commission, who is, or has been a Judge of the Supreme Court or the Chief Justice of the High Court, as in that eventuality, the Chief Justice of India has to be consulted.	None
Page 12 of 84 The Appellate Tribunal for Electricity is provided in Part XI of the said Act.	None
Section 111 of the said Act deals with the appeal to Appellate Tribunal from orders made by an adjudicating officer under the said Act, or the Appropriate Commission under the said Act.	None
Section 112 of the said Act deals with the composition of the Appellate Tribunal.	None
The Tribunal sits in Benches with at least one judicial member and one technical member.	None
Section 113 of the said Act provides for qualifications for appointment of Chairperson and Member of the Appellate Tribunal.	None
The Chairperson of the Appellate Tribunal has to be someone, who is, or has been a Judge of the Supreme Court or the Chief Justice of a High Court.	None
Thus, there is no quibble over the proposition that there is a senior judicial mind heading the Appellate Tribunal and that every Bench of the Appellate Tribunal mandatorily has to have at least one judicial member and one technical member.	None
The Attorney Generals Argument16.	None
The learned Attorney General, appearing on behalf of the Union of India and the State of Gujarat, took us through the provisions and Page 13 of 84the scheme of the said Act and referred to the judicial pronouncements.	Arguments of Petitioner
He canvassed for the reading of the statute as it stands and, thus, pleaded that where the legislature in its wisdom had used the wordmayconsciously, there was no need to read it asshall.	None
Learned Attorney General sought to emphasise that the functions of both the Commissions are more technical in nature and really do not have much of an adjudicatory element requiring a legal mind.	None
This is apart from the fact that it is not as if a nonlawyer or nonJudge is incapable of appreciating a legal point, as even arbitrators are appointed from these fields when the dispute is more technical in character.	None
The primary function is determination of tariff, regulating electricity purchase and procurement process of distribution licensees, facilitating intraState transmission, issuance of license, promotion of cogeneration and generation of electricity from renewable sources of energy, levying fee, etc. Out of the 11 functions enlisted of a State Commission under Section 86 of the said Act and for the Central Commission under Section 79 of the said Act, adjudication of disputes between licensees and generating companies and to refer any dispute for arbitration is the only one, which can be said to have any adjudicatory flavor.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact, Page 14 of 84the argument advanced was that the nature of work would not be something which the Judges would be comfortable with, being highly technical in nature, nor are Judges trained for such technical matters.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the context of the functions and duties of the authority, relevant provisions under the said Act were referred to.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 16 requires an Appropriate Commission to specify conditions of license.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 45 of the said Act makes provision for power to recover charges, Section 46 of the said Act makes provision for power to recover expenditure.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 50 provides for the State Commission to specify an Electricity Supply Code for recovery, billing, etc., while Section 57 empowers the Appropriate Commission to specify standards of performance of a licensee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 61 deals with tariff regulations and Section 66 deals with the development of a market in power, guided by the National Electricity Policy.	Arguments of Petitioner
Looking to all these functions, it was canvassed that a purposive interpretation should be given to the expression used, for interpreting the provisions of appointment of the Chairperson.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mindful of the technical nature of functions as they are, it was argued that a Judge was not required and that this was apparent from the fact that even at present, all State Commissions are headed by nonJudges, Page 15 of 84except one.	Arguments of Petitioner
The provision was stated to be only felicitous in character, as it gives an option to appoint a Judge.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that there could be a possibility of a Judge, rarely, as it may be, being an expert in this field who could be so appointed.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, if a Judge is to be appointed, the process of appointment is different by reason of his her having held a constitutional post and thus, the Selection Committee constituted would not be recommending the appointment, but the consultation would have to be with the Chief Justice concerned.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Attorney General then proceeded to refer to the judgment of this Court in Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited v. PPN Power Generating Company Private Limited 1 wherein this very Act was under consideration.	None
The matter related to inter alia the jurisdiction of the State Commission in Tamil Nadu to either adjudicate a dispute or refer it to arbitration under Section 86(1)(f) of the said Act, which was held to be required to be exercised reasonably and not arbitrarily.	None
In para 55, the Court gave its imprimatur to the submission advanced on behalf of the appellant that adjudicatory functions generally ought not to be conducted by the State 1 (2014) 11 SCC 53 Page 16 of 84Commission in the absence of a judicial member, especially in relation to disputes which are not fairly relative to tariff fixation or the advisory and recommendatory functions of the State Commission.	None
In the said context, a reference was also made to the Constitution Bench judgment of this Court in Kihoto Hollohan v. Zachillhu 2 which examined the nature of the power of the Speaker or the chairman under Para 6(1) of the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution of India.	None
The finding recorded is that the State Commission in deciding a lis relating to the generating company was discharging judicial functions and exercising the judicial powers of a far reaching effect and must therefore have the essential trappings of the Court for which it was said .This can only be achieved by the presence of one or more judicial members in the State Commission which is called upon to decide complicated contractual or civil issues which would normally have been decided by a civil court It was also observed that the decisions of the State Commission had far reaching consequences and were final and binding between the parties subject, of course, to judicial review.	None
The Bench thereafter proceeds to examine Section 84(2) of the 2 1992 Supp (2) SCC 651 Page 17 of 84said Act.	None
It was observed that Section 84(2)enables the State Government to appoint any person as the Chairperson from amongst persons who is, or has been, a Judge of a High Court, and that such appointment shall be made after consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court.	None
Thus, where complicated legal issues have been raised, it was observed, the presence of one or more judicial members in the State Commission would become necessary.	None
No judicial member had been appointed in the Tamil Nadu State Commission and, thus, the authorities concerned were required to look into the desirability and feasibility for making appointments, of any person, as the Chairperson from amongst persons, who is or has been a Judge of a High Court.	None
The provisions of Section 113 of the said Act were referred to, to conclude that the legislature was aware that the functions performed by the State Commission as well as the appellate tribunal are judicial in nature and, thus, the appellate authority has the trappings of the Court.	None
This essential feature had not been made mandatory under Section 84 of the said Act.	None
In the opinion of the Bench, it would beadvisablefor the State Government to exercise the enabling power under Section Page 18 of 8484(2) of the said Act to appoint a person, who is, or has been a Judge of a High Court as Chairperson of the State Commission.	None
The aforesaid discussions were referred to by the learned Attorney General to canvas that the question involved in the case really did not pertain to Section 84(2) of the said Act but certain observations had been made, nonetheless.	None
The Tribunals envisaged under Part XIV A of the Constitution would stand on a different footing and therefore cannot be compared with the Commission in question.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any case, the observations itself show that the Bench was conscious of the limitations of the said Act and, thus, only rendered an advise to the State Government, rather than issue a direction.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the alternative, at best, the discussion was with reference to the desirability and feasibility of at least one member having legal knowledge rather than a mandatory requirement of a Chairman being a Judge.20.	Arguments of Petitioner
Next, referring to the judgment in Pareena Swarup v. Union of India 3 , it was emphasized that the nature of functions of a Commission under the said Act cannot be equated to the functions being performed by a Tribunal under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, an 3 (2008) 14 SCC 107 Page 19 of 84adjudicatory function.	Arguments of Petitioner
The observations were made in the context of tribunals being created, which were seeking to exercise functions earlier performed by regular judicial forums.	Arguments of Petitioner
The functions, now vested with the Appropriate Commission under the said Act, were really being performed under the Electricity Regulatory Commission Act.21.	Arguments of Petitioner
The aforesaid judicial pronouncements, it was, thus, canvassed, could not have been utilized by the Gujarat High Court to come to a conclusion that the post of the Chairperson of the State Commission mandatorily has to be occupied by a Judge, though it could be occupied by a Judge.	Arguments of Petitioner
We may, however, note that the view adopted by the Gujarat High Court is also based on the nature of powers vested with the Appropriate Commission under Sections 94, 95 96 of the said Act, which are as under Powers of Appropriate Commission.	None
(1) The Appropriate Commission shall, for the purposes of any inquiry or proceedings under this Act, have the same powers as are vested in a civil court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) in respect of the following matters, namely (a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath Page 20 of 84(b) discovery and production of any document or other material object producible as evidence (c) receiving evidence on affidavits (d) requisitioning of any public record (e) issuing commission for the examination of witnesses (f) reviewing its decisions, directions and orders (g) any other matter which may be prescribed.	None
(2) The Appropriate Commission shall have the powers to pass such interim order in any proceeding, hearing or matter before the Appropriate Commission, as that Commission may consider appropriate.	None
(3) The Appropriate Commission may authorise any person, as it deems fit, to represent the interest of the consumers in the proceedings before it.	None
Proceedings before Commission.	None
All proceedings before the Appropriate Commission shall be deemed to be judicial proceedings within the meaning of sections 193 and 228 of the Indian Penal Code and the Appropriate Commission shall be deemed to be a civil court for the purposes of sections 345 and 346 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).	None
Powers of entry and seizure.	None
The Appropriate Commission or any officer, not below the rank of a Gazetted Officer specially authorised in this behalf by the Commission, may enter any building or place where the Commission has reason to believe that any document relating to the subject matter of the inquiry may be found, and may seize any such document or take extracts or copies there from subject to the provisions of section 100 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, insofar as it may be applicable.	None
The conclusion in favour of an Appropriate Commission being headed by a Judge in the context of the Commission having the trappings of a Court is drawn on the basis of the aforesaid provisions, apart from the provisions relating to the appointment of Members and the Chairperson.	None
C.A. No.13451/2015 (stand of the State of Tamil Nadu)	None
The State Government, having succeeded before the Madras High Court as per the impugned judgment dated 7.2.2014, supported the view taken by the Madras Bench and adopted the arguments of the learned Attorney General.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Shekhar Naphade, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the State of Tamil Nadu pleaded that the whole scheme of the said Act ought to be taken into consideration and that disproportionate importance was being given to subsection (2) of Section 84 for appointment of a Judge as a Chairperson, not realizing the variety of functions performed by the Commission, of which the adjudicatory functions were only a small percentage.	Arguments of Petitioner
C.A. No.14697/2015 (plea of the Gujarat State Regulatory Commission)	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Jayant Bhushan, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the Gujarat State Electricity Regulatory Commission, sought to pose a question, i.e., where does the judgment in Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited 4 make it mandatory for a Judge to be the Chairperson?	Arguments of Petitioner
The very wordings were said to be recommendatory in character, which had already been read out by the learned Attorney General.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the alternative, it was pleaded that the observations made were really obiter dicta, as the issue of appointment of the Chairperson of the State Commission was not the lis before the Court in that matter.26.	Arguments of Petitioner
He then posed a question when the Act and the judgment does not make the appointment of a Judge as the Chairperson mandatory, then is there any other material, which can be said to make the appointment of the Chairperson as a Judge mandatory?	Arguments of Petitioner
In this behalf he submitted that the opposite side could only fall back on Madras Bar Association v. Union of India Anr. 5 (MJII).	None
The said judgment dealt with the creation of the National Tax Tribunal under the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005.	Arguments of Petitioner
The constitution of the Tribunal was held to 4 supra 5 (2014) 10 SCC 1 Page 23 of 84be one for transfer of the appellate jurisdiction under Tax Laws vested in the High Courts.	Arguments of Petitioner
The majority held that the Act could not pass the test of constitutionality, on account of inter alia, the provisions relating to the appointment of the Chairpersons and Members of the Tribunals.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the said case, reference was made to the earlier Constitution Bench judgment in the Union of India v. Madras Bar Association 6 (MJI), crystallizing the legal position while transferring adjudicatory functions from Courts to Tribunals.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was observed that such Tribunals should possess the same independence, security and capacity as the courts which the Tribunals are mandated to substitute and thus, Members of the Tribunals discharging judicial functions could only be drawn from sources possessed of expertise in law and competent to discharge judicial functions.	Arguments of Petitioner
Technical members could also be appointed where such technical expertise is essential.	Arguments of Petitioner
But where the adjudicatory process transferred to the Tribunal did not require any specialized skills, knowledge or expertise, the provision for appointment of technical Member would constitute a clear case of delusion and encroachment upon the independence of the judiciary, and therule of law.	None
On the stature of Members, it was observed that 6 (2010) 11 SCC 1 Page 24 of 84the same would depend on the jurisdiction transferred, i.e., if the jurisdiction of the High Court was transferred to the Tribunals, the stature of the members of the newly constituted tribunal, should be possessed of qualifications akin to the Judges of the High Court.	None
The same would be the position qua District Judges appointment.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such a process of judicial review, in Madras Bar Association v. Union of India 7 (MJII), was held to be a part of the basic structure of the Constitution.27.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the context of the functions to be carried out under the said Act, it was observed that the present case was not one where the powers of judicial review which were vested in a judicial forum was sought to be transferred.	Arguments of Petitioner
The importance of judicial review and its sanctity was maintained by the composition of the Appellate Tribunal, which would hear appeals from the orders of the Commission.	Arguments of Petitioner
The functions of the Commission were canvassed to be one of technical nature largely, and thus, would not require a Judge to head the Commission.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the alternative, it was stated that, at best, the requirement of a mandatory legal Member may be read into the 7 supra Page 25 of 84provisions, though the explicit terms of the statute do not say so.28.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel took us through the provisions of Section 85 of the said Act to contend that the reference to the Chairperson under sub sections (2), (3), (5) (6) of Section 85 would be made otiose, as in that eventuality, the Selection Committee would never be called upon to appoint a Chairperson.	Arguments of Petitioner
A Judge could be appointed as the Chairperson only through the alternative route of Section 84(2) read with the proviso thereto.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel also referred to Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited 8 , more specifically to para 25, which recorded the submission of the counsel for the appellant therein to the effect that the State Commission cannot be an adjudicatory body as it does not have the trappings of the Court, which would normally be manned exclusively by the Judges.	Arguments of Petitioner
The plea was that under Section 84 of the said Act, there is no requirement for the Chairperson or the Member of a State Commission to be a Judge of a High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
No such appointment had actually been made in that case nor did the Commission have a judicial member and, thus, the same was contrary to the Constitution Bench judgment of this Court in Madras Bar 8 supra Page 26 of 84Association 9 (MJI).	Arguments of Petitioner
He, thus, submitted that it is in the context of this argument that what was observed by the Bench in that judgment would have to be construed and nothing more than that.	None
It is this argument, which has been dealt with when the observations relied upon in the impugned order were referred to.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is stated to be quite apparent even from para 55, which records the submissions of the then counsel for the appellant in Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited 10 and what was accepted by the Court in para 59 of the judgment, i.e., adjudicatory functions generally ought not to be conducted by the State Commission in the absence of a Judicial Member, which are not fairly relative to tariff fixation or the advisory and recommendatory functions of the State Commission.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Senior Advocate next turned to Section 86(1)(f) of the said Act and referred to the judgment in Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd. v. Essar Power Ltd. 11 (GJI) to submit that the expression and, used in SubSection 86(1)(f) has already been read as or.	None
For clarity, the subsection is reproduced hereunder Functions of State Commission.	None
(1) The State Commission shall discharge the following functions, namely 9 supra 10 supra 11 (2008) 4 SCC 755 Page 27 of 84xxxx	None
xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx (f) adjudicate upon the disputes between the licensees and generating companies and to refer any dispute for arbitration (Emphasis supplied)	None
Therefore, the functions of the State Commission in respect of the aforesaid clause refers to adjudication upon the disputes between the licensees and generating companies as also to the function of reference of any dispute for arbitration.	Arguments of Petitioner
Our attention was invited to para 40 in Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited 12 to contend that there is no requirement that an arbitrator should be a judicial person.	Arguments of Petitioner
A submission was also made that the data collected in respect of the functioning of the Gujarat State Commission showed that the adjudicatory functions were not more than 10 per cent.	Arguments of Petitioner
A large number of functions were of tariff fixation, which was over 30 per cent, while the regulatory functions were 59 per cent and grant of licenses were a fraction of a percentage.32.	Arguments of Petitioner
The emphasis on the reading of the judgment in Union of India v. Madras Bar Association 13 (MJI), it was contended, is on the 12 supra 13 supra Page 28 of 84shifting of the adjudicatory functions from the High Courts to the Tribunals but when, as in the present case, the State Commission has not replaced the functioning of the High Court, the same would have no application.	Arguments of Petitioner
For example, the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, dealt with the issue of reference to arbitration in Section 76(2) of that Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was no question of any judicial mind.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Electricity Regulatory Commission Act, 1998 provided for an appeal to the High Court in certain cases from the order of the State Commission.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the appellate authority constituted as a replacement for the appeal before the High Court is manned by a sitting or retired Supreme Court Judge or the Chief Justice of the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel also referred to the epilogue in Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd. v. Essar Power Ltd. 14 (GJII), which dealt with the vital issue of composition and functioning of Tribunals and statutory framework thereof.	None
In the context of the observations in Madras Bar Association v. Union of India Anr. 15 (MJII), it was observed in para 33 that the law laid down by this Court may call for review of composition of Tribunals under the Electricity Act or other corresponding statutes.	Arguments of Petitioner
This was so as an appeal to this Court on questions of law or 14 (2016) 9 SCC 103 15 supra Page 29 of 84substantial questions of law show that Tribunals deal with such questions or substantial questions, and that the direct appeals to this Court has the result of denial of access to the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such Tribunals, thus, become a substitute for the High Courts, without the manner of appointment to such Tribunals being the same as the manner of appointment of High Court Judges.	Arguments of Petitioner
Lastly, learned counsel referred to Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited v. National Thermal Power Corporation Limited Ors.	None
16 where observations were made qua the function of the Central Commission constituted under Section 3 of the Electricity Regulatory Commissions Act, 1998 as an expert body, which had been entrusted with the task of determination of tariff, which involves highly technical procedure requiring not only working knowledge of law but also of engineering, finance, commerce, economics and management.	None
Thus, it was held that the issues with regard to determination of tariff should be left to the expert body and ordinarily the High Court and even this Court should not interfere with the determination of tariff.	None
Mr. Jayant Bhushan, learned Senior Advocate sought to 16 (2011) 12 SCC 400 Page 30 of 84crystallize his interpretation of the Act and the challenge to the impugned judgment of the Gujarat High Court on a four point basis i.	Arguments of Petitioner
The constitution of the Selection Committee for Members under Section 85 is not applicable to a Judge for which there is a separate channel under Section 84(2).	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, to the extent that Section 85 referred to a Chairperson, that portion would be made otiose, if a Judge alone is to be appointed as the Chairperson. ii.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appointment of a Chairperson under Section 84(2) of the said Act is an enabling provision and not a mandatory provision.	Arguments of Petitioner
iii.	Arguments of Petitioner
The observations in Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited 17 , if read to give a binding direction for the Chairman being a Judge, would then be obiter as that was not the issue before the Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
iv.	Decision
The necessary and mandatory requirement of having a Judge to head a Tribunal is only where the shifting of the adjudicatory function from the High Court to the Tribunals are envisaged.	Arguments of Petitioner
Now turning to the other point of view and the various entities, which canvassed for the Chairperson to be mandatorily a Judge of the High Court Stand of Interveners (National Solar Energy Federation of India)	None
Mr. Sajan Poovayya, Senior Advocate appearing for the aforesaid entity sought to support the Gujarat line of reasoning and submitted that there should be, at least, one judicial Member in the Commission, who should be the Chairman.	Arguments of Respondent
He seeks to support this view by reason of the nature of powers vested in the Chairman of the Commission and has referred to Section 92, which reads as under Proceedings of Appropriate Commission.	Arguments of Respondent
(1) The Appropriate Commission shall meet at the head office or any other place at such time as the Chairperson may direct, and shall observe such rules of procedure in regard to the transaction of business at its meetings (including the quorum at its meetings) as it may specify.	Arguments of Respondent
(2) The Chairperson, or if he is unable to attend a meeting of the Appropriate Commission, any other Member nominated by the Chairperson in this behalf and, in the absence of such nomination or where there is no Chairperson, any Member chosen by the Members present from amongst themselves, shall preside at the meeting.	Arguments of Respondent
(3) All questions which come up before any meeting of the Appropriate Commission shall be decided by a majority of votes of the Members present and voting, and in the event of an equality of votes, the Chairperson or in his absence, the person presiding shall have a second or casting vote.	Arguments of Respondent
(4) Save as otherwise provided in subsection (3), every Member shall have one vote.	Arguments of Respondent
(5) All orders and decisions of the Appropriate Commission shall be authenticated by its Secretary or any other officer of Page 32 of 84the Commission duly authorised by the Chairperson in this behalf.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, as per subsection (2) of Section 92, the Chairperson has a right to nominate a member who would chair the meeting in his absence and as per subsection (3), the Chairperson has a casting vote.	None
This, he contended was vital to the adjudicatory process, which is by majority and, thus, the necessity of having a judicial Member as a Chairperson apart from the aspect of power wielded by the Commission from Sections 94 to 96 of the said Act.	None
Stand of Madurai Power Corporation Private Limited Mr. Mohan Parasaran, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the aforesaid intervener referred to Section 84(1) of the said Act to contend that where reference is made to a person of law, that cannot be a reference to a judicial Member.	None
It is only in Section 84(2) that there is a specific reference to a person, who is or has been a Judge of the High Court to be a Chairperson.	None
Thus, the presence of a man of law would be no substitute to the requirement of a Judge who would bring a judicial thought process to the decision making.	None
In this behalf he referred to the observations in Madras Bar Association v. Union of Page 33 of 84India Anr.	None
18 (MJII).	None
We may, however, add at this stage itself that these are the same observations, which relate to the ground situation where the adjudicatory functions of the Court are shifted to the Tribunal.	None
He also contended that para 59 of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited 19 only records the submission of the then counsel for the appellant while the ratio is contained in para60.	None
The ratio speaks of the enabling character of Section 84(2) of the said Act to appoint a Judge and in that eventuality the appointment is to be made after the consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court.	None
In this context, he submitted that the ratio of a judgment is something that has to be culled out on certain established principles and not from every line of every observation.	Arguments of Respondent
In this context he referred to the judgment in Natural Resources Allocation In re Special Reference No.1 of 2012 20 .	None
Article 141 of the Constitution laid down thatlaw declaredby the Supreme Court is binding upon all Courts within the territory of India and, thus, it was held thatlaw declaredhas to be construed as a principle of law that emanates from 18 supra 19 supra 20 (2012) 10 SCC 1 Page 34 of 84a judgment or an interpretation of a law or judgment by the Supreme Court, upon which, the case is decidedthelaw declaredis the principle culled out on the reading of a judgment as a whole in light of the questions raised, upon which the case is decided.	None
What is binding upon courts,is the ratio decidendi of the judgment.	None
It is the essence of a decision and the principle upon which the case is decided which has to be ascertained in relation to the subjectmatter of the decision.	None
Stand of the Madras Bar Association (Original Petitioner) in Civil Appeal No.13451/2015	None
The challenge to the impugned judgment of the Madras High Court in that matter was laid by Mr. Arvind Datar, learned Senior Advocate.	Arguments of Respondent
He sought to contend that the year 1991 saw a paradigm shift in the economic functioning in the country where State functions were opened up to private players.	Arguments of Respondent
This was not supposed to be unregulated and, thus, the Parliament provided a regulatory body.	Arguments of Respondent
By the time the said Act was enacted in 2003, the Parliament had become wiser and the introduction of the requirement of a Judge to head the regulatory commission was, thus, introduced in this Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Turning to the specific provisions of the Act, he referred to Page 35 of 84Section 82(4) of the said Act, which provides that a State Commission would consist of not more than three members including the Chairperson.	None
Section 2(43), defines a Member to include a Chairperson and reads as under Definitions.	None
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx (43) Member means the Member of the Appropriate Commission or Authority or Joint Commission, or the Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, and includes the Chairperson of such Commission or Authority or Appellate Tribunal In the sittings of the Commissions, disputes emanating from Section 86(1)(f) of the said Act being adjudicated upon are categorized as DRP (Dispute Resolution Petition) cases.	None
Tariff fixation is, of course, not adjudicatory.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that Section 4 of The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997 was similar to Section 84(2) of the said Act, but there was no provision for a Judge to be appointed.	Arguments of Respondent
Similar was stated to be the position of Section 4 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.	Arguments of Respondent
On the other hand, the specific provision made in Section 84(2) of the said Act has to be read in the context of the objects and reasons for the enactment, i.e., distancing the regulating body from the Government.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Senior Counsel referred to the Electricity Regulatory Commission Act, 1998 to submit that Section 17 of that Act was the earlier avatar of Section 84 of the said Act, while Section 18 of that Act was the earlier avatar of Section 85 of the said Act.	Arguments of Respondent
A reference was also made to The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board Act, 2006, more specifically to Section 3(3) of that Act.	None
The tariff regulatory functions are determined as per Section 62 and 64 of the said Act.	None
On the prevalent provisions under different Acts, it was submitted that the constitution of the Competition Commission of India came to be examined in Brahm Dutt v. Union of India 21 .	None
The argument was similar, i.e., the functions of the Commission being more of a judicial body having adjudicatory powers, the right to appoint a judicial member of the commission should rest with the Chief Justice of India or his nominee and further the Chairman of the commission necessarily has to be a retired Chief Justice or Judge of the Supreme Court or the High Court.	None
The contention was that the Chairman of the Commission had to be a person connected with the judiciary picked for the job by the Head of the Judiciary and should not be a bureaucrat or 21 (2005) 2 SCC 431 Page 37 of 84other person appointed by the Executive without reference to the Head of the Judiciary.	None
In this context, the Supreme Court observed in para 6 that if an expert body is to be created, as submitted on behalf of the Union of India consistent with what is said to be the international practice, it may be appropriate to consider the creation of two separate bodies one with the expertise, i.e., advisory and regulatory and the other adjudicatory.	None
This is followed up by an appellate body as contemplated, which could go a long way in meeting the challenge sought to be raised in the writ petition.	None
Insofar as the working of the Commission was concerned, it was observed that it had a number of adjudicatory functions as well.	None
In Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd. 22 (GJI), the implied conflict between Section 86(1)(f) of the said Act and Section 11 of the Arbitration Conciliation Act, 1996, was reconciled and applying the harmonious construction principles (Mimansa principles)	None
it was observed that where there is a dispute between a licensee and the generating company, only the State Commission or the Central Commission or arbitrator nominated by it could resolve such disputes, 22 supra Page 38 of 84whereas all other disputes (unless there is some other provision in the Electricity Act, 2003) would be decided in accordance with Section 11 of the Arbitration Conciliation Act, 1996.	None
This was stated to be also in consonance with Section 158 of the said Act in Part XVI dealing with Dispute Resolution where arbitration was provided for in terms of the Arbitration Conciliation Act,1996.	None
Learned Senior Counsel sought to point out that no Judge had ever been appointed as the Chairperson.	Arguments of Respondent
The mandate of Section 85(2) of the said Act, in fact, required that six months prior to the superannuation or end of the tenure of the Chairperson or Member, a reference should be made to the Selection Committee to fill up the vacancy.	Arguments of Respondent
The expressionmay, it was submitted should be read asshallin Section 84 of the said Act.	None
The alternative submission advanced was that when a vacancy of the Chairperson is to arise, it should be intimated to the Chief Justice of the High Court to confirm whether any Judge was available or not.	Arguments of Respondent
In any case, at least, one legal mind should be there, who has no baggage or past connection with the special area in question directly.	None
This was more so as apart from Section 86(1)(f), it was submitted that Section 33(4) deals with Page 39 of 84compliance of directions, if any dispute arises with reference to the quality of electricity or safe, secure and integrated operation of the State grid and Section 9(2) proviso, which is in reference to construction of a captive generating plant and the maintenance and operation of the same being entitled to open access for the purpose of carrying the electricity from the captive generating plant to the destination of its use, with the proviso making such open access subject to availability of adequate transmission facility to be determined by the Central Transmission Utility or the State Transmission Utility.	Arguments of Respondent
As per the second proviso, any dispute regarding the availability of transmission facility has to be referred to the Appropriate Commission for adjudication.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that these are two examples clearly requiring an adjudicatory bend of mind.	Arguments of Respondent
T.C.(C)	None
No.139/2015	None
This petition has been filed by a Senior Advocate of the Madras high Court against the exercise of suo moto power by the Commission in respect of a tariff hike and in that process sought to challenge the appointment of the Chairperson and seeks to canvass that there exists a mandatory requirement for him to be a retired Judge of a High Court.	Facts
Page 40 of 84T.C.(C) No.138/2015	None
This petition filed before the Madras High Court is, once again, by an Advocate, purportedly in public interest.	Facts
Apart from the fundamental issue raised of a Judge to be appointed as the Chairman of the State Commission, like in the previous Transfer Petition, certain notifications have also been assailed.	Facts
The Tamil Nadu Government had published a Notification dated 26.9.2013, constituting a three Member Selection Committee for selection of the Members of the State Commission in terms of Section 85 of the said Act.	Facts
This selection process was required to be completed in three months and had to recommend, at least, two names for the post of Members.	Facts
The Committee recommended the name of Mr. G. Rajagopal (respondent No.7) on 27.12.2013.	Facts
This appointment is specifically assailed on the ground that he was still working as Director (Finance), TANGEDCO when his name was recommended by the Selection Committee, and that Mr. Rajagopal opted for voluntary retirement after his name had been recommended by the Selection Committee.	Facts
The Notification of his appointment was issued on 31.12.2013 whereafter he assumed office on 9.1.2014.	None
The impugned decision of the Madras High Court opining that the Chairperson need not be a High Court Judge was rendered on 7.2.2014.	None
Another Notification dated 27.2.2014 was published constituting a Selection Committee for selecting a person for the post of the Chairperson.	Facts
Mr. S. Akshayakumar (respondent No.6) retired from the post of the Managing Director of TANTRANSCO on 31.5.2014 and was appointed as the Chairperson of the State Commission vide Notification dated 6.6.2014, assuming charge on 9.6.2014.	None
On 12.12.2014, the State Commission consisting of these two persons as Member and Chairman and Mr. S. Nagalsamy, passed a tariff order permitting a tariff hike by TANGEDCO by a majority of 21 with respondent Nos.6 7 concurring on the issue of tariff hike while the third Member (Mr. Nagalsamy) was dissenting.	Facts
The dissent was on the legality of the suo moto tariff order.51.	Facts
We have recited these facts only to bring on focus that the grievance is only with the tariff order, but under the garb of the same, the appointment of respondent Nos.6 7 is now sought to be assailed on the ground that the said two persons could not be really categorized Page 42 of 84as not having any financial or other interest, which is likely to prejudice their functioning as Chairperson and Member in terms of Section 85(5) of the said Act.	Facts
The two companies TANGEDCO and TANTRANSCO were established for power generation and transmission of power respectively by restructuring the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board in compliance of Section 131 of the said Act and are State owned companies.	Facts
The original petitioner seeks to impute bias against these two persons because of the post they have held.	None
Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner referred to the judgment of this Court in Rajesh Awasthi v. Nand Lal Jaiswal 23 wherein in the process of assailing an appointment to the Commission, Section 85(5) was analysed.	None
It was observed that the power under the said subsection (5) was to be exercised by the Selection Committee and not by the Government.	None
Thus, whether the persons named by the panel have any financial or other interest, which is likely to affect their functioning as Chairperson was a matter which depended upon the satisfaction of the Selection Committee before recommending it to the State Government.	None
In the facts of the case, it was found that the concerned person was 23 (2013) 1 SCC 501 Page 43 of 84working as Joint President of the JP Power Ventures Limited at the time of selection, hence he had financial and other interest in the company, which would prejudicially affect his functions as the Chairperson of the Commission.	None
The judgment of this Court in Mor Modern Cooperative Transport Society Ltd. v. Financial Commissioner Secretary to Govt. of Haryana and Anr.	None
24 was also referred to.	None
The provision in question was Section 68(2) of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.	None
Section 68 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 empowered the State Government to constitute a State Transport Authority and Regional Transport Authorities to exercise powers and functions specified in Chapter V .	None
Section 68(2) put a restriction that no person who has a financial interest whether as proprietor, employee or otherwise in any transport undertaking was to be appointed and in case such financial interest was acquired post appointment, the person was required to give notice in writing to the State Government of acquisition of such interest and would vacate office.	None
The Transport Commissioner and Traffic Manager working in the Office of the General Manager of the Haryana Roadways, a State Undertaking, were held to fall within the mischief of subsection (2) of Section 68 of that 24 (2002) 6 SCC 269 Act.	None
The nature offinancial interestas contemplated by the said subsection was examined in the narrower sense and it was held to imply direct personal benefit of an economic nature while in the wider sense it would include direct or indirect interest that a person has in relation to the finances of an undertaking.	Reasoning
Such an interest was held to include the interest of an official who manages the finances of the undertaking or on whom rests the burden of financial accountability.	None
The intention of the legislature was deciphered from reading the statute as a whole.	None
We may, however, note at this stage itself that the factual matrix in the said case dealt with the situation where a person was holding both the offices.	None
T.C.(C) No.140/2015 and T.C.(C) No.137/2015 IA Nos.3 4/2016	None
There was really no fresh material addressed before us so far as the aforesaid petitions are concerned.	Reasoning
Insofar as IA Nos.3 4/2016, filed by CLP Wind Farms Private Limited, seeking intervention in T.C.(C) No.137/2015, are concerned, the prayer for intervention is made on the ground that the Court issues appropriate directions to the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Page 45 of 84Commission for time bound hearing and expeditious adjudication of the applicants petitions, being DRP Nos.62/2014 63/2014.	Reasoning
The Court finds no merit in the applications, as the prayers made in the applications are outside the lis being adjudicated by the Court.	Reasoning
The same are accordingly disposed of.	Reasoning
T.P .(C)	None
No.974/2016	None
This Transfer Petition arises from the Delhi High Court.	None
Ms. Sujatha Balachander on behalf of the original petitioner before the High Court sought to plead that the wordmayshould be read asshallkeeping in mind the intent of the legislature (Bachahan Devi Ar. V .	Arguments of Respondent
Nagar Nigam, Gorakhpur Anr 25 ).	None
Normally, it was observed,mayis an enabling or discretional whileshallis obligatory the connotation is not inelastic or inviolate.	None
Thus, where to interpret the wordmayas directory would render the very object of the Act as nugatory, the wordmaymust meanshall.	None
The Act was actually enacted in the interest of the public while seeking to distance the Government from determination of tariff.	None
Such distance from the Government, it was contended, could be brought about by appointment 25 (2008) 12 SCC 372 Page 46 of 84of a High Court Judge with a trained judicial mind as the Chairman of the Commission.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel referred to A.P .	None
Power Coordination Committee Ors.	None
v. Lanco Kondapalli Power Ltd.	None
Ors. 26 , where it was held that a claim coming before the Commission could not be entertained or allowed if it is barred by limitation prescribed for an ordinary suit before a Civil Court.	None
This aspect was sought to be emphasized in the context of the discussion that the Commission was performing judicial functions.	Arguments of Respondent
The view taken by this Court in Union of India v. Namit Sharma 27 was sought to be distinguished since no adjudicatory functions were involved in the performance of the functions of an Information Commissioner.	Arguments of Respondent
A reference was, once again, made to the powers of the Commission under Section 94 to 96 of the said Act as also to Section 97, which provides for delegation of the power to any Member, Secretary, Officer of the Commission except the powers to adjudicate disputes under Sections 79 and 86, and the powers to make Regulations under Section 178 or 181 as may be deemed necessary.	None
Our attention was also drawn to the order of the Appellate Authority dated 27.2.2013 in Appeal No.184/2011 where some observations have been made on the functioning of the State Commission.	Arguments of Respondent
Apparently the State Commission had refused to follow the judgment of the Tribunal on a specious plea and this attitude of the State Commission was called audacious and most unfortunate, reflecting a lack of judicial approach, judicial knowledge and judicial ethics.	Arguments of Respondent
It was, thus, pointed out that the absence of a Judge as a Chairperson is resulting in such orders of the Commission, in ignorance of the wellestablished principles of law, including that of precedent.	None
Rejoinder Response We are dealing with the rejoinders of the counsel only to the extent that they seek to add something arising from the submissions of the counsel propagating that a Judge should be the Chairman of the Commission.	None
Learned Attorney General referred to the judgment in Union of India v. Namit Sharma 28	None
but then we may note that the principle advanced is based on a nonadjudicatory function.	None
Learned AG also referred to Part XI dealing with the Appellate Tribunal where 28 supra Page 48 of 84under Section 111(6), the Appellate tribunal can call for records of proceedings and make orders and can act even on its own motion.	None
The provision reads as under Appeal to Appellate Tribunal.	None
xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx (6) The Appellate Tribunal may, for the purpose of examining the legality, propriety or correctness of any order made by the adjudicating officer or the Appropriate Commission under this Act, as the case may be, in relation to any proceeding, on its own motion or otherwise, call for the records of such proceedings and make such order in the case as it thinks fit.	None
Not only that, under Section 121, orders, instructions or directions can be made by the Tribunal to the Appropriate Commission for the purpose of performance of its statutory functions under the Act.	None
The provision reads as under Power of Appellate Tribunal.	None
The Appellate Tribunal may, after hearing the Appropriate Commission or other interested party, if any, from time to time, issue such orders, instructions or directions as it may deem fit, to any Appropriate Commission for the performance of its statutory functions under this Act.	None
The contention thus advanced, is that the scheme of the Act looks to the appellate authority as a body which is supervising the Commission, and is chaired by a person who is, or has been the Chief Page 49 of 84Justice of the High Court or a Judge of the Supreme Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, there is really no need to have a High Court Judge as the Chairperson of the State Commission albeit an enabling provision having been made.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Naphade, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the State of Tamil Nadu submitted that orders dated 11.12.2014 and 12.12.2014 had been unsuccessfully carried in appeal and even the Special Leave Petitions were dismissed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, the merits of the orders passed cannot be questioned.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submitted that suo moto proceedings were initiated on 23.9.2013 while the appointment was made on 31.12.2013.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, respondents Nos. 6 7 were both appointed after the suo moto proceedings had been initiated.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Selection Committee had not been impleaded as a party even though the selection process was being questioned.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Selection Committee was presided over by a retired Judge of the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also submitted that a suo moto revisionary power was actually conferred on the appellate tribunal under Section 111(6) of the said Act to cure any defects in the orders passed by the Commission.	Arguments of Petitioner
Our attention was also invited to the order of the appellate authority in OP No.1/2011 dated 11.11.2011.	None
This arose out of a letter Page 50 of 84stated to be sent by the Ministry of Power dated 21.1.2011 complaining that most of the State Distribution Utilities have failed to file annual tariff revision petitions in time and, thus, a number of States tariff revision had not taken place for a number of years.	None
The Tribunal was requested to take appropriate action by issuing necessary directions to all the State Commissions to revise the tariff periodically.	None
The State Commission framed two questions out of which the first question was as under Whether the State Regulatory Commissions have the jurisdiction to suo moto initiate proceedings for determination of tariff under section 62, 64 and 86 of the Electricity Act, 2003 in the absence of the Tariff application to be filed by the Utilities under Section 64 of the Act?	None
The answer to this question was given by the Commission by opining that the State Commission must initiate suo moto proceedings for tariff determination in accordance with Section 64 of the Act read with clause 8.1 (7) of the tariff policy in the event of the delay in filing of the ARR, truingup and annual performance review one month beyond the scheduled date of submission of the petition.	None
Learned Senior Advocate, turning to the provisions of Section 84(2) of the said Act sought to emphasise that the same was a Page 51 of 84notwithstanding clause as is apparent from its bare reading and it clearly statesnotwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1).	None
Thus, it does not take away what is stated in subsection (1).	None
Learned counsel relied upon the Constitution Bench judgment of this Court in The Dominion of India Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Shrinbai A. Irani Anr.	None
29 for the proposition as to how a nonobstante clause should be dealt with.	None
It was observed that While recognizing the force of this argument it is however necessary to observe that although ordinarily there should be a close approximation between the non obstante clause and the operative part of the section, the non obstante clause need not necessarily and always be coextensive with the operative part, so as to have the effect of cutting down the clear terms of an enactment.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the words of the enactment are clear and are capable of only one interpretation on a plain and grammatical construction of the words thereof, a non obstante clause cannot cut down that construction and restrict the scope of its operation.	Arguments of Petitioner
In such cases the non obstante clause has to be read as clarifying the whole position and must be understood to have been incorporated in the enactment by the Legislature by way of abundant caution and not by way of limiting the ambit and scope of 29 (1955) 1	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 206 Page 52 of 84the operative part of the enactment.	None
For the same purpose, the reference was also made to Ajit Singh (II) v. State of Punjab 30 .It was, once again, emphasized that the appellate tribunal takes care of various concerns, more so when matters have to be heard by a Bench with at least one judicial member.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also emphasized that under Section 82(2) of the Act a State Commission has to be a body corporate having perpetual succession and common seal and the provision reads as under Constitution of State Commission.	Arguments of Petitioner
xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx (2) The State Commission shall be a body corporate by the name aforesaid, having perpetual succession and a common seal, with power to acquire, hold and dispose of property, both movable and immovable, and to contract and shall, by the said name, sue or be sued.	None
As per Section 84(4) of the said Act, the Chairperson is to be the Chief Executive of the State Commission.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was, thus, pleaded that it may not even be advisable for a Judge to hold this nature of office.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also emphasized that the reliance placed by the opposite side on Mor Modern Cooperative Transport Society Ltd. 31 is 30 (1999) 7 SCC 209 31 supra Page 53 of 84misplaced as the observations made in para 14 of the judgment have to be understood in the context of a dual charge being held by the said person, an aspect we have already noted while referring to that argument of the opposite side.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Jayant Bhushan, learned Senior Advocate, in addition, referred to the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board Act, 2006 to contend that the Board constituted under the Act has to have a Chairperson and a Member (Legal) as per Section 3 of the said Act though the functions of the Board provide for adjudicatory functions under Chapter V , more specifically, in Section 24.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, it is not as if a nonJudge cannot carry out any adjudicatory functions.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also sought to emphasise the merit of the Chairperson of the Gujarat Commission, who has a Master of Business Management in Finance, Bachelor of Engineering (Electrical), has gone through a software course, and a regulatory course on economic regulations from eminent universities and has total experience of 37 years in the power sector.	Arguments of Petitioner
This includes more than 19 years experience in electricity regulation and is fully conversant with electricity laws and related issues.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Senior Advocate sought to assail the impugned order of the Gujarat High Court based on the rule of purposive construction and contended that this principle cannot be utilized to hold something as different from what the legislature has expressed in clear words.	Arguments of Petitioner
Our View Section 84(2) of the said Act	None
The controversy in question would have to be dealt with at two plains.	Issue
The first, is as to how the statute itself has to be read insofar as the appointment of the Chairperson of the tribunal is concerned.	Issue
The second is, having read the statute in a particular manner, what is the effect of the judicial pronouncements and the relevant legal literature in terms of the remaining composition of the tribunal apart from the Chairperson.	None
If we turn to the first question, on a plain reading of Section 84(1) of the said Act all that is mandated is that both the Chairperson and the Members of the State Commissionshallbe persons of ability, integrity and standing who have adequate knowledge of and have shown capacity in dealing with problems relating to engineering, finance, commerce, economics, law or management.	None
A plain grammatical reading of this Section shows that no distinction has been made qua the qualifications of a Chairperson Page 55 of 84and Member.	None
All that is required is the mandates contained in the sub section, which begin with the wordshall.	None
Thus, any person of the fields mentioned therein, having the ability, integrity and standing can be appointed as a Member or Chairperson.	None
Section 85 of the said Act provides for constitution of a Selection Committee to select the Members of the State Commission, which in turn has to consist of the persons as set out therein and mandatorily has to have a person, who has been a Judge of the High Court as the Chairperson of the Selection Committee.	None
We may also note that this provision refers to the appointment of Members of the State Commission but then that would also include the Chairperson of the State Commission, in view of subsection 43 of Section 2 of the said Act, which reads as under Definitions. . . . . .	None
(43) Member means the Member of the Appropriate Commission or Authority or Joint Commission, or the Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, and includes the Chairperson of such Commission or Authority or Appellate Tribunal	None
Thus, the reading of subsection (1) of Section 84 read with Section 85 of the said Act would leave no manner of doubt as to the fields from which a Chairperson or a Member of the State Commission Page 56 of 84can be chosen from.	None
However, the controversy has emanated from the inclusion of subsection (2) of Section 84 of the said Act.	None
This is so, as subsection (2) begins with anotwithstandingclause providing that the State Governmentmayappoint any person as Chairperson from amongst the persons, who is, or has been, a Judge of the High Court.	None
This is to be read with the proviso that such an appointment would have to be made in consultation with the Chief Justice of that High Court.	None
The proviso only respects and maintains the accepted position that in appointment of persons, who have been holding such senior judicial office, consultation with the judicial head, being the Chief Justice, should be mandatory.	None
The question which thus arises, is whether subsection (2) of Section 84 is facilitative in character for the purposes of appointment of a retired or current Judge of the High Court as a Chairperson, or is the said provision mandatory in character.	Issue
Both the golden rule and the literal rule of statutory construction are well established that a statute must be read as it is framed by the legislature.	None
It is not the function of the Court to supplant or read into the statute something which is not provided.	None
This is not to say that there have not Page 57 of 84been judicial views taken qua the interchangeability of the expressionmay andshallin certain provisions.	None
Thus, the use of the wordshallraises a presumption that a particular provision is imperative.	None
However, it has been construed as merely directory in certain cases if the context or intention of the legislature demands otherwise.	None
The Courts may ascertain the real intention of the legislature by carefully attending to the whole scope of the statute (Sainik Motors v. State of Rajasthan 32 and State of U.P .	None
v. Babu Ram 33 ).	None
We are, however, faced with a converse situation as to whethermaycan be read asshall.	None
In this behalf we may take recourse to the judicial opinion that where in the same section the word may has been used at one place and shall at another place, it would strengthen the inference that the words have been used in the primary sense (Chairman Canara Bank, Bangalore v. M.S. Jasra 34 ).	None
A reference to Maxwell on The Interpretation of Statutes (Twelfth Edition), more specifically the chapter onExceptional Construction would show that the modification of the language of a statute is the tool used only if, in its ordinary meaning and grammatical 32 (1962) 1	None
SCR 517 33 (1961) 2	None
SCR 679 34 AIR 1992 SC 1341 Page 58 of 84construction, there is a manifest contradiction of the apparent purpose of the enactment, or some inconvenience or absurdity which could hardly have been intended.	None
It has been observed that in ordinary usage,mayis permissive andmustis imperative and that the wordmayused in a statute would not generally be held to be mandatory.	None
However, in some cases wheremayis used in the context of a compulsory force, the meaning has been so modified by judicial exposition.	None
The heading of the Chapter itself shows what is intendedModification of the language to meet the intention.	None
It is wellnigh impossible to lay down a general rule for determining whether a provision is imperative or directory.	None
We extract the relevant portion as under No universal rule,said Lord Campbell L.C.,can be laid down for the construction of statues, as to whether mandatory enactments shall be considered directory only or obligatory with an implied nullification for disobedience.	None
It is the duty of Courts of Justice to try to get at the real intention of the Legislature by carefully attending to the whole scope of the statute to be construed.	None
35	None
And Lord Penzance said I believe, as far as any rule is concerned, you cannot safely go further than that, in each case you must look to the subjectmatter consider the importance of the provision that has been disregarded, and the relation of that provision to the general object intended to be secured by the Act and upon a review of the case in that aspect decide whether the matter is what is called imperative or only directory.	None
If we turn back to the provisions of Section 84 of the said Act, we find that the expressionshallis used in subsection (1) both in the context of the requirement of ability, integrity and standing as also in the context of adequate knowledge and capacity in dealing with problems relating to engineering, finance, commerce, economics, law or management.	Reasoning
On the other hand, in subsection (2) while dealing with the possibility of appointment of a Chairperson from the pool of sitting or retired Judges, the expression used ismayindicating it to be a discretionary power.80.	Reasoning
We are, thus, inclined to accept the line of reasoning advanced by the learned counsel led by the learned Attorney General that the plain reading of the section leaves no manner of doubt that the legislature only envisaged a possibility of appointment of a Chairperson from the pool of sitting or retired Judges of the High Court, in which case the method of appointment would be different from the one as envisaged under Section 85 of the said Act.	Reasoning
We may also look to the nature and functions performed by the State Commission.	Reasoning
Functions of the State Commission are prescribed under Section 86 of the said Act.	Reasoning
The enumerated functions are Page 60 of 84determination of tariff, regulation of electricity purchase and procurement process of distribution licencees, facilitating intrastate transmission, issuing licences to persons, promoting cogeneration and generation of electricity from renewable sources, levy fee, specify or enforce standards, fix trading margins.	Reasoning
All these functions are regulatory in character rather than adjudicatory.	Reasoning
The real adjudicatory function is only provided in subclause (f) whereupon the Commission has the option of adjudicating the disputes between the licencees and generating companies, or to refer such disputes to arbitration.	Reasoning
There is also an advisory role to be performed by the State Commission as specified in subsection (2).	Reasoning
The issue, however, is not whether a Judge would be comfortable doing this function but whether these are types of functions which necessarily mandate a Judge to be a Chairperson.	Reasoning
The answer to this would also be in the negative, supporting the view we have adopted on the plain reading of the section.	Reasoning
We are conscious of the observations made in Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited 37 in the context of 37 supra Page 61 of 84Section 86(1)(f) of the said Act opining that the adjudicatory functions generally ought not to be conducted by the State Commission in the absence of a judicial Member, but then subsection (1) of Section 84 of the said Act provides for a person with knowledge in the field of law albeit not mandatorily, on a plain reading of the section.	None
The effect of this will be dealt with in the latter part of our judgment.	None
We may also look at this issue from two other perspectives.	None
Firstly, the composition of the Appellate Tribunal under Section 112 of the said Act which mandates that there has to be a Bench of two or more persons of which at least one should be a judicial member.	None
The Chairperson as per Section 113, mandatorily has to be a present or retired Judge of the Supreme Court or a Chief Justice of the High Court.	None
Thus, at the appellate stage there is necessary judicial scrutiny, which takes place.	None
Secondly, looked at from the perspective of the position prevailing prior to the said Act coming into force, the nature of functions sought to be performed by the State Commission, were to be so performed, not by person, who necessarily held a judicial office.	None
The observations, thus, made in the context of thetribunalisation of judicial process and the requirement of it to be headed by a Judge have Page 62 of 84to be read in the context of shifting of the adjudicatory role from the Courts to the Tribunals.	None
There are undoubtedly certain powers vested in the Commission under Sections 94, 95 96 of the said Act, which weighed with the Gujarat High Court while taking a contrary view inasmuch as they seek to give the trappings of a court to the Commission, but that aspect we will examine in the latter part of the judgment, i.e., if there are certain judicial functions to be performed by the Commission, what then should be the nature of composition of the Commission.	None
Mr. Jayant Bhushan, learned senior counsel also rightly emphasized that were it to be presumed that the Chairperson had to be mandatorily a Judge, the process of appointment would have to be in terms of the proviso and not in terms of Section 85 of the said Act.	Reasoning
This would make the reference to a Chairperson under SubSections (2), (3), (5) (6) of Section 85 otiose as that eventuality would never arise were such a plea to be accepted.	Reasoning
We are, thus, unable to accept the contention advanced on behalf of the parties, who sought to sustain the view adopted by the Gujarat High Court.	Reasoning
The fact that the Chairperson has a right to nominate the Page 63 of 84Member, who would chair meetings in his absence as per subsection (2) of Section 92, or that the presence of a man of law would be no substitute to the requirement of a Judge who would bring a judicial thought process to the decision making as Chairman, or that the regulatory body should not be unregulated, are generalized pleas, which are difficult to accept.	Reasoning
No doubt, the law declared by the Supreme Court is binding on all Courts within the territory of India, which would also include principles of law emanating from a judgment or interpretation of the law, but then the ratio decidendi of the judgments of the Supreme Court, makes the principle of mandatory requirement of a Judge applicable only to cases where the judicial function is sought to be shifted through the process of tribunalisation.	Reasoning
We may also note that Section 84(2) of the said Act begins with a nonobstante clause, i.e., Notwithstanding anything contained in sub section (1), it does not take away what is stated in subsection (1), which deals with the requirements that are necessary in the appointment of a Member or Chairperson.	Reasoning
It would not cut down the clear terms of the enactment being subsection (1).	Reasoning
The occasion to use such a nonobstante clause really arose because the process of Page 64 of 84appointment of a Chairperson who is, or has been a Judge, is required to be different, and thus, the mandatory consultation with the Chief Justice.	Reasoning
It is nothing more or less.	Reasoning
Further subsection (1) of Section 85 provides for a Selection Committee to be headed by a Judge of the High Court but with the proviso that the said provision would not apply for the appointment of a person as a Chairperson who is, or has been, a Judge of the High Court.	Reasoning
This, in fact, shows that a nonJudge can be appointed as the Chairperson by the Selection Committee constituted under Section 85 of the said Act, which in turn is chaired by a Judge of the High Court.	Reasoning
We are, thus, unequivocally of the view that Section 84(2) of the said Act only gives the discretionary option to the State Government to appoint a Judge as the Chairperson of the State Commission.	Reasoning
The said provision therefore, is not mandatory in nature.	None
Composition of the State Commission Our conclusion aforesaid on the appointment of a Chairperson, necessitates a discussion on the composition of the State Commission as a whole.	None
This is so in the context of Section 84(1) of the said Act.	Arguments of Respondent
In terms of Section 82(4) of the said Act, the State Commission is to Page 65 of 84consist of not more than three members including the Chairperson.	None
In other words, there have to be two other members other than the Chairperson.	None
Now if the Chairperson is not a Judge, the question arises whether any of the other two members has to be a person from the legal field considering the nature of functions performed by the State Commission.	None
Section 84(1) of the said Act prescribes the requirement of knowledge and shown capacity in dealing with problems relating to six different fields, i.e., engineering, finance, commerce, economics, law or management.	None
If the Chairperson is from a nonlegal field, it would imply that he she would be a person from any of the other five fields.	None
That would still leave the appointment of two members from the fields specified, including law.	None
Thus, there can be a possibility and we are informed that it is so, where State Commissions have no members from the legal field at all.	None
The moot point arises whether there can be a mandatory provision read into Section 84(1) of the said Act for opining, that at least one person from the legal field is necessary as a member, although on a plain reading of the Section it is not so.	None
The distinguishing feature, as pointed out aforesaid between Page 66 of 84appointment of members to the Central Commission and the State Commission is that, with regards to the Central Commission, it is specifically provided in Section 77 of the said Act, how many persons from which field are to be appointed.	None
There is a further proviso to sub clause (c) of subsection (1) of Section 77 of the said Act restricting it to not more than one member from the fields specified in the said clause, viz.	None
economics, commerce, law or management.	None
This is not the position insofar as the State Commission is concerned.	None
In order to appreciate any such requirement for a person from the legal field as a member of the State Commission, it becomes necessary to turn to the nature of functions performed by the State Commission.	None
We have, in the context of Section 84(2) of the said Act, discussed the various functions of the State Commission which are specified under Section 86 of the said Act.	Reasoning
The argument on behalf of the learned Attorney General and the counsel supporting him was that other than subclause (f) of Section 86, there are really no adjudicatory functions.	None
There is, however, no dispute that subclause (f) is clearly an adjudicatory function.	None
It provides for adjudication of disputes Page 67 of 84between the licencees and the generating companies.	None
There is also a power to refer the dispute to arbitration and the expressionandin the said clause has been read asor in Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd. 38 (GJI), implying that the option is available to the State Commission to do either of the two.	None
Now turning to the powers of the State Commission, we may note that the same are specified from Sections 94 to 96 of the said Act.	None
The reference in these Sections is to the appropriate commission, i.e., it can either be the Central Commission or the State Commission or the Joint Commission.	None
The relevant definition clause is as under Definitions.	None
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, . . . . .	None
Appropriate Commission means the Central Regulatory Commission referred to in subsection (1) of section 76 or the State Regulatory Commission referred to in section 82 or the Joint Commission referred to in section 83, as the case may be The powers conferred under these Sections are, thus, undisputedly exercisable by the State Commission.	None
A perusal of these provisions would show that apart from their definition, even otherwise, these are powers of a civil court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter referred to as the said 38 supra Page 68 of 84Code).	None
Powers such as summoning, enforcement of attendance of any person and examination on oath, discovery and production of documents, receiving affidavit of evidence, requisitioning of public records, etc., all form part of Section 94.	None
In terms of Section 95, all such proceedings before the State Commission would be deemed to be judicial proceedings within the meaning of Sections 193 and 228 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and the commission would be a civil court for purposes of Sections 345 346 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.	None
Not only that, Section 96 confers the extreme power of entry and seizure in respect of any building and place where the Commission has reason to believe that any document relating to the subject matter of enquiry may be found and may be seized.	None
The power is conferred on the Commission under Section 129 for securing compliances of orders and under Sections 142 146 for punishment for non compliance of orders and directions.	None
This, thus, leaves no manner of doubt that the State Commission, though defined as a Commission has all the trappings of the Court.	None
We may also note that in terms of what has been opined in Page 69 of 84Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd. 39 (GJI), such adjudication of disputes between the licensees and generating companies by the State Commission or the arbitrator nominated by it under clause (f) of sub section (1) of Section 86 of the said Act extends to all disputes and not merely to those pertaining to matters referred to in clauses (a) to (e) and (g) to (k) of Section 86(1) as may arise between licensees and generating companies.	None
In effect, it has been observed that this is the only process of adjudication which has to be followed as there is no restriction in Section 86(1)(f) of the nature of the dispute that may be adjudicated.	None
Similarly in A.P .	None
Power Coordination Committee Ors.	None
40 while referring to the judgment in Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd. 41 (GJI), it has been observed that the Commission has been elevated to the status of a civil court in respect of all disputes between the licensees and generating companies.	None
Such disputes need not arise from exercise of powers under the said Act but even claims or disputes arising purely out of contract have to be either adjudicated by the Commission or be referred to an arbitrator nominated by the Commission.	None
In that context it has also been observed that the 39 supra 40 supra 41 supra Page 70 of 84advisability of having the State Commission presided over by a Judge of the High Court as a Chairperson was mentioned in Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited 42 .	None
The provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963 like Sections 5 14 have also been imported into the Act as observed.	None
What else can be called the trappings of the court?	None
We are buttressed in our conclusion by judicial pronouncements dealing with the expressionThe trappings of the court.	None
The expressiontrappings of the courtinitially found mention in a judgment of the Judicial Committee of The Privy Council in Shell Company of Australia, Limited v. Federal Commissioner of Taxation 43 .	None
It was observed by Lord Chancellor Sankey that there are tribunals with many of thetrappings of a court but are not courts in the strict sense of exercising judicial power.	None
In Bharat Bank Ltd. v. Employees of the Bharat Bank Ltd. 44 , while dealing with the Industrial Tribunal, it was observed that the said Tribunal has powers vested in a civil court under the said Code while trying a suit, discovery of documents, inspecting, granting adjournment, reception of evidence on affidavit, enforcing attendance 42 supra 43 (1931)	None
AC 275 44 AIR 1950 SC 188 Page 71 of 84of witnesses, etc.	None
The observations in R. v. London County Council 45 , of Saville, L.J. giving a meaning to the wordcourtorjudicial authoritywas cited with approval.	None
Saville, L.J. observed as under It is not necessary that it should be a Court in the sense that this Court is a Court, it is enough if it is exercising, after hearing evidence, judicial functions in the sense that it has to decide on evidence between a proposal and an opposition and it is not necessary to be strictly a Court if it is a tribunal which has to decide rights after hearing evidence and opposition.	None
The Supreme Court also took note of the definition ofjudicial powerandjudicial decisionin Huddart, Parker Co. v. Moorehead 46 and Cooper v. Wilson 47 respectively.	None
Griffith, C.J., in the first judgment observed as under The words judicial power as used in sec.	None
71 of the Constitution mean the power which every sovereign authority must of necessity have to decide controversies between its subjects or between itself and its subjects, whether the rights relate to life, liberty or property.	None
The exercise of this power does not begin until some tribunal which has power to give a binding and authoritative decision (whether subject to appeal or not) is called upon to take action.	None
In the latter judgment, it was observed as under A true judicial decision presupposes an existing dispute between two or more parties, and then involves four requisites (1) The presentation (not necessarily orally) of their case by the parties to the dispute (2) if the dispute between them is a question of fact, the ascertainment of the fact by means of 45 (1931) 2 KB 215 46 8 CLR 330, 357 47(1937) 2 KB 309, at p. 340 Page 72 of 84evidence adduced by the parties to the dispute and often with the assistance of argument by or on behalf of the parties on the evidence (3) if the dispute between them is a question of law, the submission of legal argument by the parties, and (4) a decision which disposes of the whole matter by a finding upon the facts in dispute and an application of the law of the land to the facts so found, including where required a ruling upon any disputed question of law.	None
A quasijudicial decision equally presupposes an existing dispute between two or more parties and involves (1) and (2), but does not necessarily involve (3) and never involves (4).	None
The place of (4) is in fact taken by administrative action, the character of which is determined by the Ministers free choice.	None
The subsequence judgments in Jaswant Sugar Mills Ltd. v. Lakshmi Chand 48 Engineering Mazdoor Sabha v. Hind Cycles Ltd. 49 IndoChina Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. v. Jasjit Singh 50 Associated Cement Companies Ltd. v. P .N.	None
Sharma 51	None
Sarojini Ramaswami v. Union of India 52 and State of Gujarat v. Gujarat Revenue Tribunal Bar Association 53 followed the aforesaid views in the same breath.	None
Once we find that the tribunal has the trappings of the court in respect of its functions, we turn to the effect of the same.	None
The judgment of this Court in Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited 54 would first have to be dealt with at some length, as it deals with the provisions of the very Act.	None
Of course, the context was, inter alia, in respect of the interpretation of Section 86(1) of the said Act.	None
The Bench took note of the Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd. 55 (GJI) on account of the observations made in that judgment, that the State Commission can adjudicate all the disputes, including the dispute on money claims between the licensees and the generating companies.	None
The then counsel for the appellant sought to canvas that the exercise of such judicial powers should be either by a civil court or a tribunal having, at least, one judicial member, as the absence of a judicial member would be an anathema to judicial process and would directly impinge on the impartiality and the independence of the judiciary.	None
It was also contended that the same would undermine the principle of separation of powers which was sought to be strictly maintained by the Constitution of India.	None
The counsel, in fact, went further that the function of the Chairman of such a commission required only a retired Judge of the High Court to occupy that post, an aspect, which has been negated by us hereinbefore.	None
The Supreme Court gave its imprimatur to the submission advanced on behalf of the 54 supra 55 supra Page 74 of 84appellant to the extent that the adjudicatory functions generally ought not to be conducted by the State Commission in the absence of judicial members.	None
It was noticed that no judicial member had been appointed in the Tamil Nadu State Commission, and that the feasibility for making the appointment of a person as the Chairman from amongst persons, who is, or has been, a Judge of the High Court should be explored.	None
It is undoubtedly true that the question which the Court was seized of, related to the interpretation of Section 86 of the said Act and certain other matters, which are not connected with the controversy herein.	None
Thus, the issue arises, whether the observations made, albeit to be construed as advisory or suggestive qua the appointment of a Chairman and a Member are to be treated as ratio decidendi or obiter dicta.	None
In order to determine this aspect, one of the wellestablished tests isThe Inversion Testpropounded inter alia by Eugene Wambaugh, a Professor at The Harvard Law School, who published a classic text book calledThe Study of Cases56 in the year 1892.	None
This 56Eugene Wambaugh, The Study of Cases (Boston Little, Brown, Co., 1892)	None
Page 75 of 84text book propounded inter alia what is known as theWambaugh Test orThe Inversion Testas the means of judicial interpretation.	None
The Inversion Testis used to identify the ratio decidendi in any judgment.	None
The central idea, in the words of Professor Wambaugh, is as under In order to make the test, let him first frame carefully the supposed proposition of law.	None
Let him then insert in the proposition a word reversing its meaning.	None
Let him then inquire whether, if the court had conceived this new proposition to be good, and had had it in mind, the decision could have been the same.	None
If the answer be affirmative, then, however excellent the original proposition may be, the case is not a precedent for that proposition, but if the answer be negative the case is a precedent for the original proposition and possibly for other propositions also.	None
57	None
In order to test whether a particular proposition of law is to be treated as the ratio decidendi of the case, the proposition is to be inversed, i.e., to remove from the text of the judgment as if it did not exist.	None
If the conclusion of the case would still have been the same even without examining the proposition, then it cannot be regarded as the ratio decidendi of the case.	None
This test has been followed to imply that the ratio decidendi is what is absolutely necessary for the decision of the case.	None
In order that an opinion may have the weight of a 57Eugene Wambaugh, The Study of Cases (Boston Little, Brown, Co., 1892) at pg.	None
17 Page 76 of 84precedent, according to John Chipman Grey 58 ,it must be an opinion, the formation of which, is necessary for the decision of a particular case.	None
Now applying the test to the aforesaid judgment, the proposition is reversed, i.e.,the Chairman need not be a judicial member, the fact remains that it would have no impact on the decision in that case, which was related to inter alia the interpretation of Section 86 of the said Act.	None
This, in fact, justifies what we have held aforesaid qua the appointment of a Chairperson from the pool of Judges.	None
In the context of the question which we are now dealing with, if we were to take the proposition asno member having knowledge of law is required to be a member of the Commissionthen we have a problem at hand.	None
This is so because while interpreting Section 86 of the said Act, it has been expressed that the Commission has the trappings of the Court, an aspect we have agreed to hereinbefore.	None
Once it has the trappings of the Court and performs judicial functions, albeit limited ones in the context of the overall functioning of the Commission, still while performing such judicial functions 58 Another distinguished jurist who served as a Professor of Law at The Harvard Law School Page 77 of 84which may be of far reaching effect, the presence of a member having knowledge of law would become necessary.	None
The absence of a member having knowledge of law would make the composition of the State Commission such as would make it incapable of performing the functions under Section 86(1)(f) of the said Act.	None
In Madras Bar Association 59 (MJII), the Constitution Bench, referring to the decision in Madras Bar Association 60 (MJI) observed that members of tribunals discharging judicial functions could only be drawn from sources possessed of expertise in law and competent to discharge judicial functions.	None
We are conscious of the fact that the case (MJI) dealt with a factual matrix where the powers vested in courts were sought to be transferred to the tribunal, but what is relevant is the aspect of judicial functions with all the trappings of the court and exercise of judicial power, at least, in respect of same part of the functioning of the State Commission.	Reasoning
Thus, if the Chairman of the Commission is not a man of law, there should, at least, be a member who is drawn from the legal field.	Reasoning
The observations of the Constitution Bench in Madras Bar Association 61 (MJII) constitutes a 59 supra 60 supra 61 supra Page 78 of 84declaration on the concept of basic structure with reference to the concepts ofseparation of powers,rule of lawandjudicial review.	Reasoning
The first question raised before the Constitution Bench as to whether judicial review was part of the basic structure of the Constitution was, thus, answered in the affirmative.	Reasoning
We are, thus, of the view that it is mandatory to have a person of law, as a member of the State Commission.	Reasoning
When we say so, it does not imply that any person from the field of law can be picked up.	Reasoning
It has to be a person, who is, or has been holding a judicial office or is a person possessing professional qualifications with substantial experience in the practice of law, who has the requisite qualifications to have been appointed as a Judge of the High Court or a District Judge.	Reasoning
In Brahm Dutt v. Union of India 62 , it has been observed that if there are advisory and regulatory functions as well as adjudicatory functions to be performed, it may be appropriate to create two separate bodies for the same.	None
That is, however, an aspect, which is in the wisdom of the legislature and that course is certainly open for the future if the legislature deems it so.	None
However, at present there is a 62 supra Page 79 of 84single Commission, which inter alia performs adjudicatory functions and, thus, the presence of a man of law as a member is a necessity in order to sustain the provision, as otherwise, it would fall foul of the principles of separation of powers and judicial review, which have been read to be a part of the basic structure of the Constitution.	None
We are also not in a position to accept the plea advanced by the learned Attorney General that since there is a presence of a Judge in the Appellate Tribunal that would obviate the need of a man of law as a member of the State Commission.	Reasoning
The original proceedings cannot be cured of its defect merely by providing a right of appeal.	Reasoning
We are, thus, of the unequivocal view that for all adjudicatory functions, the Bench must necessarily have at least one member, who is or has been holding a judicial office or is a person possessing professional qualifications with substantial experience in the practice of law and who has the requisite qualifications to have been appointed as a Judge of the High Court or a District Judge.	Reasoning
The challenge laid in TC (C)	None
Nos.139/2015 138/2015 is to the appointments made to the Tamil Nadu State Commission and the exercise of the powers suo moto by the Commission.	None
The fundamental Page 80 of 84plea is of financial bias of the two members as they were working in their erstwhile avatars.	None
The name of Mr. G. Rajagopal was recommended when he was still working as the Director, TANGEDCO and he opted for voluntary retirement after his name had been recommended.	None
Mr. Akshayakumar retired from the post of Managing Director of TANTRANSCO on 31.5.14 and was appointed as Chairman of the Commission on 6.6.14.	None
The tariff hike was approved by a majority of 21 with these two members being part of the majority view.	None
In respect of the aforesaid, reliance was placed on the judgment in Rajesh Awasthi 63 and Mor Modern Cooperative Transport Society Ltd. 64 .	Reasoning
We, however, find that those judgments would not apply in the present case.	Reasoning
The nature of financial interest was examined in the narrower sense as well as the wider sense and in the wider sense, it was held to include the direct or indirect interest of a person in relation to a financial undertaking.	Reasoning
The situation arose when the person concerned was holding both the posts simultaneously, which is not so in the present case.	Reasoning
(as noticed in para 52 above)	Reasoning
It is also pointed out by the learned counsel appearing for the State of Tamil Nadu that the orders 63 supra 64 supra Page 81 of 84of appointment have been exclusively assailed right till the Supreme Court.	Reasoning
It may be added that the Selection Committee was presided over by a retired Judge of the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
We, thus, find no merit in the plea sought to be advanced assailing either the appointment or the suo moto tariff revision.	None
Conclusion In view of our observations above, we conclude as under i. Section 84(2) of the said Act is only an enabling provision to appoint a High Court Judge as a Chairperson of the State Commission of the said Act and it is not mandatory to do so.	Decision
ii.	Decision
It is mandatory that there should be a person of law as a Member of the Commission, which requires a person, who is, or has been holding a judicial office or is a person possessing professional qualifications with substantial experience in the practice of law, who has the requisite qualifications to have been appointed as a Judge of the High Court or a District Judge.	Decision
iii.	Arguments of Petitioner
That in any adjudicatory function of the State Page 82 of 84Commission, it is mandatory for a member having the aforesaid legal expertise to be a member of the Bench.	Decision
iv.	Decision
The challenge to the appointment of the Chairman and Member of the Tamil Nadu State Commission is rejected as also the suo moto proceedings carried out by the Commission.	Decision
v. Our judgment will apply prospectively and would not affect the orders already passed by the Commission from time to time.	Decision
vi.	Decision
In case there is no member from law as a member of the Commission as required aforesaid in para 2 of our conclusion, the next vacancy arising in every State Commission shall be filled in by a Member of law in terms of clause (ii) above.	Decision
Transfer Petition (C) No.974/2016 is allowed and the Transferred Case arising out of transfer petition stands disposed of.	Decision
Page 83 of 84116.	None
The appeals as well as the other transferred cases stand disposed of accordingly leaving the parties to bear their own costs.	Decision
Pending application(s), if any, also stand(s) disposed of.	Decision
