 Arun Mishra, J. 1.	None
Leave granted.	None
2.	None
The Haryana Wakf Board against the judgment and order dated 10th February 2014 passed by the High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh, has preferred the appeals pertaining to the apportionment of compensation to the extent of 3/4 to the lessee and 1/4 to the Haryana Wakf Board.	Facts
3.	None
The lands belonging to the Wakf Board at Panipat and Hissar had been acquired by issuance of Notification dated 12th September 2001 and 21st March 1991, respectively.	Facts
The Land Acquisition Collector vide award dated 16th March 1994 determined the compensation, and directed its payment to the Wakf Board only no compensation was paid to the respondents, as they failed to prove that they were occupancy tenants of the land in question.	Facts
A reference was sought under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894.	Facts
The Reference Court opined that the lessees were entitled to compensation to the extent of 3/4 shares and Wakf Board to the extent of 1/4 share.	Facts
The Wakf Board preferred appeals in the High Court.	Facts
The High Court did not make any interference with the apportionment made by the Reference Court and dismissed the appeals.	Facts
Hence, the Wakf Board has come up in the appeals.	Facts
4. The only question agitated in the appeals is with regard to the apportionment of compensation.	Issue
Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Haryana Wakf Board has strenuously urged that since the status of the lessees was that of nonoccupancy tenant they could not have acquired a right of occupancy tenant over the property held by the Wakf Board.	Arguments of Petitioner
None of the lessees of Wakf Board had any right, title or interest on the basis of leases even assuming it was given on the yeartoyear basis for the purpose of cultivation.	Arguments of Petitioner
No right would accrue to the lessees as per the provisions contained in the Punjab Security of Land Tenants Act, 1953 (for short the Tenancy Act, 1953).	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further urged that it was not permissible to grant lease for a term of more than three years and as such if lease was granted exceeding three years, was void and no right would accrue to the lessees as per the provisions contained in Section 56 of the Wakf Act, 1995 which, is pari materia to the provisions in Section 36F of the Wakf Act, 1954.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also urged on behalf of the appellant that in Mangat Ram and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. State of Haryana	Arguments of Petitioner
Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1996) 8 SCC 664 reliance has been placed on the decisions of this Court in Harinder Singh Brar Bans Bahadur v. Bihar Lal (1994) 4 SCC 523 and Inder Parshad v. Union of India (1994) 5 SCC 239 .	Arguments of Petitioner
In Harinder Singh Brar (supra) the lessee was having a right to purchase under Section 18 of the Tenants Act, 1953.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was no such right available in instant cases.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, reliance could not have been placed on Mangat Ram (supra) to apportion compensation to the extent of 3/4 to lessee and 1/4 to Wakf Board.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further urged that in the case of Inder Parshad (supra) the dispute was with regard to apportionment of compensation to the lessee for the land held on the perpetual lease granted by the Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
Here, the lessees were deemed trespassers as land belonging to Wakf could not have been given on lease for a period beyond three years as per the provisions contained in Section 36F of the Wakf Act, 1954 corresponding to Section 56 of the Wakf Act, 1995.	Arguments of Petitioner
6.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, learned counsel appearing for the State has submitted that it was basically the dispute between the Wakf Board and the lessee.	Arguments of Respondent
However, it was contended that no right would accrue to the lessee over the property owned by Wakf Board.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, as in view of the decision of Mangat Ram (supra) apportionment has been made as such no case for interference in the facts of the present case was made out.	Arguments of Respondent
7.	None
Relying on the decision of this court in Mangat Ram (supra), it was contended by learned counsel for the lessees that the land was cultivated with effect from 19681969 and for cultivating the land payment was made to the Wakf Board, even if no right, title or interest could be acquired and the right of occupancy tenant could not be conferred on such lessees, as a matter of fact, they had been deprived of their only source of livelihood and they had made land cultivable by the dint of their efforts and had cultivated it for more than two decades before the acquisition had been made.	Arguments of Respondent
Apart from that even if this Court accept the finding as to the rights of the lessees, compensation having been disbursed and utilized it would be extremely difficult for the poor lessees to refund it to the Wakf Board.	Arguments of Respondent
8.	None
Having heard learned counsel for the parties, in our opinion, a person in settled possession can be disbursed some compensation on account of displacement and deprivation of the possession by virtue of acquisition of land.	Reasoning
However, the quantum of compensation to be apportioned between the lessee or a person in settled possession of the land and owner would depend upon nature of rights existing with a person in possession under the prevalent laws and arrangement under which he is holding the land.	Reasoning
It is apparent that under the Wakf Act, 1954 the provisions contained in Section 36F, restricts the powers to grant lease of Wakf property exceeding three years and the non obstante clause contained in Section 36F provides that such a transaction, if entered into, shall be void and of no effect until and unless it is made with the previous sanction of the Board.	Reasoning
In this case, admittedly, there was no sanction of the Board.	Reasoning
Thus, the arrangement entered into in 19681969 exceeding three years would not confer any right, title or interest upon the lessee.	Reasoning
Even if sanction had been granted by the Board it would not render lease void but would not confer any rights, under Tenancy Act, 1953.	Reasoning
9. Section 36F of the Wakf Act, 1954 is pari materia to the provisions of Section 56 of the Wakf Act, 1995.	None
Section 36 F of the 1954 Act is extracted hereunder36F. Restrictions on the powers to grant lease of wakf property.(1)	None
A lease or sublease for any period exceeding three years of any immovable property which is wakf property shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the deed or instrument of wakf or in any other law for the time being in force, be void and of no effect.	None
(2) A lease or sublease for a period exceeding one year and not exceeding three years of any immovable property which is wakf property shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the deed or, instrument of wakf or in any other law for the time being in force, be void and of no effect unless it is made with the previous sanction of the Board.	Reasoning
(3) The Board shall, in granting sanction for the making or renewal of lease under this section review the terms and conditions on which the lease or sublease is proposed to be granted or renewed and make its approval subject to the revision of such terms and conditions in such manner as it may direct.10.	None
In view of the nonobstante clause contained in provisions of Section 36F of the Wakf Act, 1954 the provisions contained in Section 18 of the Tenancy Act, 1953 would not be applicable.	None
In the instant case, it is apparent that even if we accept the submission raised by learned counsel appearing on behalf of some of the lessees that the arrangement was on the yeartoyear basis it would not confer any right.	None
In fact, leases were for the period exceeding three years.	Reasoning
It was an impermissible and void arrangement as such no title would accrue to the lessee.	Reasoning
They were holding Wakf property, which by its very nature was dedicated for the public purpose and no right could be conferred to the lessees on the basis of void leases.	Reasoning
In such cases Section 18 of Tenancy Act, 1953 is not applicable.	Reasoning
In such case, the status of the lessees would be that of a deemed trespasser and trespasser have no right to possess the property as such could not said to be entitled for disbursement of the compensation to the extent of 3/4th.	Reasoning
Only some amount of compensation owing to displacement could have been given or in case there was a crop, for damage of the crop.	Reasoning
They could not successfully claim apportionment on the basis of the price of the land as there was no ownership right or occupancy right vested with such lessees.	Reasoning
The extent of compensation to be paid in such cases would depend upon the facts of each case, nature of possession, rights, if any, and no straightjacket formula can be laid down in this regard.	Reasoning
At the most in such a case where there is no right, title conferred or accrued by virtue of cultivation of the land of occupancy, the compensation to the extent of 5 to 15 could have been given for the purpose of resettlement in view of the fact that a person had been displaced and deprived of right to livelihood.	Reasoning
The major part of compensation must be paid to the owner in such cases.	None
11.	None
In Mangat Ram (supra) this Court has considered the question of disbursement of compensation in paragraph 7 which reads as under7.	None
As regards apportionment of the compensation, the High Court has directed to pay 1/4 to the tenant and 3/4 to the Wakf Board.	None
In view of the judgment in Col.	None
Sir Harinder Singh Brar Bans Bahadur v. BihariLal (1994) 4 SCC 523 and Inder Parshad v. Union of India, (1994) 5 SCC 239 the tenants are entitled to 3/4 of the compensation while the landlord is entitled to 1/4 of the compensation.	None
In view of the above law, the order of the High Court in appeals arising from reference under Section 30 is modified to the extent that appellants tenants Mangat Ram and Others are entitled to 3/4th while the Wakf Board is entitled to 1/4th of the compensation amount.	None
The amount awarded in the judgment of the Single Judge under Section 23(1A) also requires to be apportioned accordingly.	None
This Court has followed the decision in Harinder Singh Brar (supra) and Inder Parshad (supra) holding that Wakf Board was entitled to compensation of 3/4th and the landlord was entitled to 1/4th of compensation.	None
This Court was not asked to examine whether lessee of Wakf Board acquired any right, title or interest in the land or would acquire it in future.	None
The aforesaid provisions of Wakf Act were not placed for consideration.	None
It is settled proposition of law that a decision cannot be said to be an authority on the issue that has not been decided.	None
12.	None
This Court in Mangat Ram (supra) relied upon the decision in Inder Parshad (supra) in which, we find that this Court has ordered that apportionment to be made to the extent of 67 to tenant and 33 to owner, as the lease of land was given on perpetual basis to the lessee by the Government, he was having the rights to hold the land perpetually, thus, was held entitled for aforesaid apportionment.	None
That is not the factual situation obtainable in the instant cases.	None
The aforesaid ratio could not be said to be applicable to Mangat Ram (supra) as no such right was available as per the provisions contained in Section 36F of the Wakf Act, 1954 corresponding to Section 56 of the Wakf Act, 1995.	None
The compensation has to be determined depending upon the right, title or interest which, one possesses is the law settled by various decisions of this Court.	None
Thus, the ratio of the aforesaid decision could not have been attracted for apportioning the compensation to the extent it was so done in the case of Mangat Ram (supra) to the tenants, 3/4th and Wakf Board 1/4th, it was not so borne out from the decision of Inder Parshad (supra).	None
There was no such general proposition laid down by this Court in Inder Parshad (supra).	None
This court in Inder Parshad (supra) has emphasized that right, title, and interest held by the lessee have to be taken into consideration for the purpose of apportionment.	None
This Court in Inder Parshad (supra) has observed5.In this case, admittedly the Government being the owner of the land, the appellant held the demised land as lessee with superstructure built thereon and was in possession and enjoyment of the same on the date of acquisition.	None
The contents of the award extracted hereinbefore clearly indicate that the Land Acquisition Collector could not determine compensation payable towards the leasehold interest held by the appellant.	None
Being an owner the Government is not enjoined to acquire its own interest in the land or land alone for public purpose.	None
When its land is granted on lease in favour of a lessee its power to resume the land is subject to nonfulfillment of the terms and conditions of the lease by the lessee.	None
So long as the lessee acts and complies with the covenants contained in the lease or the grant, the right to resumption in terms of the lease or grant would not arise.	None
But when the land is required for public purpose, the Government should get absolute title thereof free from all encumbrances.	None
Compensation becomes payable for the leasehold right or interest held by the lessee or grantee when the land is acquired.	None
The point becomes clear from the following illustrations.	None
Take a case where the Government granted lease of agricultural land on the annual payment of rent with a covenant that the Government is entitled to resume the land when needed for public purpose or as when the Government finds that the land is required for public purpose.	None
In terms of the covenants, the Government is entitled to exercise its option to determine the lease though the lessee has been complying with the condition of payment of annual premium or rent and resume the land in accordance with terms of the grant.	None
In that event, the need to take recourse to acquisition and to make compensation does not arise.	None
Take a case where the Government granted the lease of the open land with permission to the lessee to construct a building for his quiet enjoyment with appropriate covenants and the lessee with permission constructed the building and by complying with the covenants of the lease was in quiet enjoyment.	None
The selfsame property, when required for public purpose, the Government cannot unilaterally determine the lease and call upon the lessee to deliver the possession.	None
Therefore, the Government is required to exercise the power of eminent domain by invoking the provisions under the Land Acquisition Act for getting such land.	None
The Collector shall have to determine the compensation towards the leasehold interest held by the lessee, if assessable separately and determine the compensation.	None
The lessee being the owner of the superstructure and the Government being the owner of the land if compensation is determined for both the components, then the same has to be apportioned between them.	None
At what proportion the lessor and the lessee are entitled to receive the compensation has to be determined.	None
In the absence of any covenant in the lease for payment and in the absence of any specific date available to him, the Collector has to determine the respective shares at which the compensation is to be apportioned between the Government and the lessee, the course open to the Land Acquisition Collector is to determine the total compensation, make an award and make a reference to the civil court under Section 30 for decision on appointment.	None
Exactly that is the situation on the facts of this case.	None
Take another illustration.	None
The Government grants a patta of its land subject to payment of land revenue.	None
Later, the land is required for public purpose.	None
The payment of land revenue is at par with the payment of land revenue payable by a private owner to the State.	None
By grant of patta, the title has been vested in the grantee.	None
Therefore, the grantee is entitled to the full compensation of the acquired land.	None
8.	None
In the island of Bombay, certain lands were held on a tenure known as Foras.	None
Under Section 2 of Bombay Act VI of 1851, the occupants were entitled to hold the lands subject only to the payment of revenue then payable.	None
Between 1864 and 1867 the Government of India acquired these lands under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act (VI of 1857).	None
On November 22, 1938, the GovernorGeneral sold them to certain persons under whom the present respondents claimed.	None
In April 1942 the appellant acting under the Bombay City Land Revenue Act (Bombay Act II of 1876) issued notices to the respondents proposing to levy assessment on the lands at the rates mentioned therein.	None
The respondents thereupon instituted two suits disputing the right of the appellant to assess the lands to revenue.	None
They contended that under the Foras Land Act the occupants had acquired the right to hold the lands on payment of revenue not exceeding what was then payable, that the right to levy even that assessment was extinguished when the Government acquired the lands under the Land Acquisition Act, that the GovernorGeneral having conveyed the lands absolutely under the sale deed dated November 22, 1938, the respondents were entitled to hold them revenue free and that even if revenue was payable it could not exceed what was payable under the Foras Land Act.	None
On those facts, this Court held that if the Government has itself an interest in the land, it has only to acquire the other interests outstanding therein, so that it might be in a position to pass, it on absolutely for public user.	None
And the Act primarily contemplates all interests as held outside the Government and directs that the entire compensation based upon the market value of the whole land must be distributed among the claimants.	None
When the Government possessed an interest in land which is the subjectmatter of acquisition under the Act, that interest is itself outside such acquisition, because there can be no question of Government acquiring what is its own, an investigation into the nature and value of that interest will no doubt be necessary for determining the compensation payable for the interest outstanding in the claimants but that would not make it the subject of acquisition.	None
In that case, since the claimants are entitled to pay only land revenue and thereafter since sale of the land was made, the preexisting right in the land which the Government had ceased and claimants became owners.	None
Therefore it was held that the claimants alone were entitled to the full compensation.	None
But on the facts in this case, it is seen that since the Land Acquisition Collector had determined the compensation of the sum total of the interests held by the lessor and the lessee in the land under acquisition but being not able to decide on the apportionment of such compensation between Government and the appellant reference was made to the civil court to determine the apportionment.	None
The civil court decided by its award that apportionment of compensation fixed in the award of the Land Acquisition Collector between the lesseeclaimant and the Governmentlandlord shall be in order of 67 percent and 33 percent.	None
The High Court by its judgment and decree under the present appeal has modified the apportionment of compensation payable for land as 75 percent for the lessee and 25 percent for the lessor Under these circumstances it cannot be said that the Land Acquisition Collector had determined the compensation only towards the leasehold interest held by the appellant and that, therefore, the appellant is entitled to the entire compensation determined by the Collector.	None
Therefore, the judgment and decree under appeal does not call for interference and the appeal is, accordingly, dismissed.	None
But in the circumstances, the parties are directed to bear their own costs.13.	None
In Mangat Ram (supra) this Court has also relied on the decision in Harinder Singh Brar (supra), in which this Court ordered the payment of compensation to the tenant considering the provisions of Section 18 of the Tenancy Act, 1953.	None
The land was possessed by the tenant under the lease agreement, such lessee was entitled to purchase it under Section 18 Tenancy Act, 1953.	None
The provisions of the said Act are not attracted in the instant case.	None
This Court has in Harinder Singh Brar (supra) observed that the nature of interest which, the landowner possessed in the land at the time of its acquisition is material to be taken into account in each case, and also the fact that is required to be taken into consideration is whether any right was conferred upon the tenant.	None
In the aforesaid case, the property did not belong to the Wakf Board.	None
In the cases at hand, there was no right conferred upon the tenant to become the occupancy tenant or lessee beyond three years, which could be said to have been taken away by the land acquisition.	None
This Court has observed in Harinder Singh Brar (supra) that certain amount in respect of the purchase price would have to be paid by the tenant while exercising right, as per formulae provided under Section 18 of the Tenancy Act, 1953.	Reasoning
The owner would not be entitled to anything more.	Reasoning
This Court further observed about apportionment that statutory price under section 18 was not market price as tenant had the right to purchase at statutory price, the market price must go to him in the said proportion.	None
This Court considered the question of apportionment thus13.	None
We could add to the component of the market value of the land in item (i) above, 15 being the consideration payable for the compulsory nature of acquisition, that is, solatium.	None
Since interest becomes payable for delayed payment of compensation after the Collector takes possession of the acquired land such interest, if accrued, has to be added to each component of compensation.	None
The compensation awardable since comprises of the said components every person entitled to make a claim as regards his interest in the land and the component of compensation awardable thereto.	None
There cannot be any doubt nor was it disputed that the landowner possesses certain interest in the acquired tenanted land if it is acquired under the L.A. Act and vested in the State before its tenant becomes its deemed owner under subsection (4) of Section 18 of the Tenures Act.	None
The landowner could claim the component of compensation or any portion thereof according to the nature of interest possessed by him prior to the acquisition and vesting of the land under the L.A. Act.	None
The composition of each of the components of compensation adverted to by us are seen, the landowner can make no claim for the components of compensation under items (ii) to vi), in that, those components of compensation could become payable only to a tenant who would have suffered damages awardable thereunder.	None
However, if regard is had to the nature of interest of landowner comprised in the tenancy of a tenant, a claim could be made by him for the component of compensation of market value in item (I) and solatium and interest payable thereon.	None
The question which, then, needs our consideration is, whether the landowner who, as owner of the tenanted land before its acquisition and vesting under the L.A. Act, could claim the whole component of compensation in item (I) and solatium and interest awardable thereon.	None
Here, comes the nature of interest which the landowner possessed in the tenanted land at the time of its acquisition and its vesting in the State under the L.A. Act.	None
It cannot be gainsaid, that a landowner of tenanted land, to the purchase of which a tenant had become entitled under Section 18 of the Tenures Act, could be anything other than the purchase price payable for purchase of it under the Act, particularly, when a tenant had made an application for such purchase availing the right conferred upon him in that regard under Section 18 of the Tenures Act.	None
If at the time of acquisition and vesting of the tenanted land under the L.A. Act, the landowners entitlement from the tenant was such lands purchase price, his interest, having regard to its nature, could only be in the component of compensation consisting of market value of the land adverted to in item (i) and solatium and interest payable thereon and nothing beyond it.	None
Therefore, such a landowner could only lay his claim for the amount of the purchase price out of the component of such compensation and limited to the amount of purchase price.	None
However, it was contended on behalf of the appellant that the landowner would become entitled to threefourths of the amount of compensation awardable for the land acquired even though the tenant was entitled to its purchase under the Tenures Act.	None
In support of the submission, reliance was placed on the observations made by a learned Single Judge of the High Court in his judgmentthe subjectmatter of one of the present appeals, which read, thus I think the Punjab Security of Land Tenures Act itself appears to afford some guidance in the matter.	None
Section 18(3) prescribes the purchase price to be paid by the tenant at threefourths of the value of the land as determined by Section 18(2).	None
It means that the interest of the landowner is assessed at threefourths and the interest of the tenant is assessed at onefourth.	None
The value of the land as determined under Section 18(2) may be more or less than the value of the land on the date of the notification of acquisition.	None
But that makes no difference.	None
What is important is that the interests of the landowner and the tenant are fixed at threefourths and onefourth of the value of the land.	None
On that basis, I direct the apportionment of the compensation between the appellant and the first respondent in the ratio of 13.	None
The said observation of the learned Single Judge, it must be said, with great respect to him, is based on misconstruction of the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) of Section 18 of the Tenures Act.	None
The value of the land envisages under subsection (2) is not the market value of the land but the value of the land which should be the average price of land in the neighbourhood during 10 years preceding the date of making of the application by the tenant for purchase of land.	None
What subsection (3) says, is that the purchase price of the tenanted land must be threefourths of the value of the land determined under subsection (2), which means that the value of the tenanted land could only be threefourths of the average value of the neighbouring land during ten years preceding the date of making of the application by the tenant for purchase.	None
Here is a statutory measure required to be adopted to find out the purchase price of tenanted land and not the supposed market value of that land as on the date of making of the application for purchase.	None
If that be so, we are unable to understand how the market value of the land which will be far different from the statutory value of the land could be regarded as the same, as has been done by the learned Single Judge.	None
Hence, the contention raised on behalf of the appellant that the landowner would be entitled to threefourths of the market value of the land becomes unsustainable.	None
If we have regard to the provisions under subsections (2) and (3) of Section 18 of the Tenures Act, rightly adverted to by the learned Single Judge, the amount of compensation to which a landowner becomes entitled can only be the purchase price which he would be entitled under the said provisions for his land, which the tenant had a right to purchase thereunder.	None
If the purchase in favour of the tenant was over, as indicated in subsection (5) (sic) of Section 18, the purchase price, it must be kept in mind, could have been recovered by the landowner as arrears of revenue.	None
Therefore, in our view, the tenant could have been entitled to get out of the component of compensation awardable as market value in answer item (I) referred to above and the solatium and interest payable thereon, only that amount of compensation which could be equivalent to the purchase price liable to be paid by the tenant to the landowner under Section 18 of the Tenures Act and nothing more or less.	None
Hence, our answer to the question under consideration is, that if a tenanted land which its tenant was entitled to purchase under Section 18 of the Tenures Act did vest in the State by reason of its acquisition under the L.A. Act before he became its deemed owner as envisaged under subsection (4) of Section 18 of the Tenures Act, the landowner of that tenanted land could have made a claim for compensation awardable therefor under the L.A. Act and his entitlement out of the said compensation could only be that falling in the component of compensation in item (i), the market value of that land together with solatium and interest, however, limited to the amount of purchase price which he was entitled to get for the land answered under Section 18 of the Tenures Act and nothing more or less.	None
This Court in the aforesaid dictum has come to the eventual answer to the question raised for its consideration, that in such case the tenants should have been paid the compensation in its entirety as he had right to purchase property in accordance with provisions of the Tenancy Act, 1953.	None
That is not the situation in the instant case available as per the provisions contained in the Wakf Act.	None
14.	None
Thus, this Court in Mangat Ram (supra) relied upon the aforesaid two decisions in Inder Parshad (supra) and Harvinder Singh Brar (supra) which did not deal with nor laid down the law with respect to the rights of tenants for apportionment of compensation, who were not having any title or right of tenancy for exceeding a period of three years and such leases being void under aforesaid provisions of the Wakf Act.	Reasoning
They will be deemed to be trespassers.	Reasoning
This aspect was not raised for consideration nor decided in Mangat Ram (supra) or in relied upon cases.	Reasoning
The ratios of relied upon cases was totally different and could not form the foundation for apportionment of compensation in Mangat Ram (supra).	Reasoning
Thus, it could not be an authority on the said issue.	Reasoning
Such person could at the most be granted 10 of the amount considering the long possession and for displacement.	Reasoning
15.	None
We clarify that we are not holding that this ratio shall apply to other cases.	Reasoning
But it will depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case and nature of rights.	Reasoning
In any view of the matter, such tenants under void arrangement could not have been granted 3/4th compensation.	Reasoning
16.	None
In the instant case, the possession has already been taken by the acquiring body and compensation has already been disbursed to the lessees.	Reasoning
It is stated that they are poor persons and they were holding the said land as the only source of livelihood and by now have spent the amount paid to them, though undertaking was given to the Wakf Board to refund the amount.	Reasoning
But as the amount has already been spent, the lessees being poor persons it would be difficult to them to refund the amount, in exercise of powers under Article 142 of the Constitution it is directed that there shall be no recovery of the amount paid to them under order of the High Court as that was based upon the decision of Mangat Ram (supra) which we have clarified in the present case.	Reasoning
Thus, it is made clear that no recovery shall be made of the amount on the basis of the conclusion recorded by us.	Reasoning
17.	None
We, accordingly, allow these appeals and set aside the impugned judgment and orders passed by the High Court and of the Reference Court with respect to apportionment.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
