 Leave granted.2.	None
The respondent No.1 filed Election Petition No.1 of 2016 against the present appellant before the Senior Civil Judge and JMFC, Soraba on many a ground.	Facts
The Senior Civil Judge and JMFC, Soraba, vide order dated 01.07.2017, set aside the election of the appellant.3.	Facts
Being aggrieved by the aforesaid order, the appellant preferred Writ Petition No.38601/2017 in the High Court of Karnataka at Bangalore.	Facts
Before the High Court, it was contended that the Civil Judge (Senior Division) had no jurisdiction to entertain the election petition.	Facts
The writ Court declined to accept the said plea by stating thus8.	None
This Court is therefore of the opinion that such a question should have been raised before the learned Court below in the first instance.	None
Now at this stage, since an alternative remedy by way of review or further appeal is available to the petitioner, this Court is not inclined to interfere in the present case at this stage and there are no extraordinary reasons or circumstances to allow the present petitioner to directly approach this Court by way of present writ petition.4.	Facts
Being of this view, it dismissed the writ petition.5.	Facts
An intracourt appeal was filed by the appellant forming the subject matter of Writ Appeal No.5602/2017 (LBELE) and the Division Bench of the High Court declined to interfere in the appeal by opining thus8.	None
We, however, do not think it proper to exercise our discretion to entertain this appeal so as to give a finding at this stage as to whether the Court before whom the election dispute was filed by the respondents, indeed had the inherent jurisdiction or not.	None
We think, that is a matter which has to be considered by that Court in the first instance.	Facts
In such circumstances, we do not think that the said Judgments would be of any assistance to the appellant herein.9.	Facts
In the circumstance, we find that the learned Single Judge was right in not entertaining the Writ Petition or interfering with the impugned order and relegating the petitioner to either file a review petition or an appeal against the order dated 01.07.2017.	Facts
Therefore, we find no merit in the Writ Appeal.6.	Facts
It is submitted by Mr.G.V.Chandrashekar, learned counsel for the appellant that when the Civil Judge(Senior Division) does not have the inherent jurisdiction, he could not have entertained the Election Petition and passed an order setting aside the election of the appellant.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr.H.Chandra Sekhar, learned counsel for the respondents per contra would contend that such an issue was not raised before the Court of first instance and, therefore, the High Court is justified in not interfering with the order setting aside the election.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 2(9A) of the Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj Act, 1993 (hereinafter referred to as the Act), at the relevant time, defined the Designated Court as under(9A) Designated Court means the jurisdictional Court of Senior Civil Judge designated for the trial of election disputes related to Gram Panchayats and Taluk Panchayats and the court of the jurisdictional District Judge for the trial of election disputes relating to Zilla Panchayats, in whose territorial jurisdiction respectively, the panchayat area or a major portion of the panchayat area is situated.8.	Arguments of Respondent
The word district has been defined under subsection (10) which means the revenue district.	None
Section 15 of the Act deals with election petition, which is as follows15.Election petition.	None
(1) No election to fill a seat or seats in a Grama Panchayat shall be called in question except by an election petition presented on one or more of the grounds specified in subsection (1) of section 19 and section 20 to the Designated Court within whose territorial jurisdiction the panchayat area concerned or the major portion of the panchayat area concerned is situate by any candidate at such election or by any voter qualified to vote at such election together with a deposit of five hundred rupees as security for costs, within thirty days from , but not earlier than, the date of declaration of the result of the election of the returned candidate or if there are more than one returned candidate at the election, and if the dates of declaration of the results of the their election are different, the last of those dates.2) A petitioner shall join as respondent to his petition,(a) where the petitioner, in addition to claiming a declaration that the election of all or of any of the returned candidates is void, claims a further declaration that he himself or any other candidate has been duly elected all the contesting candidates other than the petitioner, and where no such further declaration is claimed, all the returned candidates and(b) any other candidate against whom allegation of any corrupt practice are made in the petition(3)	None
Every election petition shall be accompanied by as many copies thereof as there are respondents mentioned in the petition and every such copy shall be attested by the petitioner under his own signature to be true copy of the petition.	None
Explanation.	None
The expression returned candidate means a candidate who has been declared as duly elected.9.	None
There is no dispute that Section 2(9A) has been amended on 12.07.2017 and on the date when the election was set aside, the aforequoted provision was in force.	Reasoning
On a plain reading of the aforesaid provision, it is clear to us that the Senior Civil Judge was designated for the trial of election disputes to Gram Panchayats and Taluk Panchayats and the Court of jurisdictional District Judge was designated for the trial of election disputes relating to Zilla Panchayats.	Reasoning
Thus, there can be no iota of doubt that the Senior Civil Judge had no jurisdiction whatsoever to try the election disputes as an Election Tribunal.	Reasoning
It is the jurisdictional District Judge who has been statutorily declared as the Designated Court.	Reasoning
It is wellsettled in law that consent cannot confer any kind of jurisdiction.10.	Reasoning
In view of the aforesaid, the election proceeding was not maintainable and, therefore, we are compelled to set aside all the orders passed against the appellant and accordingly it is so ordered.	Reasoning
Needless to say, the appellant shall function as a Member of the Zilla Panchayat.	Reasoning
It is to be stated here that anyone who challenges or assails an election has to do it in the appropriate forum otherwise the law relating to election shall lose its sanctity.11.	Reasoning
In view of the aforesaid, the appeal is allowed and all the orders passed against the appellant are set aside.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
