 Gajendragadkar, J. 1.	None
This appeal by special leave arises between M s. Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd. (hereinafter called the appellant) and its workmen who fall in three categories.	Issue
The first two are represented by two unions respectively and the last one who are not represented by any union.	Facts
These workmen will hereafter be called the respondents.	Facts
The appeal is in respect of the latters claim for bonus for the year ended 3131955.	Facts
The appellant is a public limited company and does business of manufacturing oil engines at Kirkee, Poona.	Facts
The appellant was registered under the Indian Companies Act, 1913 in the year 1946, and it went into production from June 1949.	Facts
The accounting year of the appellant ends on March 31.	Facts
The appellant has adopted for its workmen the wagestructure prescribed by the Standardisation Committee (Engineering), Bombay, and it pays to its workmen, in addition to their normal wages and dearness allowance, production incentive bonus and attendance bonus.	Facts
Besides, the appellant gives other amenities to its workmen.	Facts
In the result the appellant claims that on the whole the wages paid by it to its workmen amount almost to a living wage.	Facts
2.	None
The respondents disputed this last allegation.	Facts
They contended that the wages paid to them together with the production bonus and attendance bonus as well as other amenities provided for them fall far short of a living wage and they were entitled to claim bonus from the available surplus of the trading profits of the appellant.	Facts
They accordingly made a demand for bonus for the year in question equal to 1/3 of their earnings of that year immediately and without attaching any condition.	Facts
3.	None
The industrial dispute to which this demand gave rise was referred to the conciliation officer under S. 12 (4) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) by the Government of Bombay.	Facts
The attempt at conciliation however failed and on receiving the report of the conciliation officer the Government referred the dispute to the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, under.	Facts
S. 12 (5) of the said Act.	Facts
By its award delivered on 911957, the tribunal directed the appellant to pay to the respondents bonus equal to 1/8 of their basic earnings (exclusive of allowances and production bonus) within a period of two months from the date the award would become enforceable subject to two conditions specified in the award.	Facts
It is against this award that the appellant has preferred the present appeal.	Facts
4.	None
The calculations made by the tribunal under the Full Bench formula show that even after the appellant pays the bonus as directed by the award it would be left with a surplus of Rs. 1.89 lakhs.	Arguments of Petitioner
These calculations are, however, challenged by the appellant as being inconsistent with the formula.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged on its behalf that the tribunal was in error in not granting to the appellant its claim for the deduction of incometax payable by it on the profits of the bonus year according to the formula.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no dispute about the material facts in respect of this claim.	None
If the incometax payable by the appellant on the amount of profits ascertained after deducting from the gross profits the admissible depreciation claimed is allowed to the appellant, it would amount to Rs. 2.25 lakhs.	Reasoning
This was and is conceded by the respondents.	None
They, however, urged before the tribunal that for the previous year ending on 3131953, the appellant had sustained a loss of Rs. 9 lakhs and under S. 24 (2) of the Incometax Act the appellant would be entitled to absorb the said loss in the profits of this year and as a consequence it would in fact not be liable to pay any tax for the relevant year.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondents case was that in such a case the appellant was not entitled to claim any deduction on account of incometax.	None
This argument has been accepted by the tribunal and it has disallowed the whole of the claim made by the appellant in respect of the whole of the item of incometax.	None
5.	None
In Associated Cement Companies Ltd., Bombay v. Their Workmen, Civil Appeals Nos. 459 and 460 of 1957, D 55l959 (AIR 1959 SC 967 ),we have considered this point and we have held that in working out the Full Bench formula the employer is entitled to claim the appropriate amount of incometax payable on the profits determined under the formula even though under the provisions of the aforesaid section of the Incometax Act he may not be required to pay the said tax.	Reasoning
In view of the said decision we must hold that the tribunal was in error in not allowing the appellants claim for deduction of Rs. 2.25 lakhs as a prior charge under the item of incometax payable for the relevant year.	Reasoning
It has been fairly conceded by Mr. Phadke, for the respondents, and we think rightly, that if this item is allowed to the appellant the conclusion of the tribunal that there was available surplus from which bonus could be paid to the respondents cannot be sustained.	Arguments of Respondent
The award shows that the available surplus from which bonus has been ordered to be paid is Rs. 2.26 lakhs.	Arguments of Respondent
If Rs. 2.25 lakhs is deducted from the surplus we are left with a figure of only .01 lakhs whereas the amount ordered to be paid by way of bonus is 0.37 lakhs.	Arguments of Respondent
6.	None
There is another point on which the appellant has attacked the award under appeal.	None
The appellant had made a claim for interest it 4 per cent.	None
on depreciation fund used as working capital.	Arguments of Petitioner
This claim amounts to 0.32 lakhs.	Arguments of Petitioner
The tribunal has disallowed this claim on the ground that the employer cannot claim any allowance on depreciation fund.	None
This point also has been considered by us in the case of A. C. C. Ltd., (AIR 1959 SC 967 ) (supra), and we have held that if it is shown that the amount in the depreciation fund was in fact available to the employer and has been used by him as working capital he would be entitled to claim a return on it.	None
At what rate of interest the return should be allowed is a question of fact to be determined in each case in the light of relevant circumstances.	None
It is true that in this case the appellant has not filed any statement on oath showing that the amount from the depreciation fund on which it claims a return at 4 per cent.	None
was available to it and has in fact been used as working capital.	Reasoning
On the other hand a claim for .32 lakhs was made by way of return on the said fund and it was not disputed by the respondents on the ground that the fund had not been used as working capital or was in fact not available to the appellant.	Reasoning
It appears that it was known to the parties that the tribunal had for some time past been taking the view that depreciation fund cannot earn any return even though it is used as working capital.	Reasoning
That explains for the state of the pleadings in the present case.	Reasoning
However, it is unnecessary to decide whether the appellant is entitled to any return on the depreciation fund in this case because, as we have just indicated, if only the amount of incometax claimed by it is allowed that itself would entitle the appellant to succeed in this appeal.	Reasoning
7.	None
Mr. Naunit Lal who appeared for respondent 2, however, attempted to argue that the tribunal was not justified in awarding to the appellant Rs. 1.39 lakhs by way of provision for rehabilitation.	Arguments of Respondent
His contention was that a claim for rehabilitation had not been established by the appellant by proper evidence.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not think there is any substance in this argument.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Mandke, the appellants Works Manager, has made an affidavit in the proceedings before the tribunal that he had prepared Ex. C. 15 from his personal knowledge and that the said statement correctly showed the life of the machinery employed by the appellant and the period after which it would require to be replaced.	Reasoning
The said witness had also filed other statements in support of the appellants claim including Ex. C. 8 which explain the method adopted by the witness for arriving at the amount of rehabilitation claimed by the appellant.	Reasoning
It appears that the appellant offered this witness for examination before the tribunal but the respondents did not desire to crossexamine him and so he did not step into the witnessbox.	Reasoning
That is why the tribunal held that the estimate given by the appellant for rehabilitation, replacement and modernisation should be accepted and the quota asked for by the appellant should be allowed from out of profits.	Reasoning
On these facts it is impossible to accept the argument that the claim for rehabilitation has not been proved by the appellant.	Reasoning
8.	None
In the result the appeal must be allowed and the award passed by the tribunal must be set aside.	Decision
Since the decision of this appeal follows on the view that we have taken in the case of A. C. C. Ltd., (AIR 1959 SC 967 ) (supra), we think that there should be no orders as to costs.	Decision
9.	None
Appeal allowed.	Decision
