 Sikri, J.1.	None
This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment of the Allahabad High Court adjudging the five appellants guilty of contempt of court and sentencing each of them to pay a fine of Rs. 1,000 and further ordering that in case of default they shall undergo simple imprisonment for two weeks.	None
The High Court held that the five appellants had disobeyed an order of stay passed by it staying proceedings pending before the Nyaya Panchayat, Jokha Khas, District Deoria.2.	Issue
The relevant facts are these.	None
On September 2, 1963, Yashoda, son of Raj Kumar, filed a complaint before the Nyaya Panchayat, Jokha Khas against Jagdeo, Mahabir and Laxmi alleging that he had been abused and belaboured and his property worth Rs. 40 damaged.	Facts
On September 10, 1963, the Nyaya Panchayat assembled and evidence was led before it.	Facts
The case was adjourned to December 25, 1963.	Facts
On October 11, 1963, Mahabir, accused, made an application under S. 85 of the U. P. Panchayat Raj Act, 1947 to S. D. M. Deoria, to transfer the proceedings on the ground that the complainant Yashoda was father of Bunna Prasad, Sarpanch of Nyaya Panchayat, Jokha Khas.	Facts
On November 28, 1963, the S. D.M. rejected this application.	Facts
On December 13, 1963, a notice was issued to the five members of the Panchayat to assemble on December 25, 1963, and hear the case.	Facts
On December 20, 1963, Mahabir moved an application under Article 227 of the Constitution challenging the order of the S. D. M. dated November 28, 1963, and on the same day the High Court admitted the application and stayed further proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat.	Facts
An urgent copy of the order was applied for and obtained on that very day and the counsel sent a telegram in the following wordsAllahabad HC 20Baldeopd cashier TrustSdr GRMahabir application admitted stay granted Banwarilal.3.	Facts
It is alleged on the side of the applicant, Mahabir, that immediately after the receipt of the telegram an application accompanied by an affidavit and the telegram of his counsel in the High Court was presented before the Nyaya Panchayat with the prayer to stay further proceedings but the Sarpanch refused to take it.	Facts
This fact was denied and the High Court seems not to have relied on this fact in its Judgment.	Facts
It seems to us that it is not proved on the evidence here that any such application was made before the Nyaya Panchayat.	Facts
No application dated December 21, 1963, which was not accepted by the Nyaya Panchayat, has been produced.4.	Facts
On December 23, 1963, Mahabir submitted an application in the Court of Shri R. Singh, S. D.M., Deoria, alleging thatwrit petition has been admitted and a stay order has been issued.	Facts
But notwithstanding my informing the Panchayat Adalat of that, I am not getting any hearing there, and when an application is made there, it is not entertained.	Facts
He prayed that the Panchayat Adalat be directed to postpone proceedings pending the receipt of the stay order.	Facts
He produced the telegram received from the Advocate before the S. D. M. In the affidavit accompanying the application, however, no mention was made about Mahabir having informed the Panchayat Adalat of the stay order or the fact that the order and the application was not being entertained by the Adalat.	Facts
It happened that the S. D. M. was absent on December 23, 1963, and papers were put up before Shri S. K. Srivastava, Additional SubDivisional Magistrate, who issued the order Put up with records.	Facts
Apparently he did not take any further action till December 26, 1963.	Facts
But as the notice against Shri Srivastava has been discharged by the High Court, we need not give any further details about his various orders.5.	Facts
On December 25, 1963, the Nyaya Panchayat met and proceeded to hear the case.	Facts
The order sheet reads thus Put up today the 25th December, 1963.	Facts
The complainant and the accused are present.	Facts
The statements of the complainant and his witnesses, Bhabhuti and Damri, are recorded.	Facts
The accused refused to make statements and put down their signatures.	Facts
Today, the 25th December, 1963, Mahabir has made an application to the Court and signed it before it (?)	Facts
Hence judgment shall be given on 25th December, 1963.This order was signed by three Panchas, Phagu Parasad, Jagat Dubey and Badri Yadav.	Facts
On the same day a final order was made holding the accused guilty and imposing a fine of Rs. 3 each on accused Nos. 1 and 3, and Rs. 9 on accused No. 2.	Facts
The application of Mahabir referred to in the order, reads thus Sir,It is submitted that I have filed a writ petition in the above case, in the High Court.	Facts
It has been admitted by the High Court which has stayed proceedings also in this case.	Facts
It is, therefore, prayed that the proceedings in this case may be stayed.	None
A document purporting to be an affidavit was also attached, in which it was statedI make oath and say that in the above case I have filed a writ petition in the High Court, that it has been admitted, and that proceedings in the case have been stayed by the High Court.	Facts
6.	None
We looked at this socalled affidavit and found that it has not been sworn to before any person authorised to administer oaths.7.	Facts
On May 21, 1964, Mahabir filed an application under Ss. 4 and 5 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1952, against the five appellants and S. K. Srivastava, A.S.D.M.	Facts
The main allegation apart from reciting the facts which we have already detailed above, was that in spite of the knowledge of the interim stay dated 20th December, 1963 passed by the Honble High Court the Sarpanch, the Opposite Party No. 1 and the members of the Bench, Opposite Parties Nos. 2 to 5 disobeyed the order of the Honble High Court and disposed of the case on 25th December, 1963 and thus they committed contempt of the Honble High Court.	Facts
Affidavits were filed in the High Court by Baldeo Prasad, pairokar of Mahabir, Bunna Prasad, the Sarpanch, and Mahabir, and statements of Phagu Prasad and Bunna Prasad were recorded on oath.	Facts
Bunna Prasad in his affidavit stated that as the Nyaya Panchayat was not satisfied for want of evidence by way of proper affidavit, etc., the Nyaya Panchayat proceeded with the case.	Facts
Phagu Prasad, in his statement, stated As the paper of Mahabirs application and affidavit was not good, we had asked him to get them written on a proper paper obtained from the Tehsil.	Facts
We had also told him to get the affidavit verified before some Tahsil authority.	Facts
We had told Mahabir as above before we had read the application and affidavit presented before the Nyaya Panchayat.	Facts
Mahabir told us that he is not prepared to go to Tahsil, but is presenting before the Panchayat whatever he has got in his possession.	None
Phagu Prasad further stated that no other affidavit had ever been filed before us, but we knew that in the law Courts the affidavits, which are filed, are verified by some authority.	None
He further added that the reason why we did not believe the affidavit of Mahabir was that it did not contain any date of the High Courts stay order Bunna Prasad, in his statement, stated that he had told Mahabir to bring the affidavit on a good quality paper of full size, and Mahabir thereupon told him that he would present whatever he had.	Facts
According to him, the Panches did not tell Mahabir that his affidavit was not proper they, however, told him to get it verified in Tehsil and that it should be duly sealed.8.	Facts
The High Court, on examination of the evidence, came to the conclusion that it was the Sarpanch who had initially declared that the affidavit of the applicant was not proper and that the latter should file a proper affidavit in support of his allegations, though the Sarpanch had admitted in his deposition that he had no authority to tell Mahabir that his affidavit was not proper.	Facts
It appeared to the High Court thatthe Sarpanch first wanted to avoid the petitioners affidavit being brought on the record by declaring that it was not proper because it did not fully evidence the fact that the High Court had passed an order staying proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat.	Facts
The High Court further held thatthe Nyaya Panches faithfully accepted the objections raised by the Sarpanch and dittoed him about the impropriety of the petitioners affidavit and inadequacy of the evidence contained therein regarding the stay order alleged to have been passed by the High Court.	Facts
The High Court disbelieved the explanation of the Panches given before it because no mention of these was made in the order sheet dated December 25, 1963.	Facts
The High Court held There was no reasonable ground for the Panches to have doubted the averments made in the application and affidavit of Mahabir that the High Court had stayed further proceedings before the Panchayat, nor is there anything in the order sheet to show that the Panches did not believe the contents of the application and affidavit of Mahabir.	Facts
However, if they wanted to ascertain the matter, they should have at best stayed the proceedings for a short while and should have asked the applicant to produce a certified copy of the stay order.	Facts
In the alternative, they should have verified from the SubDivisional Magistrate whether Mahabir had really filed an application and affidavit before him along with the original telegram received from his counsel at Allahabad saying that the High Court had already stayed the proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat.	Facts
But the Panches did nothing of the kind.	Facts
The action of the Nyaya Panches in not doing so was obviously not bona fide and amounts to wilful disobedience of the High Courts order.9.	Facts
The learned counsel for the appellants, Mr. Chari, says that no contempt of court has been established because a Court is entitled not to act on an application which is not accompanied by an affidavit properly sworn to or a certified copy of the order.	Arguments of Petitioner
He urges that the Nyaya Panchayats exercised judicial powers and, even if the Panches erred in not staying proceedings, before finding them guilty of contempt of court it should be definitely proved that the order was passed deliberately to by pass the order of the High Court.10.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court quoted with approval the following passage from Oswalds Contempt of Court, in Hoshiar Singh v. Gurbachan Singh, 1962 Supp (3) SCR 127 at p. 138 (AIR 1962 SC 1089 at pp. 10931094)	None
The judgment or order should be served on the party personally, except in the following cases (1) prohibitive orders, the drawing up of which is not completed In order to justify committal for breach of a prohibitive order it is not necessary that the order should have been served upon the party against whom it has been granted, if it be proved that he had notice of the order aliunde, as by telegram, or newspaper report, or otherwise, and knew that it was intended to be enforced, or if he consented to the order, or if he was present in Court when the order was pronounced, or when the motion was made, although he left before the order was pronounced.	None
We need not consider whether it makes any difference in law if the order has been drawn up.	None
We will for the purpose of this case assume that it does not make any difference.	None
It is also clear that in such matters those who assert that a person had knowledge of the order must prove this fact beyond all reasonable doubt.	None
If there is any doubt, the benefit ought to be given to the person charged with contempt of court.	None
If a person bona fide comes to the conclusion on the material placed before him that the source of information is not authentic he cannot be held guilty of contempt of court for disobeying the order.11.	None
The question then arises whether the Sarpanch and the Panches had knowledge of the existence of the order of the High Court dated December 20, 1963.	None
The only material before them was the application dated December 25, 1963, which was not supported by any affidavit sworn to before a person authorised to administer oaths.	None
Further, the application did not contain the date of the order even a copy of the telegram was not attached to the application and the application seems to have been made after the proceedings on that date had commenced and evidence taken.	None
We are unable to appreciate how on this material the bona fides of the Panches can be doubted if they refused to accept the mere statement of the party that the High Court had stayed proceedings before them.	None
It seems to us that the High Court did not appreciate that the socalled affidavit which was filed before the Panches was in fact not an affidavit at all.	None
It had not been sworn to before any person authorised to administer oaths.	None
It was no part of the duty of the Panches to enquire from the S. D. M. about the filing of the application before him.	None
At any rate, he has apparently no jurisdiction to stay proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayats when no proceeding is pending before him.	None
It is true that in certain cases proceedings can be adjourned to enable the parties to file better proof, but a judicial officer is not bound to do so and, if he bona fide does not in his discretion adjourn proceedings, it cannot be said that he has committed contempt of court.	Reasoning
It must also be borne in mind that Panches are not wellversed in law and procedure and the records maintained by them should not be judged in the same manner as that of ordinary courts.	Reasoning
With respect, the High Court should not have drawn an adverse inference from the fact that the reasons for not accepting the prayer for stay were not recorded.	Reasoning
Contempt of court is a serious matter and a High Court should be chary of finding a judicial officer guilty of contempt of court for disobeying its orders unless there is unimpeachable evidence that the judicial officer had knowledge of the order of the High Court.	Reasoning
In our opinion, there is no such evidence in this case.12.	Reasoning
The learned counsel for the State contends that we should not reappreciate the facts, but, with respect, it seems to us that the High Court, while dealing with the evidence, has not kept in mind the principles which we have mentioned above.13.	Arguments of Respondent
In the result, we allow the appeal and set aside the judgment and order of the High Court.14.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
