 Sikri J.1.	None
This is an appeal by special leave against the judgment of the Madras High Court, answering a question referred to it under S. 66 (1) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, hereinafter referred to as the Act, against the Revenue.2.	Issue
The question referred to it was the followingWhether on the facts and circumstances of the case the Bank was entitled to claim the deduction of the entire interest paid by it on fixed deposits, either under S. 10 (2) (iii) or 10 (2) (xv)?3.	Issue
The relevant facts and circumstances are these.	Facts
The respondent the Indian Bank Ltd., Madras, hereinafter referred to as the assessee, carried on the business of banking.	Facts
In the normal course of its business, it received deposits from constituents and paid interest to them.	Facts
It invested a large sum in securities both of the Central and State Governments (including Mysore Government).	Facts
The interest on Mysore Government securities was exempt from incometax and super tax under the provisions of a notification issued under S. 60 of the Act.	Facts
It bought and sold these securities and the profits and losses on the purchase and sale of such securities were duly taken into account in computing the income of the assessee under the head Business.	Facts
For the assessment year 195152 (accounting year Calendar Year 1950) it claimed a deduction of Rs. 25, 91,565 as interest paid to various depositors under Section 10 (2) (iii) of the Act.	Facts
The Incometax Officer for Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Incometax Appellate Tribunal disallowed interest amounting to Rs.	Facts
2,80,194.	Facts
This amount was arrived at by calculating the proportionate interest which would be payable on money borrowed for the purchase of Mysore securities for Rs. 2,49,93,511.	Facts
We need not describe the formula adopted for calculating the proportionate interest for nothing turns on it.4.	Facts
The grounds given by the Appellate Tribunal for disallowing the deduction of the proportionate interest were twofold first, as income from securities can be taxed only under S. 8, the allowance that could be a charge on that income can only come under that section and no other and secondly, the trend of authorities also seems to be in favour of Departments view that the assessee is not entitled to a double benefit, (i) exemption from tax in respect of certain securities, and (ii) to an allowance of interest on the money utilised to purchase those securities.5.	Facts
At the instance on the assessee the Appellate Tribunal referred the question reproducer above to the High Court.	Facts
The High Court has answered the question in favour of the assessee on the ground that the entire interest paid by the Bank was a permissible deduction under S. 10 (2) of the Act6.	Facts
It is common ground among the parties that S. 8 of the Act does not apply.	None
The learned counsel for the Revenue.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Rajagopal Sastri, submits that there is a general principle that as expenditure can be allowed as a deduction from the profits of a business unless the part of the business to which the expenditure is attributable is capable of producing income or profits liable to be taxed under the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, he contends that if a part of profits of a business is not taxable, no expenditure incurred for the purpose of earning those profits can be allowed as a deduction.	Arguments of Petitioner
He says this is the position specially after the amendments made in the Act by the Amending Act of 1939, in S.4, whereby all income accruing or deemed to accrue to a person resident in India is attributed a taxable quality.	Arguments of Petitioner
He goes on to say that if a particular income has no taxable quality, it also loses quality for qualifying for expenditure allowable under S. 10.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel for the assessee Mr. R. Venkatram says that even if the proposition be accepted, it does not assist the Revenue in this case.	Arguments of Respondent
He points out that in the case before us it is not controverted that the profits and losses accruing from the sale and purchase of securities have been included in the assessment.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore the tax free securities are capable of producing profits and losses .	Arguments of Respondent
There is force in the contention of Mr. Venkatram and the appeal must fail on this ground alone.	Arguments of Respondent
But as the question has been debated before the High Court and before us.	Arguments of Respondent
we do not desire to rest our decision on this narrow ground.8.	Reasoning
Then is there such a principle as has been formulated above ?	Reasoning
If there is one, can it be invoked to cut down the express language of S. 10 (2) (iii), which expressly allows as a deduction interest on capital borrowed for the purpose of the business?	Reasoning
In our opinion, in construing the Act, we must adhere closely to the language of the Act.	Reasoning
If there is ambiguity in the terms of a provision, recourse must naturally be had to wellestablished principles of construction but it is not permission first to create an artificial ambiguity and then try to resolve the ambiguity by resort to some general principle.9.	None
We are concerned with the interpretation of S. 10.	None
Let us then look at the language employed.	None
Subs.	None
(1) directs that an assessee be taxed in respect of the profits and gains of business carried on by him.	None
What is the business of the assessee must first be looked at.	None
Does he carry on one business or two businesses or along with the business carried on by him some activity which is not a business ?	None
If he is carrying on an activity which is not business, we must leave out of account the receipts of that activity.	None
That is the first step.	None
Secondly we must look at S.10(2) and deduct all the allowances permissible to him.	None
In allowing a deduction which is permissible the question arises Do we look behind the expenditure and see whether it has the quality of directly or indirectly producing taxable income?	None
The answer must be in the negative for two reasons First, Parliament has not directed us to undertake this enquiry.	None
There are no words in S. 10 (2) to that effect.	None
On the other hand, indications are to the contrary.	None
In Section 10 (2) (xv), what Parliament requires to be ascertained is whether the expenditure has been laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the business.	None
The legislature stops short at directing that it be ascertained what was the purpose of the expenditure.	None
If the answer is that it is for the purpose of the business, Parliament is not concerned to find out whether the expenditure has produced or will produce taxable income.	None
Secondly, the reason may well be that Parliament assumes that most types of expenditure which are laid out wholly and exclusively for the purpose of business would directly or indirectly produce taxable income, and it is not worth the administrative effort involved to go further and trace the expenditure to some taxable income.10.Therefore, it seems to its that their is nothing in the language of S. 10 from which it can be fairly implied that an expenditure or allowance falling without the section must fulfil some other condition before it can be allowed.11.	None
A similar question arose in England in Hughes v. Bank of New Zealand (1937) 21 Tax Cas 472, and all the Judges took the view that interest paid by the Bank on capital borrowed in the course of its business and utilised in buying taxfree securities had to be deducted in arriving at the taxable profits of the business notwithstanding that the interest earned by the Bank on the taxfree securities could not be taxed.12.	None
Lord Thankerton put the reason shortly thusIt is perhaps enough to say that the Crown are unable to point to any statutory provision in support of their contention, whereas the Respondents find full justification for their resistance in the provisions of R. 3 of the rules applicable to cases I and II of Schedule D.13.	None
This rule is similar to S. 10 (2)(xv) of the Indian Incometax Act.	None
After setting out the rule and noticing its effect he saysIt seems to me to be incontrovertible that, in the present case, the investments in question were part of the business of the Respondents trade, and that the expense connected with them was wholly and exclusively laid out for the purposes of the trade.	None
Expenditure, in course of the trade which is unremunerative is none the less a proper deduction, if wholly and exclusively made for the purposes of the trade.	None
It does not require the presence of a receipt on the credit side to justify the deduction of an expense.14.	None
Although the Master of Rolls found force in the argument of the Crown, he could find nothing in the language of the English Act to eliminate a part of the expenses of an indivisible trade.	None
Similarly, Greene, L. J., could find no warrant in the language of the Statute to give effect to the contention of the Crown.	None
He observed thatwhen the statute says that interest is to be exempt, I am quite unable to read it as meaning that in giving effect to that exemption by implication, some repercussion is to take place on a different provision of the Act altogetherI can find nothing in the Statute which requires this interest to be treated, so to speak, as a trade within a trade.	None
This is really what the Crown contend that in some way this interest which is to be brought into account as an item of receipt is to be taken out of it with some apportioned expenses appropriated to it as though it were a trade by itself.15.	None
Mr. Sastri urges that the authority of the above decision has been shaken in Mitchell and Edon v. Ross (1961)	None
40 Tax Cas 11, but we are unable to accept this contention.	None
The point urged in this case was that the authority of Fry v. Salisbury House Estate, 1930 AC 482, had been qualified by the decision in (1937) 21 Tax Cas 472, but this was negatived.16.	None
A number of Indian cases have been cited before us and we will now proceed to examine them.17.	None
The Madars High Courts decision in Commissioner of incometax, Madras v. Somasundaran Chettiar, AIR 1928 Mad 487 does not assist Mr. Sastri.	None
The assessee carried on business at Madras, where his head office was, and Ipoh a place in the Federated Malay.	None
Money was borrowed at Madras and part of it sent to Ipoh where it was used as capital in the conduct of Ipoh business.	None
The High Court held that interest on the part of the borrowed money used at Ipoh was rightly disallowed as a deduction because at business which was being taxed was the business at Madras and not the business at Ipoh.	None
No exception can be taken to the decision but it does not advance the appellants case because we are concerned with one indivisible business.18.	None
In Provident Investment Co. Ltd., In re 6 ITC 21 (AIR 1932 Bom 94), the assessee, an Indian Finance Company borrowed some money in India and purchased sterling securities out of it and retained them in India.	None
The Bombay High Court held that interest on the borrowed money could not be deducted because qua the capital which it (the company ) is using outside British India and retaining for that length of time outside British India, is not carrying on business in respect of which profits assessable to Indian Incometax can be earned so that allowance can be claimed for interest on capital borrowed within the meaning of S.10 (2) (iii) It appears to us that the Bombay High Court divided the business in two separate businesses.	None
But the business of the present assessee cannot be divided into two separate businesses.	None
It is one and indivisible.19.	None
In Chellappa Chettiar v. Commissioner of Incometax, Madras, 19375 ITR 97 (AIR 1937 Mad 393 ) the assessee carrying on business as a moneylender had borrowed money and lent it out to constituents.	None
He was obliged to receive agricultural lands in repayment of his debts from such constituents.	None
The question arose whether he was entitled to a deduction in respect of the interest paid by him on capital represented by the agricultural lands.	None
The Court following (1937) 21 Tax Cas 472, held that he was entitled notwithstanding that agricultural income was not taxable under the Incometax Act.	None
Mr. Sastri says that this was wrongly, decided and was in fact dissented from by the Rangoon High Court in C. I. T. Burma v. N. S. A. R. Concern (1938) 6 ITR 194 (AIR 1938 Rang 151).	None
Dunkley.	None
J., in the Rangoon case, distinguished (1937) 21	None
Tax Cas 472.	None
because he thought that the scheme of the Burma Incometax Act was entirely different from the scheme of the English Incometax Act 1918.	None
He observed thatin England a person is assessed to incometax in respect of his income while under the Burma Act it is the income which is taxed.	None
Under the English Act no class of income it outside the scope of the Act whereas by S. 4 (3) of the Burma Act the Act is made inapplicable to a number of classes of income.	None
The English Act merely confers certain exemptions on a person in respect of his income up to a certain amount or certain kinds, similar to the exemptions conferred on certain classes of income by the provisos to Ss. 8 and 9 at the Burma Act.	None
Then he noted the difference between the wording of S. 10 (2) (ix) of the Burma Act and the corresponding clause in the English Act.	None
But we are unable to appreciate that these differences necessitate the rejection of the principle laid down in (1937) 21 Tax Cas 472.	None
It is true that under the Indian Incometax Act it is income that is taxed but it is not taxed in vacuo.	None
It is taxed in the hands of a person.	None
In England, the Interest of taxfree securities was exempted much in the same way as in India.	None
It did not matter there who held them.	None
(1937) 21 Tax Cas 472 cannot be distinguished on the grounds mentioned by the Rangoon High Court.	None
In our judgment, 19375 ITR 97 (AIR 1937 Mad 393 ) was correctly decided.20.	None
The decision of this Court in Indore Malwa United Mills v. Commr. of Incometax, (Central) Bombay, 196245.	Reasoning
ITR 210 (SC), is distinguishable.	Reasoning
It appears to us that it was because S. 14 (2) (c) and S. 4 (1) (a) and (c) existe at the relevant time that the words profits and gains in S. 24 were limited to such profits and gains as would have been assessable in British India or the taxable territories.	Reasoning
This is apparent from the judgment and from the fol1owing observations of Das, J.,Reading the provisions in S. 24 with the provision in S. 4 (1) (a) and (c) and S. 14 (2) (e) it seems clear to us that S. 24 (1) when it talks of profits or gains has reference to taxable profits and gains in other words, it has reference to such profits and gains as would have been assessable in British India or the taxable territories.	Reasoning
It has no reference to income accruing or arising without British India or without taxable territories which were not liable to be assessed in the case of nonresidents21.	None
We cannot imply from this judgment that there is a general principle that if a part of the income of a business is taxfree, expenditure incurred for the purpose of earning this income is outside the purview of S. 10.22.	None
In the result we agree with the High Court that the answer to the question is in the affirmative.	Decision
The appeal is accordingly dismissed with costs.23.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
