 Sarkar, J. (On behalf of himself and S. K. Das and J. L. Kapur, JJ.)1.	None
This is an appeal against a judgment of the High Court of Mysore which held that the respondent was not liable to pay any octroi duty to the appellant municipality in respect of dutiable goods brought to its factory as on a proper interpretation of the appellants bylaw fixing the octroi limits, the respondents factory was outside those limits.	None
The question that arises in this appeal is one of the interpretation of that bylaw.2.	None
The appellant municipality was constituted under the Bombay District Municipal Act, 1901.	Facts
Section 4 of the Act gives power to the Government to declare any local area to be a municipal district and to extend, contract, or otherwise alter the limits of any municipal district.	Facts
Section 9 provides that there shall be a municipality for every municipal district.	Facts
Section 59 of the Act inter alia provides that a municipality may subject to certain conditions impose an octroi on animals or goods, or both brought within the octroi limits for consumption, use or sale therein.	Facts
In exercise of its powers under this section, the appellant municipality imposed an octroi duty on certain goods.	Facts
Section 48 of the Act gives a municipality power to frame bylaws for various purposes including that of fixing octroi limits.	Facts
The appellant municipality framed a bylaw under this section fixing octroi limits, in these terms The Octroi limits of the Municipal District shall be the same as the Municipal Districts.	Facts
The dispute is as to the Meaning of the words Municipal Districts in this bylaw.3.	Facts
The respondent is a company owning a factory which prior to September 3, 1959 was outside the municipal district of the appellant municipality as such district was till then constituted.	Facts
There is no dispute that the respondent has all along been bringing into its factory goods of the variety specified in the rule imposing the octroi duty for consumption and use therein but no duty was payable so long as the respondents factory was outside the municipal district and therefore also admittedly, outside the octroi limits as defined by the aforesaid bylaw.	Facts
By a notification issued on August 25, 1959, the Government of Mysore extended the municipal district of the appellant municipality with effect from September 3,1959 and as a result of this extension the respondents factory came to be included within that district.	Facts
On such extension the appellant municipality demanded octroi duty on goods brought into the respondents factory contending that the factory had thereupon come within its octroi limits as defined by the bylaw.	Facts
The respondent disputed this contention and moved the High Court of Mysore under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution for a writ of mandamus directing the appellant municipality to forbear from collecting the duty.	Facts
The High Court did not accept the appellant municipalitys contention and issued the writ.4.	Facts
The question is whether upon the extension of the municipal district the factory came within the octroi limits as defined by the bylaw.	Issue
The appellant municipality says it did and for these reasons The expression municipal district has not been defined in the bylaws and therefore the definition of that expression in S. 3 (5) of the Act would by virtue of S. 20 of the Bombay General Clauses Act, 1904 apply in interpreting the by law.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under subsec.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5) of S. 3 of the Act a municipal district means the municipal district of a municipality for the time being and, hence the octroi limits prescribed by the bylaw would be the municipal district of the appellant municipality as constituted from time to time.	Arguments of Petitioner
Upon the extension of the appellant municipalitys municipal district, therefore, its octroi limit would stand extended and the factory would admittedly be within the extended limits.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to accede to this contention.	Reasoning
It is based on S. 20 of the General Clauses Act.	Reasoning
Now under that section, expressions used in bylaws are to have the same meaning as they have in the Act unless there is anything repugnant in the context.	Reasoning
If there is any such repugnancy, the definition in the Act cannot be resorted to for interpreting a bylaw.	Reasoning
It seems to us that there is such repugnancy in the present case and this we now proceed to show.6.	Reasoning
As we have earlier said, a bylaw is made under S. 48.	None
That section provides that a bylaw can be made only with the sanction of the Government.	None
Subsection (2) of that section requires thatEvery Municipality shall, before making any bylaw under this section, publishfor the information of the persons likely to be affected thereby, a draft of the proposed bylaw.	None
There are provisions enabling persons to make objection to, of suggestions regarding, a proposed bylaw and for these being considered by the municipality before it makes the bylaw and thereafter by the Government before it gives its sanction.	None
It is, therefore, not open to much doubt that a bylaw made without the previous publication of its draft to the persons mentioned would be an invalid bylaw.	None
Now who are these persons?	None
They must be persons likely to be affected thereby, that is, by the bylaw, they must be persons whom the bylaw when made is likely to affect by its own terms.	None
Since however anyone can send goods to places within the octroi limits, all the world may in a sense be said to be affected by a bylaw fixing those limits.	None
If all such persons were contemplated by S. 48 (2), then a bylaw fixing octroi limits to be valid, would have to be published to all the world.	None
This would be an impossibility and was clearly not intended.	None
Quite obviously publication to persons residing outside the municipal district as constituted when the bylaw was made or who were not the rate payers of the municipality was not contemplated.	None
The present bylaw must therefore have been made without publication to such persons.	None
It is not said that the respondent was not one of them.7.	None
Now suppose the appellant municipalitys contention was right.	None
Then the bylaw would now bring within the octroilimits of the appellant municipality the respondents factory and some other premises though the bylaw had not been published to the respondent or the owners of those premises.	None
The respondent and all other such persons would then be affected by the bylaw though the bylaw had not been published to them before it was made.	None
Such a bylaw would be invalid under the Act.	None
It would be invalid from the beginning and not only on the extension of the municipal district for it would be a bylaw not made in compliance with the provisions of S. 48 and therefore not a bylaw validly made.8.	None
But then it may be said that when made, the bylaw did not affect any one to whom it had not been published and therefore it had been validly made.	None
This argument seems to us to proceed on a misconception.	None
The bylaw would still be invalid as contingently affecting persons to whom it had never been published, namely, those who resided outside the municipal district as constituted when the bylaw was made, the contingency being the extension of the municipal district.	None
Those persons would be contingently affected by the bylaw itself because the limits mentioned in it were capable of being extended to include them.	None
They are so affected because the bylaw itself providedThat the limits fixed by it would in a certain contingency stand extended.9.	None
We, therefore, think that the expression municipal district in the bylaw must be understood as referring to the municipal district as existing when the bylaw was framed.	Reasoning
The context would prevent the definition in the Act being applied to interpret the bylaw.	Reasoning
The bylaw cannot, therefore, refer to the municipal district as from time to time existing.	Reasoning
Now it is not in dispute that if the octroi limits fixed by the bylaw are so understood then the respondents factory has all along been outside those limits and the respondent cannot be made liable to pay octroi duty.	Reasoning
It makes no difference that its factory is now within the municipal district of the appellant municipality for it is still outside its octroi limits.10.	Reasoning
It was said that if the view that we have taken is right, then no bylaw can ever affect people to whom it had not been published before it was made, and if this is so, then on the extension of a municipal district, all the existing bylaws would have to be remade for the added area for they could not affect the people there as to them, exhypothesi, the bylaws had not been published before they had been made.	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended that such a result could not have been intended by the Act and, therefore, the view that we have taken is erroneous.11.	Arguments of Respondent
As regards this argument, we first observe that nothing has been brought to our notice from which it can be gathered that it was not the intention of the legislature that on the extension of the municipal district the bylaws have not to be reenacted.	Reasoning
If that was not the intention of the legislature, then of course the entire foundation of the present argument would fail and it would require no further discussion.	Reasoning
Let us however assume that it was intended that the existing bylaws would apply to the added areas without fresh reenactment.	Reasoning
If such was the intention, that intention must necessarily be referable to some provision in the Act.	Reasoning
In such a case it would be because of that provision of the Act that the bylaws would be affecting people to whom they had not before their making been published and not by their own terms or force.	Reasoning
From what we have said it does not follow that a bylaw cannot under some provision in the Act other than S. 48 affect people to whom it had not been published before it was made.	Reasoning
All that we have said is that a bylaw cannot be made under S. 48 so as to affect people by its own terms or force unless to them it had been previously published.12.	None
We are concerned only with the initial validity of a bylaw for interpreting the meaning of the words used in it.	None
The argument for the appellant contemplates a situation where an existing valid bylaw is by an independent statutory provision made to affect people to whom it had not been published before it was made.	None
With such a situation we are not concerned.	None
We are unable to agree that if some provision of the Act exists which makes a valid bylaw applicable to the newly added areas of a municipality and to the residents there, though to them the bylaw might not have been published before it was made, it would follow that a bylaw could be validly made under the Act without previous publication to persons likely to be affected thereby.	None
We repeat that if it cannot be so made, the present bylaw cannot be read as including within the octroi limits the municipal district as extended from time to time.	None
To do that would be to give it a meaning against its context and this, the General Clauses Act does not warrant.13.	None
It was contended on behalf of the appellant that since at the time the municipal district was extended an opportunity had been given to the respondent to object, it could not now take any exception to the imposition of the octroi duty on the ground that it had no opportunity to object to the rule levying the duty or the bylaw fixing octroi limits when these were made.	Arguments of Petitioner
All this seems to us to be to no purpose.	None
The respondent is not basing its objection to pay the octroi duty on this ground.	Reasoning
All that it says is that it is not liable as its factory is not within the octroi limits.	Reasoning
It raises a question of interpretation of the bylaw.	Reasoning
The fact that the respondent could have objected to the extension of the municipal district is wholly irrelevant in interpreting the bylaw fixing the octroi limits and the only question in this case is of such interpretation.	Reasoning
We may add that if a bylaw is invalid because it had not been published to persons likely to be affected by it, it would not become valid when the municipal district of the municipality concerned was extended on notice to everyone entitled to object to the extension.14.	Reasoning
Then it was said that the bylaw could not be amended for it could only be put in the same term in which it stands now as it is intended to put the entire municipal district within the octroi limit.	Arguments of Respondent
The fallacy in this argument seems to us to be that even if a bylaw was framed in identical words now, the content of it would be different, the municipal district contemplated by the new bylaw would be different from that contemplated by earlier one.	None
Therefore, in substance, the bylaw would be a changed one in spite o the identity of its form.	Reasoning
It would be different in effect.15.	Reasoning
In the view that we have taken we think it unnecessary to pronounce upon the contention of the respondent that the definition in S. 3 (5) of the Act did not contemplate a municipal district as from time to time constituted.16.	Reasoning
The appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.	None
Raghubar Dayal, J.(On behalf of himself and Hidayatullah, J.)17.	None
We are of opinion that this appeal should be allowed.18.	None
Section 59 (1) (b) (iv) of the Bombay District Municipal Act, 1901 (Bom. Act III of 1901), hereinafter called the Act, authorises any Municipality to impose as octroi on animals or goods, or both, brought within the octroi limits for consumption, use or sale therein.	Facts
The Bagalkot Municipality imposed this tax and provided, under bylaw No. 3 framed by it in the exercise of powers conferred under S. 48 (1) (j), that the octroi limits of the Municipal District shall be the same as the Municipal District.	None
This bylaw was framed prior to the extension of the limits of the Bagalkot Municipal District, over which the Bagalkot Municipality had jurisdiction.	None
The necessary declaration extending the aforesaid limits was made by the State Government under S. 4 of the Act on August 25, 1959.19.	None
After the extension of the limits of the Municipal District, the factory run by the respondent company came within the limits of the Municipal District in which the Bagalkot municipality exercises control.	None
The Municipality did not frame any new bylaw fixing afresh the octroi limits of the Municipal District.	None
It however demanded octroi duty from the respondent company on the goods which were brought to the factory.	None
The respondent company objected to the demand on the ground that the factory to which the goods were brought was beyond the octroi limits fixed under the bylaw framed by the Municipality and that the goods on which octroi was demanded were not brought within the octroi limits.	None
It contended that, in the absence of the framing of any fresh bylaw fixing such octroi limits as would include the factory within them, the Municipality could not claim octroi duty on the goods entering the factory.	None
This contention found favour with the High Court which issued a mandamus to the Municipality to for bear from collecting any octroi in respect of goods delivered by the railway administration at the factory premises and also directed the company to pay octroi on the goods carried by road at the point of entry and to get a refund of the octroi at the point where the goods left the octroi limits.	None
Directions were also issued to the Municipality for such refund.20.	None
The Municipality has appealed against the order of the High Court.	None
It is contended on its behalf that the octroi limits fixed under the bylaw framed by the Municipality extend up to the limits of the Municipal District as extended by the Government declaration of August 25, 1959 and that there was no necessity for framing any fresh bylaw fixing new octroi limits.21.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have to determine the extent of the octroi limits of the Municipality as fixed under bylaw No. 3 (1) which readsThe octroi limits of the Municipal District shall be the same as the Municipal District.	Facts
The octroi limits fixed were conterminous with the limits of the Municipal District whatever they may be from time to time.	None
If the limits of the Municipal District were extended, the octroi limits would be the extended limits of the Municipal District, and, if the limits of the Municipal District were contracted, the octroi limits would be similarly contracted.22.	None
Section 3 (5) defines municipal district to mean any local area which is at present a municipal district, and any local area which may, hereafter, be constituted a municipal district under Section 4, if such municipal district has not ceased to exist under the provisions of the said section.	None
Section 4 empowers the State Government, subject to the provisions of Ss. 6, 7 and 8, to extend, contract or otherwise alter the limits of any municipal district from time to time.	Facts
It is clear thereforeand there is nothing in the section to indicate to the contrarythat subsequent to the extension, contraction or alteration of the limits there does not come into existence a new municipal district.	None
The erstwhile municipal district continues with this modification that its area is either extended or reduced or its limits are altered.	None
Subsections (2) and (3) provide, inter alia, for the setting forth clearly of the local limits included or excluded from existing municipal districts by notification and for erection and maintenance of boundary marks defining the altered limits of the municipal district.	None
The municipal district, as defined in S. 3 (5) of the Act, therefore means the local area within its limits as fixed for the time being.23.	None
In view of S. 20 of the Bombay General Clauses Act, the expression Municipal district in the bylaw will have the same meaning as that expression has in the Act, unless there be anything repugnant in the subject or context.	Arguments of Petitioner
We do not find any such repugnancy in the context of the bylaw which would make the definition of the municiple district in the Act not applicable to the expression municipal district in octroi bylaw No. 3.24.	None
The octroi duty is, by nature, a duty which is realised on goods entering certain limits over which the municipality charging the octroi has control.	Facts
There is no reason why octroi duty, which is levied solely for the purpose of raising funds, and not to afford protection to trade in any particular area, be not charged from the same goods entering a certain part of the municipality, that is to say, there is no good reason why the limits within which goods on entry from beyond should pay octroi duty be different from the limits of the municipal district over which the municipality has control.	Facts
The question then arises why cl.	None
(iv) of subs.	None
(1) (b) of S. 59 uses the expression octroi limits instead of municipal district, an expression which is used with reference to some other taxes which the municipality can impose.	None
The answer is found in the provisions of Ss. 39 and 81 of the Act.25.	None
Clause (b) of S. 39 empowers a municipality to enter into an agreement with another municipality, cantonment authority, local board, panchayat or committee appointed for an area under Chapter XIV regarding levy of octroi duty whereby the octroi duties respectively leviable by the contracting bodies may be levied together, instead of separately, within the limits of the area, subject to the control of the said bodies.	None
Section 81 authorises any one of the contracting bodies to establish such octroi limits and octroi stations as may be deemed necessary for the entire area in which the octroi is to be collected.	None
The limits of any such two contracting parties will not be common throughout and will not be identical with the limits of either of the municipal district and therefore it would be necessary for the municipality, which is to collect octroi duties under the agreement, to fix the octroi limits for the entire area for the purpose of collecting octroi duties.26.	None
Subsection (2) of S. 77 provides for penalty for the evasion of octroi in cases of goods liable to the payment of octroi and passing into a municipal district without payment of such octroi.	None
It is noticeable that it does not use the expression passing into the octroi limits of a municipal district, but uses the expression passing into a municipal districts.27.	None
The use of the expression octroi limits in cl.	None
(iv) of S. 59 (1) (b) therefore need not lead to the conclusion that a municipality can pick and choose between its parts and exempt any part of it from the levy of octroi duty.	None
It follows therefore that ordinarily octroi duty must be imposed on all goods entering the limits of the municipal district controlled by the municipality.	None
This is what bylaw No. 3 framed by the appellant Municipality provides for.28.	None
It is contended for the respondent that the Municipality cannot make a bylaw fixing such octroi limits as vary from time to time.	None
We see no good reason why it cannot do so.	None
Further, the bylaw No. 3 (1) fixed the limits of the municipal district to be the octroi limits.	Facts
These are definite limits and vary only when an alteration is made by the Government in the limits of the municipal district and then too, on account of the content of the expression municipal district.	None
The definition of municipal district will be read into the definition of octroi limits as required by the General Clauses Act and they will vary with that definition.29.	Arguments of Petitioner
The municipality does not exceed its jurisdiction to framed the bylaw fixing the octroi limits to vary from time to time according to the limits of the municipal district.	Facts
No question of extending is jurisdiction arises in case the limits of the municipal district are contracted.	None
No question of exceeding its jurisdiction arises if the limits are extended, as at the time the bylaw would be applicable to the extended limits the municipality will have jurisdiction to make a bylaw applicable for that area.	None
If it frames a bylaw in such a way as to be immediately effective in the area newly added to its limits, it cannot be said to be exceeding its jurisdiction.	None
Just as the Act contemplates the extension of the municipal district and the application of its various provisions therein, the bylaws made applicable within the area of the municipal district will be applicable to the extended area the moment any fresh area is added to the municipal district.30.	None
We do not find anything in the Act or rules which disables the municipality to fix the octroi limits in this way, or, in other words, which makes it incumbent on the Municipality to fix the octroi limits as frequently as the area of the municipal district is altered by a notification of the Government under S. 4.31.	None
There is nothing in the Act that the bylaws duly framed by a municipality become null and void and ineffective when the limits of the municipal district for which the were framed are extended.	None
Such is not the contention for the respondent either.	None
It is not contended that those bylaws do not continue to be in force within the old limits of the municipal district.	None
What is contended by the respondent is that they cannot apply to the new area added to the old municipal district, until the requisite procedure laid down for the framing of the bylaws under subSs.	None
(2) and (3) of S. 48 has been followed, as, otherwise, the persons residing in the newly added area would have no occasion to object to the bylaws which are sought to be made applicable to them.	None
These subsections are(2)	None
Every Municipality shall, before making any bylaws under this section, publish in such manner as shall in their opinion be sufficient, for the information of the persons likely to be affected thereby, a draft of the proposed bylaws, together with a notice specifying a date on or after which the draft will be taken into consideration, and shall, before making the bylaws receive and consider any objection or suggestion with respect to the draft which may be made in writing by any person before the date so specified.(3)	None
When any bylaws made by a Municipality is submitted to the Central Government, State Government or Commissioner for sanction, a copy of the notice published as aforesaid, and of every objection or suggestion so made, shall be submitted for the information of the Central Government, State Government or Commissioner along with the said bylaw32.	None
The respondents contention is met for the appellant by reference to S. 8 of the Act which affords an opportunity to the persons who entertain any objection to the proposal for including the proposed area in the existing municipal district to file objections with reasons therefor within the specified period.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged for the respondent that no objection with respect to any particular bylaw or rule can be made at the time when the Government notifies objections against the proposal to extend the limits of the municipal district.	None
There is nothing to bar such an objection.	None
The objector can say that he would not like that area to be included in the municipality as it would make him and others liable to certain taxes which, in the circumstances prevailing in that area, would not be right and would be prejudicial to the residents of that area.	None
This is the view taken by this Court in Rajnarain Singh v. Chairman, Patna Administration Committee, Patna 19551	None
SCR 290 (AIR 1954 SC 569 ).33.	None
In that case, a certain local area was included within Patna City by notification issued by the local Government under S. 6 of the Patna Administration Act, 1915 (Bihar and Orissa Act I of 1915).	None
There was no provision in that Act for the local Government notifying any objections from the residents of the area to the included within Patna against the proposal for such inclusion.	None
The validity of the notification was not questioned in that case.	None
Shortly after the inclusion of the area within Patna, the local Government issued a notification under S. 3 (1) (f), on April 23, 1951, extending to Patna the provisions of S. 104 of the Bihar and Orissa Municipal Act, 1922, with some modifications and thereby made the residents of the newly added area subject to certain taxes.	None
That notification was held to be bad because the local Government had brought about a change of policy by the modification made.	None
It was said at p. 301 (of SCR) (at p. 574 of AIR)In our opinion, the majority, view was that an executive authority can be authorised to modify either existing or future laws but not in any essential feature.	None
Exactly what constitutes an essential feature cannot be enunciated in general terms, and there was some divergence of view about this in the former case, but this much is clear from the opinions set out above it cannot include a change of policy.	None
Now coming back to the notification of 23rd April 1951.	None
Its vires was challenged on many grounds but it is enough for the purposes of this case to hold that the action of the Governor in subjecting the residents of the Patna Village area to municipal taxation without observing the formalities imposed by Sections 4, 5 and 6 of the Bihar and Orissa Municipal Act of 1922, cuts across one of its essential features touching a matter of policy and so is bad.	None
It was further observed at p. 303	None
The notification of 23rd April, 1951, does, in our opinion, effect a radical change in the policy of the Act.	None
Therefore it travels beyond the authority which, in our judgment, Section 3 (1) (f) confers and consequently it is ultra vires34.	None
The change in policy was in the sense that the scheme of the Bihar and Orissa Municipal Act, 1922, was that the people would not be made subject to the liability of municipal taxation without being afforded an opportunity to object against such a proposal.	None
The provisions of the 1922 Act referred to as guaranteeing this right to the people were stated to be Ss. 4, 5 and 6 of that Act.	None
Section 4 empowers the State Government to declare its intention to constitute or alter the limits of the municipality.	Facts
Section 5 provides for taking into consideration objections submitted within the specified time after the aforesaid declaration and S. 6 empowers the State Government by notification to constitute the municipality and to extend to it all or any of the provisions of that Act or to govern any local area in the municipality.35.	None
It follows that under the present Act persons residing in an area to be included in the municipal district could file objections to the proposed inclusion of the area to the Municipal district on the ground that certain bylaws imposing taxes will affect them adversely.36.	None
Further, subS. (2) of S. 48 of the Act provides the publication of the bylaws proposed to be made for the information of the persons likely to be affected thereby.	None
The persons to be affected by the bylaws fixing octroi limits are not only the inhabitants of the municipality, but include persons who bring goods into the municipality for consumption, use or sale therein.	None
In fact it is such persons who are the first to be affected by the levy of the octroi duty.	None
They will have to pay it first.	None
They may pass it on to the purchasers subsequently.	None
It is to be presumed that the publication made at the time of the making of the bylaws fixing the octroi limits must have been such as had given notice to the persons other than the residents within the municipality.	None
Such persons could file objections against the proposed bylaws.	None
It follows therefore that the residents of the area subsequently added to a municipality, an area which is bound to be adjacent to the original area, cannot effectively contend that they had no opportunity of objecting to the making of the bylaws.37.	None
Further, the provisions of these subsections can have reference only to the occasion when bylaws are to be framed or amended and can have no effect on the question of the applicability of the bylaws to the newly added area of the municipal district.	None
In the absence of any express provision in the Act to the effect that no rule or bylaws shall be applicable to the newly added area till it is freshly enacted after following the regular procedure, we are not prepared to accept this contention, as its acceptance would mean that the municipality becomes liable for discharging its functions under the Act with respect to matters it has to deal within that area and would be deprived of the necessary powers which it possesses for enabling it to discharge those functions properly till it has reenacted all the old bylaws.38.	None
Section 59 of the Act refers to the imposition of taxes, naturally, for the purpose of obtaining funds to meet the municipalitys obligations within the district under its authority.	None
Residents within an area of the Municipal district cannot therefore avoid the liability to pay a tax merely on the ground that when that tax was imposed the area in which they reside was not included within the municipal district.	None
The Legislature could not have intended the exemption of such persons from payment of the tax when it provided for the extension of the limits of a municipal district but did not expressly provided for the applicability of the rules and bylaws then in force to the newly added area or for the liability of the residents of the newly added area to the taxes then in force within the municipal district and for the reimposition of such taxes and the remaking of such rules and bylaws in accordance with the prescribed procedure.39.	None
We are of opinion that the extension of the limits of the municipal district connotes that the area newly added to the municipal district comes not only under the control of the municipality, but also becomes subject to such laws, rules and bylaws which be in force within the municipal district.40.	None
Lastly, reference may be made to S. 191B in Chapter XIVA.	None
It provides inter alia that when any local area is added to a municipal district, the State Government, may, notwithstanding anything contained in the Act or any other law for the time being in force, by order published in the official gazette, provide for the extension and commencement of all or any taxes, rules, bylaws or forms made, issued, imposed or granted under the Act by any existing municipality and in force within its area immediately before the day from which the local area was included to the municipal district, to and in all or any of the other areas of the successor district municipality, in suppression of corresponding taxes, rules, bylaws, if any, in force in such other areas immediately before the aforesaid day, until the matters so extended and brought into force are further superseded or modified under the Act.41.	None
No order under this provision seems to have been issued by the State Government.	None
The provision, however, indicates that the compliance of the procedural provisions mentioned in subs.	None
(2) of S. 48 of the Act is not a necessary condition for the existing bylaws of a municipality to apply to the areas included in it at a later time.	None
If such an order is issued by the Government, that clarifies the position.	None
Its enactment, however, does not mean that in the absence of such an order, all the matters mentioned in cl.	None
(x) of subs.	None
(1) of S. 191B will not be effective in the area included in a municipal district under a notification under S. 4 of the Act.42.	None
We hold that the octroi limits fixed under bylaws No. 3 include the area newly added to the municipal district by the notification of August 25, 1959 and that, consequently, the respondent company was liable to pay octroi duty on the goods entering its premises.	None
We would therefore allow this appeal with costs, set aside the order of the Court below and dismiss the writ petition of the respondent.	None
ORDER43.	None
By the Court In accordance with the opinion of the majority, this appeal is dismissed with costs.44.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
