Rama Pal, J. The appellant is a Government company within the meaning of Section 617 of the Companies Act.	Issue
It carries on construction activities at various sites throughout the country and abroad.	Issue
The respondentUnion represents the cause of 168 muster roll employees.	Issue
The respondents were working at the bridge construction unit of the appellant at Kanpur in various capacities.	Issue
The terms and conditions of employees of the appellant are governed by Standing Orders Certified under the U.P. Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946, clause L2.12 of which reads Any workman who remains absent from duty without leave or in excess of the period of leave originally sanctioned or subsequently extended for more than 10 consecutive extended for more than 10 consecutive days, shall be deemed to have left the services of the corporation on his own accord, without notice, thereby terminating his contract of service with the corporation and his home will accordingly be struck of the rolls.	Facts
From 12th October 1995 the respondentsworkmen did not attend their jobs.	Facts
On 18th October 1995 the appellant issued an order which is quoted Some of the workmen working at Betwa Bridge, Arichghat, Jhansi are absenting from duty since 12.10.1995.	Facts
Direction for smooth functioning of the work in the interest of the Corporation has already been given vide this Office Notice No. 1102/1E/126 dated 16.10.1995 to such workmen.	Facts
In the light of the aforesaid, it is made clear that such of the workmen who do not present themselves for duty and do not perform work or discharge their duty, then in accordance with the provision contained in Clause L02.12 of the Certified Standing Order of the U.P. State Bridge Corporation Ltd. such of the workmen, who are continuously absent for more than 10 days, in respect of them, it shall be presumed that they have left the services of the Corporation without any notice and thus, their contract of service with the Corporation has come to an end and accordingly their names from the muster roll shall be removed action shall be taken in the interest of the Corporation.	Facts
On 22nd December 1995 as amended on 28th December 1995 a similar notice was published in a Hindi Newspaper which also stated that if the workmen whose names were appended to the notice did not report for duty within a period of three days from the date of the publication of the notice, it would be presumed that they had abandoned their services which the Corporation without notice and their contract of service would come to an end and their names would be removed from the muster roll.	Facts
According to the appellant despite the repeated notices the workmen continued to absent themselves and ultimately on 19th January 1996 an order was issued putting an end to the services of 168 workmen on the presumption that they had abandoned their services with the Corporation on their own.4.	Facts
On 9th May, 1996, one of the workmen whose services were so terminated, namely Anand Prakash filed a writ petition in the High Court before the Lucknow Bench challenging the order of termination.	Facts
The writ petition was dismissed on the ground that the workman could raise an industrial dispute if he so desired.	Facts
A second writ petition was filed by the respondentUnion in the High Court at Allahabad.	Facts
This writ petition was allowed by orders which now are the subject matter of challenge before us.	None
The learned Single Judge rejected the preliminary objections raised by the appellant that the writ petition was not maintainable, interalia, on the grounds that the Corporation was not a State within the meaning of Article 12 and that an unregistered Union did not have the locus to represent the workmens cause.	Facts
It is not necessary to consider the reasoning of the learned Single Judge as neither of these points were raised before us by the appellant.	Facts
On the question of the alternative remedy which was available to the workmen under the Industrial Disputes Act, the learned Single Judge was of the view that the case did not involved any investigation into nor determination of disputed questions of fact and that since the writ petition was moved in 1995 and a long time had lapsed the Court was justified in exercising its discretion under Article 226 to entertain and dispose of the dispute.	Facts
It was also held that although in Anand Prakashs case, the writ petition raising the same issue had been dismissed, the second writ petition challenging the same order was not barred by the principle of resjudicata particularly when no decision had been taken by the Court while dismissing Anand Prakashs writ petition.	Facts
On the other hand although the order in Anand Prakash should not be affected in these proceedings, nevertheless, the Learned Judge held, since the decision of the High Court in the second writ petition would be binding, it would be an infructuous exercise and mere formality if Anand Prakash were driven to a Labour Court causing him to suffer unnecessary agony.	None
On the merits, the learned Single Judge came to the conclusion that the word absence did not by self mean abandonment of service and when an employee went on strike it was not the intention to abandon service.	None
It was said that Resorting to strike is neither misuse of leave nor over staying of leave.	Facts
Standing order does not provide for any provision as to how the question of strike is to be dealt with.	Facts
It was further said that the strike was not illegal as no notice was required to be given to the respondent under Section 22 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.	Facts
It was also held that in any eventwhether a strike was illegal or legal  it did not amount to abandonment of service justifying action under L2.12.	Facts
At the highest, it would be an action of misconduct for which a punishment was provided under the Standing Orders after an inquiry.	Facts
As there was admittedly no inquiry before the services of the workmen were terminated, therefore, the impugned order of termination was also held to have been passed in violation of principles of natural justice.	Facts
Finally, it was held that the order was also bad because it did not specify the period during which the workmen were supposed to be absent and, therefore, the order was not an order within the meaning of clause L2.12 and could not be sustained.	Facts
The order terminating their services was accordingly quashed and it was directed that the workmen including the said Anand Prakash, would be deemed to be in service and be treated as on continuous service with all notional service benefits, except however, that they would not be entitled to any payment of arrears for the period during which they did not work actually, Except that each of them would be entitled to a compensation for the whole period assessed at Rs. 5,000/ each.	Facts
The appellants appeal was rejected by the Division Bench.	None
The Division Bench has given brief reasons for upholding the decision of the learned Single Judge.	Facts
In addition, note was taken of the appellants submission that the project being completed, there was no question of appointing the respondents in any other project.	Facts
This submission was however rejected on the ground that there was no specific pleading to this effect and no details had been given of the project nor of the employees engaged therein nor were the appointment letters of the respondents produced.	Facts
An interim order granted by this Court on the special leave petitions filed by the appellants directing maintenance of status quo has been continuing since 3rd March 2003.	None
The appellants have submitted that the High Court should not have entertained the writ petition at all not only because disputed questions of fact were involved but also because the High Court had acted contrary to its previous decision in Anand Prakashs case.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the reasons given by the High Court for entertaining the writ petition by exercising discretion under Article 226 were wrong and that the matter should have been left for decision by the fora provided under the Industrial Dispute Act, 1947.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the merits, it is submitted that clause L2.12 of the Standing Orders had been properly invoked because the workmen had in fact unauthorisedly absented themselves without any reason.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the appellants, it could not also be said that the workmen were on strike because they had not given any notice of strike as was mandatorily required under the U.P. Industrial Act, 1947.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondentUnion contended that the notice published in the newspaper was invalid as it did not comply with clause L2.12 of the Standing Orders.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also submitted that on the basis of the decisions of this Court reported in	Arguments of Respondent
Express Newspapers (P) Ltd.	Arguments of Respondent
V. Michael Mark and Another, 1963 (3) SCR 405 and G.T. Lad and Others V. Chemical and Fibres of India Ltd. 1979 (1) SCC 590 that even if the strike was illegal it could not be deemed to be an abandonment of services.	Arguments of Respondent
It is stated that U.P. Industrial Dispute Act (UPIDA) specifically provided for punishment for an employee going on an illegal strike.	Arguments of Respondent
This was on the basis that the workmen continued in duty and that action could be taken in the case of such abstention from work against the workman but only after holding a proper inquiry.	Arguments of Respondent
On the issue whether the High Court should have entertained the writ petition, it is submitted that the respondent should not be relegated to its remedies under the UPIDA as the matter had been pending before the High Court for several years.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted that the appellant was a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution and was answerable to Court for any arbitrary action.	Arguments of Respondent
The Certified Standing Orders, according to the respondent, had statutory force and therefore Article 226 was properly invoked.	Arguments of Respondent
We are of the firm opinion that the High Court erred in entertaining the writ petition of the respondentUnion at all.	None
The dispute was an industrial dispute both within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 as well the UPIDA, 1947.	None
The rights and obligations sought to be enforced by the respondentUnion in the writ petition are those created by the Industrial Disputes Act.	None
In The Premier Automobiles Ltd. V. Kemlekar Shantaram Wadke 1976 (1) SCC 496 , it was held that when the dispute relates to the enforcement of a right or an obligation created under the Act, then the only remedy available to the claimant is to get adjudication under the Act.	None
This was because the Industrial Disputes Act was made to provide a speedy, inexpensive and effective forum for resolution of disputes arising between workmen and their employers.	None
the idea has been to ensure that the workmen do not get caught in the labyrinth of civil courts with their layers upon layers of appeals and revisions and the elaborate procedural laws, which the workmen can ill afford.	None
The procedure followed by civil courts, it was thought, would not facilitate a prompt and effective disposal of these disputes.	None
As against this, the courts and tribunals created by the Industrial Disputes Act are not shackled by these procedural laws nor is their award subject to any appeals or revisions.	None
Because of their informality, the workmen and their representatives can themselves prosecute or defend their cases.	None
These forums are empowered to grant such relief as they think just and appropriate.	None
They can even substitute the punishment in many cases.	None
They can make and remake the contracts, settlement, wage structures and what not.	None
Their awards are no doubt amenable to jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 as also to the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 32, but they are extraordinary remedies subject to several selfimposed constraints.	None
It is, therefore, always in the interest of the workmen that disputes concerning them are adjudicated in the forums created by the Act and not in a civil court.	None
That is the entire policy underlying the vast array of enactments concerning workmen.	None
This legislative policy and intendment should necessarily weigh with the courts in interpreting these enactments and the disputes arising under them.	None
Although these observations were made in the context of the jurisdiction of the Civil Court to certain the proceedings relating to an industrial dispute and may not be read as a limitation on the Courts powers under Article 226, nevertheless it would need a very strong case indeed for the High Court to deviate from the principle that where a specific remedy is given by the statute, the person who insists upon such remedy can avail of the process as provided in that statute and in no other manner.	None
There is another aspect of the matter.	None
Certified Standing Orders have been held to constitute statutory terms and conditions of service  D.K.	None
Yadav V. J.M.A. Industries 1993 (3) SCC 259.	None
Although this statement of the law was doubted in Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation and Another V. Krishna Kant and Others 1995 (5) SCC 75 , it was not deviated from.	None
It was however made clear that Certified Standing Orders do not constitute Statutory Provisions in the sense that dismissal or removal of an employee in contravention of the Certified Standing Orders would be a contravention of statutory provisions enabling the workman to file a writ petition for their enforcement.	None
This is what was said by this Court in Rajasthan Transport Corporation (supra)Indeed, if it is held that certified Standing Orders constitute statutory provisions or have statutory force, a writ petition would also lie for their enforcement just as in the case of violation of the Rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution.	None
Neither a suit would be necessary nor a reference under Industrial Disputes Act.	None
We do not think the certified Standing Orders can be elevated to that status.	None
It is one thing to say that they are statutorily imposed conditions of service and an altogether different thing to say that they constitute statutory provisions themselves.	None
Finally, it is an established practice that the Court exercising extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 should have refused to do so where there are disputed questions of fact.	None
In the present case, the nature of the employment of the workmen was in dispute.	Reasoning
According to the appellant, the workmen had been appointed in connection with a particular project and there was no question of absorbing them or their continuing in service once the project was completed.	Reasoning
Admittedly, when the matter was pending before the High Court, there were 29 such projects under execution or awarded.	Reasoning
Accordingly to the respondentworkmen, they were appointed as regular employees and they cited orders by which some of them were transferred to various projects at various places.	Reasoning
In answer to this the appellants said that although the appellant corporation tried to accommodate as many daily wagers as they could in any new project, they were always under compulsion to engage local people of the locality where work was awarded.	Reasoning
There was as such no question of transfer of any workman from one project to another.	Reasoning
This was an issue which should have been resolved on the basis of evidence led.	Reasoning
The Division Bench erred in rejecting the appellants submission summarily as also in placing the onus on the appellant to produce the appointment letters of the respondentworkmen.	Reasoning
There was also a dispute as to the nature of the absence of the respondentworkmen.	None
Correspondence said to have been exchanged between the parties with regard to the demands raised by the respondentUnion has been relied upon by the respondent in support of the submission that the absence was really on account of a strike.	Reasoning
It is also submitted that the correspondence indicated that notice of the strike had been given.	Reasoning
To counter the statement made in the writ petition by the respondent that the workmen were on strike, the appellants had said that no notice of strike had been given and, therefore, the strike, if any, was illegal.	Reasoning
Significantly, the High Court has not relied upon the correspondence nor has it come to any decision on the question whether the strike was illegal or legal.	Reasoning
In fact the High Court has proceeded on the basis that it was the accepted case that there was no notice given by the workmen that they were on strike.	Reasoning
It cannot, therefore, be said, without more, that the absence of respondentworkmen from work was because they were on strike.16.	Reasoning
The High Court incorrectly applied the provisions of Section 22 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 to hold that no notice of strike was necessary.	Reasoning
It is conceded by the respondent that the operative Act was the UPIDA which differs materially, in this connection, with the Industrial Disputes Act.	Reasoning
Under Section 22 of the Industrial Disputes Act, a notice of strike is required to be given, as held by the High Court, only in the case of any public utility service and the appellant corporation is not a public utility service.	Reasoning
However, under Section 65 of the UPIDA the notice of strike is required to be given in respect of an industrial establishment.	Reasoning
It is not argued on behalf of the respondent that the appellantCorporation is not an industrial establishment.	Reasoning
Whatever the legal consequences of not giving of such notice may be, it cannot be said in the circumstances that the employees were admittedly on strike as a matter of fact.	Reasoning
The only reason given by the High Court to finally dispose of the issues in its writ jurisdiction which appears to be sustainable, is the factor of delay, on the part of the High Court in disposing of the dispute.	None
Doubtless the issue of alternative remedy should be raised and decided at the earliest opportunity so that a litigant is not prejudiced by the action of the Court since the objection is one in the nature of a demurer.	None
Nevertheless even when there has been such a delay where the issue raised requires the resolution of factual controversies, the High Court should not, even when there is a delay, shortcircuit the process for effectively determining the facts.	None
Indeed the factual controversies which have arisen in this case remain unresolved.	None
They must be resolved in a manner which is just and fair to both the parties.	None
The High Court was not the appropriate forum for the enforcement of the right and the learned Single Judge in Anand Prakashs case had correctly refused to entertain the writ petition for such relief.	None
Apart from this, there is an additional reason why the judgment of the High Court cannot be sustained on the ground of alternative remedy.	None
When it was drawn to the attention of the High Court that a previous writ petition raising the same issue had been dismissed on the ground of the existence of an adequate alternative remedy, the High Court should not have continued to dispose of the matter itself under Article 226 and in effect set aside the decision in the previous writ petition.	Reasoning
It was argued before us by the respondentUnion that the notice issued by the appellantCorporation to the workmen to rejoin duties did not sufficient comply with the principle of natural justice and that individual notices were required to be given to each of the workmen.	None
The submission was not raised by the respondent at any stage.	None
Besides, whether the notice by advertisement was sufficient information for the purposes of compliance with the requirements of natural justice is again a question of fact the foundation of which should be pleaded and sufficiently proved.	None
The constitutional validity of CSO L2.12 has not been questioned by the respondent.	None
The respondent has contended that the illegal strike cannot amount to abandonment of service for the purpose of Clause L2.12 of the Standing Orders (CSO).	None
But was there a strike at all?	None
Or was it mass absenteeism unconnected with the terms and conditions of service?	None
Besides the submission that a person on illegal strike does not abandon his job is erroneous.	None
An illegal strike cannot by definition be authorised absence.	None
It would be contradiction in terms.	None
We may also draw support from Section 25B which defines continuous service as uninterrupted service, including service which may be interrupted on account of sickness or authorised leave or an accident or a strike which is not illegal, or a lockout or a cessation of work which is not due to any fault on the part of the workman.	None
The specific exclusion of persons on illegal strike plainly means that the period a person is on illegal strike does not amount to service.	None
Different considerations would not doubt prevail where the strike is legal.	None
Workers on strike continue to be n service although they may have ceased work.	None
It the strike is a legal one such cessation of work or refusal to continue would be absence authorised by law.	None
Under CSO L2.12 a presumption is to be drawn against an employee if such employee is unauthorisedly absent.	None
Clearly, a person on illegal strike and a person on legal strike are both absent, but the absence of the first is unauthorised and the second is not.	None
CSO L2.12 raises a presumption against the employee and it is for the employee to rebut that presumption by adducing the evidence.	None
It is, therefore, imperative that the factual basis is determined by the appropriate forum.	None
In any event the decisions cited by he learned counsel for the respondent as noted earlier, are factually distinguishable.	None
In Express Newspapers (supra), there was no condition of service similar to Certified Standing Order L2.12.	None
The fact of strike was also not in dispute.	None
The Management had issued notice terming the strike as unauthorised abandonment.	None
In other words, abandonment was pleaded as a fact on the basis of the strike.	None
The contention of the employer was that there was no order of termination of service by the employer but a relinquishment of service by the workmen.	None
The submission was not accepted because the respondents by going on strike clearly indicated that they wanted to continue in their employment but were only demanding better terms.	None
Such an attitude, far from indicating abandonment of employment, emphasized the fact that the employment continued as far as they were concerned.	None
The management could not, by imposing a new term of employment, unilaterally convert the absence from duty of striking employees into abandonment of their employment.	None
The fact of strike was also admitted in G.T. Lad (supra).	None
Here again there was no condition of service similar to CSO L2.12.	None
The Management had issued a notice calling upon the workmen to report within a specified period otherwise it would be construed as an abandonment.	None
The workmen failed to report within the aforesaid period.	None
The Management struck out the names of the workers from the rolls on the ground that the workmen were not interested in service and had totally abandoned it.	None
This Court held that the abandonment was not a question of fact which was required to be proved.	None
Where the only evidence was absence because of strike, there was no abandonment.	None
It was also held, following Express Newspaper (supra) that it was not open to the company to introduce such changed terms and conditions of service pending an industrial dispute.	None
D.K. Yadav (supra) is an authority for the proposition that the principle of natural justice would have to be read in the Standing Orders.	None
That was a case where there was a standing order similar to CSO L2.12 except that 8 days margin was granted with which the workman was required to return and satisfactorily explain the reasons for his absence or inability to return after the expiry of leave.	None
This view was reiterated in the later decision of this Court in Lakshmi Precision Screws Ltd. V. Ram Bhagat 2002 (6) SCC 552 where it was held that the element of natural justice was an inbuilt requirement of the Standing Orders.	None
In this case, the appellantCorporation had issued two notices calling upon the workmen represented by the respondent to return to duty.	None
The workmen did not respondent to either of the notices.	None
As we have noted it was not pleaded that the advertisement did not sufficiently comply with the principles of natural justice.	None
The notice was issued giving an opportunity to the respondent to show cause why the presumption should not be drawn under CSO L2.12.	None
The respondent did not show cause.	None
In the circumstances the Management drew the presumption in terms of the CSO.	None
The respondent said that the notice was invalid because it did not otherwise comply with the CSO L2.12 because of the shortening of the period of absence.	None
This was not an issue raised at any state.	None
In any event, we do not see how the notice is not in compliance with the Certified Standing Orders as quoted earlier.	None
The final submission of the respondent was that the UPIDA provided for penalty after a departmental enquiry, in respect of the workman who may have gone on illegal strike and, therefore, there could be no termination of services on account of illegal strike.	None
The submission is unacceptable as we have said there is no proof that the respondents were on strike at all.	None
Besides, merely because the action is punishable does not mean that the consequence of an unauthorised absence is not available under the Certified Standing Orders if it so specifically provides.	None
In the circumstances, we have no hesitation in setting aside the decision of the High Court in dismissing the writ petition.	None
This order will, however, not preclude the respondentUnion if it is otherwise so entitled to raise an industrial dispute under the UPIDA.	Reasoning
The appeals are allowed but without any order as to costs.	Decision
