 Fazl Ali, J.(1)	None
These appeals arise out of an execution proceeding, and the main point to be decided in them is what is the effect of certain provisions of the Madras Agriculturists Relief Act (Madras Act 4 of 1938, which will hereinafter be referred to as the Madras Act), on the rights of the parties.	Facts
How this point arises will be clear from a brief statement of the facts of the case.(2)	Facts
It appears that in 1908, one Veeresalingam, the husband of the first respondent, borrowed a sum of Rs. 9,000.00 from one Sitharamayye and executed a mortgage bond in his favour.	Facts
Subsequently a suit was instituted by the mortgagee to enforce the mortgage and a final decree in that suit was passed on 1981926.	None
Thereafter, on 28101931, the decreeholder applied for the execution of the decree by the sale of the mortgaged property.(3)	Facts
In 1933, the decreeholder transferred tile decree to one Sobhanadri, after whose death his son, the appellant before us, was brought on the record as his legal representative in the execution proceedings.	Facts
Several years before the assignment of the decree, Veeresalingam, the defendant, was therefore brought on the record as his legal re presentative.	Facts
On 671935, two items of property were sold in execution of the decree and purchased by the decreeholder, these being (1) a village called Tedlam in West Godavari District and (2) 4 acres and 64 cents of land in Madepalli village.(4)	Facts
The first property was sold for Rs. 21,000.00 and the second for Rs. 1,025.00.	Facts
As, however, the amount due under the decree was only about Rs. 17,860.00 and odd, the sale of the second property was subsequently set aside and the decreeholder deposited into court the excess amount of about Rs. 3,000.00 and odd after setting off the decretal amount against the price of the first Item of property.(5)	Facts
On 581935, the first respondent filed an application under O. 21, R. 90 and S. 47, Code of Civil Procedure to set aside the sale held In July, 1935, alleging certain irregularities in the conduct of the sale.	Facts
That application was after several years heard by the Subordinate Judge of Ellore who by his order dated 631943, dismissed it and directed the sale of the first property to be confirmed and full satisfaction of the decree to be entered.(6) After about 12 days, i.e. on 1831943, the first respondent and the second respondent, who had been adopted by the former on 1231936, under the will of her husband and was subsequently brought on record, filed an application under S. 19 of the Madras Act praying for certain reliefs under that Act.	Facts
This application was dismissed on 2231943.	None
Subsequently, two appeals were filed on behalf of the respondents (who will hereinafter be sometimes referred to as judgmentdebtors).	None
one against the order refusing to set aside the sale under O. 21, R. 90, Code of Civil Procedure , and the other against the order dismissing the application under the Madras Act.(7)	Facts
These appeals were heard together by two learned Judges of the Madras High Court and they took the view that the judgmentdebtors application under the Madras Act was maintainable notwithstanding the fact that the sale had been confirmed and full satisfaction of the decree recorded, and remitted the case to the trial court for a finding on the following questions, namely (1) whether the applicants were agriculturists and (2) if so, what would be the result of applying the provisions of Madras Act 4 of 1938 to the decretal debt against them?	Facts
So far as regards the judgmentdebtors appeal against the order dismissing their application under Order 21, Rule 90, the learned judges were inclined to agree with the trial court that the sale should stand but declined to pass final orders in the appeal on the ground that it would seriously prejudice the judgmentdebtors in the connected application for relief under S. 19 of the Madras Act 4 of 1938.(3)	Facts
The Subordinate Judge answered the questions referred to him by the High Court on remand, as follows (1) The judgmentdebtors were not agriculturists and were not therefore entitled to the benefits of the Madras Act and (2) If they were agriculturists, they were not liable to pay anything under the decree, as, in view of the provisions of the Act, the debt stood discharged on the date of sale.(8) When however the matter came up before the learned Judges of the High Court, they reversed the first finding of the trial court and held that the judgmentdebtors were agriculturists within the meaning of the Act, and that the debt stood discharged in view of S. 8 (2) of the Act.	Facts
At the same time, they held that the sale was not liable to be set aside, and in this view dismissed one of the appeals and allowed the other.	Facts
Then followed certain proceedings to which it would have been unnecessary to refer but for the fact that the judgmentdebtors have attempted to rely on them in support of one of their preliminary objections to the maintainability of these appeals.(9) It appears that on the next day after the judgment of the High Court was delivered in the two appeals, counsel for the respondents wrote a letter to the Registrar of the High Court to direct the posting of the two cases for being mentioned before the Court in order to obtain necessary directions consequent on the orders passed by it in the appeals.	None
This letter was not placed before the learned judges until the judgment had been signed by them and accordingly the judgmentdebtors filed two petitions, one being a review petition to the High Court and the other being a petition to the trial court praying that the decreeholder may be ordered to pay to the petitioners the purchase money of Rs.	None
21,000.00 with interest thereon at 6 per cent.	None
per annum from the date of sale till the date of payment.	None
The trial court dismissed the latter petition on the ground that it was not maintainable, and the judgmentdebtors filed an appeal against the order.	None
The appeal as well as the review petition of the judgmentdebtors were heard together by the learned judges who directed the decreeholders counsel to elect whether his client would deposit the purchase money into court or have the sale set aside.	None
The decreeholder applied for a short adjournment and ultimately on 15111946, his counsel stated that his client wished to retain the property which he had purchased and to pay the purchase money into court.	None
Thereupon, he was directed to pay the sum of Rs.	None
21,000.00 together with interest within 3 months from that date.(10)	None
Subsequently, the appellant (decreeholder) having obtained leave to appeal from the High Court preferred these appeals before us.	None
It may be stated here that along with the application for leave to appeal, the appellant had filed application for excusing the delay in filling the former application which he accounted for mainly by referring to the proceedings for the review of the judgments in the previous appeals to the High Court.	None
This application was granted and the delay was condoned.(11)	None
As has been already stated, the main point arising in these appeals relates to the effect of the Madras Act upon this litigation.	None
That Act was passed and came into effect in 1938, while the execution proceedings were still continuing.	None
It will be recalled that the sale took place on 671935 and the application for setting it aside was not disposed of until the 631943.	None
But, strangely enough, the judgmentdebtors did not apply for any relief under the Madras Act during this period, and they made their application only after the sale had been confirmed and satisfaction of the decree had been entered.	None
How far this belated application affects the right claimed by the judgmentdebtors under the Act is one of the questions raised in these appeals, and I shall deal with it after referring to the material provisions of the Act and the findings of the High Court which have given rise to several debatable points.(12)	None
The sections of the Act which are material for the purpose of these appeals are Ss. 3, 8 and 19.	None
S. 3 defines an agriculturist and has a proviso stating that in certain cases a person shall not be deemed to be an agriculturist.	None
The relevant clause of this proviso, to which I shall also have to advert later, is clause (D) which runs thus Provided that a person shall not be deemed to be an Agriculturist if he (D) is a landholder of an estate under the Madras Estates Land Act, 1908.	None
or of a share or portion thereof in respect of which estate, share or portion any sum exceeding Rs. 500 is paid as peshkash or any sum exceeding Rs. 100 is paid as quitrent, jodi, kattubadi, poruppu or the like or is a janmi under the Malabar Tenancy Act, 1929, who pays any sum exceeding Rs. 500 as land revenue to the provincial Government.	None
The precise question which is said to arise with reference to this provision is whether by reason of being the owners of village Tedlam.	None
the judgmentdebtors should be held to be not entitled to relief under the Act.	None
The other material Sections 8 and 19 run as follows 8.	None
Debts incurred before the 1/10/1932 shall be scaled down in the manner mentioned hereunder, namely (1) All interest outstanding on the 1/10/1937, in favour of any, creditor of an agriculturist whether the same be payable under law, custom or contract or under a decree of court and whether the debt or other obligation has ripened into a decree or not shall be deemed to be discharged, and only the principal or such portion thereof as may be outstanding shall be deemed to be the amount repayable by the agriculturist on that date.(2) Where an agriculturist has paid to any creditor twice the amount of the principal whether by way of principal or interest or both, such debt including the principal, shall be deemed to be wholly discharged.(3) Where the sums repaid by way of principal or interest or both fall short of twice the amount of the principal, such amount only as would make up this shortage, or the principal amount or such portion of the principal amount as is outstanding, whichever is smaller, shall be repayable.(4) Subject to the provisions of Sections 22 to 25 nothing contained in subsections (1), (2) and (3) shall be deemed to require the creditor to refund any such sum which has been paid to him, or to increase the liability of a debtor to pay any sum in excess of the amount which would have been payable by him if this Act had not been passed.	None
Explanation.  	None
Where a debt has been renewed or included in a fresh document in favour of the same creditor, the principal originally advanced by the creditor together with such sums, if any, as have been subsequently advanced as principal shall alone be treated as the principal sum repayable by the agriculturist under this section.19.	None
Where before the commencement of this Act, a court has passed a decree for the repayment of a debt, it shall, on the application of any judgmentdebtor who is an agriculturist or in respect of a Hindu joint family debt, on the application of any member of the family whether or not he is the judgmentdebtor or on the application of the decreeholder, apply the provisions of this Act to such decree and shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, amend the decree accordingly or enter satisfaction, as the case may be .Provided that all payments made or amount recovered, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, in respect of any such decree shall first be applied in payment of all costs as originally decreed to the creditor.	None
These sections are material because in the present case the judgmentdebtors asked the decree to be amended under S. 19 of the Act and they were held to be entitled to relief under S. 8.(13)	None
Having referred to the relevant provisions of the Act, it becomes necessary now to state the main findings of the High Court upon which the decision of this appeal will turn.	None
These findings are (1) That the sale of Tedlam village, which was held on 671935, and confirmed on 631943, was a good sale (2)That by this sale, the title to the Tedlam village passed to the decreeholder, and in hearing the appeal the High Court was justified in proceeding on the footing that the judgment debtors having ceased to be the owners of Tedlam village after its sale, were not hit by cl.	None
(D) of the proviso to S. 3 of the Act and (3) That the decree had been satisfied at the date of the sale and the decreeholder was liable to repay to the judgmentdebtors the full price of the property which was sold.(14)	None
The main contention directed against the conclusions arrived at by the High Court are firstly, that they are selfcontradictory, because if the sale was an effective sale on the date it was held or confirmed, the decree was also satisfied on that date and the judgmentdebtors were no longer entitled to invoke the provisions of the Madras Act and secondly, that the view taken by the learned judges of the High Court that notwithstanding the appeal against the order refusing to set aside the sale they could proceed on the footing that the judgmentdebtors had ceased to be the owners of Tedlam village on the date of the sale was unsound in law.(15)	Arguments of Petitioner
I will first deal with the second point which appears to me to require serious consideration.	None
The High Court has in my opinion rightly proceeded on the footing that the ownership of Tedlam village would bring the judgmentdebtors within the mischief of cl.	None
(D) of the proviso to S. 3 of the Act, and would disentitle them to any relief thereunder.	None
This view was contested before us on behalf of the judgmentdebtors on two grounds (1) that the grant in favour of the ancestor of the judgmentdebtors did not compromise a whole inam village and what they owned was therefore not an estate under the Madras Estates Land Act (Madras Act 1 of 1908) (2) that on the date of the application, the judgmentdebtors were not landholders of village Tedlam because the village was in the possession of a receiver since 1/02/1937 and the latter was in law the landholder on the crucial date.	None
None of these contentions however appears to me to have any force.	None
The first contention was sought to be supported by Ext. PI which is a register of inams and which shows that peramboke or waste lands to the extent of 596 acres had to be deducted from the area of the inam.	None
The point however has been dealt with very fully and clearly by the learned Subordinate Judge, who has rightly pointed out that it has no force in view of the Madras Estates Land (Amendment) Act, 1945 (Madras Act No. 2 of 1945).	None
The second point is equally unsubstantial, because it is well settled that the owner of a property does not cease to be its owner merely because it is placed in the hands of a receiver.	None
The true position is that the receiver represents the real owner whoever he may be, and the true owner does not by the mere appointment of a receiver cease to be a landholder under the Madras Estates Land Act.(16)	None
I will now revert to the crucial question in the case, viz, whether the learned judges of the High Court were justified in law in deciding the appeal on the footing that the judgment debtors had ceased to be the owners of Tedlam village and in that account they were not hit by cl.	None
of the proviso to S. 3 of the Madras Act.	Reasoning
At this stage, it will be useful to refer to certain provisions of Code of Civil Procedure , which directly bear on the question as to when title to immovable property which is sold in execution of a decree is deemed to pass to the purchaser.	None
One of the provisions is O. 21, R. 92, which provides that where no application is made under R. 89.	None
R. 90 or R. 91, or where such application is made and disallowed, the Court shall make an order confirming the sale, and thereupon the sale shall become absolute.	None
The Second relevant provision is section 65 (which?) runs thus Where immovable property is sold in execution of a decree and such sale has become absolute the property shall be deemed to have vested in the purchaser from the time when the property is sold and not from the time when the sale becomes absolute.	None
In  Bhawaui Kumar v. Mathura Prasad Singh, 40 Cal 89 , the Question as to when a mortgagee who has purchased certain villages in execution of the decree acquired title to the properties purchased by him directly arose for consideration and the Privy Council rightly pointed out that the sale in execution of the mortgage decree took effect from the actual date of the sale and not from its confirmation.	None
In a simple case, the provisions cited above should settle the controversy, but., in the present case the matter has been complicated on account of the appeal against the order refusing to set aside the sale under O. 21, R.90.	None
In such a case generally speaking, the true position seems to be that there is no finality until the litigation is finally determined by the appellate court.	None
This principle has been recognized in a number of cases, but it will be enough to cite Chandramani Saha v. Anarjan Bibi, AIR 1934 PC 134 .	None
The headnote of that case runs as follows Where a Subordinate Judge has disallowed an application under O. 21, R. 90, to set aside a sale in execution, and has made an order under rule 92(1) confirming the sale, and an appeal from disallowance has been dismissed by the High Court, the three years period provided by the Indian limitation Act,1908, Schedule.	None
I. Article 180, for an application under O. 21, R. 95, by the purchaser for delivery of possession runs from the date of the order on appeal the High Court having under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, the same powers as the Subordinate Judge, the time when the sale becomes absolute, for the purpose of Article 180 is when the High Court disposes of the appeal.	None
Under Art. 180, Limitation Act, the period of limitation runs from the date when the sale becomes absolute.	None
If we give a narrow and literal meaning to these words, the period of limitation should be held to run from the date when the original court of execution confirms the sale.	None
But, as was pointed out by the Privy Council, the High Court as an appellate court had the same powers as the trial court and it is only when the appea1 was dismissed by the High Court that the order of the trial court confirming the sale became absolute.	None
Till the decision of the appellate court, no finality attached to the order confirming the sale.(17)	None
It is clear that in this case the same rule would apply to the order recording satisfaction of the decree and to the order confirming the sale.	None
If the order recording satisfaction of the decree was not final and remained an inchoate order untill the appeal was decided the order confirming the sale would have the same inchoate character.	None
This position seems to have been fully conceded in the statement of their case filed on behalf of the respondents in this Court.(18)	None
It is quite clear that in this case the learned judges of the High Court have taken up an Inconsistent position.	None
As I have already stated, they have held, for the purpose of allowing one of the appeals that the judgmentdebtors were not hit by cl.	None
(D) of the proviso to S. 3 of the Act because they ceased to be the owners of Tedlam village at the date of the sale in 1935.	None
If this conclusion is correct, it must follow as a matter of logic that the decree was completely satisfied on the date of the sale, because the sale fetched a larger amount than what was payable under the decree and the excess amount was deposited by the decreeholder in court.	Reasoning
The sale and satisfaction must go together and if finality is to be attached to the sale it should have been held to attach also to the order recording satisfaction of the decree.	Reasoning
It seems clear to me that if the decree had ceased to exist, no relief could be claimed by the judgmentdebtors under the Madras Act.	Reasoning
On the other hand, if the appeal had to be decided on the footing that the order recording satisfaction of the decree was not final, the same approach should have been made in regard to the effect of the sale.	Reasoning
It is also clear that if the decree was satisfied on the date of sale by the application of the provisions of the Act, the sale could not stand, because how could the property be sold in execution of a decree which had been already satisfied?	Reasoning
Yet, notwithstanding the fact that nothing was due under the decree, the High Court has held that the sale was a good sale and was to stand.	Reasoning
The correct approach to the case would have been to assume for the purpose of the appeals that neither of the orders passed by the subordinate judge was final.	Reasoning
On that view, the appeals to the High Court could not have been decided on the footing that the judgmentdebtors had ceased to be the owners of Tedlam property and were therefore not hit by cl.	Reasoning
(D) of the proviso to S. 3 of the Madras Act.	Reasoning
In my opinion, the judgment of the High court cannot be sustained, and the appeals will have to be allowed.(19)	Reasoning
I will now deal very briefly with two preliminary objections raised on behalf of the Respondents.	Reasoning
The first objection is that the application for leave to appeal to His Majesty in Council against the order of the High Court was barred by limitation, inasmuch as the reasons stated in the affidavit filed by the appellant in the High Court in support of his application for excusing delay do not constitute sufficient reason within the meaning of S. 5, Limitation Act.	Reasoning
The answer to this objection will be found in the facts which have been already narrated.	Reasoning
The delay was caused mainly by reason of the review of the order of the High Court and the High Court considered that there was sufficient reason for condoning the delay.	Reasoning
This Court cannot override the discretion exercised by the High Court and the matter cannot be reopened in these appeals.	Reasoning
The second objection is based on the fact that the decreeholder was given a choice by the High Court to elect whether he would deposit the purchase money or have the sale set aside, and his counsel told the learned judges on the 15111946, that his client wished to retain the property which he had purchased and pay the purchase money in cash.	Reasoning
It is contended that in view of this statement it was not open to the appellant to contend that he need not pay any amount to the judgmentdebtors.	Reasoning
This objection also is entirely devoid of any substance, because there is nothing on record to show that the appellant has consented to be bound by the order of the High Court and waived his right to appeal against it by reason of the election.(20)	None
The learned counsel for the respondent also contended that the sale should have been set aside by the High Court because the permission given to the decreeholder on 1621934 to bid and set off the decretal amount against the purchase price was confined to an earlier sale and did not extend to the sale which took place on 1631935 after the upset price which had been originally fixed was reduced.	Arguments of Respondent
Personally, I am inclined to hold that the permission covered the sale in question, but in any case it is difficult to hold on the facts stated that there was any such material in regularity as would vitiate the sale.	Reasoning
The precise argument which is put forward here was advanced in the courts below but it did not find favour either with the Subordinate Judge or with the High Court.	Reasoning
Besides, the respondents cannot raise the point in these appeals because they have filed no appeal against the order of the High Court upholding the sale.(21)	Reasoning
In these circumstances, I would allow the appeals, set aside the orders of the High Court, and restore the order of the learned subordinate Judge.	Decision
There will however be no order as to costs in these appeals.	Decision
B.K. Mukherjea, J.(22) I concur in the judgment just now delivered by my learned brother.	None
Fazl Ali, J., and there is nothing further which I can usefully add.	None
Chandrasekhara Aiyar, J.(23)	None
The facts which have given rise to these appeals and the question for decisions have been stated in the judgment just now pronounced by my learned brother Fazl Ali J. I wish to add only a few words on the main contention advanced for the respondents by their learned Advocate, Mr. V Rangachari.(24)	None
If by reason of the confirmation of sale and satisfaction of the decree having been entered up, the title of the village had passed indefeasibly to the decree holder, there was no longer any decree or decree debt to be scaled down.	None
If, however the title did not pass, because it was still open to the respondents to attack the Court sale under O. 21, R. 90, they were landholders of the village and, as such, they would come within the scope of proviso (d) to S. 3 of the Madras Agriculturists Relief Act, 1938, which enacts that a landholder who holds a village paving more than Rs. 100.00 as quit rent or jodi is not an agriculturist within the meaning of the Act.(25)	None
The apparent inconsistency in the view taken by the High Court was recognised, if not conceded, by, the learned Counsel.	None
In one view, there was no longer any decree in respect of which the Agriculturists Relief Act could operate and in the other view, the respondents could not take advantage of the Act, as their ownership of the village precluded them.	None
Faced with this dilemma, Mr. Rangachari urged a somewhat ingenious argument.	None
He contended that though the title passed to the decreeholder on the confirmation of sale and became vested in him from the date of the sale, the respondents could still be regarded as having in interest in the village.	None
as the sale was open or liable to challenge and the title of the decree holder was inchoate or incomplete.	None
There is, however, really no support for this position.	None
On confirmation, the title of the decreeholder became absolute or complete.	None
If the sale was set aside, the title would revest in the judgmentdebtor.	None
There is nothing like an equitable title in this decree holder which could be recognised for certain purpose and not recognised for others.(26)	None
Under the Madras Act, agriculturist means a person who has a saleable interest in any agricultural or horticultural land or one who holds interest in such land under a landholder as a tenant, ryot or undertenureholder.	None
S. 10, subcl.	None
(1) of the Act provides that the right conferred on an agriculturist to have a debt scaled down will not apply to any person who, though an agriculturist as defined in the Act, did not on 1101937 hold an interest in or a lease or sublease of any land.	None
After the sale in 1935, the only interest which the judgment debtors had in the village was to have the sale set aside, under the relevant provisions of the Civil Procedure Code.	None
This interest is not the interest contemplated by S. 3, Subclause (ii) (a) and (b) of the Act, which speaks of a saleable interest or interest as a tenant, ryot or undertenure holder.(27)	None
I agree in the conclusion reached by my learned brother.	None
