 GUPTA, J. 1.	None
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India dealer seeks relief from the same sales being assessed to sales tax both under the Central Sales Tax Act and the U.P. Sales Tax Act.	Issue
The first petitioner Indian Oil Corporation Limited, IOC for short, are a government company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 engaged inter alia in the manufacture and marketing of petroleum products.	Facts
The second petitioner is the Managing Director and a shareholder of IOC.	Facts
Union of India has been impleaded as the first respondent in the petition.	Facts
The 2nd respondent is the Assistant Superintendent of Commercial Taxes, Central Circle, Bihar.	Facts
The 3rd and 4th respondents are respectively the State of Bihar an d the State of U.P.	Facts
The 5th respondent Indian Explosives Limited are a company having their registered office at Calcutta they have a factory at Panki, Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh manufacturing urea fertilizers.	Facts
IOC have a refinery at Barauni in the State of Bihar and also a depot at Panki, Kanpur.	Facts
In 1966 IOC completed pipeline from their refinery at Barauni in Bihar to Kanpur in U.P. through Patna in Bihar and Mughalsarai and Allahabad both in U.P.	Facts
At their Barauni refinery IOC manufacture naphtha which is the principal raw material for production of fertilizers.	Facts
2.	None
On February 9, 1970 an agreement was entered into by and between IOC and the 5th respondent in terms of which IOC were to sell and the 5th respondent were to buy the entire quantity of naphtha required for the 5th respondents fertilizer factory at Kanpur.	Facts
Below is a summary of the different clauses of the agreement that are relevant for the present purpose the numbers given to the different paragraphs in this summary follow the numbering of the corresponding clauses of the original agreement1.	Facts
The agreement shall be deemed to have come into force from September 10, 1969 when the supply of naphtha commenced and shall remain in force till December 31, 1980.	Facts
It shall continue to be in force thereafter unless terminated by either party giving to the other not less than one years prior notice of the intention to terminate the agreement.	Facts
2.	None
The naphtha to be supplied shall be of the specification set out in Schedule I of the agreement.	Facts
3. (i) The quantity of naphtha that the 5th respondent agree to buy and IOC agree to sell shall be 2, 50, 000 tonnes per annum which is the maximum rate per annum.	Facts
(iii)	None
The naphtha shall be supplied against the buyers indents in writing addressed to the seller at the sellers Panki Kanpur installation.	Facts
(iv) It is agreed that the buyers requirement of naphtha for the first four years shall be 95, 000, 1, 70, 000, 2, 00, 000 and 2, 25, 000 tonnes respectively.	Facts
(viii)	None
In case the buyer fails to take delivery during any year the quantities of naphtha as stipulated above for reasons other than Force Majeure at their Kanpur plant, the seller shall be entitled to sell the quantity which the buyer has failed to lift.	Facts
Similarly if the seller fails to deliver the stipulated quantities of naphtha during any year for reasons other than Force Majeure at their Barauni refinery and or the transportation system from Barauni to their Panki installation, the buyer shall be entitled to purchase the quantity not delivered in that year from other sources.	Facts
4.	None
The supply of naphtha to the buyer shall be made from the sellers refinery at Barauni.	Facts
5.	None
The price of naphtha shall be exclusive of transfer charges, excise duty and all other taxes levies which shall be recovered by the seller from the buyer at actual rates prevailing and levied by concerned agencies from time to time.	Facts
7. (i) Naphtha shall be supplied through a pipeline at the fence of the buyers fertilizer factory and the pipeline between the buyers and the sellers fences shall be constructed by the buyer at their expense.	Facts
(ii) The cost of transferring naphtha by the pipeline from the point of its manufacture to the fence of the buyers fertilizer factory shall be borne by the buyer.	Facts
8.	None
The seller shall provide at their cost storage facilities at the sellers Panki Kanpur installation of a capacity equivalent to not less than 30 days requirement of the buyer.	Facts
10. (iii) Three samples of naphtha for testing will be taken from the sellers tank at their Panki Kanpur installation prior to transfer in the presence of buyers representatives at such frequency as may be mutually agreed.	Facts
3.	None
According to the 5th respondent, since the commencement of supply of naphtha under the aforesaid agreement IOC went on charging from them sales tax at the rate prescribed by the U.P. Sales Tax Act on the plea that the sales were chargeable under the said Act.	None
On or about March 16, 1974 the assessing authority under the U.P. Sales Tax Act assessed IOC to sales tax under the said Act on their total turnover for the assessment year 196970 including the sales of naphtha to the 5th respondent.	Facts
The 5th respondent filed a writ petition in the Allahabad High Court challenging the assessment made on the basis that the sales were local and asserting that they were interstate sales.	Facts
Before the writ petition was disposed of the U.P. assessing authority assessed IOC for the assessment year 197071 treating the sale of naphtha to the 5th respondent as local sale.	Facts
On August 27, 1975 the Allahabad High Court allowed the said writ petition quashing the impugned order of assessment to the extent it sought to levy tax under the U.P. Sales Tax Act on the sales of naphtha to the 5th respondent.	Facts
The High Court held that the sales under the agreement dated February 9, 1970 were interstate sales.	Facts
IOC preferred an appeal against the order of assessment in respect of the assessment year 197071 and although the appeal was on grounds not relevant for the present purpose, it is necessary to refer to it because at a later stage IOC had the scope of the appeal enlarged, induced by the 5th respondent according to IOC, by including a ground that the sales of naphtha under the agreement were interstate sales.	Facts
On June 29, 1978 the 2nd respondent levied sales tax under the Central Sales Tax Act on the sales of naphtha by IOC to the 5th respondent for the assessment year 197071 treating them as interstate sales.	Facts
Under section 9 of the Central Sales Tax Act the tax levied under that Act is collected in the State from which the movement of the goods commenced in this case the movement commenced from Barauni in Bihar.	Facts
IOC preferred an appeal against this order to the appellate authority.	Facts
For the assessment year 1971 72 the assessing authority under the U.P. Sales Tax Act treated the sales of naphtha to the 5th respondent as interstate sales presumably in view of the aforesaid judgment of the Allahabad High Court.	Facts
This assessment order was challenged by the Commissioner of Sales Tax, U.P. in revision before the appropriate authority.	Facts
For the same assessment year the Bihar authority assessed the sales on the basis they were interstate sales.	Facts
For the next assessment year 197273 the U.P. authority again treated the sales as interstate sales and again the order was challenged in revision by the Commissioner of Sales Tax,	Facts
U.P.	Facts
The Bihar authority also treated the sales for that year as interstate sales.	Facts
Thereafter for t he assessment years 197374 and 197475 somewhat surprisingly the U.P. assessing authority went back on the view taken in the immediately preceding two years and again treated the sales as local sales and the 5th respondent preferred appeal s from these two orders of assessment.	Facts
In this confused situation IOC filed the instant writ petition in this Court on May, 1, 1979.	Facts
Meanwhile the appellate authority under the U.P. Sales Tax Act dealing with the appeal preferred by IOC against the order of assessment relating to the year 197071 had remanded the case to the assessing authority and the assessing authority by his order dated December 20, 1979 held that the sales were local sales.	None
4.	None
The 5th respondent ha d started several other proceedings to avoid the sale of naphtha to them under the agreement dated February 9, 1970 being assessed to sales tax under the U. P. Act.	None
On August 29, 1977 they filed a suit in the Calcutta High Court against IOC seeking to restrain IOC from collecting sales tax from them under the U.P. Sales Tax Act.	Facts
The 5th respondent also filed two writ petitions in the Allahabad High Court, Nos. 102 and 103 of 1978.	Facts
The first petition challenges the assessment order relating to the year 197071 made by the U.P. authority.	Facts
The second petition is directed against the revisional proceedings started by the Commissioner of Sales Tax, U.P. in respect of the assessment years 197172 and 197273.	Facts
All these proceedings are still pending.	Facts
5.	None
The petitioners case in the present writ petition is that the sales of naphtha to the 5th respondent were local sales in Kanpur and as such they were assessable under the U.P. Sales Tax Act and that the assessment orders dated June 29, 1978 and November 30, 1978 respectively for the assessment year 197071 and 197172 made by the Bihar Sales Tax authority under the Central Sales Tax Act are in violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 19 and 31 of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners seek a writ in the nature of certiorari for quashing the aforesaid assessment orders and a writ in the nature of mandamus directing the Bihar sales tax authority to forebear from asses sing the sales of naphtha to the 5th respondent on the basis they were interstate sales.	Arguments of Petitioner
Alternatively the petitioners pray, in the event it is held that the sales are interstate sales and not intrastate sales, for appropriate reliefs, orders, and directions directing the State of U.P. not to assess, levy or recover any sales tax on the sales of naphtha to the 5th respondent under the agreement dated February 9, 1970.6.	None
Section 3(a) of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 pro vided that a sale or purchase of goods shall be deemed to take place in the course of interstate trade or commerce if the sale or purchase occasions the movement of goods from one State to another.	None
It is now well settled by a series of decisions of t his Court that a sale shall be an interstate sale under section 3(a) if there is a contract of sale preceding the movement of goods from one state to another and the movement is the result of a covenant in the contract of sale or is an incident of that contract in order that a sale may be regarded as an interstate sale it is immaterial whether the property in the goods passes in one state or another.	None
Some of these decisions are Tata Iron Steel Co. Ltd. v. S. R. Sarkar 1961 1	None
SCR 379 , Kelvinator of India Ltd. v. The State of Haryana 1974 1	None
SCR 463 , Oil India Ltd. v. The Superintendent of Taxes others 1975 3 SCR 797 , Balabhagas Hulaschand v. State of Orissa 1976 2 SCR 939 and Union of India and Anr.	None
v. K. G. Khosla Co. (P) Ltd.	None
Ors. 1979 3	None
SCR 453.	None
In our opinion the terms of the agreement dated February 9, 1970 summarized above make it quite clear that the sales of naphtha to the 5th respondent were interstate sales.	Reasoning
Under clause 4 of the agreement seller is to make the supply of naphtha to the buyer from its refinery at Barauni.	Reasoning
The source of supply is thus the sellers refinery at Barauni in Bihar and the destination is the buyers factory at Kanpur.	Reasoning
This one clause alone is sufficient to prove that the sales in question were interstate sales.	None
7.	None
However, on behalf of the petitioners and the State of U.P. it is contended that the sales were not interstate sales and were local sales within the State of Uttar Pradesh.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is pointed out from clause 3(iii) that supplies of naphtha are made on the buyers indents in writing addressed to the seller at their Kanpur installation and not at their refinery at Barauni which, it is contended, shows that the supplies are made from IOCs storage at Kanpur to the 5th respondents factory also at Kanpur.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also contended that the supply of naphtha to the buyers factory at Kanpur involves two movements, one from Barauni to Kanpur for storage at the sellers depot, and the other from the depot to the buyers factory.	None
This contention is based on clause 7(i) of the agreement which states that naphtha shall be supplied at the fence of the buyers factory through a pipeline between the buyers and the sellers fences constructed at the buyers expense.	None
It is argued that this stipulation shows that the movement of naphtha from Barauni is arrested at the sellers Kanpur depot and is followed by another movement from there to the buyers factory which proves that the sales are local sales and not interstate because in an interstate sale the movement of goods is the immediate and direct result of the contract of sale.	None
8. Clause 3(iii) of the agreement which says that the naphtha shall be supplied against indents in writing addressed to the seller at their installation at Kanpur cannot be read in isolation.	None
Subclause (iv) of clause 3 sets out the details of the buyers requirement for the first four years and thereafter.	None
Under clause 8 IOC are bound not only to bring the contractual quantity of naphtha from Barauni to the sellers Kanpur installation but also to provide at their own cost storage facilities at Kanpur of a capacity equivalent to not less than 30 days requirement of the buyer.	None
The indents are therefore not outside the agreement but are relatable to the buyers requirements under the agreement.	Reasoning
It is obvious that the sales under the agreement are not possible without interstate movement of naphtha.	Reasoning
Clause 3 read with clause 8 also proves that really thare are no two movements but only one movement from Barauni to Kanpur pursuant to the contract of sale and the agreement regarding storage facilities provided in clause 8 is only for operational convenience, it is only a mechanism devised to facilitate the transfer of naphtha through the sellers pipeline to their depot at Kanpur and from there to the Buyers factory at Kanpur through the pipeline constructed at the buyers cost.	Reasoning
It is relevant in this connection to note that under clause 7(ii) the cost of transferring naphtha from Barauni to the buyers fence is to be borne by the buyer.	None
9.	None
Each case turns on its own facts and the question is whether applying the settled principle which we have mentioned above to the facts of the present case the sales can be said to be interstate sales.	None
An attempt to show that some of the factors present in the instant case are present or absent in some case or other in which this Court held the sale to be a local sale or interstate sale hardly serves any useful purpose.	Reasoning
On the facts of the present case the sales are clearly interstate sales and the State of U.P. had therefore no jurisdiction to assess the petitioners to sales tax under the State Act.	None
As the movement of naphtha commences from Barauni in Bihar, the sales tax payable on the sales of naphtha under the agreement dated February 9, 1970 can be assessed and collected only by the authorities in the State of Bihar on behalf of the Government of India in view of section 9 of the Central Sales Tax Act. 10.	None
On behalf of the State of Bihar a point was taken that the present petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India complaining of violation of the fundamental right guaranteed by Article 31 of the Constitution was not maintainable after the repeal of Article 31 by the FortyFourth Amendment of the Constitution with effect from June 20, 1979.	None
The petition however complains also of infringement of Article 19 and therefore does not cease to be maintainable.	None
Counsel for the 5th respondent sought to raise a question regarding the justification of treating freight as part of the sale price, but that is not a matter that arises for consideration on the present writ petition filed by IOC.	Arguments of Respondent
11.	None
In the result the alternative prayer made in the writ petition succeeds, the assessment orders for the assessment years 197071, 197374 and 197475 passed by the Sales Tax Officer, U.P. and the revision proceedings initiated by the Commissioner of Sales Tax, U.P. for the assessment years 197172 and 197273 are quashed and respondent No. 4, the State of Uttar Pradesh, is directed to refund to IOC the sales tax collected from them on the sales of naphtha to the 5th respondent under the agreement dated February 9, 1970 and, further, not to levy sales tax on the sales under the said agreement under the U.P. Sales Tax Act.	Reasoning
12.	None
The writ petition is allowed as indicated above in the circumstances of the case we make no order as to costs.	Decision
13.	None
Petition allowed.	None
