 Jagannadha Rao, J. Leave granted.	None
The case of raises issues relating to the impact of the provisions of the Recovery of Debts due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (hereinafter called the RDB Act) on the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956.	None
The immediate dispute before us is between two nationalised Banks, the Allahabad bank (appellant) on the one hand which has obtained a simple money decree against the debtorcompany	None
(Ms. M.S. Shoes (East) Co. Ltd. from the Debt Recovery Tribunal at Delhi under the RDB Act and the Canara Bank on the other, whose claim as a secured creditor is still pending before the same Tribunal at Delhi against the same company.	None
The Allahabad Bank has appealed before us against an order passed by the learned Company Judge under Sections 442 and 527 of the Companies Act, (in a winding up petition by Ranbaxy Ltd.) staying the sale proceedings taken out by the Allahabad Bank before the Recovery Officer under the RDB Act.	None
Applications for winding up the defendant company are pending in the Delhi High Court.	None
As yet no winding up order has been passed nor a provisional liquidator appointed as contemplated by Section 446(1).	None
Point has been raised by the respondent  Canara Bank that the appellant Allahabad Bank is obliged to seek leave of the Company Court under the Companies Act, 1956 and the Company Court can stay these proceedings as aforesaid under Sections 442 and 537 for the ultimate purpose of deciding the priorities, in the event of a winding up order or other order appointing a provisional liquidator being passed under Section 446(1) of the Companies Act, 1956.	None
After the appellant obtained decree from the Debt Recovery Tribunal, some properties of the company have been sold by the Recovery Officer.	None
Appellant contends that the Tribunal under the RDB Act can itself deal with the question of appropriation of sale proceeds in respect of sales of the company properties held at the instance of the appellant and the priorities and that the appellant alone is entitled to all the sums so realised.	None
The matter was argued and judgment was reserved.	None
Thereafter, our attention was invited by the learned counsel for the respondent  Canara Bank to the Amending Ordinance (Ordinance 1 of 2000) which came into force with effect from 17.1.2000.	None
The effect of the Ordinance and in particular Section 19(19) then fell for consideration.	None
Question of distribution of the sale proceeds by Company CourtTribunal and method of working out priorities among creditors was argued.	None
The facts of the case are as follows The appellant Bank filed O.A. No. 108 of 1995 before the Debt Recovery Tribunal, Delhi under Section 19 of the RDB Act, 1993 for recovery of Rs. 21, 49, 29, 520 and a simple money decree was passed on 13.1.1998 with interest at 18 and interest tax levy at 0.75 p.a.	Facts
Recovery Case (R.C. No. 9 of 1998) was filed by the Allahabad Bank for recovery before the Recovery Officer.	Facts
The Debtor Company filed appeal No. 270 of 1998 before the appellate Tribunal and there was no stay inasmuch as there was default in deposit of the money directed to be deposited.	Facts
O.A. No. 784 of 1996 was filed by the Canara Bank also under the RDB Act in the Debt Recovery Tribunal, Delhi for a decree for Rs. 14, 40, 05, 982.98 plus interest and it was said that a sum of about Rs. 25 crores was due from the same company.	Facts
The said O.A. of Canara Bank is pending in the Delhi Tribunal under the RDB Act.	None
The Canara Bank filed inter locutory application before the Recovery Officer for impleadment in the said recovery case of the appellant, viz., R.C. 998 seeking prorata distribution of sale proceeds from auctions of the debtor companys properties.	Facts
The appellant Bank resisted the same contending that inasmuch as no orders have been passed in favour of the Canara Bank in its claim filed before the Delhi Tribunal against the same company, there was no question of impleading the Canara Bank.	Facts
As regards proportionate disbursement of sale proceeds, it was observed that the question was premature and that the said issue could be considered after sale proceeds were received by the Tribunal.	Facts
These applications were dismissed on 28.9.1998.	None
The property of the debtor company situated at Village Kherki Daula, admeasuring Ac 32.64 was sold on 8.1.1999 for Rs. 2,30,11,200.	None
The sale was confirmed on 16.2.1999 by the Recovery Officer.	Facts
Property of the Company at village Dundahera admeasuring Ac 4.23 was also sold on 15.1.1999 for Rs. 3,17,34,375, but the Recovery Officer declined to confirm that sale and directed fresh auction and the appellant Bank filed W.P. under Articles 226, 227.	Facts
Canara Bank then filed applications in the Debt Recovery Tribunal under Section 22 of the RDB Act in January, 1999 seeking stay of recovery proceedings in RC No. 998.	None
They were heard on 25.2.1999, adjourned to 3.3.1999 then to 5.2.1999.	Facts
On 5.3.1999, the counsel for Canara Bank informed the Recovery Officer that it had filed Company application No. 296 of 1999 in Company Petition No. 14195 (being a winding up petition filed by Ranbaxy Ltd. against M.S. Shoes Co.) under sections 442, 537 of the Companies Act for stay of the appellants Recovery Case, RC No. 998.	Facts
The said CA 29699 was filed by Canara Bank in CP 14195 under Section 442 and Section 537 of the Companies Act seeking stay of RC 998 and for staying sales of assets of company by the appellant Bank.	Facts
Later on Canara Bank filed CA 32399 again under Section 442 and Section 537 for similar reliefs as in CA 29699.	None
On 9.3.1999, the learned Company Judge passed the impugned order in CA 32399 under Section 442 read with Section 537 of the Companies Act staying the further sale of assets of the Company in RC 998 in OA 10995 and also restraining disbursement of monies already realised in other sales.	None
It is against the above order dated 9.3.1999 that this appeal has been preferred.	Facts
(While narrating the facts, we have not referred to a number of other proceedings taken out by the debtorcompany before various Courts to stall the sales.	Facts
In fact allegations have been made that the action of the Canara Bank in trying to stall sales  which are being held at the instance of the Allahabad Bank  was intended to benefit the debtrocompany.	Facts
These allegations were, of course, denied by the Canara Bank.	Facts
We shall refer to some subsequent events which took place during the pendency of this appeal.	None
On 14.5.1999 this Court passed an order in favour of the Allahabad Bank directing that the sale of the debtor companys property in shed No. 15 to go on but that the sale proceeds be not distributed.	None
Unfortunately, the sale was not held for quite some time due to an omnibus stay order dated was stayed by the Appellate Tribunal, Bombay on 29.6.1999.	None
The sale did not take place even by 7.1.2000.	None
This Court then issued further orders on 7.1.2000 for sale of the companys property in Shed No. 15.	None
Thereafter, sale of Industrial Shed No. 15CategoryII under SFS at Rohtak Road.	None
Industrial Complex, New Delhi110005 was held on 28.1.2000.	None
(The raw material and machinery in the shed which were said to have been mortgaged to Canara Bank were removed and segregated.	None
An order was passed that an inventory be prepared and to remove the pledged property).	None
It appears the sale proceeds of about Rs. 20 lakhs are in deposit in this Court.	None
Now, the position is that some sale proceeds are in deposit in the Tribunal and some in this Court, all such sales having been held at the instance of the appellant Bank alone.	None
Questions have been raised by the respondent as to whether the Tribunal can entertain proceedings for recovery, execution proceedings, and also for distribution of monies realised by sales of properties of a company against which winding up proceedings are pending, whether leave is necessary and as to which Court is to distribute the sale proceeds and according to what priorities among various creditors ? ?	None
3??3 10.	None
In this appeal, Sri Soki Sorabjee, the learned Attorney General for India appearing for the appellant, Allahabad Bank has submitted that the RDB Act of 1993 is a special statute intended for expeditious adjudication and recovery of debts due to banks and financial institutions and it contains two crucial provisions.	Arguments of Petitioner
One of them is Section 18 which ousts the jurisdiction of all Courts or other authorities (except the Supreme Court and the High Court exercising powers under Article 226, 227) in relation to matters covered by Section 17 and that Section 17 covers the entire procedure from the filing of an application under Section 19, to the adjudication and recovery.	Arguments of Petitioner
These matters are taken out from the purview of the Companies Act, including Section 442, 527 and Section 446 of the said Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The proceedings under the RDB Act cannot be stayed by the Company Court nor can they be transferred to the Company Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
No leave of the Company Court is necessary either for the filing of the OA for adjudication of the debt nor for executing the decree passed by the Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 34(1) gives overriding effect to the provisions of the Act save as provided in Section 34(2).	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 34(2) as amended by Ordinance 12000 proceedings saves only six statutes from the purview of Section 34(1).	Arguments of Petitioner
The Companies Act, 1956 is not one of them.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, the RDB Act, 1993 overrides Sections 442, 537 and also Section 446 of the Companies Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that even otherwise Section 446 cannot be invoked in th is case because there is no winding up order nor an order appointing a provisional liquidator so far.	Arguments of Petitioner
So far as principles underlying Section 73 CPC are concerned, even if applicable,  on facts, they are not attracted before the Tribunal since no decrees have been obtained from any Civil Court for Debt Recovery Tribunal by the Canara Bank (respondent) nor any steps as visaualised by Section 73 have been taken by the Canara Bank.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged that Courts must interpret the RDB Act of 1993 so as to subserve the purpose of the realisation of thousands of crores of Bank funds which are due.	Arguments of Petitioner
The legislature intended to avoid the long drawn proceedings in the Civil Court as well as under Section 442 and 445 and 537 of the Companies Act and this is now clear from Section 19(19) as reenacted by Ordinance 12000 which permits even the working out of priorities by the Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Several rulings of this Court and of High Courts under various other statutes have been cited before us and we shall refer to them at the appropriate stage.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the appellant Bank having got a decree and having got the properties sold is solely entitled to the entirety of these proceeds and there is no question of the appellant sharing the sale proceeds with others nor is it necessary to wait till the Canara Bank gets a decree in its O.A. pending before the Delhi Tribunal.11.	Arguments of Petitioner
Important submissions have been made by the learned Attorney General as to the effect of Section 19(19) introduced by Ordinance 12000, it is contended by the learned Attorney General that only Section 529A of the Companies Act is attracted and that too for a limited purpose if a question of workmans portion is involved.	Arguments of Petitioner
No such question has arisen so far.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence no other provision of the Companies Act, much less Section 528(1) or (2) are attracted.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the Company Court, any secured creditor who has not stood out of winding up but wants to come before the Company Court has to give up his security and prove his debt before the liquidator to seek dividends as per the insolvency rules mentioned in Section 529(1), read with Sections 45 to 50 of the Provincial Insolvency Act and stand in the queue along with all unsecured creditors under Section 529(2).	Arguments of Petitioner
Even that procedure is applicable only in respect of any monies realised by the Company Court and not by the Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
The limited extent to which secured creditors can claim priority under the RDB Act is as limited by Section 19(19) of the RDB Act and this is covered by Section 529A alone read with subclause (c) to the proviso to Section 529(1).	Arguments of Petitioner
The effect of these provisions is that if any monies are realised by Canara Bank by standing outside winding up and if any part of such realizations of the Canara Bank are taken away by the liquidator for payment to workmen, only to the extent of such workmens portion, can the Canara Bank have priority over other creditors.	Arguments of Petitioner
Otherwise, Canara Bank cannot invoke Section 529(1), (2) and that too before the Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, learned counsel for the Canara Bank Sri Y.P. Narula has submitted that when a winding up petition is pending in the Company Court, it is necessary that the leave of the Company Court is obtained for obtaining a decree before the Tribunal or for execution before the Recovery Officer, Sections 442, 446, 537 applied even to proceedings under the RDB Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Leave is necessary under Section 537 even if no winding up order is passed.	Arguments of Respondent
It is therefore necessary to stay the sale proceedings before the Recovery Officer or the distribution of sale proceeds.	Arguments of Respondent
The Company Court alone can sell the properties of the Company in the winding up proceedings.	Arguments of Respondent
The recovery proceedings must be stayed and then the proceedings must be transferred to the Company Court and thereafter, once the proceeds of sale come before the Company Court, the said Court alone will have to distribute the monies according to priorities as mentioned in Sections 446(2)(d), 529, 529A and 530 etc.	Arguments of Respondent
The Canara Bank is also a nationalised Bank and merely because the Allahabad Bank has been able to get a decree from the Debt Recovery Tribunal earlier than the Canara Bank, under the RDB Act, the Allahabad Bank can not be allowed to appropriate the entire sale proceeds recovered by it.	Arguments of Respondent
Even if the Canara Bank has only a claim and not a decree  in view of Section 2(g), its security has preference.	Arguments of Respondent
Unlike Section 73 CPC, Section 446 does not require a decree and it is sufficient to prove a debt before the liquidator.	Arguments of Respondent
Alternatively, it is submitted that even before the Tribunal Section 73 CPC and also Section 529(1) and (2) of the Companies Act read with Sections 529A, 530 etc. are attracted for purposes of distribution of the sale proceeds and working out priorities, assuming that jurisdiction of the Company Court is excluded in so far as recovery of debts due to Banks and financial institutions are concerned.	Arguments of Respondent
From the aforesaid contentions, the following points arise for consideration Whether in respect of proceedings under the RDB Act at the stage of adjudication for the money due to the Banks or financial institutions and at the stage of execution for recovery of monies under the RDB Act, the Tribunal and the Recovery Officers are conferred exclusive jurisdiction in their respective spheres ?	Issue
(2) Whether for initiation of various proceedings by the Banks and financial institutions under the RDB Act, leave of the Company Court is necessary under Sections 537 before a winding up order is passed against th e Company or before provisional liquidator is appointed under Section 445(1) and whether the Company Court can pass orders of stay of proceedings before the Tribunal, in exercise of powers under Section 442 ?	Issue
(3) Whether after a winding up order is passed under Section 446(1) of the Company Act or a provisional liquidator is appointed, whether the Company Court can stay proceedings under the RDB Act, transfer them to itself and also decide questions of liability, execution, and priority under Section 446(2) and (3) read with sections 529, 529A and 530 etc. of the Companies Act or whether these questions are all within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Tribunal ?	Issue
(4) Whether, in case it is decided that the distribution of monies is to be done only by the Tribunal, the provisions of Section 73 CPc and subclause (1) and (2) of Section 529, Section 530 of the Companies Court also apply  apart from Section 529A  to the proceedings before the Tribunal under the RDB Act ?	Issue
(5) Whether in view of provisions in Section 19(2) and 19(19) as introduced by Ordinance 12000, the Tribunal can permit the appellant Bank alone to appropriate the entire sale proceeds realised by the appellant except to the limited extent restricted by Section 529A ?	Issue
Can the secured creditors like the Canara Bank claim under Section 19(19) any part of the realisations made by the Recovery Officer and is there any difference between cases where the secured creditor opts to stand outside the winding up and where he goes before the Company Court ?(6) What is the relief to be granted on the facts of the case since the Recovery Officer has now sold some properties of the Company and the monies are lying partly in the Tribunal or partly in this Court ?	Issue
Points 1	None
This point concerns the question as to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Tribunal and the Recovery Officer in their respective spheres.	None
The RDB Act is, as disclosed by its preamble, an Act to provide for the establishment of Tribunals for expeditious adjudication and recovery of debts due to banks and financial institutions.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said Act is the result of two Reports, one of 1981 of a Committee headed by Sri T. Tiwari and the other by a Committee headed by Sri M. Narasimhan in 1991.	None
As on 30.9.1990, more than 15 lakh cases filed by public sector Banks and about 304 cases filed by financial institutions were pending in various civil Courts, and recovery of debts to Banks in a sum of Rs. 5622 crores and to financial institutions in a sum of Rs. 391 crores, was held up.	None
That was the immediate cause for the passing of the Act.	None
Under subclause (4) of Section 1 of the RDB Act, it is stated that the Act will not apply if the debt due is less than Rs. 10 lakhs or such other amount as may be notified.	None
Section 2(d) defines Banks as including (i) Bank Companies, (ii) corresponding new banks, (iii) State Bank of India, (iv) subsidiary Banks and (v) Regional Rural Banks.	None
Banking Company is defined in Section 2(e) and Corresponding New Bank is defined in Section 2(f) and it refers to Section 5(da) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.	None
Clause (da) of Section 5 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, defines corresponding new banks as Banks constituted under the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 and Section 3 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980.	None
About 20 nationalised banks have come under the purview of RDB Act.	None
Section 2(h) defines financial institutions and refers to public financial institutions falling within Section 4A of the Companies Act, 1956  namely (i) the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Ltd (ii) the Industrial Finance Corporation of India (iii) the Industrial Development Bank of India (iv) the Life Insurance Corporation of India and (v) the Unit Trust of India.	None
Other financial institutions since notified are large in number.	None
Section 2(g) as amended by Ordinance 12000 defines debt as meaning any liability which is claimed as due from any person to a Bank or financial institutions.	None
It includes the liability and interest in cash or otherwise, whether secured or unsecured or whether payable under a decree or order of any civil Court or otherwise and subsisting, and legally recoverable on, the date of the application filed to the Tribunal.	None
Exclusive Jurisdiction of the Tribunal under Sections 17, 18 and 25 of the RDB Act (i) adjudication, (ii) execution The initial question is as to the jurisdiction of the Tribunal under Sections 17 and 18 of the RDB Act in the matter passing the order of adjudication and to what extent it is exclusive.	None
The next question will be whether the jurisdiction of the Recovery Officer is also exclusive for purposes of execution of the adjudication order passed by the Tribunal. adjudication by Tribunal Does the Tribunal have exclusive jurisdiction ?	None
We shall refer to Sections 17 and 18 in Chapter III of the RDB Act which deal with adjudication of the debt.	None
Section 17 Jurisdiction, powers and authority of Tribunals  A Tribunal shall exercise, on an from the appointed day, the jurisdiction, powers and authority to entertain and decide applications from the banks and financial institutions for recovery of debts due to such banks and financial institutions.	None
An Appellate Tribunal shall exercise, on and from the appointed day, the jurisdiction, powers and authority to entertain appeals against any order made, or deemed to have been made, by a Tribunal under this Act.	None
Section 18 Bar of Jurisdiction  On and from the appointed day, no Court or other authority shall have, or be entitled to exercise, any jurisdiction, powers or authority (except the Supreme Court, and a High Court exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 and 227 of the Constitutional) in relation to the matters specified in Section 17.	None
It is clear from Section 17 of the Act that the Tribunal is to decide the applications of the Banks and Financial Institutions for recovery of debts due to them.	Reasoning
We have already referred to the definition of debt in Section 2(g) as amended by Ordinance 12000.	Reasoning
It includes claims by Banks and financial institutions and includes the liability incurred and also liability under a decree or otherwise.	Reasoning
In this context Section 31 of the Act is also relevant.	Reasoning
That Section deals with transfer of pending suits or proceedings to the Tribunal.	Reasoning
In our view, the word proceedings in Section 31 includes an execution proceedings pending before a Civil Court before the commencement of the Act.	Reasoning
The suits and proceedings so pending on the date of the Act stand transferred to the Tribunal and have to be disposed of in the same manner as applications under Section 19.In our opinion, the jurisdiction of the Tribunal in regard to adjudication is exclusive.	Reasoning
The RDB Act requires the Tribunal alone to decide applications for recovery of debts due to Banks or financial institutions.	Reasoning
Once the Tribunal passes an order that the debt is due, the Tribunal has to issue a certificate under Section 19(22) (formerly under Section 19(7)) to the Recovery officer for recovery of the debt specified in the certificate.	Reasoning
The question arises as to the meaning of the word recovery in Section 17 of the Act.	Reasoning
It appears to us that basically the Tribunal is to adjudicate the liability of the defendant and then it has to issue a certificate under Section 19(22).	Reasoning
Under Section 18, the jurisdiction of any other Court or authority which would otherwise have had jurisdiction but for the provisions of the Act, is ousted and the power to adjudicate upon the liability is exclusively vested in the Tribunal.	Reasoning
(This exclusion does not however apply to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court or of a High Court exercising power under Articles 226 or 227 of the Constitution).	Reasoning
This is the effect of Sections 17 and 18 of the Act.	Reasoning
We hold that the provisions of Sections 17 and 18 of the RDB Act are exclusive so far as the question of adjudication of the liability of the defendant to the appellant Bank is concerned.	Reasoning
execution of Certificate by Recovery Officer Is his jurisdiction exclusive Even in regard to execution, the jurisdiction of the Recovery Officer is exclusive.	Reasoning
Now a procedure has been laid down in the Act for recovery of the debt as per the certificate issued by the Tribunal and this procedure is contained in Chapter V of the Act and is covered by Sections 25 to 30.	Reasoning
It is not the intendment of the Act that while the basic liability of the defendant is to be decided by the Tribunal under Section 17, the BanksFinancial institutions should go to the Civil Court or the Company Court or some other authority outside the Act for the actual realisation of the amount.	Reasoning
The certificate granted under Section 19(22) has, in our opinion, to be executed only by the Recovery Officer.	Reasoning
No dual jurisdiction at different stages are contemplated.	None
Further, Section 34 of the Act gives overriding effect to the provisions of the RDB Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
That Section reads as follows Section 34 (1) Act to have overriding effect  Save as otherwise provided in subsection (2), the provisions of this Act shall effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, the Industrial Finance Corporation Act, 1948 (15 of 1948), the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951 (63 of 1951), the Unit Trust of India Act, 1963 (52 of 1963), the Industrial Reconstruction Bank of India Act, 1984 (62 of 1984) and the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 (1 of 1986).	None
The provisions of Section 34(1) clearly state that the RDB Act overrides other laws to the extent of inconsistency.	None
In our opinion, the prescription of an exclusive Tribunal both for adjudication and execution is a procedure clearly inconsistent with realisation of these debts in any other manner.	None
There is one more reason as to why it must be held that the jurisdiction of the Recovery Officer is exclusive.	None
The Tiwari Committee which recommended the constitution of a Special Tribunal in 1981 for recovery of debts due to Banks and financial institutions state in its Report that the exclusive jurisdiction of the Tribunal must relate not only in regard to the adjudication of the liability but also in regard to the execution proceedings.	Reasoning
It stated in Annexure XI of its Report that all execution proceedings must be taken up only by the Special Tribunal under the Act.	Reasoning
In our opinion, in view of the special procedure for recovery prescribed in Chapter V of the Act, and Section 34, execution of the certificate is also within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Recovery Officer.23.	Reasoning
Thus, the adjudication of liability and the recovery of the amount by execution of the certificate are respectively within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Tribunal and the Recovery Officer and no other Court or authority much less the Civil Court or the Company Court can go into the said questions relating to the liability and the recovery except as provided in the Act.	Reasoning
Point 1 is decided accordingly.	None
Points 2 and 3 Does the Act override the provisions of Sections 442 and 527 and Section 446 of the Company Act ?	None
These points deal with the question whether the Company Court can stay proceedings before the Tribunal or the Recovery Officer under Section 442 and whether the said Court can stall proceedings under Section 527 unless leave is obtained.	None
Question also arises in regard to priorities under Section 446(2)(d), read with Sections 529, 529A, 530 of the Companies Act and whether the Company Court alone can distribute and decide priorities among creditors or whether the Tribunal can do this in view of Section 19(19) of the RDB Act, as introduced by Ordinance 1 of 2000.	None
It is necessary first to refer to Sections 442, 527 and then to 446(1)(2) and 446(3), of the Companies Act.	None
Sections 442 and 537 deal with situations before the passing of a winding up order.	None
Under Section 442, at any time after the filing of a winding up petition and before the passing of a winding up order, the Company, or any creditor or contributors may apply for stay of suits or proceedings before the High CourtSupreme Court and for this purpose file an application in those Courts.	None
If, they are pending in other Courts, applications may be filed in the Company Court to stay those proceedings and the said Courts where applications are filed can stay the suits or proceedings.	None
Under Section 537, where any Company is being woundup by or subject to the supervision of the Court, any attachment, distress or execution put in force, without leave of the Company Court, against the estate or effects of the Company, after the commencement of the winding up, or any sale held  without the leave of the Court, if any of the properties or effects of the Company, after such commencement, shall be void.	None
Nothing in this Section applies to any proceedings for the recovery of any tax or import or any dues payable to the government.	None
After a winding up order is passed, provisions of Section 446 become applicable.	None
Under subclause (1) of Section 448, when a winding up order is passed or the official liquidator is appointed as a provisional liquidator, no suit or other legal proceeding shall be commenced, or if pending at the date of winding up order, shall be proceeded with against the company, except by leave of the Court and subject to such terms as the Court may impose.	None
Under subclause (2), the Company Court shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being inforce, have jurisdiction to entertain, or dispose of (a) any suit or proceeding by or against the Company (b) any claim made by or against the Company (including claims by or against any of its branches in India) (c) any application made under Section 391 by or in respect of the Company (d) any question of priorities or any other question whatsoever, whether of law or fact, which may relate to or arise in course of the winding up of the Company.	None
This provision applies whether such suit or proceeding has been institutes, or is instituted, or such claims or question has arisen or arises or such applications has been made or is made before or after the order for the winding up of the Company, or before or after the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960.	None
Subclause (3) of Section 446 is important.	None
It states that any suit or proceeding by or against the Company which is pending in any Court other than that in which the winding up of the Company if proceeding, may, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, be transferred to and disposed of by that Court.	None
Question of leave and control by the Company Court Learned Attorney General has, in this connection, relied upon Damji Valji Shah and another v. Life Insurance Corporation of India and others, 1965(3)	None
SCR 665 AIR 1966 SC 135 to contend that for initiating an continuing proceedings under the RDB Act, no leave of the Company Court is necessary under Section 446.	Reasoning
In that case, a Tribunal was constituted under the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956.	None
Question was whether under Section 446 of the Companies Act, 1956, the said proceedings could be stayed and later be transferred to the Company Court and adjudicated in that Court.	None
It was held that the said proceedings could not be transferred.	None
Section 15 of the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956  which we may say, roughly corresponds to section 17 of the RDB Act  enabled the Life Insurance Corporation of India to file a case before a special Tribunal and recover various amounts from the erstwhile life insurance companies in certain respects.	None
Section 41 of the LIC Act conferred exclusive jurisdiction on the said Tribunal just like Section 18 of the RDB Act, 1993.	None
There the Company was ordered to be wound up by an order of the Company Court passed under Section 446(1) on 9.1.1959.	None
The claim was filed by the LIC against the Company before the Tribunal and its Directors in 1962.	None
The respondents before the Tribunal contended that the claim could not have been filed in the Tribunal without the leave of the company Court under Section 446(1).	None
This Court rejected the said contention and held that though the purpose of Section 446 was to enable the company Court to transfer proceedings to itself and to dispose of the suit or proceedings to transferred, unless the Company Court had jurisdiction to decide the questions which were raised before the LIC tribunal, there was no purpose of requiring leave of the Company Court or permitting transfer.	None
It was held by this Court In view of Section 41 of the LIC Act, the Company Court has no jurisdiction to entertain and adjudicate upon any matter which the Tribunal is empowered to decide or determine under that Act.	None
It is not disputed that the Tribunal has jurisdiction under the Act to entertain and decide matters raised in the petition filed by the corporation under Section 15 of the LIC Act.	None
it must follow that the consequential provisions of subsection (1) of section 446 of the Companies Act will not operate on the proceedings which be pending before the Tribunal or which may be sought to be commenced before or.	None
Just as the Company Court was held incompetent to stay or transfer and decide the claims made before the LIC Tribunal because the Company Court could not decide the claims before the LIC Tribunal, the said Court cannot, in our view, decide the claims of Banks and financial institutions.	None
On the same parity of reasoning as in Damji Valji Shahs case, there is no need for the appellant to seek leave of the Company Court to proceed with its claim before the Debt Recovery Tribunal or in respect of the execution proceedings before the Recovery Officer.	None
Nor can they be transferred to the Company Court.	None
It may also be noticed that in the LIC Act of 1956, there was no provision like Section 34 of the RDB Act giving overriding effect to the provisions of the LIC Act.	None
Still this Court upheld the exclusive jurisdiction of the LIC Tribunal observing as follows the provisions of the special Act i.e. the LIC Act will override the provisions of the general Act, the Companies Act which is an Act relating to Companies in general.	None
We are of the view that the appellants case under the RDB Act  with an additional section like section 34  is on a stronger footing for holding that leave of the Company Court is not necessary under Section 527 or under Section 446 for the same reasons.	Reasoning
If the jurisdiction of the Tribunal is exclusive, the Company Court cannot also use its powers under Section 442 against the TribunalRecovery Officer.	Reasoning
Thus, Sections 442, 446 and 537 cannot be applied against the Tribunal.	Reasoning
Purposive interpretation adjudication, execution and working out priorities As there is some difference between various High Courts as to the applicability of the principle of purposive interpretation to the RDB Act, we shall deal with the said question.	None
It is true that it has been held in several judgments of this Court that there is a special purpose behind the provisions in Sections 442, 446 and 537 of the Companies Act, 1956.	None
It has been, in fact, so stated by the Federal Court in Governor General in Council v. Shirmani Sugar Mills Ltd, AIR (33) 1946 SC 16 under the Old Companies Act, 1913.	None
Similarly, this Court in Sudarshan Chits (India) Ltd. v. O. Sukumaran Pillai and others, 1984(4) SCC 657 observed that  not satisfied with sections 442 and 537 and also with Section 446(1) (which was similar to Section 171 of the Old Companies Act, 1913),  Parliament enacted the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 and brought in the present subsections (2) and (3) into Section 446.	None
This Court pointed out that instead of allowing claims to be proceeded with against these companies in various Civil Courts, Parliament declared that wherever winding up proceedings were pending or when an order of winding up was passed, it was necessary to save the company from this prolix and expensive litigation and to accelerate the disposal of winding up proceedings, and a cheap and summary remedy was devised by conferring jurisdiction on the Company Court to entertain suits and proceedings in respect of claims for and against the company.	None
That being the object behind enacting Section 446(2), it was held that the Companies Act must receive such construction at the hands of the Court as would advance the object and at any rate not thwart it.	None
In other words, the principle of purposive interpretation was, as contended by respondents counsel, applied while construing these provisions of the Companies Act.	None
This principle was applied by some High Courts to hold that provisions of the Companies Act can be invoked against the Tribunal.31.	None
While it is true that the principle of purposive interpretation has been applied by the Supreme Court in favour of jurisdiction and powers of the Company Court in Sudarshan Chits (P) Ltd. case, and other cases the said principle, in our view, cannot be invoked in the present case against the Debt Recovery Tribunal in view of the superior purpose of the RDB Act and the special provisions contained therein.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the very same principle mentioned above equally applies to the TribunalRecovery Officer under the RDB Act, 1993 because the purpose of the said Act is something more important than the purpose of Sections 442, 446 and 537 of the Companies Act.	Reasoning
It was intended that there should be a speedy and summary remedy for recovery of thousands of crores which were due to the Banks and to financial institutions, so that the delays occurring in winding up proceedings could be avoided.	None
Tiwari Committee Report adjudication, execution and priorities In the Tiwari Committee Report of 1981, it was stated in Chapter VIII, para 8.2 that in respect of suits by Banks and financial institutions there have been abnormal delays at the stage of trial as well as the stage of execution in various Courts and hence it stated the principle that the State should have a special procedure to enforce its own demands should equally be extended to the recovery of dues of banks and financial institutions as well.	None
?	None
3v?3 33.	None
In fact, it was recommended that a Tribunal under Articles 323A and 323B should be constituted.	None
The Tribunal should not be bogged down by the Civil Procedure Code but should have a simple procedure guided only by principles of natural justice.	None
It was stated by the tribunals should follow simple and summary procedure in accordance with the principles of natural justice.	None
The Tiwari Committee also prepared a draft of the proposed legislation, in Annexure XI to its Report.	None
It recommended disposal of cases in three months.	None
It stated in Annexure XI to the Report that all execution proceedings were to be initiated only before the Adjudication Officer so that such execution proceedings could be completed speedily.	None
The above Report of 1981 was followed ten years later by the M. Narasimham Committee Report which in Chapter V stated that the special legislation recommended by the Tiwari Committee in 1981 should be immediately enacted.	None
The latter Committee too observed We regard setting up the Special Tribunals as critical to the successful implementation of the financial sector reforms, to ensure speedy remedy of adjudication and execution against defaulters.	None
Even in regard to priorities among creditors, the said Committee stated in Annexure I as follows The Adjudication Officer will have such power to distribute the sale proceeds to the Banks and Financial Institutions being secured creditors, in accordance with interse agreementarrangement between thereto in accordance with the priorities in the law.	None
The above recommendations as to working out priorities have now been brought into the Act with greater clarity under Section 19(19) of Ordinance 12000.	None
Priorities, so far as the amounts realised under the RDB Act are concerned, are to be worked out only by the Tribunal under the RDB Act.	None
Section 19(19) of the RDB Act reads as follows Where a certificate of recovery is issued against a company registered under the Companies Act, 1956, the Tribunal may order the sale proceeds of such company to be distributed among its secured creditors in accordance with the provisions of Section 529A of the Companies Act, 1956 and to pay the surplus, if any, to the Company.	None
Section 19(19) is clearly inconsistent with Section 446 and other provisions of the Companies Act.	None
Only Section 529A is attracted to proceedings before the Tribunal.	None
Thus, on questions of adjudication, execution and working out priorities, the special provisions made in the RDB Act have to be applied.	None
Special law v. general law At the same time, some High Courts have rightly held that the Companies Act is a general Act and does not prevail under the RDB Act.	None
They have relied upon Union of India v. India Fisheries, 1965(3)	None
SCR 679.	None
There can be a situation in law where the same statute is treated as a special statute visavis one legislation and again as a general statute visavis yet another legislation.	None
Such situations do arise as held in Life Insurance Corporation of India v. D.J. Bahadur, AIR 1980 SC 2181 .	None
It was there observed for certain cases, an Act may be general and for certain other purposes, it may be special and the Court cannot blur a distinction when dealing with finer points of law.	None
For example, a Rent Control Act may be a special statute as compared to the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
But visavis an Act permitting eviction from public premises or some special class of buildings, the Rent Control Act maybe a general statute.	None
In fact in Damji Vaji Shahs case (supra) already referred to, this Court has observed that visavis the LIC Act, 1956, the Companies Act, 1956 can be treated as a general statute.	None
This is clear from para 19 of that judgment.	None
It was observed Further, the provisions of the Special Act, i.e. LIC Act, will override the provisions of the general Act, viz the Companies Act which is an Act relating to companies in general.	None
Thus, some High Courts rightly treated the Companies Act as a general statute, and the RDB Act as a special statute overriding the general statute.	Reasoning
Special law versus special law Alternatively, the Companies Act, 1956 and the RDB Act can both the treated as special laws, and the principle that when there are two special laws, the latter will normally prevail over the former if there is a provision in the latter special Act giving overriding effect, can also be applied.	None
Such a provision is there in the RDB Act, namely, section 34.	None
A similar situation arose in Maharashtra Tubes Ltd. v. State Industrial and Investment Corporation of India, 1993(2) SCC 144 where there was inconsistency between two special laws, the Finance Corporation Act, 1951 and the Sick Industries Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985.	None
The latter contained Section 32 which gave overriding effect to its provisions and was held to prevail over the former.	None
It was pointed out by Ahmadi, J. that both special statutes contained nonobstante clauses but that the 1985 Act being a subsequent enactment, the nonobstante clause therein would ordinarily prevail over the nonobstante clause in Section 46B of the 1951 Act unless it is found that the 1985 Act is a general statute and the 1951 statute is a special one.	None
Therefore, in view of Section 34 of the RDB Act, the said Act overrides the Companies Act, to the extent there is anything inconsistent between the Acts.	None
Other rulings of Supreme Court and High Courts cited by counsel It was then argued for the respondents that the proceedings before the TribunalRecovery Officer under the RDB Act, 1993 are legal proceedings and could be stayed under Section 537 read with Section 442 and reliance was placed on the decision of the Federal Court in Governor General in Council v. Shrimani Sugar Mills Ltd., AIR (33) 1946 FC 16.	None
In our view, this judgment cannot help the respondents.	None
In the above case the Income tax the respondents.	None
In the above case the Income Tax Officer tried to demand income tax from the Company through a certificate got issued by the Collector and the demand was sent to the official liquidator.	None
The official liquidator filed an application under Section 171 of the Old Act (corresponding to Section 445(1) of the 1956 Act) and obtained stay and required a direction from the Company Court that the Income Tax Officer should seek leave under Section 232(1)(a) (corresponding to Section 537 of the 1956 Act).	None
It was held that the limited priority extended to Crown debts was not sufficient to enable the Income Tax Officer to avoid the provisions of the Companies Act and that the Crown was bound by the provisions of the Companies Act.	None
The cases in Re Webb and Co., 1922(2)	None
Ch. 369(A) and Food Controller v., Cork, 1923 AC 547 were followed.	None
It was also held that the proceedings taken by the Income Tax Officer though they were not akin to proceedings in a Court, they were still legal proceedings as they were initiated under a statute.	None
In our opinion, this decision cannot help the respondents inasmuch as, as pointed out above, the jurisdiction of the TribunalRecovery Officer under the RDB Act is exclusive and Section 34 gives overriding effect to the provisions of the RDB Act.	None
No provision similar to section 34 was available in the above case before the Federal Court.	None
The decision of this Court in M.K. Ranganathan v. Govt. of Madras, AIR 1955 SC 604 cannot also help the respondent.	None
That was a case in which a secured creditor standing outside the winding up sold the property of the company, pending a winding up petition, by private sale.	None
It was pointed out by this Court (see para 15) that such a sale by a secured creditor, who opted to stand outside the winding up proceedings, would be permissible without leave of the Company Court.	None
It might be different if the secured creditor tried to sell the property through a Court by filing a suit or other proceeding.	None
It was argued there that the 1936 Amendment to the Companies Act in Section 232(1) (corresponding to Section 537 of the new Act) introduced the words or any sale held without leave of the Court of any of the properties, and those words were introduced for the purpose of staying even private sales by the secured creditor unless leave was obtained for such sales.	None
This contention was rejected and it was held that, even after the 1936 Amendment, the private sale by the secured creditor standing outside the winding up proceedings was valid without leave of the Company Court.	None
Learned counsel for respondent relied upon para 24 of the judgment which stated that Section 171 (corresponding to Section 446(1)) was supplementary to Section 232 and 229 (corresponding to Section 529 of the new Act).	None
But the said observations, in our view, cannot help the respondents, in view of the reasons given above.40.	Reasoning
When the matter was listed for fresh arguments, learned counsel for the respondent relied upon Ram Narain v. The Simla Banking and Industrial Co. Ltd., AIR 1956 SC 614 to contend that in that case the Court (the High Court of Punjab) which was winding up the Banking Company was held entitled to transfer the execution case pending before a Tribunal to the High Court and to dispose of the same.	Reasoning
That case is, in our view, distinguishable.	Reasoning
The facts there were that the Tribunal was one constituted under the Displaced Persons (Debt Adjustment) Act, 1951, while the High Court of Punjab was exercising special powers under Sections 45A, 45B and 45C of the Banking Companies Act, 1949 (as amended in 1953) for winding up a Banking Company).	Reasoning
Earlier, under the 1913 Act, the District Court was dealing with winding up proceedings but so far as Banking Companies were concerned, the Banking Companies Act, 1949 was amended in 1953 giving powers to the High Court to wind up Banking Companies.	Reasoning
It was held that the latter Act of 1953 prevailed over the former Act of 1951 in view of Section 45A, and that the legislative intention was to prescribe a speedy procedure for the winding up of the Banking Companies outside the provisions of the Companies Act, 1913.	Reasoning
Section 45B conferred exclusive jurisdiction on the High Court (there the Punjab High Court) in this behalf.	None
The more important distinguishing feature between that case and the present one is that Section 2 of the Banking Companies Act, 1949 specifically provided that its provisions would be in addition to those in the Companies Act and it was held that Sections 171 and 232 of the Companies Act, 1913 were available to the High Court as a winding up Court to stay the execution proceedings taken pursuant to the decree of the Tribunal under the 1951 Act and to transfer them to the High Court.	Reasoning
But the position under the RDB Act is different.	Reasoning
Sections 442, 446 and 537 are not saved by the RDB Act.	Reasoning
Even Section 34(2) of the RDB Act does not save the provisions of the Companies Act.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the respondent then relied upon certain observations in a recent case in Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation v. Srinivas Agencies, 1996(4)	None
SCC 165 made in relation to RDB Act, 1993 and to Sections 529 and 529A of the Companies Act.	None
That judgment related to a batch of appeals against the judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court dated 23.8.1989a and certain SLPs.	None
(C) 1010191 and 1105591 (from Kerala) (the Kerala SLPs were registered as C.As. of 1996).	None
(see here facts in ICICI v. Vanjinad Leathers Ltd., AIR 1997 Kerala 273).	None
It has to be noticed that when the A.P. High Court decided the matter and when the special leave petitions from Kerala were filed in 1991, the RDB Act, 1993 had not yet been enacted.	None
But much later by the time the Civil appeals came up for disposal on 22.2.1996, the RDB Act of 1993 had been passed.	None
The above ruling of this Court did not concern itself with the RDB Act directly on facts.	None
The only issues which arose in that case, as stated in para 5 of the judgment, were viz.	None
(1) when should leave of the winding up Court be granted to a secured creditor to proceed with the suit after an order of winding up has been made (2) when should a winding up Court transfer to itself any suit or proceedings by or against the Company during the period of the winding up ?	None
It was in that connection that in para 9, a reference was made to an argument by one of the counsel that in the case of suits which were pending before the date of liquidation, the Court could grant leave imposing reasonable conditions even against secured creditors so that genuine claims of other secured creditors were not affected.	None
As appears from para 10 of the judgment, the learned counsel appearing for one of the parties in that case, appears to have incidentally referred to the provisions of the RDB Act, 1993 which had by then come to be enacted, for contending that while staying suits, the Company Court could impose reasonable conditions, keeping the rationale of the provisions of the RDB Act in mind.	None
In para 12, this Court accepted the submission of counsel and in para 13, it was observed that while granting leave to such secured creditors i.e. in suits, the company Court would also bear in mind the rationale behind the RDB Act.	None
In that connection sections 529 and 529A were also referred to.	None
The said observations do not, in our opinion, have any bearing on the questions before us relating to the exclusive jurisdiction of the TribunalRecovery Officer under the RDB Act.	None
Further, as we shall explain under Points 4 and 5, Section 19(19) of the Ordinance 1 to 2000, refers only to Section 529A and not to Sections 529(1) or (2) and this is one other clear indication that the other provisions of the Companies Act are completely excluded.	None
The decision of the Delhi High Court in Ms Major Syntex Ltd. v. Punjab and Sind Bank, 1977(67)	None
Delhi Law Times 836 no doubt supports the contention of the respondents that the Company Courts jurisdiction prevails over that of the TribunalRecovery Officer under the RDB Act, 1993.	None
The learned Company Judge in that case does, in fact, accept that a statute which is a general one visavis another statute can also be a special one, visavis yet another statute.	None
But the Court, in our view, was not correct in its conclusion that, in this context, the Companies Act, 1956 was not a general statute.	None
Further in the said judgment it was stated that the nonobstante clause in Section 34 of the RDB Act cannot apply because the Acts did not overlap.	None
According to the High Court, there was no provision like Section 446 in the RDB Act laying down the procedure as to what should be done in case of the passing of a winding up order by the Company Court nor a provision for recovery of amounts due from a company against which a winding up petition was pending or was ordered or for distribution from a common pool.	None
But, now Section 19(19) introduced by the Ordinance 12000 clarifies and removes any such doubts in as much as it refers to execution and distribution of sale proceeds by the TribunalRecovery Officer.	None
The observation that the RDB Act does not operate in the same field and hence, leave of the Company Court is necessary under Section 446(1), cannot therefore be accepted.	None
We hold that the Delhi High Courts decision is not correctly decided.	None
We are also unable to agree with the decision of the Calcutta High Court in UCO Bank v. Concast Products Ltd. (in liquidation), 1996(2) Com. L.J. 449.	None
In that case a suit which was filed in the High Court by the Bank against the company stood transferred to the Tribunal under the RDB Act by virtue of Section 31.	None
Later on, the Company went into liquidation.	None
The High Court held that in view of Section 446 of the Companies Act, 1956, the suit had to be transferred back to the Company Court.	None
This was done on the basis that the Companies Act applied even to proceedings before the Tribunal.	None
This is not correct.	None
In our view, the decision of the Kerala High Court in ICICI case (supra) relied upon for the appellant, is correctly decided.	Reasoning
It was pointed out in that case that the records leading to the decision in Srinivas Agencies and batch, 1996(4)	Reasoning
SCC 165 show that suits filed by Banks and financial institutions were pending in civil Courts and a winding up petition was filed later on in the High Court.	Reasoning
The Kerala High Court held that the suits would stand transferred to the Debt Recovery Tribunal under Section 31 of the RDB Act automatically and that section 446 of the Companies Act, 1956 could not be invoked in view of Section 34 of the RDB Act.	Reasoning
The RDB Act was a special law overriding another special law, the Companies Act.	Reasoning
Leave of the Company Court under Section 446(1) was not necessary nor could the suit be transferred to the Company Court under Section 446(2).45.	Reasoning
Similarly, we are of the view that the Patna High Courts decision in Bihar Sales Pvt. Ltd.	Reasoning
In re Vol. 96 Comp.	Reasoning
Cases 40 is also correctly decided.	Reasoning
There the decision of this Court in Srinivas Agencies was not accepted as laying down anything specific about the RDB Act and as to its interpretation.	Reasoning
The decision of the Kerala High Court in Vanjinad Leathers Ltd. was followed.	Reasoning
The decision of the Rajasthan High Court in Rajasthan Finance Corporation v. Official Liquidator, 1963(2) Comp.	Reasoning
LJ 309 relied upon for the respondent cannot be of any help.	Reasoning
That was a case which concerned itself with the State Finance Corporation Act, 1951.	Reasoning
Section 537 of the Companies Act was applied and it was held that the Companies Act did not yield to the provisions of the State Finance Corporation Act, 1951.	Reasoning
There was no provision in the State Finance Corporation Act, 1951 like Section 34 which gave overriding effect to its provisions.46.	Reasoning
For the aforesaid reasons, we hold that at the stage of adjudication under section 17 and execution of the certificates under section 25 etc.	Reasoning
the provisions of the RDB Act, 1993 confer exclusive jurisdiction in the Tribunal and the Recovery Officer in respect of debts payable to Banks and financial institutions and there can be no interference by the Company Court under Section 442 read within Section 537 or under Section 446 of the Companies Act, 1956.	Reasoning
In respect of the monies realised under the RDB Act, the question of priorities among the Banks and financial institutions and other creditors can be decided only by the Tribunal under the RDB Act and in accordance with Section 19(19) read with Section 529A of the Companies Act and in no other manner.	Reasoning
The provisions of the RDB Act, 1993 are to the above extent inconsistent with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and the latter Act has to yield to the provisions of the former.	Reasoning
This position holds good during the pendency of the winding up petition against the debtorcompany and also after a winding up order is passed.	Reasoning
No leave of the Company Court is necessary for initiating or continuing the proceedings under the RDB Act, 1993.	Reasoning
Points 2 and 3 are decided accordingly in favour of the appellant and against the respondents.	None
Point 4 and 5 We have already held that the adjudication, execution and distribution of the saleproceeds and working out priorities as between Banking and financial institutions and other creditors of the defendant company  so far as the monies realised under the RDB Act are concerned  has to be done only by the Tribunal and not by the Company Court.	None
The next question is as to the manner of distribution of these monies between the Banks or financial institutions on the one hand and the other creditors, secured or unsecured of the company under winding up.	None
This question depends upon the effect of Section 19(19) of the RDB Act as introduced by Ordinance 12000.	None
Before we go to Section 19(19), we would like to dispose of another minor point raised by the respondent on the basis of Section 19(2).	None
That subsection permits other banks or financial institutions to be impleaded in the main application filed under Section 19(1) by a Bank or a financial institution.	None
Question is whether Canara Bank can be impleaded in the main application under Section 19 at this stage.	None
We may point out that Section 19(2) permits such impleadment at any stage of the proceedings before a final order is passed.	None
The final order here is the order of adjudication under Section 19(1) as to whether the debt is due or not.	Reasoning
In the present case, the adjudication order in respect of the debt has already been made long back and therefore Section 19(2) does not permit any impleadment in the main application under Section 19(1) at this stage.	Reasoning
Hence, this relief for impeadment cannot be granted.49.	Reasoning
We shall now go into effect of Section 19(19) of the Ordinance 12000.(a) Case where defendant company is not ordered to be wound up Where the defendant company is a company against which no winding up order is passed, the Company, in our view, is like any other defendant and if in such a situation a question of priority arises before the Tribunal, in respect of any monies realised under the RDB Act, as between the Bank or financial institutions on the one hand and the other creditors on the other, it will, in our opinion, be necessary for the Tribunal to decide such questions of priority bearing in mind principles underlying Section 73 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Reasoning
Section 22 of the RDB Act, in our view, gives sufficiently wide powers to the Tribunal and the Appellate Tribunal to decide such questions of priorities, subject only to the principles of natural justice.	Reasoning
This Court has explained that the powers under Section 22 are wider than those of Civil Courts and the only restriction on its powers is that principles of natural justice have to be followed.	Reasoning
See Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Ltd. v. Grapco Industries Ltd. and others, 1999(4) SCC 710 and Allahabad Bank, Calcutta v. Radha Krishna Maity and others, 1999(6) SCC 755.50.	Reasoning
But under Section 73 CPC, sharing in the sale proceeds (here, sale proceeds realised under the RDB Act) is permissible only if a person seeking such share has obtained a decree or an order of adjudication from the Tribunal and has also complied with other conditions laid down under Section 73.	Reasoning
In the present case, the Canara Bank is not in a position to invoke the principles underlying Section 73 CPC because it has not yet obtained any decree or adjudication of its debt from the Tribunal.	Reasoning
Nor has it complied with other provisions underlying Section 73 CPC.	Reasoning
Hence no relief can be granted on the basis of the said principles.(b) Position of secured creditors standing outside winding up and also not so standing out The discussion here in confined to sharing the realisations made by the Recovery Officer under the RDB Act where winding up proceedings are pending in the Company Court against the defendant company.	Reasoning
This is the crucial aspect of the case upon which detailed arguments have been advanced by both sides.	None
Learned counsel for the respondent contended that other secured creditors of the defendant company could seek or share in the realisations made by the Recovery Officer.	None
Counsel relied upon the following words in Section 19(19) to be distributed among its secured creditor and contended that though the said words are followed by the words in accordance with the provisions of Section 529A of the Companies Act, 1956, it is implicit that out of the sale proceeds secured creditors are paid first.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel submitted that, in any event, even if Section 529A is attracted, the provisions of Section 529(1) and (2) are also attracted by implication.	Arguments of Respondent
The sale proceeds realised by the appellant Bank will be subject to claims of the Canara Bank as a secured creditor, even if it has not obtained a decree or adjudication from the Tribunal.	None
The mere existence of the security is sufficient.	None
And as a secured creditor the Canara Bank will have priority over the appellant Bank which has no security in its favour.	None
On the other hand, learned Attorney General has contended that in respect of the monies realised under the RDB Act, the only restriction on the distribution of dividends is the one specified in Section 529A, so far as secured creditors are concerned.	Arguments of Petitioner
The secured creditor has no other general right of preference.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sections 529(1) and (2) are also not attracted.	Arguments of Petitioner
Workmens dues are entitled to highest priority even as against other secured creditors.	Arguments of Petitioner
Any other secured creditors like the respondent Bank has only a limited claim of priority to the extent stated in Section 529A and that too in case the said secured creditor has opted to stand outside the winding up proceedings and realised his dues on the security as per the terms of contract or by private sale as might have been permissible in law.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is argued that in that event, the secured creditor has only the benefit given by subclause (b) of Section 520A, namely, to the extent permitted by clause (c) of the proviso to Section 529(1).	Arguments of Petitioner
Reading the definition of workmens portion in Section 529(3)(c) read with the illustration given in that clause, a secured creditor who stands outside the winding up, in case he loses any p art of that security towards workmens dues at the instance of the liquidator under clause (a), (b) of the proviso to Section 529(1), then to that extent only he has priority over all other creditors under Section 529(1)(b).	None
His priority is confined again to amounts not realised by him or the workmen portion above referred to, whichever is less.	None
In reply to this submission, learned counsel for the respondent has submitted that the words in the first part of the clause (c) to proviso to Section 529(1) so much of the debt due to such secured creditor as could not be realised by him meant the entire unrealised amounts of the secured creditor and not merely the workmens portion.	Arguments of Respondent
To understand the submission, it is necessary to refer to Section 529A as well as Section 529, to the extent relevant for this discussion.	None
They read as follows Section 529A Overriding preferential payments (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act or any other law for the time being force, in the winding up of a company  (a) workmens dues and (b) debts due to secured creditors to the extent such debts rank under clause (c) of the proviso to subsection (1) of Section 529 pari passu with such dues shall be paid in priority to all other debts.	None
The debts payable under clause (a) and clause (b) of subsection (1) shall be paid in full, unless the assets are insufficient to meet them, in which case they shall abate in equal proportions.	None
Section 529.	None
Application of insolvency rules in winding up of insolvent companies  (1) In the winding up of an insolvent company, the same rules shall prevail and to observed with regard to  (a) debts provable (b) the valuation of annuities and future and contingent liabilities and (c) the respective rights of secured and unsecured creditors as are in force for the time being under the law of insolvency with respect to the estates of persons adjudged insolvent provided that the security of every secured creditor sh all be deemed to be subject to a pari passu charge in favour of the workmen to the extent of the workmens portion therein, and, where a secured creditor, instead of relinquishing his security and proving his debt, opts to realise his security,  (a) the liquidator shall be entitled to represent the workmen and enforce such charge (b) any amount realised by the liquidator by way of enforcement of such charge shall be applied rateably for the discharge of workmens dues and (c) so much of the debt due to such secured creditor as could not be realised by him by virtue of the foregoing provisions of this proviso or the amount of the workmens portion in his security, whichever is less, shall rank pari passu with the workmens dues for the purposes of Section 529A.	None
All persons who in any such case would be entitled to prove for and receive dividends out of the assets of the company, may come in under the winding up, and make such claims against the company as they respectively are entitled to make by virtue of this Section.	None
(3)(a) (b) (c) workmens portion, in relation to the security of any secured creditor of a company, means the amount which bears to the value of the security the same proportion as the amount of the workmens dues bears to the aggregate of  (1) the amount of workmens dues and the amount of the debts due to the secured creditors.	None
Illustration  The value of the security of a secured creditor of a company is Rs. 1,00,000.	None
The total amount of the workmens dues is Rs. 1,00,000.	None
The amount of the debts due from the company to its secured creditors is Rs. 3,00,000.	None
The aggregate of the amount of workmens dues and of the amounts of debts due to secured creditor is Rs. 4,00,000.	None
The workmens portion of the security is, therefore, onefourth of the value of the security, that is Rs. 25,000.	None
The respondents contention that Section 19(19) gives priority to all secured creditors to share in the sale proceeds before the TribunalRecovery Officer cannot, in our opinion, be accepted.	Reasoning
The said words are qualified by the words in accordance with the provision of Section 529A.	None
Hence, it is necessary to identify the above limited class of secured creditors who have priority over all others in accordance with Section 529A. Secured creditors fall under two categories.	None
Those who desire to go before the Company Court and those who like to stand outside the winding up.	None
The first category of secured creditors mentioned above are those who go before the company Court for dividend by relinquishing their security in accordance with the insolvency rules mentioned in Section 529.	None
The insolvency rules are those contained in Sections 45 to 50 of the Provincial Insolvency Act.	None
Section 47(2) of that Act states that a secured creditor who wishes to come before the official liquidator has to prove his debt and he can prove his debt only if he relinquishes his security for the benefit of the general body of creditors.	None
In that event, he will rank with the unsecured creditors and has to take his dividend as provided in Section 529(2).	None
Till today, the Canara Bank has not made it clear whether it wants to come under this category.	None
The second class of secured creditors referred to above are those who come under Section 529(1)(b) read with proviso (c) to Section 529(1).	None
These are those who opt to stand outside the winding up to realise their security.	None
Inasmuch as Section 19(19) permits distribution to secured creditors only in accordance with Section 529A, the said category is the one consisting of creditors in certain circumstances can come before the Company Court (here the Tribunal) and claim priority over all other creditors for release of amounts out of the other monies lying in the Company Court (here, the Tribunal).	None
This limited priority is declared in Section 529A(1) but it is restricted only to the extent specified in clause (b) of Section 529A(1).	None
The said provision refers to subclause (c) of the proviso to Section 529(1) and it is necessary to understand the scope of the said provision.	None
Under subclause (c) of the proviso to Section 529(1), the priority of the secured creditor who stands outside the winding up is confined to the Workmens portion as defined in Section 529(3)(c).	None
Workmens portion means the amount which bears to the value of the security, the same proportion which the amount of the workmens dues bears to the aggregate of (a) workmen dues and (b) the amounts of the debts due to all the creditors.	None
This is explained in the illustration under the said provision.	None
If the workmens dues in all are (say) Rs. 1 lakh and the debt due to all secured creditors is Rs. 3 lakhs, the total amount due to all of them comes to Rs. 4 lakhs.	None
Therefore, the workmens share come to 25 (Rs. 1 lakh out of Rs. 4 lakhs).	None
Now if the value of the security of a secured creditor (like Canara Bank( is Rs. 1 lakh, the workmens portion will be Rs. 25,000 which is the prorate amount to be shared by the said secured creditor.	None
By virtue of Section 529(1)(b)	None
his priority over all others out of other monies available in the Tribunal is restricted to Rs. 25,000 only.	None
Reliance is placed by the learned counsel for the respondent on the words so much of the debt due to such secured creditor as could not be realised by him by virtue of the foregoing provisions of this proviso occurring in the first part of the said proviso (c) to Section 529(1).61.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Attorney General on the other hand submitted that the first part of clause (c) of the proviso to Section 529(1) is to be read along with the words or the amount of the workmens portion in his security, whichever is less.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, the priority of the secured creditor is only to the extent that any part of the said security is lost in favour of the workmen consequent to demands made by the liquidator under clause (a), (b) or the said proviso to Section 529(1).	Arguments of Petitioner
No such situation has arisen so far.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that where a secured creditor keeps himself outside as stated in the proviso to Section 529(1) and seeks to recover his dues outside the Company Court, if he loses part of his security towards workmens dues, he gets reimbursed to that extent as a secured creditor, with an overriding priority under Section 529A(1)(b).	Arguments of Petitioner
He gets priority over all other creditors before the Tribunal, to be compensated for this loss out of the monies that may have been realised at the instance of other creditors before the Tribunal.	None
It is pointed out that Canara Bank has neither realised any amount outside winding up nor has it lost any part of its security towards workmens dues.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our view, this contention of the learned Attorney General is well founded and is entitled to be accepted.	None
In our opinion, the words so much of the debt due to such secured creditor as could not be realised by him by virtue of the foregoing provisions of the proviso obviously mean the amount taken away from the private realisation of the secured creditor by the liquidator by way of enforcing the charge for workmens dues under clause (c) of the proviso to Section 529(1) rateably against each secured creditor.	Reasoning
To that extent, the secured creditor  who has stood outside the winding up and who has lost a part of the monies otherwise covered by security  can come before the Tribunal to reimburse himself from out of other monies available in the Tribunal, claiming priority over al creditors, by virtue of Section 529(1)(b).63.	Reasoning
This can be exemplified by three more examples.	Reasoning
(1) Let us assume that the total amount due to a secured creditor is Rs. 90,000 and he has a security valued at Rs. 1 lakh.	Reasoning
This security is sufficient to cover his entire dues.	Reasoning
Let us assume that the total amount due to all secured creditors is Rs. 3 lakhs and workmens dues are Rs. 1 lakh, as in the illustration given under Section 529A(3).	Reasoning
This creditor can be made to part prorata upto with Rs. 25,000 out of his security of one lakh towards the workmens dues.	Reasoning
This is the workmens portion.	Reasoning
That still leaves with him Rs. 75,000 of his security but that is not sufficient to meet his total dues of Rs. 90,000.	Reasoning
Still Rs. 15,000 of his dues have to be cleared.	Reasoning
By virtue of Section 529A(1)(b), he can claim this sum of Rs. 15000 from monies realised by other creditors in the Tribunal on the basis of Section 529A(1)(b) claiming overriding priority as against all other creditors.	Reasoning
This is because the above amount is less than the workmens dues of Rs. 25,000 taken away from the realisation out of his security, as prescribed in clause (c) of the proviso to Section 529(1).	Reasoning
That is what is meant by the words whichever is less.(ii)	Reasoning
Take a case where the total dues of a secured creditor are only Rs. 65,000 and his security is Rs. 1 lakh in value.	Reasoning
The other facts being the same as in the illustration to Section 529(3), the secured creditor loses his security rateably in a sum of Rs. 25,000.	Reasoning
The balance of the available security is Rs. 75,000 and that is sufficient to meet his entire debt of Rs. 65,000.	Reasoning
He has no occasion to claim any extra amount as a secured creditor under Section 529A(1)(b).	None
This situation presents no difficulty.(iii)	None
Take yet another case where the secured creditor has a security valued at Rs. 1 lakh, but his total dues are Rs. 1.10 lakhs.	Reasoning
In other words, Rs. 10,000 are not secured.	Reasoning
Other facts are as in illustration to Section 529(3).	Reasoning
He is made to part with Rs. 25,000 towards workmens dues rateably.	Reasoning
He has Rs. 75,000 available from his security but he has to meet Rs. 1,10,000 and that leaves a balance of Rs. 35,000 (Rs. 1,10,000  Rs. 75,000) to be recovered.	Reasoning
He can claim overriding priority only upto Rs. 25,000 as a secured creditor, under clause (c) to proviso to Section 529(1).	Reasoning
The priority is restricted to Rs. 35,000 only because as between Rs. 25,000 and Rs. 35,000, the amount of Rs. 25,000 answers the description whichever is less.	Reasoning
It will be noticed that, after claiming Rs. 25,000 as a secured creditor out of the realisation of other creditors before the Tribunal, he has still dues upto Rs. 10,000 which remain unsecured.	Reasoning
That was also the unsecured amount to start with initially.64.	Reasoning
The above examples show that the secured creditor who stands outside the winding up and whose claims are restricted to Section 529A read with the clause (c) of proviso to Section 529(1), does not in the ultimate analysis stand to lose any part of his security merely because the workmens portion is taken away from his security.	Reasoning
Whatever he loses towards workmens portion out of his security, can be claimed by him as a secured amount with priority over such creditors out of other realisations made by other creditors whose monies are lying in the Tribunal.	Reasoning
At the same time, his position would not improve from what it was originally and his priority would not extend to his entire unrealised sums which might be in excess of his security.65.	Reasoning
But the point here is that the occasion for such a claim by a secured creditor (here the Canara Bank) against realisations by other creditors (like the Allahabad Bank) under Section 529A read with proviso (c) to Section 529(1) can arise before the Tribunal only if the Canara Bank has stood outside winding up and realised amounts and if it shows that out of the amounts privately realised by it, some portion has been rateably taken away by the liquidator under subclauses (a) and (b) of the proviso to Section 529(1).	Reasoning
It is only then that it can claim that it is to be reimbursed at the same level as a secured creditor with priority over the realisations of other creditors lying in the Tribunal.	Reasoning
None of these conditions is satisfied by Canara Bank.	Reasoning
Thus, Canara Bank does not belong to the class of secured creditors covered by Section 529A(1)(b).	Reasoning
Therefore, the result is that the Canara Bank cannot rely on the words in Section 19(19) vis, to be distributed among its secured creditors for claiming any amount lying in the Tribunal towards its security nor can it claim priority as against the Allahabad Bank.67.	Decision
If none of the conditions required for applying Section 19(19) and Section 529(A) is, therefore, satisfied, then the claim of Canara Bank before the Tribunal can only be on the basis of principles underlying Section 72 CPC.	Decision
There being no decree in its favour from any Court or from any Tribunal, and the other conditions of Section 73 not having been satisfied, no dividend can be claimed out of monies realised at the instance of the Allahabad Bank, even if the Allahabad Bank is an unsecured creditor.68.	Decision
We hold accordingly on points 4 and 5.Point 6 69.	Decision
By the sale of shed No. 15, a sum of Rs. 20 lakhs has been realised and is lying in this Court.	Decision
Other sale proceeds in respect of previous sales are lying with the Recovery Officer.	Decision
In view of our findings on points 1 to 5, no part of the said amounts is payable to the Canara Bank.70.	Decision
The next question is whether the amounts realised under the RDB Act at the instance of the appellant can be straightaway released in its favour.	Decision
Now, even if Section 19(19) read with Section 529A of the Companies Act does not help the respondentCanara Bank, the said provisions can still have an impact on the appellantAllahabad Bank which has no doubt a decree in its favour passed by the Tribunal.	Decision
It s dues are unsecured.	None
The workmens dues have priority over all other creditors, secured and unsecured because of Section 529(1)(a).	Decision
There is no material before us to hold that workmens dues of the defendant company have all been paid.	Decision
In view of the general principles laid down in National Textile Workers Union etc. v. P.R. Ramakrishnan and others, AIR 1983 SC 75 there is an obligation resting on this Court to see that no secured or unsecured creditors including Banks or financial institutions, are paid before the workmens dues are paid.	Decision
We are, therefore, unable to release any amounts in favour of the appellant Bank straightaway.71.	Decision
We, therefore, direct the Registry of the Supreme Court to make over the monies deposited in this Court pursuant to sale of shed No. 15, to the Debt Recovery Tribunal, Delhi and it will be for the said Tribunal to find out if there are any workmens dues by issuing notice to the workmen or other personsbodies which can furnish information in this behalf.	Decision
The above monies to be sent from this Court as well as the monies realised by earlier sales,  in case they are not subject to any pending litigation  have to be first released towards the workmens dues.	Decision
The balance remaining will then be released in favour of the appellant Bank in accordance with law and subject to the various principles stated in this judgment.	Decision
In case any machinery or goods pledged to the Canara Bank are lying in the two other sheds already sold, it will be open to the Canara Bank to move the TribunalRecovery Officer for their removal and for an inventory.	Decision
The impugned order of the High Court is set aside, the appeal is allowed and disposed of as stated above.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs.	Decision
