 ORDER P. Misra, J. Leave granted.	None
The appellantAllahabad bank the decreeholder has raised a question, whether after an order passed in execution proceedings for the sale of plant, machinery and moveable lying at the factory, can the same court later pass an order for sale of the factory of the company as a going concern.	Issue
The submission is, by introducing into the sale of the factory as a going concern has in fact, nullified the execution itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
In order to appreciate the controversy we are hereunder giving short essential facts.	None
The appellantAllahabad bank the decreeholder is a secured creditor of Rishra Steel Limited respondent No. 4 the judgment debtor.	None
On 19th December, 1990 the appellantbank filed a suit against the said company represented by the Official Liquidator in the High Court for a decree for Rs. 4,06,90,548/ together with interest.	None
On 15th July, 1996 a decree was passed by the Calcutta High Court for Rs. 3,47,94,232.85 together with interest.	Facts
The decree provided, payment of decretal amount in 60 equal monthly installments on and from 12th September, 1996 in default the petitioner was entitled to sale the suit properties by public auction or private contract.	Facts
No appeal was preferred from this order nor any installment was paid by the judgmentdebtor.	None
On the 26th August, 1997 the appellantbank applied for execution or decree for the aforesaid amount along with interest.	None
It is relevant to refer that the aforesaid judgmentdebtorcompany went into liquidation under the order of the winding up dated 4th June, 1990.	None
On 12th December, 1997 the High Court appointed the Official Liquidator in the said execution case, to take possession of the assets of the company and directed it to take steps for the sale of the assets of this company.	None
The relevant portion of this order is quoted hereunder The Official Liquidator is appointed Receiver for the purpose of making an inventory of the assets of the Company liquidation (in liquidation) and have the same valued by a qualified Valuer for the purpose of sale of the said assets.	None
The conditions for such sale shall be settled by him subject to confirmation by this Court.	None
On 19th December, 1997 this order was modified by directing that order for sale must be limited to the security of Allahabad bank, which has been plant, machinery and other moveable assets as mentioned in the schedule to the decree.	None
The relevant portion of this order is also quoted hereunder In the order for the sale on the application of the secured creditor Allahabad Bank, the same must be limited to its security and the order dated 121297 is modified to the above extent.	None
At the time of settling the above sale, the question as to whether the suit of the company can be sold as a going concern shall be considered.	None
Thereafter the High Court through its order dated 23rd February, 1998 directed the Official Liquidator to publish an advertisement inviting offers for sale of the assets of the company in liquidation as a going concern.	None
The relevant portion of this order is also quoted hereunder The Official Liquidator is directed to appoint a Valuer in terms of the order dated 12th December, 1997 passed by this Court.	None
Such valuation is to be made within 16th March, 1998.	None
Upon such valuation being made, the Official Liquidator shall, thereafter, publish advertisements within 13th April, 1998, inviting offers for sale of the factory and assets of the Company in liquidation as a going concern.	None
The Official Liquidator shall mention in his sale notice that the intending bidders should be prepared to reemploy the workmen stated to be 468 in number.	None
In their offers and bidders shall indicate as to whether they are prepared to pay all the arrear dues of the workmen and if so the manner in which they proposed to pay off the said dues.	None
It should be mentioned in the said notice that the sale shall be subject to confirmation by this Court.	None
Another order dated 10th July, 1998 was passed by the High Court directing the Official Liquidator to sale all the assets of the company in liquidation as a going concern.	None
On these facts, the submission, on behalf of the appellantbank is that respondent No. 4 Rishra Steels Limited the judgment debtor was not functional even before the date of winding up i.e. it is not a running concern since last more than ten years.	None
The argument is, by order dated 19th December, 1997 the court directed for the sale of plant, machinery and moveable which are security of the bank.	None
There could be no difficulty in execution in terms of this order.	None
This is natural also to first get satisfaction from the securities which stood for the loan.	Arguments of Petitioner
But subsequent order directs sale of the entire assets of the company as a going concern.	Arguments of Petitioner
This means revive the company first to make it operational, reemploy, its employees, which would involve huge investment by the prospective buyer, an Herculean task, making execution practically infructuous.	None
On these facts the appellantbank has filed these appeals against two orders dated 23rd February, 1998 and 10th July, 1998.	Facts
Learned Counsel submits, the Division Bench of the High Court fell in error in not directing plant, machinery and securities to be sold separately by this vast land and building of the factory would still be left, which would fetch much higher price, which may cover the total balance liabilities of the company in liquidation.	None
On the other hand, selling of the factory as a going concern with a rider to absorb all the employees would not only bring low sale price but would negate the execution of the decree.	None
On the other hand the submission on behalf the judgmentdebtor and on behalf of the workmen is such an order is just and proper as it brings back workers to earn their livelihood and simultaneously it would satisfy the decree.	None
It is not in dispute that the appellant bank is the only secured creditor as against the said judgmentdebtor company in liquidation.	None
The total decree along with interest till 31st August, 1999 recorded is Rs. 8,29,48,725.72p.	None
It is true, the court must find that method of sale of the assets or of the company, which brings maximum price to satisfy its creditors.	None
This may, in a given case, include recovery through installments out of the production of the company.	None
This would depend on the potentiality, viability and health of a company.	None
Sometimes when company is taken over under Section 29 of the Financial Corporation Act, corporation may run or get the factory run to recover the loan.	None
In another set of cases, where company has become nonfunctional, sick, due to its heavy debt, lack of production, mismanagement etc.	None
then possibility of its revival is examined through expert statutory body the BIFR, It is only after scrutiny a decision is made to help in revival.	None
It may order if no revival is possible.	None
If company agrees with conditions imposed under any scheme framed by BIFR, if revival is possible such company may be brought back as running concern, with hope of its revival.	None
But, if a company has reached a skeleton stage, where its revival is not possible, its assets are sold, to pay back the creditors.	None
In the present case, undisputedly an order of winding up was passed as far back as on 4th June, 1990.	None
There is nothing on the record to show even any attempt was made by the judgmentdebtor respondentcompany for its revival nor there is any thing on the record, to show that there exist possibility of its revival.	None
Submission for the appellantbank in support of sale being as going concern is made under the garb and in the name if workers to resist the present execution.	None
Learned Counsel for the appellantbank strongly relies on Union Bank of India v. Official Liquidator H.C. of Calcutta and Ors. 2000	None
(5) SCC 274 .	None
This was a case where a company was closed for about 17 years.	None
The relevant portion is quoted hereunder It also appears that the Division Bench was persuaded by the socalled sympathy for the workers, without verification of the fact that the Company was closed before 17 years of sale.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Court has noted in the beginning while narrating the submission of the learned Counsel who appeared for the benefit of the employees that more than 100 employees were starving to death and in the later para stated that the Court was informed by the learned advocate appearing for the employees union that more than 100 employees have already died.	Arguments of Petitioner
Without there being any application on record and without there being proper verification of the facts from the parties concerned, it is not just and proper to make such observations.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not impossible that because of the lapse of 17 years, out of 1200 workers who might have worked in the said factory 100 employees might have died a natural death.	Arguments of Petitioner
But in any circumstances it was unjustified to make a case over it and to accept oral submissions and to dispose of the valuable properties of a Company by stating that the sale of the Company as a going concern was for the benefit of the socalled employees who were not in employment.	Arguments of Petitioner
Submission is, applying this decision and in the absence of any credible material the direction to sale the company as a going concern is not sustainable.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Counsel for the company in liquidation and for the employees union, representing workers submits, for a compassionate consideration, in the interest of workers as a last resort, attempt be made, if possible, to get a buyer who many take over the company as a going concern and be ready to pay the price to satisfy the decree and pay the rest of the liability in a phased manner after the production starts.	None
When indisputably the order of winding up made on 461990 had become final and company has become non functional for long, even BIFR could not come to its rescue and the attempt of the workers union of resuscitate the company by getting a committee constituted for management was repelled by a Division Bench of the High Court and this Court when the SLP filed by the workers Union came to be dismissed on 5121997, it would no doubt be ironical and unjust to get order for the sale of the assets of the company as a going concern.	Reasoning
But, at the same time to give a last try to the fond hopes expressed on behalf of the erstwhile workers, we consider giving one more chance to have it so done within a strict frame of time limit.	None
After considering submission of the learned Counsel for the parties, we are granting this indulgence, by permitting the sale of the company as a going concern with certain conditions only.	None
The Official Liquidator for this purpose shall advertise the sale of the company in liquidationjudgment debtor as a going concern as ordered by the High Court.	None
Such publication shall indicate that the reserve price, shall be the amount equal to the total decree including interest which has accrued upto 31th December, 1999 in favour of the appellantbank, and shall also has to pay the balance interest which accrues, till full payment is made.	None
The publication shall also indicate that purchaser has also to pay the liabilities of other claimants in the proceeding for the liquidation of the company.	Reasoning
Since all the parties are represented before us, including the Official Liquidator, we grant total period of ten weeks from today, for concluding sale, with the aforesaid condition, including the period of advertisement, receiving offers etc.	Decision
In case, it is not concluded within this period, the order of the High Court directing the sale of the company as a going concern shall stand set aside.	Decision
The Official Liquidator will then proceed to sell the assets of the company first by selling the plant, machinery and other moveable assets and the other assets in such a manner to fetch the maximum price, keeping the interest of all other creditors.	Decision
Out of the aforesaid proceed, first the decree in favour of the appellantbank should be satisfied and then to proceed to distribute the balance to other creditors in accordance with law.	Decision
Accordingly the aforesaid two orders of the High Court dated 23rd February, 1998 and 10th July, 1998 stand modified to the extent we have passed this order.	Decision
In these terms these appeals stand disposed of.	Decision
Costs on the parties.	None
