 Beg, J.1.	None
This is a judgment debtors appeal by Certificate of fitness of the case for appeal to this Court granted by the High Court of Allahabad, arising out of an application filed under Order 21, Rule 90, Civil Procedure Code.2.	None
The Respondent decreeholders had obtained a decree for about Rs. 76,000/ against the appellants in a mortgage suit.	Facts
In execution of that decree sales of three items of property, shown as houses belonging to the judgment debtors took place on 551955 and 751955.	Facts
The items were described as follows in the sale proclamation BoundariesEast West North South1.	Facts
Pucca built house bearing previous No. 8 and present No. 5 situate in Colonelgunj, city of Allahabad, together with site and building Materials entire 16 anna share value at Rs.6,350/. University Road Lane and temple of Kaliji House of Marium Bibi and Mohd.	Facts
Raza Colonel	Facts
Ganj Road2.	Facts
Entire house bearing previous No. 805 situate in Mohalla Katra, Pasiyana City of Allahabad, valued at Rs. 5040/.House of Gajadhar Prasad Lane here after House of Maheshwary Prasad Vakil Bungalow House of Gajadhar Prasad Way 3.	Facts
Bungalows bearing Nos. 8 and 10, situate on Club Road, City of Allahabad with compound plot No. 129 together with trees, four walls and outhouses etc. with all things, rights and interests appertaining to bungalows the site land whereof has been acquired on lease dated 20111948 and which lies within the same boundary.	Facts
Bungalow No. 8 valued at Rs. 24.000/ Bungalow No. 10 valued at Rs. 31,200/. Lyal Road Bunglow No. 12 Thornhill RoadClub Road There is no encumbrance .3.	Facts
The main objection of the judgment debtors appellants to this proclamation is that the execution Court had, in giving the valuation of the properties in the proclamation, practically accepted the statements made an behalf of the decreeholders, and, without assigning any reason, failed to mention the values put by the judgmentdebtors on these properties.	Facts
The respective valuations of the properties by the two sides wereTABLE4.	None
On 1851948, long before the proclamation of sale was drawn up on 3131955, the judgment debtors had put in an objection to the execution Courts order of 1421948 relating to the framing of the sale proclamation.	Facts
particularly with regard to the two bungalows situated in the heart of the Civil Lines, the best residential area of Allahabad.	Facts
They had stated that the area or land in the compound in which the two bungalows were situated was three acres and that the whole property was not worth less than Rupees one lac.	Facts
They had objected to the sale of the two bungalows in one lot.	Facts
They had also asserted that the latest municipal assessment of 1944 had displaced the municipal assessment of l934 relied upon by the decreeholder.	Facts
According to the judgmentdebtors, the two bungalows Nos. 8 and 10 on Tej Bahadur Sapru Road were assessed at annual rents of Rs. 1500/ and Rs. 1200/ per year.	Facts
In an affidavit of 1941947 they had asserted that a bungalow situated nearby, assessed at an annual rent of Rs. 1500/, was sold for Rs.	Facts
50,000/ on 23445 when prices were lower.	Facts
On 1851948, the judgmentdebtors had also prayed for the issue of commission, at their expense, presumably to view the property and give a report on relevant facts before actually framing a sale proclamation in accordance with the courts order of 1421948 directing insertion of the value made by it.5.	Facts
On 551955, the Court Amin had himself put up house No, 5 situated in Colonelgunj, Allahabad separately for sale and sold it for Rs. 10,500/.	Facts
On the same date, the Amin sold house No. 5A in Colonelgunj for Rs. 8500/ and also house No. 5B separately for Rs.	Facts
7,000/.	Facts
Thus, a total amount of Rs. 26,000/ was realised from the sale of the three houses in one compound at Colonelgunj described as one item of property in the sale proclamation.	Facts
They had been valued at Rs. 10,000/ by the decreeholder and Rs. 60,000/ by the judgmentdebtor.	Facts
The court had valued the whole property at Rs. 10,350/, and thus practically assented to the decreeholders valuation and rejected the judgmentdebtors without assigning any reason beyond expressing the opinion that it was exaggerated.	Facts
The property in Katra was sold for Rupees 3,750/ on 551955.6.	Facts
After the sale, the judgment debtors applied to set aside the sales on the ground of fraud and material irregularity in conducting them and complained of substantial injury.	Facts
They relied on uncontroverted assertions made in their affidavit of 1941947 as well as on the assertions made in an application dated 1851948 where it was statedThat the judgmentdebtor is informed that the whole game of the decreeholder is to undervalue the property to get the auction for a song and purchase the property himself.	Facts
This underhand game may be stopped and justice be done.7.	Facts
The learned Counsel for the judgmentdebtors submitted that, on the uncontroverted assertions of the judgment debtors, the conclusion is irresistible that the decreeholder had deliberately misled the Court and had committed a fraud upon it.	Facts
It was urged that the decreeholders game had succeeded because they had themselves bought the two bungalows on Tej Bahadur Sapru Road for Rs.	Facts
56,000/. According to the judgment debtors, Bungalow No. 8, in which they carried on the business of cabinet making, could be let for Rs. 250/ per month and was itself worth that much.8.	Facts
The Execution Court had relied upon the Amins report for holding that the two bungalows could be properly sold as a single unit because the servants quarters for the two bungalows, which were situated in one compound were the same.	Facts
The judgment debtors application had been dismissed for absence of material irregularity or fraud and want of proof of substantial injury as a result of these auction sales.	Facts
A Division Bench of the High Court had affirmed these findings, but had certified the case, under Art.	Facts
133 of the Constitution of India, as fit one for an appeal to this Court.9.	Facts
Two questions arise before us for decision.	Issue
They are firstly, whether there was either fraud upon the court or material irregularity in conducting the auction sales and secondly.	Issue
whether substantial injury to the judgmentdebtor had been proved to have resulted from the auction sales.10.	Issue
It may be mentioned here that no one has put in appearance on behalf of the decreeholders Respondents Mr. J. M. Chatterjee, appearing on behalf of the Judgmentdebtorsappellants, stated that he did not want to press objections to sales of Colonelgunj and Katra properties.	None
Indeed their auction purchasers were not impleaded.	None
Therefore, we will refrain from deciding any question relating to Colonelgunj and Katra properties.11.	None
We will now consider the question of material irregularity in ordering and conducting the auction sale of the two bungalows on Sir Tej Bahadur Sapru Road (formerly known as Club Road).	None
The provision which was said to have been infringed is Order 21.	None
Rule 66 (2).12.	None
The whole of Rule 66 reads as followsRule 66 (1).	None
Where any property is ordered to be sold by public auction in execution of a decree, the court shall cause a proclamation of the intended sale to be made in the language of such Court.(2)	None
Such proclamation shall be drawn up after notice to the decreeholder and the judgmentdebtor and shall state the time and place of sale, and specify as fairly and accurately as possible(a) the property to be sold(b) the revenue assessed upon the estate or part of the estate where the property to be sold is an interest in an estate or in part of an estate paying revenue to the Government(c) any encumbrance to which the property is liable(d) the amount for the recovery of which the sale is ordered and.(e) every other thing which the Court considers material for a purchaser to know in order to judge the nature and value of the property.(3)	None
Every application for an order for sale under this rule shall be accompanied by a statement signed and verified in the manner hereinbefore prescribed for the signing and verification of pleadings and containing, so far as they are known to or can be ascertained by the person making the verification the matters required by subrule (2) to be specified in the proclamation.(4)	None
For the purpose of ascertaining the matters to be specified in the proclamation, the Court may summon any person whom it thinks necessary to summon and may examine him in respect to any such matters and require him to produce any document in his possession or power relating thereto.13.	None
It was submitted that the Court should not have put its own valuation on the property, as such a procedure was certain to prejudice the minds of prospective purchasers with regard to the value of the property to be auctioned.	None
We find that there is some conflict of opinion in the High Courts on this question.	None
The Madras High Court, in S. K. Veeraswami Pillai v. Kalyanasundaran Mudaliar AIR 1927 Mad 1009 (1) Srinivasan v. Andhra Bank Ltd., AIR 1949 Mad 398 Yellappa Naidu v. G. Venugopal AIR 1958 Mad 423 and the Allahabad High Court, in Md. Said Khan v. Md.	None
Abdus Sami Khan AIR 1932 All 664 Dwarka Dass v. Bhawani Prasad AIR 1960 All 510 have held that it is unnecessary for the Court to give its own estimate.	None
The Calcutta High Court in Rajah Ramessur Prashad Narain Singh v. Rai Sham Kissen, (1904) 8 Cal WN 257 Saurendra Mohan Tagore v. Hurruk Chand (1908) 12 Cal WN 542 Bejoy Singh Dadhulia v. Ashutosh Gossain, AIR 1924	None
Cal 589 Lachira v. Rameshvar Singh AIR 1930 Cal 781 Pashupati Nath v. Bank of Behar, AIR 1932 Cal 141 , New Birbhum Coal Co. Ltd. v. Surendra Nath Laik, AIR 1934 Cal 205 the Patna High Court in Raghunath Singh v. Nazari Sahu AIR 1917 Pat 381 and Mt. Golab Kuer v. Mt. Bibi Saira AIR 1919 Pat 372 and the Rangoon High Court in A. M. K. M. Firm v. Baishmaw, AIR 1937 Rang 137 have expressed opinions favouring giving of the Courts own estimate of the value of the property to be sold.	None
But, a mere acceptance of the valuation given by the decreeholder has been held to be material irregularity in A. M. K. M. Firm v. Baishmaw (Supra).	None
The High Court of Bombay, in Charandas Vasanji v. Dossabhoy Maganlal AIR 1939	None
Bom 182 Premaraj Pannalal Shop v. Sadabai AIR 1935	None
Bom 331 has held that, although, it is not necessary for the execution Court to value the property to be sold, yet, it may do so if it thinks fit.	None
In Sitabai Rambhau Marathe v. Gangadhar Dhanram AIR 1935	None
Bom 331 however, the Bombay High Court held that the Court is bound to hold an enquiry as to the value of the property and to state it in the sale proclamation.	None
Although the Madras High Court had held that it is not necessary for the Court to give its own valuation, it expressed the opinion that it is desirable, where there is a wide divergence between the valuation of the decreeholder and of the Judgment debtor, to have property valued through an Amin and to state it in the proclamation The Calcutta view, in some of the cases mentioned above was that, although the Court need not give its own valuation of the property in the sale proclamation, it would be justified in stating the valuation given by the parties.14.	None
It may be noticed here that there have been amendments of Order 21, Rule 66 by different High Courts from 1929 onwards dealing with the question of valuation.	None
The Calcutta and the Punjab High Courts have made it clear that it shall not be necessary for the Court itself to give its own estimate of the value of the property but the proclamation shall include the estimate, if any, given by either or both the parties.	None
In Andhra Pradesh, Order 21, Rule 66 (2) (e) has been amended to make it obligatory to give the value of the property as stated (i) by the decreeholder (ii) by the judgmentdebtor.	None
The Madras and Kerala High Courts have also adopted the rule as amended by the Andhra Pradesh High Court.	None
The Madhya Pradesh High Court amendment only mentions that the particulars to be provided may include the decreeholders estimate of the approximate market price.	None
The Patna High Court amendment provides That no estimate of the value of the property, other than those, if any, made by the decreeholder and judgmentdebtor respectively together with a statement that the Court does not vouch for the accuracy of either, shall be inserted in the sale proclamation.15.	None
A review of the authorities as well as the amendments to Rule 66 (2) (e) make it abundantly clear that the Court, when stating the estimated value of the property to be sold, must not accept merely the ipse dixit of one side.	Reasoning
It is certainly not necessary for it to state its own estimate.	Reasoning
If this were required, it may, to be fair, necessitate insertion of something like a summary of a judicially considered order, giving its grounds, in the sale proclamation which may confuse bidders.	Reasoning
It may also be quite misleading if the Courts estimate is erroneous.	Reasoning
Moreover, Rule 66 (2) (e) requires the Court to state only the facts it considers material for a purchaser to judge the value and nature of the property himself.	Reasoning
Hence, the purchaser should be left to judge the value for himself.	Reasoning
But. essential facts which have a being on the very material question of value of the property and which would assist the purchaser in forming his own opinion must be stated.	Reasoning
That is, after all, the whole object of Order 21, Rule 66 (2) (e), Civil Procedure Code.	Reasoning
The Court has only to decide what all these material particulars are in each case.	None
We think that this is an obligation imposed by Rule 66 (2) (e).	None
In discharging it, the Court should normally state the valuation given by both the decreeholder as well as the judgment debtor where they have both valued the property and these do not appear fantastic.	None
It may usefully state other material facts, such as the area of land, nature of rights in it, municipal assessment, actual rents realised, which could reasonably be expected to effect valuation.	None
What could be reasonably and usefully stated succinctly in a sale proclamation has to be determined on the facts of each particular case.	None
Inflexible rules are not desirable on such a question.16.	None
In the case before us, the execution Court had practically accepted, as its own valuation, without indicating reasonable grounds for this preference, whatever the decree holders had asserted about the value of the property.	Reasoning
It did not bother to seriously even consider the objections of the judgmentdebtors.	Reasoning
We think that the duty to consider what particulars should be inserted in the sale proclamation and how the sale ought to be conducted should be performed judicially and reasonably.	Reasoning
If the execution Court does not, as it did not in the case before us, apply its mind or give any consideration whatsoever to the objections of the .judgmentdebtor we think a material irregularity would be committed by the execution Court.	Reasoning
It is not necessary for the execution Court to order the insertion of a judicially passed order in the sale proclamation itself, but, it should pass an order showing that it applied its mind to the need for determining all the essential particulars, which would reasonably be looked for by a purchaser, and which should be inserted in the sale proclamation.	Reasoning
The order should show that it considered the objections.	Reasoning
if any, of the decreeholders or the judgment debtors as the case may be.	Reasoning
It should not merely accept unhesitatingly the ipse dixit of one side.	Reasoning
We think that the execution Court had not performed its duty fairly and reasonably in this case.	Reasoning
After embarking on the difficult task of valuation, it rejected the judgmentdebtors figures by merely observing that they are exaggerated and practically accepted without hesitation whatever the decreeholders submitted, but this valuation was proved to be incorrect judged by the results of auction sales taken as a whole.17.	Reasoning
Mr. J. N. Chatterji relied upon the following passage in Marudanavagam Pillai v. Manickavasakam Chettiar, AIR 1945 PC 67 at p. 70If	None
the respondent knew the true facts, if he purchased at what he knew was too low a figure based on an upset price accepted by the Court owing to his own initial misrepresentation and subsequent suppression of material facts, his conduct would amount to fraud on the Court as the learned subordinate judge points out.18.	None
It is not necessary for us to decide whether the decreeholders conduct in the case before us would amount to actual fraud practiced on the Court with regard to the valuation.	None
The judgmentdebtors were there with their own valuation and had even applied for the appointment of a Commissioner at their expense to report about matters affecting the value of the property.	None
They had asserted that the two bungalows at Tej Bahadur Sapru Road would fetch a much higher value if sold separately The execution court should have at least performed the duty of considering whether these objections were well founded.19.	None
We find from a perusal of the sale proclamation in this case that even the area of the compound in which the two bungalows were situated was not there.	Reasoning
The land in the compound is evidently nazool lease hold land but the unexpired period of the lease or rent payable on it are not mentioned.	Reasoning
It was not stated whether the bungalows, which were valued separately, would be sold as one or two items of property.	Reasoning
Probably, it was left to the Amin to exercise his own discretion in this matter as he had exercised it in the case of Colonelgunj property.	Reasoning
The cumulative effect of all the features of the case mentioned above is that we think that there was material irregularity here in the conduct of the execution sale of the two.20.	Reasoning
We now turn to the question of substantial injury.	Reasoning
The result of the separate sales of the houses in Colonelgunj was that, when sale prices were added up, they fetched a considerably higher price than that put upon these properties, lumped together in one lot, by the decreeholders.	Reasoning
The High Court had also found that sales of the two bungalows on the Tej Bahadur Sapru Road separately would probably similarly have fetched a higher price.	Reasoning
The affidavit dated 1971947 filed by the judgmentdebtors, as stated above, had not been controverted by any material put forward by the decreeholders.21.	Reasoning
We, therefore, think that there is enough evidence to indicate that the judgmentdebtors had suffered substantial injury so far as the sale of the two bungalows numbers 8 and 10 on Tej Bahadur Sapru Road, Allahabad, are concerned.22.	Reasoning
The result is that we allow this appeal to the extent that we set aside the judgments and orders of the High Court and of the execution Court with regard to the sale of bungalows Nos. 8 and 10, together with their compound, and dismiss it as regards the other properties.	Decision
We also set aside the execution sale of 751955 of these two bungalows with all the land in their compound.	Decision
We order that these two bungalows will be sold afresh after judicially considering and deciding the question whether they can be sold separately and what particulars should he inserted in the sale proclamation.	Decision
The parties will bear their own costs.23.	None
Appeal partly allowed.	None
