 Subba Rao, J. 1.	None
These two appeals, one by special leave and the other by certificate, raise the question whether notice can be issued at any time for reassessment under S. 34 (1) (a), as amended by the Finance Act, 1956, of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, hereinafter called the Act, in respect of a concealed income to which S. 34 (1A) thereof applied.	Issue
2.	None
The facts may be briefly stated.	Facts
Messrs. Shahzada and Sons, the 1st respondent in both the appeals, was an undivided Hindu family Firm and it was assessed in that capacity upto the assessment year 194546.	Facts
It is alleged that subsequently there was a partition in the family and a new firm came into existence, which took over the business of the family.	Facts
On March 26, 1954, the Incometax Authorities issued a notice to the members of the defunct Hindu undivided family under S. 34 (1) (a) of the Act in respect of the assessment year 194546 on the ground that certain income of the said family had escaped assessment.	Facts
Pursuant to the proceedings so initiated, a sum of Rs. 3,63,000 was added to the original assessment of the said family.	Facts
The assessee took up the matter on appeal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, who held that the said notice was barred by time, though on the merits he confirmed the order of the Incometax Officer.	Facts
The Incometax Department as well as the 1st respondent preferred appeals against the said order to the Incometax Appellate Tribunal.	Facts
The Tribunal held that the notice was barred by time and, therefore, the incometax authorities had no jurisdiction to give a finding on the merits.	Facts
Meanwhile S. 34 (1) (a) of the Act was amended by the Finance Act, 1956, with effect from April 1, 1956, whereunder, subject to certain conditions, a notice under S. 34 (1) (a) could be issued at any time.	Facts
Thereafter on July 25, 1958, the Incometax Officer issued a notice to the 1st respondent calling upon the members who constituted the undivided family to the return for the assessment year 194546.	Facts
Respondents 2 to 5, who were the members of the said undivided Hindu family, appealed to the Central Board of revenue for redress without any success.	Facts
Thereafter, they filed a petition under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution in the High Court of Punjab challenging the notice on various grounds.	Facts
Their main contention was that no notice under S. 34 (1) (a) could be issued in respect of the war years, as the escaped income during the said years was governed by S. 34 (1A) of the Act whereunder a notice could be issued only before March 31, 1956.	Facts
The writ petition came up before a single Judge of the High Court, who referred the following question to a larger BenchWhether or not in the circumstances of the present case the notice under S. 34 issued on 25th July 1958, was barred by time.	Facts
The Division Bench, in its turn, referred the said question to a Full Bench.	Facts
The Full Bench, inter alia, held that S. 34 (1A) was a special provision whereas S. 34 (1) (a) was a general provision and that, as the escaped income of the year 194546 was governed by S. 34 (1A), no notice under S. 34 (1) (a) could be issued.	Facts
In the result, after expressing that view, the Full Bench sent back the case to the single Judge before whom it came in the first instance.	Facts
Dua, J., who heard the petition, following the view expressed by the Full Bench, allowed the petition.	Facts
The appellants thereafter, preferred a Letters Patent appeal against that order to a Division Bench, which dismissed the same.	Facts
Civil Appeal No. 494 of 1964 has been filed by the Revenue by special leave against the order of the Full Bench, dated September 8, 1961, and Civil Appeal No. 495 of 1964, has been filed, by certificate, by the Revenue against the order of the Division Bench confirming that of Dua, J. 3.	Facts
At the outset it will be convenient to read the material provisions of S. 34 fo the Act as amended by the Finance Act, 1956, and by the Incometax (Amendment) Act, 1959.	None
Section 34 (1) If (a) the Incometax Officer has reason to believe that the reason of the omission or failure on the part of an assessee to make a return of his income under S. 22 for any year or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year, income, profits or gains chargeable to incometax have escaped assessment for that year, or have been under assessed, or assessed at too low a rate, or have been made the subject of excessive relief under the Act, or excessive loss or depreciation allowance has been computed, he may in cases falling under Cl.	None
(a) at any time serve on the assessee a notice containing all or any the requirements which may be included in a notice under sub s. (2) of S. 22 and proceed to assess or reassess such income, profits or gains or recompute the loss or depreciation allowance and the provisions of this Act shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly as if the notice were a notice issued under the subsection Provided that the Incometax Officer shall not issue a notice under Cl.	None
(a) of subs.	None
(1)  (i) for any year prior to the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1941 (ii) for any year, if eight years have elapsed after the expiry of that year, unless the income, profits or gains chargeable to incometax which have escaped assessment or have been underassessed or assessed at too low a rate or have been made the subject of excessive relief under this Act or the loss or depreciation allowance which has been computed in excess, amount to, or likely to amount to, one lakh of rupees or more in the aggregate, either for that year, or for that year and any other year or years after which or after each of which eight years have elapsed, not being a year or years ending before the 31st day of March 1941 (iii) for any year, unless he has recorded his reasons for doing so, and, in any case falling under Cl.	None
(ii), unless the Central Board of Revenue, and, in any other case, the Commissioner, is satisfied on such reasons recorded that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice (1A)	None
If in the case of any assessee, the Incometax Officer has reason to believe  (i) that income, profits or gains chargeable to incometax have escaped assessment for any year in respect of which the relevant previous year falls wholly or partly within the period beginning on the 1st day of September 1939, and ending on the 31st day of March 1946, and (ii) that the income, profits or gains which have so escaped assessment for any such year or years amount, or are likely to amount, to one lakh of rupees or more he may, notwithstanding that the period of eight years or, as the case may be, four years specified in subs.	None
(1) has expired in respect thereof, serve on the assessee a notice containing all or any of the requirements which may be included in a notice under subs.	None
(2) of S. 22, and may proceed to assess or reassess the income, profits or gains of the assessee for all or any of the year referred to in Cl.	None
(i), and thereupon the provisions of this Act excepting those contained in Cls.	None
(i) and (iii) of the proviso to subs.	None
(1) and in subss.	None
(2) and (3) of this section, shall so far as may be, apply accordingly.	None
Provided that the Incometax Officer shall not issue a notice under this subsection unless he has recorded his reasons for doing so, and the Central Board of Revenue is satisfied on such reasons recorded that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice Provided further that no such notice shall be issued after the 31st day of March 1956.	None
(1B) Where any assessee to whom a notice has been issued under Cl.	None
(a) of subs.	None
(1) or under subs.	None
(1A) for any of the years ending on the 31st day of March of the years 1941 to 1948 inclusive applies to the Central Board of Revenue at any time within six months from the receipt of such notice or before the assessment or reassessment is made, whichever is earlier, to have the matters relating to his assessment settled, the Central Board of Revenue may, after considering the terms of settlement proposed and subject to the previous approval of the Central Government, accept the terms of such settlement, and, if it does so, shall make an order in accordance with the terms of such settlement specifying among other things the sum of money payable by the assessee.	None
(1C)	None
Any sum specified in a settlement arrived at in pursuance of subs.	None
(1B) may be recovered and any penalty for default in making payment of any such sum may be imposed and recovered in the manner provided in Chap.	None
VI.	None
(1D)	None
Any settlement arrived at under this section shall be conclusive as to the matters stated therein and no person, whose assessments have been so settled, shall be entitled to reopen in any proceeding for the recovery of any sum under this Act or in any subsequent assessment or reassessment proceeding relating to any tax chargeable under this Act or in any other proceeding whatsoever before any Court or other authority any matter which forms part of such settlement.	None
(4) A notice under Cl.	None
(a) of subs.	None
(1) may be issued at any time notwithstanding that at the time of the issue of the notice the period of eight years specified in that subsection before its amendment by Cl.	Reasoning
(a) of S. 18 of the Finance Act, 1956 (18 of 1956) had expired in respect of the year to which the notice relates.	None
Subsection (1A) was inserted in S. 34 of the Act by the Incometax (Amendment) Act, 1954, and it came into force on July 17, 1954.	None
Clause (a) of subs.	None
(1) of S. 34 was amended by the Finance Act, 1956, with effect from April 1, 1956.	Facts
Subsection (1B) of S. 34, which was inserted by the Incometax (Amendment) Act, 1954, was also amended by the Finance Act, 1956, whereunder the words to whom a notice has been issued under Cl.	None
(a) of subs.	None
(1) or under subs.	None
(1A) for any of the years ending on the 31st day of March of the year 1941 to 1948 inclusive were substituted for the words to whom a notice has been issued under subs.	None
(1A).	Reasoning
Subsection (4) was added by the Incometax (Amendment) Act, 1959.	None
4.	None
The gist of the relevant provisions may be stated thus Under S. 34 (1) (a), before it was amended by the Finance Act, 1956, in the case of concealed income a notice for reassessment could be issued within 8 yeas of the end of the relevant year and after the said amendment, notice in respect of the said income could be issued at any time, but it was subject to three conditions, namely, (i) it could not be issued for any year prior to the year ending on March 31, 1941 (ii) such concealed income amounted to one lakh of rupees or more in the aggregate and (iii) the Incometax Officer gave reasons for doing so and obtained the consent of the Central Board of Revenue, Subsection (1A) of S. 34 did not undergo any change after the Finance Act, 1956.	None
Escaped assessment for any year in respect of which the relevant previous year fell within the period beginning on September 1, 1939, and ending on March 31, 1946, could be reached by issuing a notice thereunder	None
but, it was subject to the condition that the income which escaped assessment for any year amounted to or likely to amount to rupees one lakh or more it was subject to a further condition that no such notice should be issued after March 31, 1956.	None
Subsection (1B) of S. 34, as amended in 1956, enabled an assessee to whom a notice has been issued under Cl.	None
(a) of subs.	None
(1) or (1A) for any of the years ending on March 31 of the years 1941 to 1948 inclusive, to apply to the Central Board of Revenue for a settlement of the amount of tax payable by him.	None
Subsection (4), which was inserted in 1959, emphasized the fact that a notice could be issued under S. 34 (1) (a), notwithstanding that the time of 8 years had expired before the Finance Act, 1956, came into force.	None
5.	None
We may at this stage notice the arguments advanced by learned counsel on the interpretation of the said provisions.	None
6.	None
The arguments of Mr. S. T. Desai, learned counsel for the Revenue, may be summarized thus The terms of S. 34 (1) (a), after its amendment by the Finance Act, 1956, are clear and unambiguous and the scope of the expression at any time cannot be curtailed by construction.	Arguments of Petitioner
So construed, proceedings for reassessment in respect of escaped income contemplated by the said clause can be initiated without any, restriction of time.	Arguments of Petitioner
The legislative history of the fasciculus of subsections, namely, subsections (1) (a), (1A), (1B), (1C) and (1D) of S. 34, supports the said construction and explains the relative scope of S. 34 (1) (a) and S. 34 (1A)  the former, as amended by the Finance Act, 1956, operated after Section 34 (1A) ceased to operate so far as the escaped concealed income of war years was concerned.	Arguments of Petitioner
The amendment of S. 34 (1B) by the said Act and the introduction of S. 34 (4) by the Incometax (Amendment) Act, 1959, reinforces the said construction, namely, that the amended S. 34 (1) (a) lifted the ban of limitation also in respect of the escaped income of the war years.	Arguments of Petitioner
The retention of S. 34 (1A) on the statute became necessary as proceedings taken thereunder were pending at the time the Finance Act, 1956, came into force and the consequential provisions, such as S. 34 (1B), etc., with which S. 34 (1A) was integrally connected, could not be applied if the latter was omitted.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, the said subsections still applied to incomes falling under S. 34 (1) (b) in respect of war years.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any view, it must have been retained in superabundant caution and that fact could not restrict the scope of an otherwise clearly expressed provision, viz., S. 34 (1) (a).	Arguments of Petitioner
The construction accepted by the High Court led to the anomalous position of the Legislature prescribing a shorter period of limitation in the case of taxevaders during the war years and no period of limitation for evaders of such income during the prewar and postwar years.	Arguments of Petitioner
This could not have been the intention of the Legislature, as the evasion of tax during the war years was comparatively of larger amounts than during the other periods and for that very reason it had passed the Taxation of Income (Investigation Commission) Act, 1947, which was declared to be void by this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
This contention was accepted by the Bombay and Calcutta High Courts in Laxminarayan R. Rathi v. Incometax Officer, Poona, (1964) 52 ITR 254 (Bom) and Mandanlal Jajodia v. Incometax Officer, Dist.	Arguments of Petitioner
II (1), Calcutta, (1965)	Arguments of Petitioner
58 ITR 693 (Cal), respectively.	Arguments of Petitioner
7. Mr. Palkhivala, learned counsel for the respondents, answered this criticism thus.	Arguments of Respondent
In a taxing Act one has to look merely what is clear stated and, if the interpretation is open to doubt, the construction most beneficial to the subject must be adopted.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 34 (1) (a), before it was amended in 1956, provided for the genus out of which, by the Incometax (Amendment) Act, 1959, the species of S. 34 (1A) was carved out.	Arguments of Respondent
While S. 34 (1) (a) was a general provision, S. 34 (1A) was a special provision.	Arguments of Respondent
On the principle of generalia specialibus nonderogant, the field covered by S. 34 (1A) should be excluded from that covered by S. 34 (1) (a).	Arguments of Respondent
If that was the legal position before the 1956 amendment, the argument proceeded, the same position would continue thereafter, as Parliament retained S. 34 (1A), along with its provisos, as it stood before the amendment and amended only S. 34 (1)(a).	Arguments of Respondent
The lifting of the ban of limitation, therefore, should, on the basis of the said doctrine, be confined to the field covered by S. 34 (1) (a) before the amendment.	Arguments of Respondent
If Parliament intended to do away with the period of limitation in respect of the escaped incomes during the war period, it would not have retained S. 34 (1A) on the statute book for in that event, it would serve no purpose.	Arguments of Respondent
It would be wrong to say that it ceased to be operative after April 1, 1956, for the period of limitation would still apply to proceedings in respect of escaped incomes of the war years.	Arguments of Respondent
Subsection (4) added in S. 34 in the year 1959 and S. 34 (1B), as amended in 1956, would not throw any light on the question, but in a way would support the view that they were concerned only with the escaped incomes covered by S. 34 (1) (a), excluding therefrom those covered by Section 34 (1A).	Arguments of Respondent
The argument based on the alleged anomaly led nowhere and indeed the retention of S. 34 (1A) on the statute book was intentionally done, as the Parliament, having already placed a particular class of assessees under a special and heavy burden, did not think fit to make any provision which was likely to harass them further.	Arguments of Respondent
The ambiguity in the section if any, should go for the benefit of the taxpayer and not the taxgatherer.	Arguments of Respondent
This argument was accepted by the Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat High Courts in Rustomji v. Incometax Officer, Special Investigation Circle, Indore, (1964) 54 ITR 461 (AIR 1965 Madh Pra 170) and Mathurdas Govinddas v. G. N. Gadgil, (1965) 56 ITR 621 (Guj) .	Arguments of Respondent
8.	None
Before we advert to the said arguments, it will be convenient to notice the relevant rules of construction.	Reasoning
The classic statements of Rowlatt, J., in Cape Brandy Syndicate v. Inland Revenue Commrs., (1921) 1 KB 64 at p. 71, still holds the field.	Reasoning
It readsIn a Taxing Act one has to look merely at what is clearly said.	Reasoning
There is no room for any intendment.	Reasoning
There is no equity about a tax.	Reasoning
There is no presumption as to a tax.	Reasoning
Nothing is to be read in, nothing is to be implied.	Reasoning
One can only look fairly at the language used.	Reasoning
To this may be added a rider in a case of reasonable doubt, the construction most beneficial to the subject is to be adopted.	Reasoning
But even so, the fundamental rule of construction is the same for all statutes, whether fiscal or otherwise.	Reasoning
The underlying principle is that the meaning and intention of a statute must be collected from the plain and unambiguous expression used therein rather than from any notions which may be entertained by the Court as to what is just or expedient.	Reasoning
The expressed intention must guide the Court.	Reasoning
Another rule of construction which is relevant to the present enquiry is expressed in the maxim, generalia specialibus nonderogant,which means that when there is a conflict between a general and a special provision, the latter shall prevail.	Reasoning
The said principle has been stated in Craies on Statute Law, 5th Edn., at p. 205, thus The rule is, that whenever there is a particular enactment and a general enactment in the same statute, and the latter, taken in its most comprehensive sense, would overrule the former, the particular enactment must be operative, and the general enactment must be taken to affect only the other parts of the statute to which it may properly apply.	Reasoning
But this rule of construction is not of universal application.	Reasoning
It is subject to the condition that there is nothing in the general provision, expressed or implied, indicating an intention to the contrary see Maxwell on Interpretation of Statutes, 11th Edn., at pp.	None
168169.When the words of a section are clear but its scope is sought to be curtailed by construction, the approach suggested by Lord coke in In re Heydons case, (1584) 3 Co. Rep. 7a, yields better results To arrive at the real meaning, it is always necessary to get an exact conception of the aim, scope, and object of the whole Act to consider, according to Lord Coke 1.	None
What was the law before the Act was passed 2.	Reasoning
What was the mischief or defect for which the law had not provided 3.	Reasoning
What remedy Parliament has appointed and 4.	Reasoning
The reason of the remedy.	Reasoning
9.	None
With these rules of construction in mind, let us, now tackle the problem raised in this case.	Reasoning
Under S. 34 (1) (a), after it was amended by the Finance Act, 1956, a notice in respect of an escaped concealed income could be issued at any time.	Reasoning
The terms of Cl.	Reasoning
(a) and the expression at any time are clear and unambiguous and, if there is nothing in the Act detracting from the width of the said terms, it is clear that a notice can be issued at any time in respect of the concealed income of any year not being a year ending before March 31, 1941.	Reasoning
But S. 34 (1A) provides for the issue of notice in respect of escaped incomes of the previous years within the period beginning on September 1, 1939, and ending on March 31, 1946.	Reasoning
Does this subsection detract from the generality of S. 34 (1) (a)?	Reasoning
The history of the said provision may usefully be noticed.	Reasoning
As we have stated earlier, the Parliament passed the Taxation of Income (Investigation Commission) Act, 1947, mainly to catch the escaped incomes of the war profiteers.	Reasoning
This Court in Suraj Mall Mohta and Co. v. K. V. Vishwanatha Sastri, (1954) 26 ITR 1 (AIR 1954 SC 545 ), and Muthiah v. Commr. of Incometax, (1956) 29 ITR 390 (S) AIR 1956 SC 269 ), held that S. 5 (4) and 5 (1) of the said Act became void on the commencement of the Constitution as offending Art.	Reasoning
14 thereof.	None
The first decision led to the insertion of subss.	None
(1A) to (1D) in S. 34 by the Incometax (Amendment) Act. 1954, with effect from July 17, 1954.	None
The object of the Amending Act was to provide for the assessment or reassessment of persons who had, to a substantial extent, evaded payment of taxes during the war years and for matters connected therewith.	Reasoning
But at the time subs.	None
(1A) was inserted in S. 34, the period of limitation provided with regard to issue of notices under S. 34 (1) (a) was 8 years and for cases falling under S. 34 (1) (b) it was 4 years but as the Incometax (Amendment) Act, 1954, came into force only on July 17, 1954, the said periods of limitation prescribed in respect of escaped concealed incomes during the said period had run out except in respect of one or two years.	Reasoning
So, with the twin object of extending the time and expediting the assessment, the second proviso was introduced therein to the effect that no such notice should be issued after March 31, 1956.	Reasoning
But, notwithstanding the said Act, presumably notices could not have been issued against all the evaders of tax with incomes of rupees one lakh or more during the said period.	Reasoning
Parliament also wanted to bring to tax escaped concealed income during the period not covered by the said years.	Reasoning
With that object in 1956.	Reasoning
S. 34 was amended by the Finance Act.	Reasoning
1956, by which it was provided that notice under S. 34 (1) (a) can be issued at any time.	Reasoning
But sub.s.	Reasoning
(1A) was retained, including the second proviso.	Reasoning
This amendment, along with the other amendments, made by the said Act came into force on April 1, 1956.	Reasoning
In 1959, the said section was again amended by the Indian Incometax (Amendment) Act. 1959.	Reasoning
Under subs (4), as amended by the 1959 Amendment Act, notice under subs.	Reasoning
(1) (a) might be issued at any time notwithstanding that at the time of the issue of notice the period of 8 years specified in the subsection before its amendment by the Finance Act, 1956, had expired in respect of the year to which the notice related.	Reasoning
This amendment was necessitated by the judgment of the Bombay and Calcutta High Courts in Debi Dutt v. T. Belan, (1959) 35 ITR 781 (AIR 1958 Cal 398 ), and S. C. Prashar v. Vasantsen, (1956) 29 ITR 857 ((S) AIR 1956	Reasoning
Bom 530 ), respectively holding that if the right of the Incometax Officer to reopen an assessment was barred under the law for the time being in force, no subsequent enlargement of the time could revive such right in the absence of express words of necessary intendment.	None
Subsection (4) was added to S. 34 to make it abundantly clear that notice under Section 34 (1) (a) could be issued at any time notwithstanding that the said right was barred before the Amendment Act of 1956.	None
This history of the legislation leaves no room for doubt that the intention of the Legislature was to bring the escaped concealed income of rupees one lakh and more to tax without any time limit.	Reasoning
Before the 1956 Act was passed, the period of limitation prescribed for proceeding against concealed incomes of rupees one lakh and more during the war years and the earlier years had expired.	Reasoning
The Legislature stepped in to prevent evasion of taxes on such incomes and lifted the ban of limitation in respect thereof, subject to certain conditions.	Reasoning
10.	None
But the crucial question is, whether the Legislature by making the relevant amendments has succeed to effectuate its intention.	Issue
To state it differently, do the amended provisions carry out its intention?	Issue
11. Section 34 (1) (a), as it now stands on the statute book, expressly states that in cases falling under Cl.	Reasoning
(a) of sub.s.	Reasoning
(1) notice can be served thereunder on an assessee at any time.	Reasoning
The terms of S. 34 (1) (a), read with the 2nd proviso, take in the concealed incomes of all the years commencing from the year ending on March 31, 1941.It does not exclude the income of the war years, but the said incomes are sought to be excluded on the principle of generalia specialibus non derogant.	Reasoning
As we have point out earlier, the said doctrine embodies a rule of construction, but it has no universal application.	Reasoning
To invoke it, the general and special provisions shall occupy the same field.	Reasoning
In this case, both during the period between the amendments of 1954 and 1956 thereafter they occupied different fields.	Reasoning
By July 17, 1954, when subs.	Reasoning
(1A) was introduced in S. 34, no proceedings under S. 34 (1) (a) could be initiated except for the assessment year 194647 in respect of the previous years that fell within the period beginning on September 1, 1939, and ending on March 31, 1946 for they were barred under the unamended section.	Reasoning
Subsection (1A), therefore, practically governed a situation that was not governed by the provisions of Section 34 (1) (a).	Reasoning
It was intended to catch escaped incomes of the war years which were out of the reach of S. 34 (1) (a).	Reasoning
It is not, therefore, appropriate to describe subs.	Reasoning
(1A) as one carved out of subs.	Reasoning
(1) (a) or to call it a species of which subs.	Reasoning
(1) (a) is the genus.	Reasoning
Subsection (1A) operated where subs.	Reasoning
(1) (a) practically ceased to function.	Reasoning
12.	None
Now, coming to the period after the Finance Act, 1956, was passed, i.e., after April 1, 1956, a different situation arose.	Reasoning
The extended period given under the second proviso to subs.	Reasoning
(1A) expired on March 31, 1956.	Reasoning
Thereafter, subs.	Reasoning
(1A) ceased to be operative in the sense that no notice could thereafter be given thereunder.	Reasoning
It worked itself out.	Reasoning
The Legislature could, have extended the period under the second proviso to subs.	Reasoning
(1A), but it did not do so.	Reasoning
It did not give a further lease of life to it instead it removed the period of limitation under subs.	Reasoning
(1) (a), as subs.	Reasoning
(1A) had become practically defunct.	Reasoning
The wide phraselology of subs.	Reasoning
(1) (a) takes in all the escaped concealed incomes during all the years commencing from 1941 and confers a power on the Incometax Officer to give notice there under in respect of the said incomes without any bar of limitation.	Reasoning
There is, therefore, no conflict after April 1, 1956, between subs.	Reasoning
(1) (a) and subs.	Reasoning
(1A) as the later ceased to be operative.	Reasoning
13.	None
There is another way of looking at the problem.	Reasoning
Subsection (1A) does not really prescribe any period of limitation.	Reasoning
It enables the Incometax Officer to take proceedings within a particular time, though the period of limitation had expired.	Reasoning
In this view, no question of carving out a species out of a genus arises.	Reasoning
It conferred a special power on the Incometax Officer and the said power expired on April 1, 1956.	Reasoning
14.	None
There is yet another way of looking at the problem.	Reasoning
The nonobstinate clause in subs.	Reasoning
(1A) indicates that it was enacted to operate notwithstanding that the period of 8 years had expired.	Reasoning
The said subsection served its purpose only when the period of 8 years governed a notice under subs.	Reasoning
(1) (a).	Reasoning
But when that bar of limitation was removed, subs.	Reasoning
(1A) had become otiose.	None
15. Subsection (1B), as amended by the Finance Act of 1956, also throws some light on the interpretation of S. 34.	Reasoning
Before it was amended, an assessee to whom a notice had been issued under subs.	Reasoning
(1) (a) could apply to the Central Board of Revenue for settlement of the amount of tax payable by him.	Reasoning
After the amendment, an assessee to whom a notice was given under subs.	Reasoning
(1) (a) and under subs.	Reasoning
(1A) for any of the years ending on March 31, 1941 to 1948 could apply for such a relief to the Central Board of Revenue.	Reasoning
The years 1941 to 1948 are the war years.	Reasoning
This subsection, therefore, assumes that notice could be issued in respect of the war years under subs.	Reasoning
(1) (a).	Reasoning
The notice contemplated by subs.	Reasoning
(1B) could only be a notice after the amendment of 1956, for such notice could not have been issued earlier under subs.	Reasoning
(1) (a) in respect of the said years.	Reasoning
The notice under subs.	Reasoning
(1A) obviously refers to the notice issued before the amendment of 1956 and pending disposal.	Reasoning
16.	None
Subsection (4) added by the Indian Incometax (Amendment) Act, 1959, also reinforces the said construction.	Reasoning
As indicated earlier, that subsection was added to get over the legal objection that proceedings barred before 1956 were not revived under the 1956 Act.	Reasoning
It is true that subs.	Reasoning
(4) refers only to subs.	Reasoning
(1) (a), but the subsection indicates that the Legislature assumed that proceedings after 1956 could only be taken under subs.	Reasoning
(1) (a).	Reasoning
17.	None
It was asked, with some plausibility, if the Legislature assumed that subs.	Reasoning
(1A) ceased to be operative why it was retained along with its proviso prescribing a period of limitation in the amended section.	Reasoning
Though no new notices could be issued under that subsection after April 1, 1956, notices already issued before that date were pending.	Reasoning
They would be disposed of in the manner prescribed by subss.	Reasoning
(1A), (1B), (1C) and (1D) of S. 34.	Reasoning
All the said subsections formed an integral code.	Reasoning
The Legislature, presumably, intended to keep the said subsections whereunder proceedings had already been initiated and make available to the said proceedings the procedure prescribed under the said provisions.	Reasoning
It may also be that subs.	Reasoning
(1A) was kept in superabundant caution.	Reasoning
Whatever that may be, it cannot in the circumstances mentioned by us, detract from the clear provisions of subs.	Reasoning
(1) (a).	Reasoning
18.	None
We have carefully gone through the judgments of the various High Courts, namely, Bombay, Madhya Pradesh.	Reasoning
Gujarat and Calcutta, cited at the Bar.	Reasoning
We received considerable help from the reasonings contained in the said judgments.	Reasoning
As we have in the course of the judgment dealt with the conflicting reasons given by the High Courts, we do not think it necessary to consider each of the four judgments in detail.	Reasoning
For the reasons mentioned above, we agree with the conclusions arrived at by the Bombay and Calcutta High Courts in preference to those reached by the Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat High Courts.	Reasoning
19.	None
In the result, the order of the High Court is set aside and the petition filed under Art.	Decision
226 of the Constitution is dismissed.	Decision
The appeals are allowed with costs one hearing fee.	Decision
20.	None
Appeals allowed.	None
