 S. Sarkaria, J.1.	None
These appeals by special leave are directed against the judgment of the High Court of Allahabad answering in favour of the assessee the following question referred to it under Section 11 of the U. P. Sales Tax Act, 1948 (for short called the Act)Whether the articles carpet woollen yarn is covered by the term yarn mentioned in Item No. 4 of Notification.	None
No. ST1365/X dated 141960 taxable at 6 pies and 3 pies (sic) per cent respectively or a kind of woollen goods as mentioned at Item No.46 taxable at one anna per rupee according to Notification No. ST905/X dated 3131956 or whether it is an unclassified item taxable at 2.2.	None
M s. Sarin Textile Mills, Agra is a manufacture of and dealer in woollen carpet yarn, popularly known as kati .	None
The relevant assessment years are 19591960 and 196162.	Facts
The only dispute is whether such kati should be taxed as yarn at 3 or as woollen goods at one anna per rupee, under the relevant notification issued under Section 3A or as an unclassified item at 2 under Section 3 of the Act.3.	Facts
The Sales Tax Officer by his order dated 6101965, regarded it as a kind if yarn covered by Entry No. 4, Notification No.ST907/X, dated 313 1956, and so taxed it at six pies per cent for the year 19611962 in view of subsequent notification St 1365/X dated 141960.4.	Facts
On appeal by the assessee, the Assistant Commissioner (Judicial) reversed that interpretation and held that woollen carpet kati was an unclassified item taxable at the rate of 2 per cent.5.	Facts
The Commissioner of Sales Tax moved the Revisional Authority under Section 10 of the Act against the order of the Assistant Commissioner (Judicial).	Facts
The Judge (Revisions) agreed with the interpretation adopted by the Assistant Commissioner (Judicial) and dismissed the revision application.6.	Facts
On applications filed by the Commissioner under Section 11 (3) of the Act, the Judge (Revisions), referred the aforesaid question to the High Court.7.	Facts
The High court also held that the woollen carpet kati is not yarn since it is unspun fibre not used in weaving, and, as such, it is not taxable as a kind of yarn under the aforesaid notifications.	Facts
It further rejected the alternative contention of the Revenue that woollen carpet kati is taxable under the Notification No. ST905/X as woollen goods.	Facts
In the result ,the High Court answered the questions against the Revenue.	Facts
Hence these appeals.8.	None
Mr. Rane, learned Counsel for the appellant contends that the term yarn used in the aforesaid notifications should be interpreted in the sense in which it is understood by persons engaged in the trade.	Arguments of Petitioner
Stress has been placed on the fact that in English, even the assessee has been describing the article in question as woollen carpet yarn.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such kati, it is pointed out is used in the manufacture of carpets by a process of knotting, which in ordinary parlance is described as weaving.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Rane, the distinction drawn by the High Court, between weaving and knotting, being too fine and artificial, is not justified.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is maintained that the Sales Tax Officer had rightly held that all twisted wool fibres are yarn.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since this woollen kati is such a fibre, it is yarn and taxable as such under the aforesaid notifications.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the alternative.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel submits that this article falls within the purview of woollen goods and is taxable as such under Notification No. ST905/X of 1956.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
As against this, Mr. Manchanda, learned Counsel for the assessee contends that in the past for about 8 years, the Revenue had been understanding and treating for the purpose of taxation, woollen carpet kati as an article different from yarn and woollen goods within the contemplation of the aforesaid notifications.	Arguments of Respondent
It is stressed that for the first time it was on 2391963 that the Sales Tax Officer departed from this timehonored interpretation and held woollen carpet kati to be yarn within the said notifications.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the High Courts opinion, that woollen carpet kati is neither yarn nor woollen goods, proceeds on facts found by the Assessing Authority on the basis of evidence adduced regarding the nature and use of this article.	Arguments of Respondent
On those facts it is maintained, no other reasonable interpretation than the one accepted by the High Court is possible .10.	Arguments of Respondent
The notifications concerned issued under Section 3A of the Act, are these(i) Notification No.	None
ST907/X dated 31st March, 1956.It declares that the turnover of certain commodities mentioned therein should be taxed at a single point, at the point of sale by the manufacturer or the importer, at the rate of six pies per rupee.	None
The relevant entry of the notification is No. 4, which readsYarn of all kinds, including unspun fibreused in weaving, other than handspun yarn but excluding cotton yarn in cops and cones.	None
(Emphasis added.)(ii)	None
Notification No. ST1365/X990 1956 dated April 1, 1960.It is also a notification under Section 3A of the Act and the relevant entry is at Item No. 33 which readsYarn of all kinds including unspun fibreused in weavingother than handspun yarn but excluding cotton yarn.(emphasis added).(iii)	None
Notification No. ST905/X dated 31st March, 1956.The relevant entry is at Item No. 46 which readsWoollen goods excluding carpet but including knitting wool.	None
The rate of tax prescribed is one anna per rupee.11.	None
The first point to be considered is,whether woollen carpet kati is yarn within the meaning of Notifications (i) and (ii) catalogued above.12.	None
Yarn has not been defined either in the Act and the Rules, or in the Notifications.	None
We have therefore to construe this term in its ordinary grammatical sense.	None
According to Oxford Dictionary yarn meansAny spun thread specially of kinds prepared for weaving knitting or rope making.13.	None
Websters New World Dictionary also, gives its meaning thusAny fibre, as wool, silk, flax, cotton, nylon etc., spun into strands for weaving, knitting or making thread.14.	None
Thus, a fibre in order to answer the description of yarn in the ordinary commercial sense, must have two characteristics.	Reasoning
Firstly, it should be a spun strand.	Reasoning
Secondly, such strand should be primarily meant for use in weaving, knitting or ropemaking.15.	Reasoning
Now, it is an undisputed fact, in the instant case that woollen carpet kati is unspun fibre.	Reasoning
It lacks the first characteristic of yarn.	Reasoning
It is therefore possible to say that by itself, the expression yarn of all kinds in the notifications, quoted above, would not cover unspun fibres.	Reasoning
But the succeeding phrase including unspun fibre used in weaving qualifies the preceding expression yarn of all kinds.	Reasoning
This phrase, which, in one sense, extends the connotation of yarn by including in it unspun fibre, pinpoints and highlights, on the other hand, the usability of such unspun fibre in weaving as a determinative circumstance.16.	Reasoning
The question thus narrows down into the issue Is woollen carpet kati  which is admittedly unspum fibre used in weaving within the contemplation of these notifications ?	None
Again, weaving has not been defined in these notifications or the other statuary provisions.	None
We have therefore to fall back upon its ordinary dictionary meaning.	None
In that sense, weaving implies the process of forming thread into fabric byinterlacing.	None
The most important method by which wool products are produced is weaving, theinterlacingat right angles of two or more systems of threads.	None
Variations are almost limitless but all are derived from three basic weaves, plain, satin and twill.	None
Hundreds of yarns, found on large spool or beam form the warp.	None
Each yarn is drawn through the eye of a heddle or wire mounted on a harness frame.	None
The alternate raising and lowering of the frames, each with its hundreds of heddles controlling the warp yarns, forms the shed, the space through which the weft or filling yarn is carried by the shuttle, a long streamlined box holding a bobbin of yarn in its hollowed center.	None
Each trip of the shuttle is called a pick.	None
After each pick the harness frames shift position in accordance with the predetermined pattern, producing a new shed or different combination of raised and lowered warp yarns.	None
The filling yarn are beaten down with a weavers reed to make a tighter weave.	None
(Encyclopaedia Brittanica Vol. 23, p. 342, 1971 Edn.)17.	None
Thus weaving is the process of combining warp and weft components.	Reasoning
(respectively lengthwise and cross wise) to make a woven structure.	None
The threads that lie lengthwise are called the warp.	None
The other threads which are combined with the warp and lie widthwise, are called the weft also known as wool .	None
An individual thread from the warp of indefinite length, is called an end each individual length of weft from one edge to the other is called a pick.	None
Consecutive picks are usually consecutive lengths of one piece of weft yarn that is repeatedly folded back on itself.	None
In all methods of weaving before a length of weft is inserted in the warp, the warp is separated, over a short length extending from the cloth already formed, into two sheds.	None
The process is called shedding.	None
The sequence of primary operations in one weaving cycle is thus shedding, picking and beating in (Encyclopaedis Brittanica Vol, 23, page 342).Weaving is differentiated from both warp and weft, knitting from braiding, and from net making, in that these processes all make use of only one set of elements.	None
In addition, there are geometrical differences.	None
(Encyclopaedia ibid)18.	None
The ground having been cleared, it is to be seen whether the process by which wollen carpet kati is used in preparation of carpets, can properly be calledweaving.19.	None
Now, the facts found on the basis of evidence adduced by the Additional Appellate Commissioner and the Judge (Revisions) Sales Tax are that such woollen kati are short cut pieces of unspun fibre (each of which according to the aforesaid Encyclopaedia is about 2 inches in length).It has very little tensile strength and is not used as it is not capable of being used  for weaving, knitting or rope making.	Reasoning
The only use to which the kati or pile is put is by attaching each piece by hand around two warp threads.	None
The kati is not a component of the basic fabric of the carpet.	None
It is not an integral constituent of the warp and weft of the carpet which consists of different spun fibre of great tensile strength i.e. of yarn.	None
The process of lopping or knotting theses pile tuffs is different and distinct from the process of lengthwise and crosswise combining of warp and weft components, which makes the woven basic structure of the carpet.20.In view of these primary facts found by the taxing authorities, the conclusion is inescapable, that woolen carpet kati is neither yarn nor unspun fibre used in weaving withing the contemplation of the aforesaid notifications issued under Section 3A.21.	Reasoning
This takes us to be the second question as to whether such kati would fall within the ambit of woollen goods under Entry 46 of Notification (iii) set out above.22.Here also, we find ourselves in agreement with the Division Bench of the High Court that woollen carpet kati is only raw material from which woollen goods are prepared.	Reasoning
In this connection it is to be noted that yarn used in weaving the warp and weft of carpets, or woollen fibre used in weaving has been made taxable at a far lower rate than woollen goods under the notifications.	Reasoning
It could never be the intention that a mere component or raw material used in the manufacture of woollen goods by a manual process not being a process of weaving, should be taxed at a far higher rate, by treating the same as a finished woollen goods.23.	Reasoning
For the foregoing reasons, we are of the opinion that woollen carpet kati is neither yarn nor woollen good falling under the aforesaid notifications issued under Section 3A. It is an unclassified item and its turnover is liable to tax at the rate of 2 under Section 3 of the Act.	Reasoning
Accordingly we affirm the answer given by the High Court to the question refereed and dismiss theses appeals with one set of costs.24.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	None
