Dr. Arijit Pasayat, J. Challenge in this appeal is to the order passed by a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court.	None
Challenge before the High Court was to the order passed by a learned Single Judge dismissing the Original Petition filed.	None
Background facts as projected by the appellants in a nutshell are as follows The appellants are engaged in the business of limeshell.	Facts
They have been holding the necessary dealers licence issued under the Kerala Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 1967 (hereinafter referred to as the State Rules) under Section 15 of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) and the Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 1967 (in short the Rules).	Facts
The appellants were given the licence under Rule 48C of the State Rules.	None
As per the licence the appellants got the licence to sell stock and exhibit for sale minor minerals under the Rules.	Facts
Along with the licence certain conditions have also been laid down which the appellants are under obligation to comply with.	Facts
When the appellants were not granted the renewal of licence for the period 199798, they approached the High Court by filing O.P.No.14269/1997 which was disposed of by judgment dated 16.2.1998.	Facts
The appellants filed a Writ Appeal against the said judgment and the Division Bench of this Court in Writ Appeal No.547/1998 directed the first respondent to dispose of the representation filed by the appellants.	Facts
Accordingly, the appellants were granted renewal of their licences for the period 199899.	None
The appellants complaint is that certain conditions in the form of restrictions have been.	None
incorporated while issuing the licences.	None
One of such conditions which the appellants attacks is that the minerals permitted to be stocked were to be purchased only from authorised quarrying permit holders on that behalf.	None
Another condition is that they are permitted to sell the minerals only within the State of Kerala that too for domestic and agricultural purposes.	None
The appellants complaint is that as far as Cooperative Societies are concerned, they are not saddled with any such restrictions imposed in the case of the appellants.	None
Thus, according to the appellants, there is a clear discrimination between the Cooperative Societies and the individuals in.	Issue
the matter of restrictions imposed in the licences granted to them.	Issue
Apart from that there is no legal sanction for such restrictions.	None
Learned Single Judge of the High Court was of the view that the licence was granted subject to certain conditions and restrictions.	None
The State Government was empowered to impose such conditions under the Act and the State Rules and the licences were issued in terms of provisions of the Act and the State Rules.	Facts
Since the conditional licence was issued, the licencees cannot take up the benefit of licences without the conditions imposed.5.	Facts
The Division Bench in writ appeal did not specifically refer to these aspects.	Facts
Learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the condition that sales would be for agricultural purposes and inside the State condition cannot be imposed under the Rules.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the State Government and its functionaries on the other hand supported the order of the High Court.8.	Arguments of Respondent
It appears that the impugned conditions stipulated run as follows While selling limeshell or the products made using the minerals you should give to the purchaser Cash memorandum authenticated by the undersigned Assistant Geologist of this office before use.	None
Please note that any consignment of minor minerals without a valid cash memorandum shall be considered as illicit and the competent authority or such authorized person may recover the mineral from the person concerned.	None
It is to be noted that there is no serious challenge to the Condition No.1.	None
Similarly another condition was imposed which read as follows For sale within Kerala State only for domestic and Agricultural purpose.	None
Primarily it has been contended that no reason has been indicated as to the basis for imposition of such conditions and there is no such prescription for licencees who were cooperative societies.	None
It is to be noted that dealer does not extract the minerals.	Reasoning
In State of Tamil Nadu v. M.P.P. Kavery Chetty 1995 (2) SCC 402 considering a similar challenge it was inter alia observed as follows Rules 8D and 19B were introduced into the said Rules by Government Order No. 214 dated 1061992.	Reasoning
The two rules are identical, except that Rule 8D is in Section II which relates to Government lands in which the minerals belong to the Government and Rule 19B is in Section III which relates to ryotwari land in which the minerals belong to Government.	Reasoning
This being so, it is enough to quote Rule 19B. It reads thus19B. Constitution of black, red, pink, grey, green, white or other coloured or multicoloured granites or any rock suitable for use as ornamental and decorative stones quarried by the permitholder etc.	Reasoning
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, on and from 1061992 the sale of the quarried black, red, pink, grey, green, white or other coloured or multicoloured granites or any rock suitable for use as ornamental and decorative stone by every permitholder who has been granted permission by the State Government and every person who has been permitted by a competent court having jurisdiction, for quarrying black, red, pink, grey, green, white or other coloured or multicoloured granites or any rock suitable for use as ornamental and decorative stone, shall be regulated by the State Government or by an officer of the State Government or by a State Government company or by a corporation owned or controlled by the State Government, as the State Government may direct in this behalf.	Reasoning
(2) Where the above sale is regulated by( i ) the State Government or by an officer of the State Government, the minimum price shall be as fixed by the State Government(ii) the State Government company or a corporation owned or controlled by the State Government, the minimum price shall be as fixed by the said company or corporation, as the case may beProvided that in fixing the minimum price under this subrule, the fair market price prevailing at the time of the sale shall be taken into account.18.	Reasoning
On the same day that Rules 8D and 19B were introduced, that is, 1061992, Government Order No. 216 was also issued.	None
It directed, under the provisions of the two rules, that the Tamil Nadu Minerals Limited, a State Government company, would regulate the sale of quarried black, red, pink, grey, green, white or other coloured or multicoloured granite or any rock suitable for use as ornamental and decorative stones.19.	Reasoning
The High Court quashed Rules 8D and 19B principally on the ground that Section 15 of the said Act gave no power to the State Government to frame rules to regulate internal or foreign trade in granite after it had been quarried.	None
Section 15 also did not empower the State Government to frame rules to enable a State Government company or corporation to fix a minimum price for granite.20.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant State submitted that Rules 8D and 19B were valid having regard to the Preamble of the said Act and Section 18 thereof.	None
He submitted that the rulemaking power of the State under Section 15(o) was wide enough to encompass Rules 8D and 19B.23.	None
It is difficult to see how granite resources can be protected by controlling the sale of granite after its excavation and fixing the minimum price thereof.24.	None
There is no power conferred upon the State Government under the said Act to exercise control over minor minerals after they have been excavated.	None
The power of the State Government, as the subordinate rulemaking authority, is restricted in the manner set out in Section 15.	Reasoning
The power to control the sale and the sale price of a minor mineral is not covered by the terms of clause (o) of subsection (1A) of Section 15.	Reasoning
This clause can relate only to the regulation of the grant of quarry and mining leases and other mineral concessions and it does not confer the power to regulate the sale of already mined minerals.	Reasoning
In view of what has been stated by this Court in M.P.P. Kavery Chettys case (supra) the impugned conditions stipulated could not have been imposed and are accordingly struck down.	Decision
The appeal is allowed to the aforesaid extent without any order as to costs.	Decision
