 Fazal Ali	None
, J.This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment of the Karnataka High Court upholding the conviction of the appellant under Section 302 and his sentence of life imprisonment.	Issue
Facts of this case have been fully detailed in the judgment of the High Court and it is not necessary for us to repeat the same all over again.2.	Facts
The central evidence against the appellant consists of his confessional statement before PW 20, Nemichand, a Taluka Magistrate, Hubli.	Facts
It appears from a perusal of his evidence where he has categorically stated that he gave necessary warning to the accused that he was not bound to make any confession and if he does so, he may be convicted thereon.	Facts
The Magistrate has also asserted in his statement that he was satisfied that the confession was true and voluntary.	Facts
We have also perused the confessional statement of the appellant which gives coherent version of the manner and the circumstances in which the deceased was killed, by the appellant.	Facts
The High Court has pointed out that the material facts mentioned in the confession have been generally corroborated by the evidence produced in the case.	Facts
Mr. B. P. Singh appearing for the appellant submitted that the confession suffers from important infirmities.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the first place he submits that according to defence the accused was arrested on April 26, 1971, and thus a month elapsed between the time of his arrest and the making of the confession from where a reasonable inference can be drawn that the confession was extorted.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is, however, no evidence to show that the accused was actually arrested on April 26, 1971 as alleged by the defence.	Reasoning
On the other hand, the evidence shows that he was arrested on May 31, 1971 and soon thereafter the confession was recorded.	Arguments of Respondent
In the circumstances, we are unable to accept the first plank of the argument advanced by the learned for the appellant.	None
Secondly, it was argued that as a Judicial Magistrate was available at Hubli, the Investigating Officer should have requisitioned his services rather than that of the Taluka Magistrate.	Reasoning
It is no doubt true that it would have been better for the Police to get the confession recorded by a Judicial Magistrate but that by itself is not sufficient to enable us to discard the sole testimony of PW 20.	Reasoning
PW 20 has also stated that he was appointed as Magistrate in 1952 and he had been specially empowered to record the confession.	Reasoning
Thus PW 20 was a Magistrate of sufficient experience.	Reasoning
Having carefully gone through evidence of the witness we are satisfied that he was fully satisfied that the confession was voluntary and was given without any duress or coercion.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, therefore, the second contention raised by the appellant must fail.	Reasoning
On a careful perusal of the evidence, we are satisfied that the prosecution has been able to prove its case against the accused beyond reasonable doubt.	Decision
There is no merit in this appeal which is, accordingly, dismissed.	Decision
