 B. Sinha	None
, J. Plaintiffs are in appeal before us.	Facts
Plaintiff No.1 was a tenant in a part of the premises in question, which belonged to Montu Mary Pinto, since deceased.	Facts
She died in 1974.	Facts
She executed a Will and last testament (Exhibit P2(2A) on or about 25.4.1972 whereby Defendant No.1 was appointed as the sole Executor.	Facts
The relevant clauses of the said Will are ?	None
After my death the Executor of this Will shall take possession of my entire properties and manage them.	Facts
He shall also obtain Court probate upon this Will after my death, and sell away my said properties for the best price possible to others.	Facts
He shall minus the expenses met by him for obtaining the Probate etc. and divide the balance sale price amount unto four equal shares and pay one such share out of the same to my son Staneley T. Thomas alias Stanley Pinto and another such share to my son Victor L. Pinto and obtain receipts from them.	Facts
He shall further pay of his own share to each of his own children who are living now and who will be born to him hereafter Rs. 100 (one hundred) each and keep the rest of the amount for himself and he shall also pay out of the share amount of my said daughter a sum of Rs.600 (Six hundred) to her son Sunil Rodrigurs and pay also Rs.100 (one hundred) each to each of her living children and also to those who may be born to her hereinafter and pay the balance left over to my said daughter.	Facts
That if my said heirs desire to partition my property among themselves after my death, the Executor shall consent to it and do so by the help of two independent arbitrators and divide them into four equal lots as decided by the Arbitrators and grant each such lot to each one of my said heirs who shall each inherit the respective properties absolutely with entire right.	None
But in these circumstances the amounts mentioned to be paid out as stipulated hereabove shall be paid by the concerned holders of the pr operty shares?.	Facts
Indisputably the said Will was probated.	None
Defendant No.1, however, as Executor or otherwise did not sell the property immediately.	Facts
While he was toying with the idea of alienating the suit property, the plaintiffappellant who is a practising advocate and whose advices had been sought for as regards possible legal impediments, if any, in relation thereto, offered himself as a willing purchaser.	Facts
A large number of correspondences passed between the parties.	Facts
The evidence on record shows that the Plaintiff No. 1 drafted the agreement for sale and handed over the same to Defendant No.1 who made corrections therein.	Facts
On or about 4.12.1979, an agreement of sale was entered into between the parties, paragraphs 1 whereof is in the following terms ?	None
That in consideration of second party agreeing to pay to First Party a total price of Rs.1,23,750 (Rupees one lakh twenty three thousand seven hundred and fifty) only, the First Party for self and as Executor hereby agrees to convey the property described in the schedule hereto subject to ratification by the coheirs to terms hereinafter appearing .?	Facts
(Italics supplied)	None
It appears from the records that the plaintiffs advised Defendant No.1 to obtain power of attorney from the other legatees so that all of them can execute the deeds of sale jointly.	Facts
Two such draft sale deeds were prepared one to be executed in favour of Plaintiff No.1 and another in favour of Plaintiff No.2 who was the nominee of the Plaintiff No.1.	Facts
As Defendant No.1 did not execute the deeds of the sale purported to be in terms of agreement dated 4.12.1979, the plaintiffs filed the suit for specific performance of contract on or about 24.1.1989.	None
Defendant No.1 contested the said suit raising various pleas, whereupon the learned Trial Court, inter alia , framed the following issues ?(1) Whether the def6.	None
All the questions were answered by the High Court against the appellants.endant, as Executor of the Will of his mother, is not competent to sell the plaint schedule property without the consent or approval of the other legatees under Will?	None
(2) Does the first plaintiff prove that the document dated 4.12.1979 is valid and binding on the defendant and that he is entitled to enforce the terms mentioned therein?	None
(3) Does the first plaintiff prove that there was a concluded agreement for sale between him and the defendant dated 4.12.1979?	None
(4) Whether the second plaintiff can seek specific performance of the agreement dated 4.12.1979?	None
Additional issues (1) Whether defendants 2 to 7 would be put to great hardship if the agreement of sale is to be enforced?	None
(2) Whether the plaintiff took unfair advantage in obtaining the suit agreement of sale as contended in the written statement by the defendants?	None
5.	None
The learned Trial Court by its judgment and decree dated 11.3.1993 decreed the suit.	None
Aggrieved by and dissatisfied therewith.	Facts
Defendant No.1 preferred an appeal.	Facts
The High Court of Karnataka by its judgment dated 4.4.1996 passed in F.R.A. 286 of 1993 reversed the said judgment.	Facts
The High Court formulated the following points for its consideration (1) Whether the Executor has absolute powers to sell the immovable property bequeathed completely ignoring the provision made in the Will dated 24.5.1972 for partition of the said property among the legatees?	Facts
(2) Whether the agreement to sell dated 4.12.1979 executed by the first defendant subject to ratification of the terms and conditions contained therein by the other coheirs is a concluded contract?	None
(3) Whether the suit O.S. No. 26/1981 was rightly proceeded within law bringing the defendants 2 to 7 as legal representatives of the deceased sole Executor, the first defendant?	None
Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the trial Court is justified in decreeing the suit for the plaintiffs for specific performance?	None
Mr. K.N. Bhat, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants, would submit that the High Court committed a serious error in construing the Will to the effect that the right of the legatees to ask for partition shall prevail over the right of the Executor to sell the property.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel would submit that having regard to the provisions contained in Sections 211(1) and 307(1) of the Indian Succession Act, 1925, the Executor has an absolute right to dispose of the property of the testator and in that view of matter the question of the legatees exercising their right of partition in preference of the Executor?s right to sell the property which would otherwise be in consonance of the aforementioned provisions of the Indian Succession Act, did not arise.	Arguments of Petitioner
8.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhat would urge that the expression used in the said agreement to sell dated 4.12.1979 ?	Arguments of Petitioner
subject to ratification by the coheirs to terms hereinbefore appearing?	Arguments of Petitioner
must be held to have been inserted for the benefit of Plaintiff No.1 and as such he was at liberty to waive his right.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of the aforementioned contentions reliance was placed on P.H. Alphonso v. Mrs. Irene Dias others , 1967 (2) Mys L.J465 and Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Babuain Chandrakala Devi v. Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Pokhraj Kuer and others, AIR 1963 Pat. 2	Arguments of Petitioner
Dr. Jiwan Lal and others v. Brij Mohan Mehra and another, 1973 (2) SCR 230. 9.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was pointed out that the Executor of the Will Claude Pinto, Original Defendant No.1, died on 15.12.1988 and having regard to the fact that the legatees had been brought on record as his legal representatives in respect whereof the Trial Court held that suit did not abate, the High Court committed a manifest error in holding that it was obligatory on the part of the plaintiffs to approach the District Judge for appointment of another Executor of the Will in view of Section 21(1) of the Indian Succession Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regards Point No.4, it was submitted that having regard to the fact that the Trial Court negatived the contention raised on behalf of the defendants that Plaintiff No.1 was not the lawyer of Defendant No.1 and, thus, there was no question of any undue influence, having not been disturbed by the High Court, it erred in holding that it is not fair and equitable to pass a decree for specific performance of contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. S.K. Gambhir, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, on the other hand, would submit that the parties to the agreement proceeded on the basis that the deed of sale was to be executed by the legatees and not by the Original Defendant in his capacity as Executor.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel would contend that it is one thing to say that in terms of Sections 211 and 307 of the Indian Succession Act, a right of the Executor of the Will to alienate the property of the testator is absolute but i n the instant case, the Original Defendant did not exercise his right as an Executor but only as one of the legatees.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Gambhir would urge that having regard to the fact that in the agreement of sale dated 4.12.1979, a stipulation was specifically inserted at his instance that the same was subject to ratification by other coheirs?, no concluded contract was arrived at and in that view of the matter the suit for specific performance was not maintainable.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Gambhir would further submit that the materials brought on records by the parties would clearly demonstrate that the said restriction was inserted not for the benefit of Plaintiff No. 1 at all.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Gambhir argued that the sequence of events would clearly demonstrate that Plaintiff No.1 took undue advantage of his position as a tenant as also a practicing advocate.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel pointed out that in view of the provisions of the Karnataka Rent Control Act, as it then prevailed, the Rent Control ler had the absolute jurisdiction to induct a tenant as and when a tenanted premise is vacated.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that Plaintiff No.1?s legal advice was sought for by the said defendant as to how to prevent such action on the part of the Rent Controller.	Arguments of Respondent
At that time he was advised that in the event an agreement of sale is executed, such a contingency can be avoided.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel, however, conceded that the High Court may not be correct in its view that although the legatees, had already been brought on record on the death of the Original Defendant, it was obligatory on the part of the plaintiffs to approach the District Judge with a prayer to appoint another Executor in his place.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel supported the judgment of the High Court as regards its refusal to exercise of discretionary power in terms of Sections 20(2)(b) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963.	Arguments of Respondent
Our attention has been drawn to the fact that in the suit for specific performance of the contract, the other respondents herein filed an application for getting impleaded as parties but the same was rejected.	Arguments of Respondent
A revision application filed thereagainst by the respondents was also dismissed by the High Court observing that they were free to file a suit for partition.	Arguments of Respondent
Relying on or on the basis of such observation of the High Court, a suit for partition was filed to the knowledge of the plaintiffs.	Arguments of Respondent
The same was decreed.	Arguments of Respondent
The house in question was allotted in favour of the Respondents according to the respective shares.	Arguments of Respondent
Respondent No. 6 also took certain steps against Plaintiff No.1 as a tenant wherein also Plaintiff No.1 did not examine himself or questioned the validity of the decree passed in the partition suit.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel pointed out that the plaintiffs did not pay a single penny to the respondents and furthermore keeping in view the subsequent events, namely, the decree passed in the partition suit, it may not be equitable to grant a decree for specific performance of the agreement of sale at this distant point of time.	Arguments of Respondent
The core question which, in our opinion, arises for our consideration in this appeal is as to whether the restrictive covenant contained in the agreement dated 4.12.1979 would amount to a conditional agreement or a concluded contract and or whether the same was for the benefit of Plaintiff No.1.	Issue
A bare perusal of the Will dated 25.4.1972 leaves no manner of doubt that although thereby the Original Defendant was given liberty to sell the property in question and distribute the amount received thereby in the manner stated therein but the legatees have also been given an option to partition the property.	Reasoning
Once such a desire is expressed before a deed of sale is executed, the Executor had no other option but to consent thereto.	Reasoning
It is in the aforementioned backdrop, the conduct of the parties may be noticed.	Reasoning
Plaintiff No.1 was a tenant in respect of a part of the premises in suit.	Reasoning
The other part of the premises was occupied by one Venketesh.	Reasoning
The evidence on record clearly shows that the parties to the agreement were in correspondences.	Reasoning
The Original Defendant took the legal advice of Plaintiff No.1 as regards the effect of the said Will in 1974.	Reasoning
Plaintiff No.1 advised the Original Defendant to obtain a probate.	Reasoning
He also gave an advice that steps are required to be taken under the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act.	Reasoning
The correspondence passed between the parties would clearly show that they were in good terms.	Reasoning
A question also arose as to whether any lease in favour of Plaintiff No.1 without filing any declaration under the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act would be valid or not or whether they could take action for regularisation thereof.	None
The question as regards sale of property appears to have cropped up in February 1977 whence the Original Defendant No.1 by a letter dated 11.2.1977 addressed to Plaintiff No.1 informed him that he had obtained a probate and he is required to take action in terms there of.	None
It was in that connection a query was made ?	None
if we (presumably the legatees) wanted to dispose of the property, would it be necessary to take permission from the court or the land ceiling authority?.	None
Plaintiff No. 1 by his letter dated 19.3.1977 gave his advices in details on his proposal to dispose of the property saying ?	None
If you want to dispose of the property, permission of the court is unnecessary.	None
But the permission of competent authority under the Land Ceiling Act is necessary.	None
Only after you fix up a buyer, necessary formalities can be gone through.	None
There is no provisions for obtaining a blanket permission to sell.	None
The formalities are quire laborious and in some.	None
If you have any particular buyer in mind and only after such and you agree, then only you can think of obtaining the permission of the competent authority.	None
In passing I may mention that if you have any idea to sell the property or any portion thereof, please let me place my first offer.	None
Probably even Mr. Venketesh might be interested to buy though I have not specifically asked him?	None
The Original Defendant No.1 thereafter visited Mangalore and discussed about the pros and cons of selling the property with the plaintiff, which would appear from his letter dated 20.3.1978.	None
He again wanted Plaintiff No.1?s advice on certain matters.	None
Plaintiff No.1 pointed out several disadvantages in respect of the property in question which may be proved to be impediments in the matter of getting good price.	None
He in his letter dated 9.4.1978 contended ?	None
It is difficult to give current market price in terms of square metres because land in Mangalore is even now sold only in terms of cents.	None
Your plot is mulageni plot.	None
It is situated by the side of a lane in which no heavy vehicle can pass through.	None
There are two disadvantages which will diminish the value.	None
Any building licence at Mangalore will be granted only after the land is converted as house site as per Sec. 95 of the Land Revenue Act, the authority to grant conversion certificate (popularly called NOC) being the Deputy Commissioner, Conversion will be granted only to an owner applicant and not to a mulagenidar applicant.	None
No new building can be easily constructed on your plots without doing some understand work in the concerned offices.	None
On the main road side, near Kamath Nursing Home, Mr. Prabhu who owns lands, has recently sold them at the rate of about Rs. 3 to 31/2 thousand per cent of land.	None
Your lands may fetch about Rs. 2 to 21/2 thousand and the buildings being of mud will not fetch any va lue.	None
Again, a third party purchaser will consider the question whether he gets actual possession or not?.	None
Yet again in the said letter, Plaintiff No.1 made an offer to purchase the property on his own behalf as well as on behalf of Mr. Venketesh.	None
The Original Defendant No.1 was merely nurturing the idea of selling the property.	None
Various correspondences passed between the parties and whenever any occasion arose, Plaintiff No.1 renewed his offer.	None
In the meantime, Mr. Venketesh was transferred to Bangalore and although he retained the possession of the tenanted premises for some time, but later on vacated the same.	None
In terms of the provisions of the Karnataka Rent Control Act, in the event a tenanted premises falls vacant, the Rent Controller may allow the same to other person.	None
Sections 4 and 5 of the Karnataka Rent Control Act, 1961 read thus ?	None
4. Intimation of vacancy by landlords  (1) Every landlord shall, within fifteen days after the building becomes vacant by his ceasing to occupy it or by the termination of a tenancy or by the eviction of the tenant or by the release of the building from requisition, or otherwise, give intimation in the prescribed form by registered post to the Controller.	None
(2) Except as provided in this Part, no person shall let, occupy or otherwise use any building which becomes vacant without the landlord giving intimation under subsection (1) and for a period of fifteen days from the date on which the intimation is received by the Controller or within a period of one week after the termination of the proceedings under Section 8, if any, whichever is later Provided that this subsection shall not apply to a building in respect of which the landlord has obtained an order for possession on any of the grounds specified in clause (h) of the proviso to subsection (1) of Section 21 or to any building which has been released from requisition for the use and occupation of the landlord himself Provided further that if the building is not occupied in accordance with an order for possession under clause (h) of the proviso to subsection (1) of Section 21, or if the building is not occupied by the landlord after its release from requisition, within a period of two months from the date of such order or release, as the case may be, the landlord shall immediately after the said period of two months or within such further time as the Controller may allow, give intimation to the Controller in accordance with the provisions of this subsection and for this purpose the building shall be deemed to have become vacant on the date of the expiry of the said period of two months.	None
(3) Any landlord who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) or (2) shall on conviction, be punished with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees Provided that such fine shall not be less than fifty rupees.	None
(4) Nothing contained in this section shall apply  (i) to a residential building the monthly rent of which does not exceed fifteen rupees per month or the annual rental value of which does not exceed one hundred and eighty rupees or (ii) to a nonresidential building the monthly rent of which does not exceed twentyfive rupees or the annual rental value of which does not exceed three hundred rupees or (iii) to any building in any city, town or village owned by any local authority, company, association or firm, whether incorporated or not and bona fide intended solely for the occupation of its officers and servants employed in the same city, town or village.	None
5.	None
Order of the leasing of vacant building (1) The Controller may, by order in writing served on the landlord, direct that any vacant building, whether intimation of its vacancy has been given by the landlord under subsection (1) of Section 4 or not, be given to the landlord for his use and occupation or one lease to such public authority or other persons as he may think fit Provided that where such building is a residential building no such order shall be made in favour of a person not being the landlord, who or any member of whose family owns a residential building in the same city or town or village in which the vacant building is situated.	None
Explanation  A building may be directed to be leased under this section notwithstanding that it is subject to an agreement of lease or has been let or occupied in contravention of subsection (2) of Section 4.	None
(2) Any landlord, who contravenes an order made under subsection (1) shall, on conviction, be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months or with fine or with both.?	None
By a letter dated 30.10.1979 (Exhibit D/40)	None
Plaintiff No.1 intimated to the Defendant No.1 about the visit of the Rent Controller and the latter having made queries as regards the status of the tenanted premises.	None
Plaintiff No.1 stated that he had tried to see that the Inspector does not file his report.	None
He also intimated that he had spent Rs. 50 for keeping the matter in abeyance.	None
By a letter dated 13.11.1979 (Exhibit D/41), Plaintiff No.1 informed the Defendant No.1 that somebody had complained to the Rent Controller and as such he would have to submit a report.	None
Yet again by a letter dated 19.11.1979 (Exhibit D42), he advised the Original Defendant that in the event he received notice, it will be appropriate that he appears through a lawyer and contest the proceedings.	None
He stated ?	None
Once the lawyer appears he can ask for time for filing objection etc. and the allotment can be stalled.	None
If decision goes against us, we can appeal to D.C. and then to High Court.	None
In the meantime, our High Court has ruled that if owner requires release of building for sale, the Rent Controller should ordinarily accept it.?	None
However, it does not appear from the records that any provision of law or any judgment of the High Court had been rendered to the effect that in the event a landlord requires the premises for the purpose of selling the same, Sections 4 and 5 of the Karnataka Rent Control Act would not apply.	Reasoning
The Plaintiff No.1 in his deposition stated ?	None
Through Ex.	None
D.42 I have not given advice to the defendant as suggested by you that the Mysore High Court ruled that if the agreement is executed in respect of the vacant tenanted house it cannot be allotted to anybody.	None
It is not true to suggest that I got executed Ex.	None
P.10 mentioning the defendant that the vacant house of him cannot be allotted by the Rent Controller?.	None
He further stated ?	None
In my letter at Ex. D.41, I assured him that I would protect his interest before the Rent Controller.	None
But in Ex. D.41, I have asked him to send a vakalath form i.e., duly signed by him to me.	None
In Ex.D.40 I informed him to act quickly and preferably to visit Mangalore and save the house from Rent Controller.	None
After Ex.D.40, he came to Mangalore during 1st week of December, 1979.	None
I cannot say as to how many days prior to the sale agreement at Ex.	None
P.10 he came from Bombay to Mangalore?	None
It is evident that negotiation for selling the property in question started in the aforementioned backdrop of events and ultimately the agreement of sale was executed.	Reasoning
Mr. Gambhir, therefore, in our opinion is right in contending that Plaintiff No.1.	Reasoning
created a scare in the mind of Defendant No.1 about the house being allotted to some other person by the Rent Controller.	Reasoning
Plaintiff No. 1 evidently had an upper hand when negotiation for sale for the house between him and the Original Defendant No.1 took place.	Reasoning
The agreement of sale in question was, admittedly, drafted by Plaintiff No.1.	None
He in his deposition stated ?	None
Defendant is a Law Graduate and an officer in Tata Company.	None
Defendant read the contents of Ex.	None
P.12, and made corrections therein.	None
The corrections made by the defendant in Ex.	None
P. 12 are at Ex. P.12(a), P.12(b), P.12(c) and P.12(d).	None
Defendant himself wrote the description of the suit property in the schedule to the agreement at Ex. P.12(e).	None
After correction made by the defendant at Ex. P.12(b), I carried out the same by correcting in Ex.	None
P.12 in the language of lawyer.?	None
It would, therefore, not be correct to contend that the restrictive covenant was inserted for the benefit of Plaintiff No.1.	Reasoning
Furthermore, if the agreement was entered into by him only as an Executor of the Will, it was not necessary for him to write that the same was being executed for self as well as an Executor.	Reasoning
He, therefore, wanted to convey, the property also as a legatee and or one of the heirs of her mother, Mrs. Minto Mary Pinto apart from being the Executor of the Will.	Reasoning
In the aforesaid context only the expression subject to ratification by the coheirs?	Reasoning
must be interpreted.	Reasoning
The draft sale deeds which were marked as Exhibits D15 and D23 were also drafted by Plaintiff No.1.	Reasoning
It appears from the letter dated 21.1.1980 that Plaintiff No.1 asked the Defendant No.1 to get powers of attorney executed by his brothers and sister in his favour, the drafts whereof were also prepared by him.	Reasoning
The draft sale deed would clearly demonstrate that the property in suit was to be executed by Stanely T. Thomas, Victor L. Pinto, Mrs. Agnee Rodrigues Nee Pinto, represented by their brother and power of attorney holder Claude Pinto having been authorised by Nos. 1 and 2 as per power of attorney (dated blank) and by Claude Pinto.	Reasoning
It therefore, cannot be said that the intention of the parties was that the Defendant No.1 would alienate the property in suit as Executor of his mother?s Will.	Reasoning
When an agreement is entered into subject to ratification by others, a concluded contract is not arrived at.	Reasoning
Whenever ratification by some other persons, who are not parties to the agreement is required, such a clause must be held to be a condition precedent for coming into force of a concluded contract.	Reasoning
The word subject to? has been defined in Black?s Law Dictionary, Fifth Edition, at page 1278, inter alia , as ?subservient, inferior, obedient to governed or affected by provided that provided answerable for?.	None
In Collins?	None
English the words subject to? has been stated to mean as ?under the condition that we accept, subject to her agreement?.	None
The said agreement for sale, therefore, was not enforceable in a court of law.	Reasoning
In Henry Earnest Meaney and another v. E.C. Eyre Walker , AIR 1947 All.	None
332, the law is stated in the following terms ?	None
Apart from this, we are of the opinion that there was no completed contract between the parties.	None
We have already said that in the plaint the plaintiff alleged that the letter of Mr. Meaney dated 29th August 1941, was the acceptance be which the contract was completed.	None
In his arguments before us learned counsel for the plaintiffrespondent admitted that the letter of 29th August, 1941, was nothing more than an invitation to offer and the plaintiff?s telegram dated 31st August, 1941, must be taken as a d efinite offer of purchase made on his behalf.	None
We have already said that the letter of 1st September 1941 was not an absolute and unqualified acceptance of the offer as required by S.7, Contract Act.	None
In the letter there was no doubt an expression of the willingness to sell the land to the plaintiff, but then it was qualified by the statement that the defendant would sell the land to the plaintiff if it was not wanted by others who might have a right of preemption.	None
The plaintiff was not able to rely on a ny correspondence after 1st September 1941, for his argument that there was a completed contract between the parties.	None
It was not till about 2nd October 1941, that the parties met when Mr. Meaney came to Dehra Dun.	None
It is nobody?s case that there was an oral contract entered into between the 2nd and 4th October.	None
On 4th October we know that the plot of land which the defendants intended to sell and the plaintiff intended to purchase was measured and was found to be less than five bighas in area and the whole talk fell through.?	None
In Warehousing Forwarding Company of East Africa Ltd. v. Jafferali and Sons Ltd., 1964 Law Reports  Appeal Cases 1, the Privy Council held ?	None
If Elliott contracted subject to ratification by his principal there would be no concluded contract until ratification had been obtained.	None
The respondents contended upon the authority of Koenigsblatt vs. Sweet that ratification by the principal can operate back to the date when the contract was made by the agent without the necessity of communication to the other party.	None
But in that case the limitation of the agent?s authority was not known to the other contracting party.	None
In such a case the agent contracts as principal and his principal is bound upon ratification taking place.	None
When, however, the other party to the contract has intimation of the limitation of the agent?s authority neither party can be bound until ratification has been duly intimated to the other party to the contract.	None
It would be contrary to good sense to held that a concluded contract had been made in these circumstances.?	None
In Dr. Jiwan Lal?s case, 1973 (2) SCR 230 whereupon reliance has been placed by Mr. Bhatt, Clause (6) of the agreement was an under ?6.	None
In the event of the above said premises, which is the subject matter of sale not being vacated by the Incometax Authorities or is subsequently requisitioned by the Government prior to the registration of the saledeed the vendor shall refund to the purchaser the sum of Rs. 10,000 (Rupees ten thousand only received by the order as earnest money plus interest at the rate of 6 per cent per annum?.	None
Having regard to the nature of the transaction and keeping in view the materials on record it was held that the clause 6 aforementioned was for the benefit of the purchaser and in that situation, this Court held that the same may be waived.	Reasoning
Such is not the position here.	Reasoning
It is, however, beyond any cavil that in terms of Sections 211(1) and 307(1) of the Indian Succession Act, the Executor of a Will has an absolute right to transfer the property as has been held in Smt.	Reasoning
Babuain Chandrakala Devi?s case , AIR 1963 Pat. 2 and P.H. Alphonso?s case, 1967 (2) Mys L.J465 .	None
However, in the instant case the question was as to whether in the facts and circumstances of the case a concluded contract can be said to have been arrived at.	None
Having regard to the discussions made hereinbefore,, we have no hesitation in holding that the agreement of sale in question could not have been specifically enforced and in that view of the matter the question is as to whether the Original Defendant No.1 had an absolute right to dispose of the property in question in exercise of his power as an Executor of the Will or not takes a back seat.	Reasoning
In any event having regard to the facts and circumstances of this case and in particular the subsequent events as well the conduct of Plaintiff No.1, we are of the opinion that it is not a fit case where a discretionary jurisdiction of this Court in terms of Section 20 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 should be exercised.	Reasoning
(See V. Muthusami (Dead) by Lrs.	Reasoning
v. Angammal and others , 2002 (3) SCC 316 and Nirmala Anand v. Advent Corporation (P) Ltd. and others , 2002 (4) CTC 624 2002 (8) SCC 146.	Reasoning
The appeal being devoid of any merit is, therefore, dismissed but without any order as to costs.	Decision
