MOHAN, J.	None
This is an appeal by certificate granted by the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad under Articles 132(1) and 133(1)(a) of the Constitution of India.	Issue
It is directed against the judgment dated August 29/30, 1973 in Special Civil Application No. 163 of 1973.	Issue
The facts leading to this appeal are briefly as under.	None
The appellant is a company registered under the Indian Companies Act.	None
It is engaged in the business of manufacturing resins, chemicals, sodium carboxy methyl, cellulose and certain other chemicals.	Facts
Industrial alcohol is one of the raw materials used by the appellant company.	None
Though, till the year 1969, the appellant was purchasing industrial alcohol from the market, it installed its own distillery from May 1970 at Bilimora, within the State of Gujarat.	None
This was for the purpose of manufacturing industrial alcohol from molasses.	None
On July 3, 1969 respondent 2, the Director of Prohibition and Excise, Gujarat State, Ahmedabad issued a licence to the appellant for manufacturing spirit.	Facts
In accordance with the condition Nos. 2 and 3 of the licence, respondent 2 appointed a staff of 9 persons.	Facts
The said staff consisted of one Inspector, one SubInspector, one Nayak, one Jamadar and five constables to supervise the manufacture of spirit in the appellants distillery plant.	Facts
The appellant was also required to provide residential accommodation to the supervisory staff within the factory premises.	Facts
On July 3, 1969 respondent 2 asked the appellant to deposit the supervisory charges.	Facts
From time to time, these supervisory charges were also deposited in accordance with the directions of respondent 2.	None
It requires to be stated at this stage that the levy of supervisory charges, is traceable to Section 58A of the Bombay Prohibition Act of 1949.	Facts
The section says.	None
58A. Supervision over manufacture, etc.  	None
The State Government may by general or special order direct that the manufacture, import, export, transport, storage, sale, purchase, use, collection, or cultivation of any intoxicant, denatured spirituous preparation, hemp, mhowra flowers, or molasses shall be under the supervision of such Prohibition and Excise or Police staff as it may deem proper to appoint, and that the cost of such staff shall be paid to the State Government by person manufacturing, importing, exporting, transporting, storing, selling, purchasing, using, collecting or cultivating the intoxicant, denatured spirituous preparation, hemp, mhowra flowers or molassesProvided that the State Government may exempt any class of persons or institutions from paying the whole or any part of the cost of such staff.	Facts
Section 143 of the Act confers power making rules.	None
Rules have been framed called Bombay Prohibition (Manufacture of Spirit) (Gujarat) Rules, 1963.	Facts
These rules inter alia regulate the working of distilleries, manufacturing spirit.	Facts
Rule 2 provides for the licence.	Facts
Condition Nos. 2 and 3 of the licence require payment of the supervisory staff and for provision of quarters for the residential accommodation of the staff respectively.	None
The appellant filed Civil Application No. 163 of 1973 in the High Court of Gujarat challenging the constitutional validity of Section 58A of the Act.	None
By the impugned judgment, the said petition was dismissed.	Facts
Hence, the present civil appeal.	Facts
The arguments of the appellant briefly stated will boil down to this.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has been categorically laid down in Synthetics Chemicals Ltd. v. State of U. P. ( 1990 (1) SCC 109 1989 (S1)	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 623) that in respect of industrial alcohol, the States have no power to impose the impost as is sought to be done in the instant case.	Arguments of Petitioner
The theory of privilege as adumbrated by the High Court can no longer be sustained in view of the judgment.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even otherwise, there is no quid pro quo.	None
9	None
In countering the submissions, it is argued on behalf of the State that Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd. ( 1990 (1) SCC 109 1989 (S1)	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 623) dealt merely with the vend fees.	Arguments of Respondent
That is not the case here.	Arguments of Respondent
The maintenance of the staff contemplated under Section 58A of the Act is primarily for the purpose of ensuring that while dealing with industrial alcohol, no attempt shall be made to divert nonpotable alcohol.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, by regulatory measures, the state sees to it that industrial alcohol is not diverted for the use as potable alcohol.	Arguments of Respondent
Such a regulatory measure is perfectly valid as seen from Southern Pharmaceuticals Chemicals v. State of Kerala ( 1981 (4) SCC 391 1981 SCC(Tax) 320 1981 AIR(SC) 1863).	Arguments of Respondent
This decision was noted with approval in Synthetics Chemicals Ltd. ( 1990 (1) SCC 109 1989 (S1)	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 623) However, such a power was sustained though not on police power but as a regulatory measure.	Arguments of Respondent
As regards the services rendered, the appellants are precluded from contending that the services did not make the impost, since the High Court has noted that it was not contended before it that there was not sufficient quid pro quo between the quantum of impost and the services rendered to the manufacturer or businessman.	None
We are relived of the necessity of deciding the correctness of these submissions by a detailed judgment, since identical points were raised in Civil Appeal No. 503 of 1974 (Bileshwar Khand Udyog Khedut Sahakari Mandali Ltd. v. State of Gujarat)	Reasoning
( 1992 (2) SCC 42 ) to which one of us (Mohan, J.) was a party.	Reasoning
The said civil appeal has been dismissed considering these aspects and upholding the validity of Section	Reasoning
58A.	Reasoning
The said judgment will squarely cover this case as well.	Reasoning
We fully concur with the reasons contained therein.	Reasoning
In Synthetics Chemicals Ltd. ( 1990 (1) SCC 109 1989 (S1)	None
SCR 623) concerning the power to make regulations in order that nonpotable alcohol may not be diverted for use as potable alcohol, the following observations are found at page 681 (SCC p. 158, para 86).	None
The position with regard to the control of alcohol industry has undergone material and significant change after the amendment of 1956 to the IDR Act.	None
After the amendment, the State is left with only the following powers to legislate in respect of alcohol(a) It may pass any legislation in the nature of prohibition of potable liquor referable to Entry 6 of List II and regulating powers(b) It may lay down regulations to ensure that nonpotable alcohol is not diverted and misused as a substitute for potable alcohol(c) The State may charge excise duty on potable alcohol and sales tax under Entry 52 of List II.	None
However, sales tax cannot be charged on industrial alcohol in the present case, because under the Ethyl Alcohol (price Control) Orders, sales tax cannot be charged by the State on industrial alcohol(d) However, in case State is rendering any service, as distinct from its claim of socalled grant of privilege, it may charge fees based on quid pro quo.	None
In this connection, we may also usefully refer to Southern Pharmaceuticals Chemicals ( 1981 (4) SCC 391 1981 SCC(Tax) 320 1981 AIR(SC) 1863).	None
This case related to the constitutional validity of Sections 12A, 12B, 14(e) and (f), 68A of Kerala Abkari Act (1 of 1077) and Rules 13 and 16 of the Kerala Rectified Spirit Rules, 1972.	None
One of the contentions raised was that the provision contained under Section 14(e) of the Act for the collection of supervisory charges was clearly invalid inasmuch as.	None
They are in conflict of Rule 45 of Central Excise Rules and.	None
They could not be sustained as fee as there was no quid pro quo.	None
In the said judgment at page 1875, para 27 Southern Pharmaceuticals Chemicals ( 1981 (4) SCC 391 1981 SCC(Tax) 320 1981 AIR(SC) 1863) reads as under (SCC p. 411, para 27).	None
A fee may be charged for the privilege or benefit conferred, or service rendered, or to meet the expenses connected therewith.	None
A fee may be levied to meet the cost of supervision and may be, something more.	None
It is in consideration for the privilege, licence or service.	None
Again in para 29, it was stated thus (SCC pp. 41213, para 29).	None
There is a broad corelationship between the fee collected and the cost of the establishment.	None
Under Section 14(e) of the Act it is provided that the Commissioner, with the previous approval of the government, may prescribe the size and nature of the establishment necessary for supervision of a manufactory and the cost of the establishment and other incidental charges in connection with such supervision be realised from the licensee.	None
There can be no doubt that the supervisory staff is deployed in a bonded manufactory by the government for its own protection to prevent the leakage of revenue, but there is no denying the fact that a licensee undoubtedly receives a service in return.	None
The cost of the establishment levied under Section 14(e) of the Act is to be collected from the licensee in the manner provided by Rule 16(4) of the Kerala Rectified Spirit Rules, 1972 relevant part of which reads16.(4) All the transactions in the spirit store shall be conducted only in the presence of an Excise Officer not below the rank of an Excise Inspector.	None
Such officer shall be assisted by at least two Excise Guards.	None
The cost of establishment of such officer and the guards shall be payable by the licensee in advance in the first week of every month as per countersigned chalan to be obtained from such officer.	None
The rate at which the cost of establishment is to be paid by the licensee shall be fixed by the Commissioner from time to time and intimated to the licensee in writing There is admittedly no provision made in the Central Rules for the recovery of supervisory charges, perhaps because as the Court observed in the Hyderabad Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals case (Hyderabad Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals Works Ltd. v. state of A. P., 1964 AIR(SC) 1870 1964	None
(7) SCR 376 )	None
it was felt that the duty on medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol would be sufficient to defray the cost of such supervision.	None
But the absence of such a provision in the Central Rules, as we have already indicated, does not deprive the State from making a provision in that behalf.	None
It is true that the supervisory charges are in the nature of a compulsory exaction from a licensee and the collections are not credited to a separate fund, but are taken to the consolidated fund of the State and are not separately appropriated towards the expenditure incurred in rendering the service.	None
However, as observed in Secretary, Government of Madras v. Zenith Lamp Electrical Ltd. ( 1973 (1) SCC 162 1973 SCC(Tax) 203 1973 (2) SCR 973 1973 AIR(SC) 724) followed in State of Rajasthan v. Sajjanlal Panjawat ( 1974 (1) SCC 500 1974 (2) SCR 741 1975 AIR(SC) 724) that by itself is not decisive, by reason of Article 266 of the Constitution.	None
It is equally true that normally a fee is uniform and no account is taken of the paying capacity of the recipient of the service, but absence of uniformity will not make it a tax if corelationship is established (see Commissioner, HRE, Madras v. Sri.	None
Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of Sri. Shirur Mutt 1954 AIR(SC)	None
282 1954 SCR 1005 1954 (1) MLJ 596 ) and Secretary, Government of Madras v. Zenith Lamp and Electricals Ltd. ( 1973 (1) SCC 162 1973 SCC(Tax) 203 1973 (2) SCR 973 1973 AIR(SC) 724)	None
The cost of supervision would necessarily vary with the nature and extent of the business carried on by a licensee.	None
Therefore, the supervisory charges can be sustained even if they are regarded as a fee for services rendered by the State or its instrumentalities.	None
In dealing with Synthetics and Chemicals case ( 1990 (1) SCC 109 1989 (S1)	Reasoning
SCR 623) the following observations were made (SCC pp. 14749, paras 6163)	None
Learned AdvocatesGeneral for the States of Gujarat and Kerala have also made their submissions, and referred to several decisions and the concept of police power, and contended that imposition of a fee would be the most effective method of regulating intoxicating liquor other than alcohol.	Reasoning
According to the Advocate General of Kerala, that would be justified as the reasonable measure in regard to intoxicating liquor.	Reasoning
According to him, it has been accepted by courts all along that the police power of the State enables regulations to be made regarding manufacture, transport, possession and sale of intoxicating liquor.	Reasoning
Such police power could be exercised as to impose reasonable restrictions as to effectuate the power.	Reasoning
He referred to the observations of this Court in Cooverjee B. Bharucha v. Excise Commissioner and the Chief Commissioner, Ajmer ( 1954 SCR 873 1954 AIR(SC) 220) which quoted the passage from Crowley v. Christensen ((1890) 4 L Ed 620 137 US 86).	Reasoning
Reference was also made to Har Shankar case (Har Shankar v. Dy.	Reasoning
Excise Taxation Commissioner, 1957 (1) SCC 737) where this Court quoted vol.	Reasoning
38 of the American Jurisprudence where it was stated that the higher the fee is imposed for a licence, better is the regulation.	Reasoning
Reliance was also placed on P. N. Kaushal case (P. N. Kaushal v. Union Of India, 1978 (3) SCC 558 ).It was contended that it has been accepted by this Court that the police power is exercisable for regulation of an activity of a legislature within the permissible field or impost as regulatory measure.	Reasoning
It may be valid though it may neither be fee nor a tax in the limited sense of the term.	Reasoning
See the observations of this Court in Southern Pharmaceuticals Chemicals, Trichur v. State of Kerala ( 1981 (4) SCC 391 1981 SCC(Tax) 320 1981 AIR(SC) 1863).	Reasoning
Regarding regulatory measures in connection with medicinal preparations containing alcohol it was observed by this Court that the impugned provisions had to be enacted to ensure that the rectified spirit is not misused under the pretext of being used for toilet and medicinal preparations containing alcohol.	Reasoning
Such a regulation is a necessary concomitant of the police power of the State to regulate such trade or business which is inherently dangerous to public health.	Reasoning
The American doctrine of police power is not perhaps applicable as such in India, but powers of the sovereignty to regulate as part of the power of the competent legislature to effectuate its aim are there.	Reasoning
It is true that in State of W. B. v.	None
Subodh Gopal	Reasoning
Bose ( 1954 SCR 587 , 601604 1954 AIR(SC) 92 1954 (1) MLJ 314 ) and Kameshwar Prasad v. State of Bihar ( 1962 (S3)	Reasoning
SCR 369 1962 AIR(SC) 1166 1962 (1) LLJ 294 ) the concept of police power was accepted as such, but this doctrine was not accepted in India as an independent power but was recognised as part of the power of the State to legislate with respect to the matters enumerated in the State and Concurrent Lists, subject to constitutional limitations.	Reasoning
It was stated that the American jurisprudence of police power as distinguished from specific legislative power is not recognised in our Constitution and is, therefore, contrary to the scheme of the Constitution.	Reasoning
In interpreting the provisions of our Constitution, we should go by the plain words used by the Constitutionmakers and the importing of expression like police power, which is a term of variable and indefinite connotation, can only make the task of interpretation more difficult.	Reasoning
It was contended that in enacting a law with respect to intoxicating liquor as part of the legislative power measures of social control and regulation of private rights are permissible and as such may even amount to prohibitionWe are of the opinion that we need not detain ourselves on the question whether the States have police power or not.	Reasoning
We must accept the position that the States have the power to regulate the use of alcohol and that power must include power to make provisions to prevent and or check industrial alcohol being used as intoxicating or drinkable alcohol.	Reasoning
The question is whether in the garb of regulations a legislation which is in pith and substance, as we look upon the instant legislation, fee or levy which has no connection with the cost or expenses administering the regulation, can be imposed purely as regulatory measure.	Reasoning
Judged by the pith and substance of the impugned legislation, we are definitely of the opinion that these levies cannot be treated as part of regulatory measures.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter we do not detain ourselves with examining the numerous American decisions to which our attention was drawn by learned counsel very elaborately and thoroughly.	Reasoning
This is an added reasoning to uphold the validity of Section 58A. Turning to the second argument about the absence of quid pro quo, we need only extract the following from the judgment of the High Court.	None
Section 58A of the Bombay Prohibition Act creates a statutory duty of supervision and incidentally provides for recovering from a manufacturer or a businessman the cost of supervision which is primarily necessitated by the manufacturer or businessman having been permitted under a licence to carry on lawfully a business or industrial activity which would otherwise have been unlawful.	None
We need not go into the details of this aspect because it has not been contended before us that if the levy under Section 58A is held to be a fee, there is no sufficient quid pro quo between the quantum of the impost and the services rendered to the manufacturer or businessman.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.	Decision
