 Ranganath Misra, J.1.	None
The writ petitions under Art.	Issue
32 of the Constitution and appeals by special leave are against the judgment of the Division Bench of the Kerala High Court in writ appeals have a common set of facts as also law for consideration.	Issue
These matters have been heard together and are disposed of by this common judgment.	Issue
Hindustan Commercial Bank (Hindustan for short), The Bank of Cochin Ltd. (hereafter referred to as Cochin Bank) and Lakshmi Commercial Bank (Lakshmi for short) were private banks.	Facts
Action was initiated under Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (Act for short) for amalgamation of these three banks with Punjab National Bank, Canara Bank and State Bank of India respectively in terms of separate schemes drawn under that provision of the Act.	Facts
Amalgamation has been made.	Facts
Pursuant to the schemes 28 employees of Hindustan, 21 employees of Cochin Bank and 76 employees of Lakshmi were excluded from employment and their services were not taken over by the respective transferee banks.	Facts
Some of these excluded employees of the Cochin Bank went before the Kerala High Court for relief under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution.	Facts
A learned single Judge gave them partial relief but on an appeal to the Division Bench by the transferee bank concerned the writ petitions have been dismissed.	Facts
The civil appeals are against the decision of the Division Bench.	Facts
The writ petitions directly filed before this Court are by some of the excluded employees of Hindustan and Lakshmi respectively.	Facts
Though employees of the other two banks had not challenged the vires of S. 45 of the Act, on behalf of Lakshmi such a challenge has been made.	Reasoning
Since the grounds of attack on this score did not impress us at all, we do not propose to refer to that aspect of the submissions involving interpretation of Art.	Reasoning
31A, Article 16 and Art.	Reasoning
21.	Reasoning
It has often been said by this Court that Courts should not enter into constitutional issues and attempt interpretation of its provisions unless it is really necessary for disposal of the dispute.	Reasoning
In our opinion, this group of cases can be disposed of without reference to question of vires of some part of Section 45 of the Act being examined.	Reasoning
Counsel on behalf of the excluded employees have broadly contended that the draft schemes did not include any name of employees intended to be excluded no opportunity of being heard was afforded to them before exclusion was ordered under the schemes and the authorities concerned have not acted fairly they deny the allegation that any of them was responsible for fictitious, improper or nonbusiness like advances of loan to parties thereby bringing conditions near about bankruptcy for the appropriate banking companies many other employees against whom there were definite charges already pending enquiry or even orders of dismissal had been proposed have been, taken over and retained in service of the transferee banks while these excluded employees without justification have been called upon to face this unfortunate situation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The transferee banks, the Reserve Bank of India (hereafter referred to as RBI for short) and the Union of India have appeared and filed affidavits in opposition.	Arguments of Respondent
The Union of India has contended that the scheme in respect of each of the banks that has got amalgamated had been approved by it as required under the Act and since finality was attached to such schemes challenge was not open against the schemes particularly in view of the provisions contained in Art.	Arguments of Respondent
31A of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
On behalf of the Reserve Bank of India, several contentions were raised by way of opposition and shortly stated these submissions are Law does not require that the draft scheme should contain the names of the employees to be excluded(2) the incorporation of the names finalised on the basis of scrutiny of the records before the schemes were placed before the RBI was sufficient compliance of the requirements of the law(3) the provisions of the Act did not confer any right on the employees of being heard(4) the schememaking process was legislative in character and therefore did not come within the ambit of natural justice.	Arguments of Respondent
Alternately the action not being judicial or quasijudicial and at the most being administrative or executive was also not open to challenge on allegations of violation of rules of naturaljustice(5) moratorium under the statutory provisions could not be beyond six months and in view of the fact that entire operation had to be finalised within a brief time frame, the requirement of an enquiry by notice to al1 the officers intended to be excluded could not have been intended to be implanted into the provisions of Section 45 and(6) provision of compensation has been made for those who were excluded from the respective schemes.	None
Each of the transferee banks generally adopted the stand taken by RBI.	None
Before we proceed to examine the tenability of the several contentions and counter contentions advanced at the hearing, it is appropriate that we refer to the relevant provisions of the Act.	None
The entire law applicable to the facts of these cases is to be found in Part III of the Act and in particular, in S. 45.	None
As far as relevant, that section provides  Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this Part or in any other law or any agreement or other instrument, for the time being in force, where it appears to the Reserve Bank that there is good reason so to do the Reserve Bank may apply to the Central Government for an order of moratorium in respect of a banking company.(2)	None
The Central Government, after considering the application made by the Reserve Bank under subsection (1), may make an order of moratorium staying the commencement or continuance of all actions and proceedings against the company for a fixed period of time on such terms and conditions as it thinks fit and proper and may from time to time extend the period so however that the total period of moratorium shall not exceed six months(3) (4) During the period of moratorium, if the Reserve Bank is satisfied that (a) in the public interest or(b) in the interests of the depositors or(c) in order to secure the proper management of the banking company or(d) in the interests of the banking system of the country as a whole, it is necessary so to do, the Reserve Bank may prepare a scheme (i) for the reconstruction of the banking company, or(ii) for the amalgamation of the banking company with any other banking institution (in this section referred to as the transferee bank).(5)	None
The scheme aforesaid may contain provisions for all or any of the following matters, namely (a) to (h) (i) the continuance of the services of all the employees of the banking company (excepting such of them as not being workmen within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 are specifically mentioned in the scheme) in the banking company itself on its reconstruction or, as the case may be, in the transferee bank at the same remuneration and on the same terms and conditions of service, which they were getting or, as the case may be, by which they were being governed, immediately before the date of the order of moratorium Provided (j) notwithstanding anything contained in clause (i) where any of the employees of the banking company not being workmen within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act.	None
1947 are specifically mentioned in the scheme under clause (i), or where any employees of the banking company have by notice in writing given to the banking company or as the case may be, the transferee bank at any time before the expiry of one month next following the date on which the scheme is sanctioned by the Central Government.	None
intimated their intention of not becoming employees of the banking company on its reconstruction or as the case may be, of the transferee bank, the payment to such employees of compensation.	None
if any, to which they are entitled Under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and such pension.	None
gratuity, provident fund and other retirement benefits ordinarily admissible to them under the rules or authorisation of the banking company immediately before the date of the order of moratorium (k) and (1)(6) (a) A copy of the scheme prepared by the Reserve Bank shall be sent in draft to the banking company and also to the transferee bank and any other banking company concerned in the amalgamation, for suggestions and objections, if any, within such period as the Reserve Bank may specify for this purpose(b) the Reserve Bank may make such modifications, if any, in the draft scheme as it may consider necessary in the light of the suggestions and objections received from the banking company and also from the transferee bank, and any other banking company concerned in the amalgamation and from any members, depositors or other creditors of each of those companies and the transferee bank.(7)	None
The scheme shall thereafter be placed before the Central Government for its sanction and the Central Government may sanction the scheme without any modifications or with such modifications as it may consider necessary and the scheme as sanctioned by the Central Government may specify in this behalf Provided ( 7A)	None
The sanction accorded by the Central Government under subsec.	None
(7), whether before or after the commencement of S. 21 of the Banking Laws (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1963, shall be conclusive evidence that all the requirements of this section relating to reconstruction, or, as the case may be, amalgamation have been complied with and a copy of the sanctioned scheme certified in writing by an officer of the Central Government to be a true copy thereof, shall, in all legal proceedings (whether in appeal or otherwise and whether instituted before or after the commencement of the said Section 21), be admitted as evidence to the same extent as the original scheme.(8)	None
On and from the date of the coming into operation of the scheme or any provision thereof, the scheme or such provision shall be binding on the banking company or, as the case may be, on the transferee bank and any other banking company concerned in the amalgamation and also on all the members, depositors and other creditors and employees of each of those companies and of the transferee bank, and on any other person having any right or liability in relation to any of those companies or the transferee bank(9) (10) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of the scheme, the Central Government may by order do anything not inconsistent with such provisions which appear to it necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the difficulty.(11) Copies of the scheme or of any order made under subsec.	None
(10) shall be laid before both Houses of Parliament, as soon as may be, after the scheme has been sanctioned by the Central Government or, as the case may be, the order has been made.(12) to (15) Allegations advanced on behalf of the excluded employees is that the draft scheme contemplated under subsec.	None
(6)(a) did not specifically mention names of the excluded employees and at a later stage when the scheme was sent up by the RBI to the Central Government a schedule containing the names of the excluded employees was attached to each of the schemes.	None
Section 45 of the Act provides a legislative scheme and the different steps required to be taken under this section have been put one after the other.	None
A reading of this section indicates a sequence oriented pattern.	Reasoning
What would ordinarily be incorporated in the draft scheme is indicated in subsec.	None
(5).	None
After the requirements of subsec.	Reasoning
(5) are complied with and the scheme comes to a presentable shape, subsec.	None
(6)(a) requires a copy thereof as prepared by RBI to be sent to the banking company (transferer) as also to the transferee bank.	Reasoning
Clause (b) of subsec.	None
(6) authorises RBI to make modifications in the draft scheme as it may consider necessary in the light of suggestions and objections received from the banking company and the transferee bank.	Reasoning
On a simple construction of subsecs.	None
(5) and (6) and on the basis of the sequence pattern adopted in S. 45 it would be legitimate to hold that the Act contemplates the employees to be excluded to be specifically named in the draft scheme.	Reasoning
Since it is a draft scheme prepared by RBI and the right to object or to make suggestions is extended to both the banking company as also the transferee bank, and in view of the fact that clause (i) of subsec.	None
(5) specifies this item to be a matter which may be included in the scheme, it must follow that the legislative intention is that the scheme would incorporate the names of such employees as are intended to be excluded in, accordance with the scheme.	None
Once it is incorporated in the scheme the banking company as also the transferee bank would be entitled to suggest object to the inclusion of names of employees.	Reasoning
It may be that the names of some of the employees may have been wrongly included and the banking company  the hitherto employer would be in a position to suggest object to the inclusion of the names or it may even be that names of some undesirable employees which should have been left out have been omitted and the banking company as the extant employer of such employees would be most competent to deal with such a situation to bring about rectification by exercising the power to suggest object to the draft scheme.	Reasoning
The contention advanced on behalf of RBI that since it is open to it under subsec.	None
(6)(b) of S. 45 to make modifications of the draft scheme, even if the names were not included earlier, at the stage of finalising the scheme for placing it before the Central Government as required under subsec.	None
(7), the earlier noninclusion is not a contravention is not acceptable.	None
We are of the view that in case some employees of the banking company are intended to be excluded, their names have to be specifically mentioned in the scheme at the draft stage.	Reasoning
The requirement of specific mention is significant and the legislature must be taken to have intended compliance.	Reasoning
of the requirement at that stage.	Reasoning
Mr. Salve for the RBI adopted the stand that the provisions of Section 45 did not specifically concede a right of objection or making of suggestions to employees and in subsec.	Reasoning
(6)(b) mention was made only of members, depositors or other creditors.	None
For the reasons we have indicated above, this aspect of the contention does not impress us.	Reasoning
It is the common case of RBI as also the transferee banks that the records of service of each of the employees had been scrutinised and the names for inclusion in the scheme were picked up on the basis of materials like irresponsible action in regard to sanction of loans and accommodations to customers which affected the financial stability of the banking company concerned.	Reasoning
Such an allegation made in the counteraffidavit in this Court has been seriously disputed by the litigating excluded employees.	Reasoning
It is their positive case that there was no foundation in such allegation and dubious loans, if any, had been sanctioned under instructions of the superior in the banking company and, therefore, did not involve any delinquency on the part of such employees.	Reasoning
Since it is the case of the.	Reasoning
respondents, that exclusion had been ordered on the basis of an objective assessment and the very.	Reasoning
foundation of the allegation upon which such assessment has been made is disputed, a situation arose where facts had to be ascertained and it involved assessment .	Reasoning
That has admittedly not been done.	Reasoning
These employees were in employment under contract in the banking companies which were private banks.	None
They have been excluded from service under the transferee banks and the contracts have now been terminated as a result of inclusion of their names in the schemes.	None
It cannot be disputed  nay has not been  that exclusion has adversely affected this category of employees and has brought about prejudice and adverse civil consequences to them.	None
Two contentions have been raised with reference to this aspect of the matter  There has been infraction of natural justice and(2)	None
The transferee banks which are State and RBI which has monitored the operation being admittedly State their action in excluding some of the employees of the banking company and taking over the services of others who are similarly situated is hit.	None
by Art.	None
l4 of the Constitution.	None
It maybe pointed out that according to the excluded employees, many facing similar allegations and or in worse situation have been taken over.	None
Whether there is infraction of Article 14 of the Constitution on the allegation advanced would depend upon facts relating to the excluded employees as also the allegedly derelict employees whose services have been taken over.	None
In the absence of an enquiry in which the excluded employees should have been given an opportunity of participation it has become difficult for us to probe into the matter further.	None
Admittedly the excluded employees have neither been put to notice that their services were not being continued under the transferee banks nor had they been given an opportunity of being heard with reference to the allegations now levelled against them.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for RBI and the transferee banks have taken the stand that the scheme making process under S. 45 is legislative in character and, therefore, outside the purview of the ambit of natural justice under the protective umbrella whereof the need to put the excluded employees to notice or enquiry arose.	Reasoning
It is wellsettled that natural justice will not be employed in the exercise of legislative power and Mr. Salve has rightly relied upon a recent decision of this Court being Union of India v. Cynamide India Ltd., (1987) 2 SCC 720 (AIR 1987 SC 1802 ), in support of such a position.	None
But is the scheme making process legislative?	None
Power has been conferred on the RBI in certain situations to take steps for applying to the Central Government for an order of moratorium and during the period of moratorium to propose either reconstruction or amalgamation of the banking company.	None
A scheme for the purposes contemplated has to be framed by RBI and placed before the Central Government for sanction.	None
Power has been vested in the Central Government in terms of what is ordinarily known as a Henery8 clause for making orders for removal of difficulties.	None
Section 45 (11) requires that copies of the schemes as also such orders made by the Central Government are to be placed before both Houses of Parliament.	None
We do not think this requirement makes the exercise in regard to schemes a legislative process.	None
It is not necessary to go to any other authority as the very decision relied upon by Mr. Salve in the case of Cynamide India Ltd. (supra) lays down the test.	None
In para 7 of the judgment it has been indicated Any attempt to draw a distinct line between legislative and administrative functions, it has been said.	None
is difficult in theory and impossible in practice.	None
Though difficult.	None
it is necessary that the line must sometimes be drawn as different legal rights and consequences may ensue.	None
The distinction between the two has usually been expressed as one between the general and the particular.	None
A legislative act is the creation and promulgation of a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases an administrative act is the making and issue of a specific direction or the application of a general rule to a particular case in accordance with the requirements of policy.	None
Legislation is the process of formulating a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases and usually operating in future administration is the process of performing particular acts, of issuing particular orders or of making decisions which apply general rules to particular cases.	None
It has also been said Rule making is normally directed towards the formulation of requirements having a general application to all members of a broadly identifiable class while, an adjudication, on the other hand, applies to specific individuals or situations.	None
But this is only a broad distinction, not necessarily always true.	None
Applying these tests it is difficult to accept Mr. Salves contention that the framing of the scheme under Section 45 involves a legislative process.	None
There are similar statutory provisions which require placing of material before the two Houses of Parliament yet not involving any legislative activity.	None
The fact that orders made by the Central Government for removing difficulties as contemplated under subcl.	None
(10) are also to be placed before the two Houses of Parliament makes it abundantly clear that the placing of the scheme before the two Houses is not a relevant test for making the scheme framing process legislative.	None
We accordingly hold that there is no force in the contention of Mr. Salve that the process being legislative, rules of natural justice were not applicable.	None
The alternate contention on this score is that the schememaking process being an executive activity or alternately an administrative matter, rules of natural justice have no application.	None
This contention has again to be rejected.	None
Netheim in Privy Council, Natural Justice and Certiorari has indicated  Formerly the presumption had been that there was no obligation to give a hearing unless the statute itself indicated such an obligation now the presumption is that there is such an obligation unless the statute clearly excludes it, notwithstanding the vesting of a power, in subjective terms, in a minister responsible to Parliament.	None
As has been pointed out by Wells J. in Perre Brothers v. Citrus Organisation Committee, (1975) 10 SASR 555 It is now well established  and there is no need for me to canvass the innumerable authorities bearing on this point  that duties, responsibilities and functions of an administrative authority may be purely ministerial, or they may embody some quasi or semijudicial characteristic.	None
At one time a good deal of ingenuity  and with all respect it seems to me a great deal of energy  was wasted in attempting to discern whether a particular function was administrative or quasijudicial.	None
In my view, the House of Lords, and now the High Court, have, to a very large extent set all such controversies at rest.	None
In my opinion, the test now is not so much as to whether one can fairly call something ministerial or administrative, or quasijudicial but whether the duties of a nonjudicial authority must, having regard to the wording of the Act, be carried out in a spirit of judicial fairness.	None
In Re K (H) (an infant), (1967) 1	None
All ER 226, Lord Parker, CJ, found that the immigration officer was not acting in a judicial or quasijudicial capacity.	None
Yet, the learned Chief Justice held that he still had to act fairly.	None
In that case it meant giving K an opportunity of satisfying the officer as to his age, and for that purpose he had to let K know what his immediate impression was so that K could disabuse him of it.	None
Lord Parker observed  I appreciate that in saying that, it may be said that one is going further than is permitted on the decided cases because heretofore at any rate the decisions of the Courts do seem to have drawn a strict line in these matters according to whether there is or is not a duty to act judicially or quasijudicially.	None
The obligation to act fairly even in administrative decision making has since been widely followed.	None
Mullan in Fairness The New Natural Justice has stated  Natural justice coexists with, or reflected, a wider principle of fairness in decision making and that all judicial and administrative decisionmaking and that all judicial and administrative decisionmakers had a duty to act fairly.	None
In the case of State of Orissa v. Dr. (Miss) Binapani Dei, (1967) 2 SCR 625 (AIR 1967 SC 1269 at p. 1272), this Court observed  It is true that the order is administrative in character but even an administrative order which involves civil consequences as already stated, must be made consistently with the rules of natural justice after informing the first respondent of the case of the State, the evidence in support thereof and after giving an opportunity to the first respondent of being heard and meeting or explaining the evidence.	None
No such steps were admittedly taken the High Court was, in our judgment, right in setting aside the order of the State.	None
In A. K. Kraipak v. Union of India, (1970) 1	None
SCR 457 (AIR 1970 SC 150 ), a Constitution Bench quoted with approval the observations of Lord Parker in Re K (H) (an infant) (supra).	None
Hegde, J. speaking for the Court stated (at Pp. 156157 of AIR)  Very soon thereafter a third rule was envisaged and that is that quasijudicial enquiries must be held in good faith, without bias and not arbitrarily or unreasonably.	None
But in the course of years many more subsidiary rules came to be added to the rules of natural justice.	None
Till very recently it was the opinion of the Courts that unless the authority concerned was required by the law under which it functioned to act judicially there was no room for the application of the rules of natural justice.	None
The validity of that limitation is now questioned.	None
If the purpose of the rules of natural justice is to prevent miscarriage of justice one fails to see why those rules should be made inapplicable to administrative enquiries.	None
Oftentimes it is not easy to draw the line that demarcates administrative enquiries from quasijudicial enquiries.	None
Enquiries which were considered administrative at one time are now being considered as quasijudicial in character.	None
Arriving at a just decision is the aim of both quasijudicial enquiries as well as administrative enquiries.	None
An unjust decision in an administrative enquiry may have more far reaching effect than a decision in a quasijudicial enquiry.	None
These observations in A. K. Kraipaks case were followed by another Constitution Bench of this Court in Chandra Bhavan Boarding and Lodging, Bangalore v. State of Mysore, (1970) 2	None
SCR 600 (AIR 19170 SC 2042).	None
In Swadeshi Cotton Mills v. Union of India, (1981) 2	None
SCR 533 (AIR 1981 SC 818 ), a threeJudge Bench of this Court examined this aspect of natural justice.	None
Sarkaria, J. who spoke for the Court, stated (at p. 828 of AIR)	None
During the last two decades, the concept of natural justice has made great strides in the realm.	None
of administrative law.	None
Before the epochmaking decision of the House of Lords in Ridge v. Baldwin, (1964 AC 40), it was generally thought that the rules of natural justice apply only to judicial or quasijudicial.	None
proceedings and for the purpose, whenever a breach of the rule of natural justice was alleged, Courts in England used to ascertain whether the impugned action was taken by the statutory authority or tribunal in the exercise of its administrative or quasijudicial power.	None
In India also, this was the position before the decision of this Court in Dr. Binapani Deis case, (AIR 1967 SC 1269 ) (supra) wherein it was held that even an administrative order or decision in matters involving civil consequences, has to be made consistently with the rules of natural justice.	None
This supposed distinction between quasijudicial and administrative decisions, which was perceptibly mitigated in Binapani Deis case (supra) was further rubbed out to a vanishing point in A. K. Kraipaks case, AIR 1970 SC 150 (supra)	None
On the basis of these authorities it must be held that even when a State agency acts administratively, rules of natural justice would apply.	None
As stated, natural justice generally requires that persons liable to be directly affected by proposed administrative acts, decisions or proceedings be given adequate notice of what is proposed so that they may be in a position (a) to make representations, on their own behalf (b) or to appear at a hearing or enquiry (if one is held) and (c) effectively to prepare their own case and to answer the case (if any) they have to meet.	None
Natural justice has various facets and acting fairly is one of them.	None
RBI which monitored the three amalgamations was required to act fairly in the facts of the case.	Reasoning
The situation necessitated a participatory enquiry in regard to the excluded employees.	Reasoning
Since the decision to exclude them from service under the transferee banks is grounded upon a set of facts the correctness whereof they deny, if an opportunity to know the allegations and to have their say had been afforded, they could have no grievance on this score.	Reasoning
The action deprives them of their livelihood and brings adverse civil consequences and could obviously not be taken on the ipse dixit of RBI officers without verification of facts.	Reasoning
It is quite possible that a manoeuvring officer of the banking company adversely disposed of towards a particular employee of such bank could make a report against such employee and have him excluded from further service under the transferee bank.	Reasoning
The possibility of exclusion on the basis of some mistake such as to identity cannot also be ruled out.	Reasoning
There is all the more apprehension of this type as the process has to be completed quickly and very often the records of a large number of employees have to be scrutinised.	Reasoning
We are of the view that rules of natural justice apply to administrative action and in the instant cases the decision to exclude a section of the employees without complying with requirement of natural justice was bad.14.	Reasoning
It has been contended on behalf of respondents that moratorium could be for a total period of six months and that was the time allowed for the entire operation to be conducted.	Reasoning
In view of the time frame, by necessary implication it must follow that application of natural justice compliance of which would involve a timeconsuming process was ruled out.	Reasoning
We do not think that there is any merit in this contention either.	Reasoning
As a fact, in respect of the three banks the total number of excluded employees is around 125.	Reasoning
It is the common case of parties that proceedings were pending against some .of	Reasoning
them.	Reasoning
It may be that in view of the time frame a detailed enquiry involving communication of allegations, show cause, opportunity to lead evidence in support of the allegations and in defence of the stand of the employees may not be possible.	Reasoning
Keeping the legislative scheme in view perhaps a simpler enquiry, for instance, communication of the allegation and even receiving an explanation and in cases where the allegation was serious or there was a total denial though there was firm basis for the allegation a single personal hearing could be afforded.	Reasoning
In this case we are not really concerned with the manner or extent of hearing as there has been no hearing at all.	Reasoning
It must, therefore, be held that the action of excluding these employees in the manner done cannot be supported.15.	Reasoning
Fair play is apart of the public policy and is a guarantee for justice to citizens.	Reasoning
In our system of Rule of Law every social agency conferred with power is required to act fairly so that social action would be just and there would be furtherance of the wellbeing of citizens.	Reasoning
The rules of natural justice have developed with the growth of civilisation and the content thereof is often considered as a proper measure of the level of civilisation and Rule of Law prevailing in the community.	Reasoning
Man within the social frame has struggled for centuries to bring into the community the concept of fairness and it has taken scores of years for the rules of natural justice to conceptually enter into the field of social activities.	Reasoning
We do not think in the facts of the case there is any justification to hold that rules of natural justice have been ousted by necessary implication on account of the time frame.	Reasoning
On the other hand we are of the view that the time limited by statute provides scope for an opportunity to be extended to the intended excluded employees before the scheme is finalised so that a. hearing commensurate to the situation is afforded before a section of the employees is thrown out of employment.	Reasoning
We may now point out that the learned single Judge of the Kerala High Court had proposed a postamalgamation hearing to meet the situation but that has been vacated by the Division Bench.	None
For the reasons we have indicated, there is no justification to think of a postdecisional hearing.	None
On the other hand the normal rule should apply.	None
It was also contended on behalf of the respondents that the excluded employees could now represent and their cases could be examined.	None
We do not think that would meet the ends of justice.	None
They have already been thrown out of employment and having been deprived of livelihood they must be facing serious difficulties.	None
There is no justification to throw them out of employment and then give them an opportunity of representation when the requirement is that they should have the opportunity referred to above as a condition precedent to action.	None
It is common experience that once a decision has been taken, there is a tendency to uphold it and a representation may not really yield any fruitful purpose.	None
Amalgamation as such saved under Article 31A(l) (c) of the Constitution is not under challenge here.	None
Strong reliance, however, had been placed on the provisions of subsec.	None
(7A) of S. 45 of the Act.	None
The relevant part of it is as requoted here for convenience  	None
The sanction accorded by the Central Government under subsec, (7) shall be conclusive evidence that all the requirements of this section relating to amalgamation have been complied with This provision is indeed one for purposes of evidence.	None
In Smt.	None
Somawanti v. State of Punjab, (1963) 2	None
SCR 774 (AIR 1963 SC 151 ), this Court pointed out that there was no real difference between conclusive proof provided for in Section 4 of the Evidence Act and conclusive evidence as appearing in subsec.	None
(7A).This provision does not bar the raising of a dispute of the nature received here.	None
As we have already pointed out, amalgamation is not under challenge.	None
Parties are disputing as to what exactly are the requirements of the procedure laid down under the Act and the position that no opportunity was afforded to the excluded employees is not in dispute.	None
To a situation as here protection of the umbrella of conclusive evidence is not attached so as to bar the question from being examined.	None
There is, therefore, nothing in subsec.	None
(7A) to preclude examination of the question canvassed here.	None
The writ petitions and the appeals must succeed.	Decision
We set aside the impugned judgments of the Single Judge and Division Bench of the Kerala High Court and direct that each of the three transferee banks should take over the excluded employees on the same terms and conditions of employment under the respective banking companies prior to amalgamation.	Decision
The employees would be entitled to the benefit of continuity of service for all purposes including salary and perks throughout the period.	Decision
We leave it open to the transferee banks to take such action as they consider proper against these employees in accordance with law.	Decision
Some of the excluded employees have not come to Court.	Decision
There is no justification to penalise them for not having litigated.	Decision
They too shall be entitled to the same benefits as the petitioners.	Decision
Ordinarily the successful parties should have been entitled to costs but in view of the fact that they are going back to employment, we do not propose to make orders of costs against their employers.	Decision
We hope and trust that the transferee banks would look at the matter with an open mind and would keep themselves alive to the human problem involved in it.	Decision
