 Gopala Gowda, J. This I.A. No.3 of 2014 in Civil Appeal No.4284 of 2011 is filed by the appellant seeking for direction and appropriate orders for disposal of this appeal in terms of Section 24(2) of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (in short the Act of 2013).	Issue
The appellantland owner has come to this Court questioning the correctness of the judgment and order dated 16.05.2008 passed by the High Court of Delhi in W.P.(C)No.	None
3695 of 1999, inter alia, urging various facts and legal contentions.	Issue
Brief facts of the case are stated hereunder	None
The appellant is the lawful owner of the land comprised in Khasra Nos.	Facts
750 Min (12 ) and 751 Min (018) situated in the revenue estate of Village Malikpur, Kohi alias Rangpuri, Tehsil Mehrauli in the National Capital Territory of Delhi (for short NCT, Delhi).	None
The Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) vide its sanction bearing No. S.N.406/B HQ/17/148/AE (B) HQ III dated 12.07.1990 gave sanction for constructing the farmhouse from common land.	None
On 17.12.1993, the Completion Certificate with regard to the farm house on the land in question was issued to the appellant by the MCD.	Facts
On 27.06.1996, the Government of National Capital Territory issued Notification No.F.9 (12)/95 LB LA/8474 dated 01.06.1995 under Section 4 of Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (in short the repealed L.A. Act) for the acquisition of the different parcels of land including an area measuring 369 bighas and 1 biswa situated in the revenue estate of village Malikpur Kohi alias Rangpuri in the NCT, Delhi.	Facts
The above said notification issued for acquisition of the land covered the land and building owned by the appellant bearing Khasra No. 750 for 3 bighas and Khasra No.751 for 3.12 bighas.	Facts
The public purpose mentioned in the said acquisition notification was for development of Vasant Kunj Phase IV.3.	Facts
On 24th June, 1997, a declaration under Section 6(1) of the repealed L.A. Act was issued by the NCT, Delhi in respect of the land sought to be acquired including the land owned by the appellant.	Facts
On 9th June, 1999, notices under Sections 9 and 10 of the repealed L.A. Act with regard to the land in question were issued by the Land Acquisition Collector to the appellant.	Facts
On 15th June, 1999, the appellant filed a writ petition (c) No. 3695 of 1999 before the High Court of Delhi, questioning the legality of the aforesaid acquisition notifications published under Sections 4 and 6 of the repealed L.A. Act urging various grounds.	Facts
Other similarly placed land holders also challenged the said two notifications before the High Court.	Facts
The writ petitions were heard together by the High Court and passed its judgment and order dated 16.05.2008 by dismissing the writ petitions holding that the acquisition of land by the NCT, Delhi is legal and valid and did not suffer from any legal infirmities.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.4.	Facts
It is the case of the appellant that throughout the proceedings before the High Court as well as this Court, the appellant has been in continuous physical possession of the land involved in this appeal as it has been protected by various orders of status quo by the High Court as well as this Court with respect to the possession of the land in question.	Facts
Mr. Chandra Uday Singh, the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant placed strong reliance upon Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013 to substantiate the plea that actual physical possession of land has not been taken by the Land Acquisition Collector even after 5 years being elapsed after the award was passed as on the date of the Act of 2013 which came into force with effect from 01.01.2014.	Arguments of Petitioner
The aforesaid provision is extracted hereunder 24(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1), in case of land acquisition proceedings initiated under the LA Act, where an Award under the said Section 11 has been made five years or more prior to the commencement of this Act but the physical possession of the land has not been taken or the compensation has not been paid the said proceedings shall be deemed to have lapsed and the appropriate government, if it so chooses, shall initiate the proceedings of such land acquisition afresh in accordance with the provisions of this Act.	None
Provided that whether an award has been made and compensation in respect of a majority of land holdings has not been deposited in the account of the beneficiaries specified in the notifications for acquisition under Section 4 of the said land acquisition and shall be entitled to compensation in accordance with the provisions of this Act.	None
Having regard to the facts narrated above that neither physical possession of the land nor compensation awarded was paid to the appellant, it is contended that the acquisition proceedings of the land of the appellant are lapsed.	None
In support of the aforesaid submission he has placed reliance upon the decisions of this Court in the cases of Pune Municipal Corporation and Anr.	None
Vs.	None
Harakchand Misirimal Solanki Ors., (2014) 3 SCC 183 , Union of India others v. Shiv Raj others (2014) 6 SCC 564 , Bimla Devi Others v. State of Haryana Others (2014) 6 SCC 583 , Bharat Kumar v. State of Haryana Another (2014) 6 SCC 586 and Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Association v. State of Tamil Nadu others 2014 (10) SCALE 388.	None
Therefore, the learned senior counsel has requested for grant of relief as prayed for in this application.	None
The above said provision of the Act of 2013 quoted above has been interpreted by the three Judge Bench of this Court in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra), the relevant paras 20 and 21 from the case are extracted hereunder 20.it is clear that the award pertaining to the subject land has been made by the Special Land Acquisition Officer more than five years prior to the commencement of the 2013 Act.	None
It is also admitted position that compensation so awarded has neither been paid to the landowners persons interested nor deposited in the court.	None
The deposit of compensation amount in the Government treasury is of no avail and cannot be held to be equivalent to compensation paid to the landowners persons interested.	None
We have, therefore, no hesitation in holding that the subject land acquisition proceedings shall be deemed to have lapsed under Section 24(2) of the 2013 Act.21.	None
The argument on behalf of the Corporation that the subject land acquisition proceedings have been concluded in all respects under the 1894 Act and that they are not affected at all in view of Section 114(2) of the 2013 Act, has no merit at all, and is noted to be rejected.	None
Section 114(1) of the 2013 Act repeals the 1894 Act.	None
Subsection (2) of Section 114, however, makes Section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 applicable with regard to the effect of repeal but this is subject to the provisions in the 2013 Act.	None
Under Section 24(2) land acquisition proceedings initiated under the 1894 Act, by legal fiction, are deemed to have lapsed where award has been made five years or more prior to the commencement of the 2013 Act and possession of the land is not taken or compensation has not been paid.	None
The legal fiction under Section 24(2) comes into operation as soon as conditions stated therein are satisfied.	None
The applicability of Section 6 of the General Clauses Act being subject to Section 24(2), there is no merit in the contention of the Corporation.	None
Further, reliance was also placed on the decision of this Court in Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Association (supra), wherein it was opined that Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013 does not exclude any period during which the land acquisition proceedings might have remained stayed on account of stay or injunction or status quo order regarding possession of the land granted by any court.	None
It was conclusively held that the Legislature has consciously omitted to extend the period of five years indicated in Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013, even if the proceedings had been delayed on account of an order of stay or injunction granted by a court of law or for any reason.	None
It was further contended that the phrase used under Section 24(2) is physical possession which means actual taking over possession from the appellantland owner by the Land Acquisition Collector.	None
In support of this contention he has also placed reliance upon two judgments of this Court in Prahlad Singh Ors.	None
v. U.O.I Ors., (2011) 5 SCC 386case and Raghbir Singh Sehrawat v. State of Haryana and Ors.	None
(2012) 1 SCC 792.	None
On the other hand, Ms. Rachna Srivastava, the learned counsel on behalf of respondent Nos. 2 3 contended that the Act of 2013 is prospective in operation by virtue of Section 24 read with Section 114 of the Act of 2013.	Arguments of Respondent
As provided under Section 24, the effect of Section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 the action taken by respondent Nos. 24 has been saved.	Arguments of Respondent
She submits that by reading the above two Sections of the Act, it is clear that Legislature wanted to protect and save the acquisition proceedings initiated under the repealed L.A. Act, particularly where possession of the acquired land has been taken.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the intention of the Legislature in providing Section 24(2) of Act of 2013 was never to destroy the entire acquisition proceedings in acquiring the land for the public purpose under the repealed L.A. Act, 1894.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further contended that it is a well settled position of law that the proceedings initiated and culminated under the repealed Act of 1894 are not to be disturbed by interpreting the provisions of Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013 to declare the acquisition proceeding of land as lapsed on account of not taking physical possession of the land after 5 year period or not paying compensation from the date of passing of the award.	Arguments of Respondent
Under the provisions of the repealed L.A. Act of 1894, by operation of Section 16 or 17(1) of the Act as the case may be, once the possession of the acquired land is taken, the land will be vested with the State Government and is absolutely free from all encumbrances.	Arguments of Respondent
Thereafter, it is not even open for the State Government to restore the land to the land owner in exercise of its power under Section 48 of the repealed L.A. Act as, it is not permissible in law.	Arguments of Respondent
The above said legal position is laid down by this Court in the cases of Satendra Prasad Jain v. State of UP (1993) 4 SCC 369 and Sanjeevanagar Medical and Health Employees Cooperative Housing Society v. Mohd.	Arguments of Respondent
Abdul Wahab and Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
(1996) 3 SCC 600.	Arguments of Respondent
In the aforesaid cases, this Court has held that Section 11(A) of the repealed L.A. Act, is not applicable (which is analogous to Section 24 of the Act of 2013) and that in such circumstances, the only consequence provided under the repealed L.A. Act is payment of interest under Section 34 in respect of the acquired land.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the acquisition of land cannot be deemed to have lapsed under Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013, in view of the law laid down in the above cases referred to supra.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further contended by the learned counsel for the respondents that the above said judgments were not brought to the notice of this Court and could not be considered at the time of rendering the decision in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation and other cases of this Court referred to supra.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the reliance placed upon the said cases by the appellants senior counsel do not render any assistance in support of its case for grant of relief as prayed in the application.	None
It is further contended by the learned counsel that if either of the two negative conditions mentioned in Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013 remains unfulfilled, the acquisition proceedings of the land involved in this appeal cannot be held to have lapsed as it would defeat the purpose of acquisition and intendment of the L.A. Act.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, the two negative conditions contained in Section 24(2) has to be read conjunctively and as such both the conditions are required to be fulfilled for the purpose of holding the acquisition proceedings as lapsed.	Arguments of Respondent
This aspect of the matter has been dealt with by this Court in the case of The Punjab Produce and Trading Co. Ltd. v. CIT, West Bengal, Calcutta (1971) 2 SCC 540.	Arguments of Respondent
It is contended that this case was also not brought to the notice of this Court in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) and other cases referred to supra and therefore the said decisions require reconsideration by the larger Bench of this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, it is urged that the appellant has violated the provisions of Sections 3 and 4 of the Delhi Land (Restriction on Transfer) Act, 1972.	None
It is contended that during the pendency of the present appeal the appellant has sold the land admeasuring area 12 Bigha, falling in Khasra Nos. 745(118), 746 (214), 747 (48) 750 (116), 751 (14) situated in the Revenue Estate of Village Malikpur Kohi at Rangpuri, Tehsil Vasant Vihar, New Delhi along with all necessary rights to M s. DCBC Properties Pvt.	Arguments of Respondent
Ltd. vide registered sale deed No. 6539 dated 1st June, 2012 out of which 1 Bigha 2.5 Biswas in Khasra No. 750 and 18 Biswas in Khasra No. 751 have been acquired under acquisition notification.	Arguments of Respondent
Sections 3 and 4 read along with Section 9 of the Delhi Land (Restrictions on Transfer) Act of 1972 are extracted hereunder for the purpose of answering the legal contention urged in this regard Prohibition on transfer of lands acquired by Central Government  	Arguments of Respondent
No person shall purport to transfer by sale, mortgage, gift, lease or otherwise any land or part thereof situated in the Union territory of Delhi which has been acquired by the Central Government under the Land Acquisition Act, 1984 or under any other law providing for acquisition of land for a public purpose.4.	Arguments of Respondent
Regulation on transfer of lands in relation to which acquisition proceedings have been initiated.	None
No person shall, except with the previous permission in writing of the competent authority, transfer or purport to transfer by sale, mortgage, gift, lease or otherwise any land or part thereof situated in the Union territory of Delhi, which is proposed to be acquired in connection with the Scheme and in relation to which a declaration to the effect that such land or part thereof is needed for a public purpose having been made by the Central Government under section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, the Central Government has not withdrawn from the acquisition under section 48 of that Act.9.	Arguments of Respondent
Penalty  If any person contravenes the provisions of section 3 or section 4, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years or with fine or with both.	None
Further the learned counsel for the respondents 2 to 4 sought to distinguish the two decisions in the case of Prahlad Singh (supra) and Raghbir Singh Sehrawat (supra) and further if this Court had to differ from the decision as per Sita Ram Bhandar Society, New Delhi v. Lieutenant Governor, Government Of NCT, Delhi And Others (2009) 10 SCC 501the said cases should have been referred to the larger Bench, that has not been done.	None
Therefore, reliance placed upon the aforesaid decisions on behalf of the appellant are of no avail in support of the plea taken that physical possession of the land is not taken by respondent nos.2, 3 and 4.	None
Therefore, she has requested this Court for the dismissal of the application filed under Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013 as it has no application in the case on hand.	None
We have carefully gone through the legal submissions made by the learned counsel on behalf of the parties in respect of the application filed by the appellant under Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013 with reference to the averments made therein and the objection statement filed by respondent Nos. 24 and response affidavit of the Land Acquisition Collector.	None
The official original record produced before us for our perusal as per our direction, discloses that the Kabza Karyavahi or possession taking proceedings of the acquired land was started on 27.12.2013.	None
As per the record, on 27.12.2013, the taking over of possession was done only to the extent of the vacant portion of the appellants land whereas the building structure situated on the land could not be taken on that day as the demolition squad was not available for respondent No.4.	None
Thus, it is clear from the said document available on record that the possession of the building structure situated on the appellants land was not taken by him on 27.12.2013.	Reasoning
As per the possession memo available in the record, it is recorded in the said proceeding that the further action for taking over possession in respect of the land were to be continued by the Land Acquisition Collector on 28.12.2013 and there is no record to show as to whether the action continued on 28.12.2013 in this regard.	Reasoning
The alleged taking over of possession of the land involved in this appeal was done on 31.12.2013, as per the document annexure R1 memo of possession taking possession of the acquired land in Award no.07/9899 is signed by the officers of the Land and Building Department of the third respondent the same was alleged to have immediately been delivered to the DDA officials i.e. respondent no.5 on the same day.	Reasoning
According to respondent Nos. 3 and 4, the possession of the land involved in this appeal has been allegedly taken by them without any objections being raised by the appellantowner.	Reasoning
The above said plea taken by them cannot be accepted by us as the same is wholly contrary to the factual position regarding possession of the land.	Reasoning
The question of raising objection to respondent Nos. 3 and 4 for taking possession of the land by the appellant did not arise at all for the reason that notice in this regard was not issued to it calling upon it to handover possession of the land to the Land Acquisition Collector.	Reasoning
The reasons stated at paragraphs 8 and 9 in the response affidavit filed by one Mr. Vivek Kumar Tripathi, who is the Land Acquisition Collectorrespondent No. 4 in these proceedings with regard to limits of the then existing subdivisions Tehsils in Delhi being modified, consequently the revenue estate of the boundaries of village Malikpur Kohi Rangpuri which previously formed part of District South, due to the said reorganisation, sub division, Delhi Cantonment and subdivision, Vasant Vihar which were earlier part of District of South West have become part of District New Delhi.	Reasoning
Resultantly, village Rangapuri which was part of subdivision Vasant Vihar under the jurisdiction of Land Acquisition Collector, SouthWest fell under the jurisdiction of District New Delhi.	Reasoning
The notification dated 11.09.2012 was issued by the first respondent creating 11 districts by altering subdivisions Tehsils in Delhi.	Reasoning
Land Acquisition of the land involved in these proceedings was transferred from District SouthWest to the office of respondent no.4 on 21.12.2012 and remaining records on 14.01.2014.	Reasoning
The above said make believe story narrated by the Land Acquisition Collector in his affidavit is a deliberate intention to misrepresent facts to justify the alleged taking over possession of the land on 31.12.2013.	Reasoning
The aforesaid explanation furnished by the Land Acquisition Collector in his affidavit for the alleged taking over possession of acquired land is wholly unnecessary and irrelevant.	Reasoning
Therefore, the said explanation by him cannot be accepted by us.	Reasoning
The averments made at para 10 of the response affidavit of Land Acquisition Collector are contrary to the Kabza Karyavahi (possession taking over proceedings) dated 27.12.2013 and the reason stated in the said memo is that the Land Acquisition Collector could not take possession of the building structure situated on the acquired appellants land, as the demolition squad was not available on that day.	Reasoning
The possession of the land taking over document Annexure R1 to the response affidavit dated 31.12.2013 produced by the Land Acquisition Collector in which it is stated that the possession of the land of the appellant has been taken on 31.12.2013 the said averment in the affidavit is contradictory to the kabza karyavahi document dated 27.12.2013 available in the original record.	Reasoning
The contradictory statements made by the Land Acquisition Collector in his response affidavit at para 10 cannot be accepted by us.	Reasoning
The plea sworn by the Land Acquisition Collector in the affidavit is a false statement of fact for the reason that the physical possession of the land is in fact not taken and could not have been taken by the Land Acquisition Collector from the appellant when the interim order of status quo with regard to the possession of land of the appellant was passed by this Court on 04.08.2008.	Reasoning
The said order being well within the knowledge of the respondent Nos. 25 is evident from the record of proceedings of this Court dated 24.09.2010 as the names of learned counsel on behalf of the respondent Nos. 15 is shown in this Courts record of proceedings.	Reasoning
The further plea taken by him at para 10 of the said affidavit that the second respondent enquired about the litigation status in respect of the order passed in relation to this case and other cases of village Rangpuri from the 5th respondentDDA and did not receive any response from it is once again a false statement of fact.	Reasoning
Therefore, the office of the 3rd respondent being unaware of any interim order of status quo is once again a false statement and the same has been deliberately made by him to justify his action as stated in the respondent affidavit.	Reasoning
Hence, the statement of facts sworn to at paras 810 are liable to be rejected and accordingly rejected.	Reasoning
Therefore, the plea of the Additional District Collector Land Acquisition Collector and its officers to have allegedly taken over possession of the land as stated at paragraph 10 of the response affidavit is false and it amounts to contempt of this Court committed by them, as they have willfully disobeyed the interim order of this Court dated 04.08.2008.	Reasoning
Therefore, the plea of taking over possession of land of the appellant either on 27.12.2013 as per the original record or on 31.12.2013 as per document Annexure R1 cannot be accepted by us.	Reasoning
The respondents have misrepresented certain relevant facts to this Court by filing the above referred response affidavit with an oblique motive to deny the valuable statutory right accrued in favour of the appellant under Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013.	Reasoning
Hence, the conduct of respondent No. 4 and officials of respondent No.3 in misrepresenting facts is deprecated by us.	None
The document of Annexure R1 to the response affidavit has been falsely created by respondent Nos. 3 and 4 with a malafide intention not only to defeat the statutory right of the appellantland owner accrued in its favour under the provision of Section 24(2) of the Act of 2013, but it is a clear case of misrepresentation of facts to this Court with an oblique motive to deprive the valuable constitutional right of the appellant to the land involved in these proceedings.	None
This conduct of the ADM Land Acquisition Collector is highly objectionable and reprehensible as his action in creating false official documents to deny the legitimate right accrued in favour of the appellant, which conduct of him amounts to breach of trust reposed with him by the public to discharge his public functions in the larger interest of public.	None
The public officers are required to maintain the public record honestly, truly and correctly, the Additional District Magistrate cadre indulging in such unlawful acts will discredit the credibility of the public office from maintaining trust and confidence in the public office which is most important and necessary for the good administration of the second respondent.	None
This has not been done in the case on hand by the Land Acquisition Collector which cannot be appreciated by this Court.	None
Further, the reliance is placed upon the judgment by the learned senior counsel on behalf of the appellant on Prahlad Singhs case (supra) to show that the alleged taking over of the possession of the land is not legally correct.	None
The relevant paragraph reads thus We have given our serious thought to the entire matter and carefully examined the records.	None
Section 16 lays down that once the Collector has made an award under Section 11, he can take possession of the acquired land.	None
Simultaneously, the section declares that upon taking possession by the Collector, the acquired land shall vest absolutely in the Government free from all encumbrances.	None
In terms of the plain language of this section, vesting of the acquired land in the Government takes place as soon as possession is taken by the Collector after passing an award under Section 11.	None
To put it differently, the vesting of land under Section 16 of the Act presupposes actual taking of possession and till that is done, legal presumption of vesting enshrined in Section 16 cannot be raised in favour of the acquiring authority.	None
Since the Act does not prescribe the mode and manner of taking possession of the acquired land by the Collector, it will be useful to notice some of the judgments in which this issue has been considered.	None
(emphasis supplied by this Court)	None
At para 19 of the above case, it has been further clearly held that the memo of taking over possession of the acquired land must be in the presence of independent witnesses, undisputedly the same has not been done by respondent Nos. 2, 3 and 4 in the case on hand.	None
Therefore, in view of the principles laid down in the above case, the plea of the respondents that as per memo of possession dated 31.12.2013 the possession of the said land of the appellant was taken and handed over to the DDArespondent no.4 on the same day is not accepted by us as it is not done in fact and could not have been done in view of the interim order referred to supra and also the same has not been done in the presence of independent witnesses as required in law.	None
Further, this Court held at para 26 in Raghuvir Singh Sehravats case (supra) as under Bhagwati, J. (as he then was) and Gupta, J., who constituted the majority did not agree with Untwalia, J. and observed as under(Balwant Narayan Bhagde case, SCC pp.	None
71112, para 28)28.	None
We think it is enough to state that when the Government proceeds to take possession of the land acquired by it under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, it must take actual possession of the land, since all interests in the land are sought to be acquired by it.	None
There can be no question of taking symbolical possession in the sense understood by judicial decisions under the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
Nor would possession merely on paper be enough.	None
What the Act contemplates as a necessary condition of vesting of the land in the Government is the taking of actual possession of the land.	None
How such possession may be taken would depend on the nature of the land.	None
Such possession would have to be taken as the nature of the land admits of.	None
(emphasis laid by this Court)	None
Thus, in view of the above decisions, this Court has clearly laid down the legal principle as to how taken over physical possession of the acquired land means the actual taking of possession of it of it from the land owners interested persons.	None
The learned counsel on behalf of respondent Nos. 2,3 and 4 sought to distinguish the said judgments by placing reliance upon the judgment in the case of Sita Ram Bhandar Society (supra) wherein this Court opined thus A cumulative reading of the aforesaid judgments would reveal that while taking possession, symbolic and notional possession is perhaps not envisaged under the Act but the manner in which possession is taken must of necessity depend upon the facts of each case.	None
Keeping this broad principle in mind, this Court in T.N. Housing Board v. A. Viswam after considering the judgment in Narayan Bhagde case, observed that while taking possession of a large area of land (in this case 339 acres) a pragmatic and realistic approach had to be taken.	None
This Court then examined the context under which the judgment in Narayan Bhagde case had been rendered and held as under (Viswam case, SCC p. 262, para 9)9.	None
It is settled law by series of judgments of this Court that one of the accepted modes of taking possession of the acquired land is recording of a memorandum or panchnama by the LAO in the presence of witnesses signed by him them and that would constitute taking possession of the land as it would be impossible to take physical possession of the acquired land.	None
It is common knowledge that in some cases the owner interested person may not be cooperative in taking possession of the land.29.	None
In Balmokand Khatri Educational and Industrial Trust v. State of Punjab yet again the question was as to the taking over of the possession of agricultural land and it was observed thus (SCC p. 215, para 4)4.	None
It is seen that the entire gamut of the acquisition proceedings stood completed by 1741976 by which date possession of the land had been taken.	None
No doubt, Shri Parekh has contended that the appellant still retained their possession.	None
It is now well settled legal position that it is difficult to take physical possession of the land under compulsory acquisition.	None
The normal mode of taking possession is drafting the panchnama in the presence of panchas and taking possession and giving delivery to the beneficiaries is the accepted mode of taking possession of the land.	None
Subsequent thereto, the retention of possession would tantamount only to illegal or unlawful possession.	None
Further, on the plea taken by the learned counsel on behalf of the respondent nos.	None
2 and 3 regarding contravention of Sections 3 and 4 of the Act of 1972 for transfer of the land in question by the appellant during the pendency of the proceedings as it was acquired by the NCT on behalf of the Central Government by placing reliance on Article 239AA of the Constitution, with respect to the contention of 1972 Act is concerned, the same has no application to the fact situation.	None
In view of the said provision, it has been contended by the learned counsel on behalf of the respondent nos.	None
2, 3 and 4 that the land and home subjectmatters that are in Delhi are still with the Central Government and therefore, acquisition of land by NCT is the acquisition made by it on behalf of the Central Government.	None
This is farfetched argument of the learned counsel and therefore, the same cannot be accepted by us for the reason that the acquisition notification available in the original record would clearly show that the land is acquired by the NCT, Delhi and not on behalf of the Central Government.	None
Hence, the said contention is liable to be rejected and accordingly rejected.	None
Apart from the said reason, even assuming for the sake of argument that the Act of 1972 is applicable, it has been specifically stated by the learned senior counsel that the competent authority has given permission to the appellants to transfer the land in favour of subsidiary company of the appellant.	Reasoning
The same can be seen in para 5 of the sale deed produced before this Court which reads thus The vendor have obtained NOC under provisions of the Delhi Land (Restriction on transfer) Act, 1972 from the concerned department Tehsildar Notification Delhi and shall obtain all such necessary clearance permission as may be required for effectively transferring and conferring the title on the Vendee.	Reasoning
Therefore, the provisions of Sections 3, 4, and 9 have no application to the fact situation on hand and there is no substance in this plea of the respondent and the same is rejected.22.	None
In view of the aforesaid findings and reasons recorded by us, the prayer made in this application is allowed.	Decision
The acquisition proceedings in respect of the appellants land have lapsed.	Decision
Consequently the appeal is also allowed quashing the acquisition proceeding notifications in respect of the appellants land.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
