 MOHAN M. SHANTANAGOUDAR, J. The present appeal arises out of the judgment dated 21.07.2015 passed by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, New Delhi ( National Commission) dismissing the consumer complaint (Original Petition No. 48 of 2004) filed by the Appellant herein.	Issue
The facts giving rise to this appeal are as follows 2.1 One M s Shrirang Agro Chemical Pvt. Ltd., having its factory premises in Tarapur, Thane District, was engaged in the business of manufacturing a chemical called Cyper Methnic Acid Chloride ( CMAC), an intermediate product used in growing cash crops.	Facts
The said factory premises had become a sick unit, and was auctioned off by the Maharashtra State Financial Corporation ( MSFC).	Facts
The bidding took place on 14.03.2001, and on 15.03.2001, the Appellant was declared the highest bidder, having quoted a price of Rs. 4 crores.	None
2.2	None
The Appellant commenced production of CMAC in November 2001.	None
The previous company (Shrirang Agro Chemical Pvt. Ltd.) had taken an insurance coverage from the Respondent, and the Appellant continued this coverage.	Facts
To this end, after inspecting the plant and machinery, a Fire and Special Perils Policy was issued by the Respondent from 12.11.2001 to 11.12.2001 insuring the subject premises for a total Insured Declared Value of Rs.12.5 crores.	Facts
The said policy was continued for the period between 12.12.2001 and 11.01.2002 as well.	None
2.3 On 03.01.2002, a fire broke out at the factory premises, based on which the Appellant filed a claim with the Respondent.	None
On 30.01.2004, based on reports from the three surveyors, the Respondent repudiated the claim of the Appellant on two grounds.	Facts
It was held, firstly , that the Appellant had purchased the factory premises for only Rs. 4 crores, but had overvalued it and taken a policy for an excessive value of Rs. 12.5 crores, and secondly, that the Appellant suppressed the material fact of not being duly licensed for the storage and use of Hexane at the factory.	Facts
Aggrieved by such repudiation, the Appellant filed a consumer complaint before the National Commission.	Facts
The National Commission dismissed the Appellants complaint, holding that the repudiation was justified on both the above counts, i.e., that the Appellant had overstated the value of the factory while taking insurance, and that the Appellant was operating without obtaining the requisite licence for the storage of Hexane.	Facts
It is against this dismissal that the Appellant has approached this Court by way of an appeal under Section 23 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986.	Facts
Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellant, Shri S.S. Naphade, argued against the appointment of the third surveyor, S.B. Nalluri Associates ( third surveyor).	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended that once the second surveyor, Mehta and Padamsey	Arguments of Petitioner
Surveyors Pvt. Ltd. ( second surveyor), had clearly assessed the loss and submitted a detailed report wherein it had ruled out any mala fides on part of the Appellant, there was no occasion to appoint the third surveyor.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Senior Counsel also relied on the notification dated 21.11.2001 issued by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas in exercise of its powers under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 ( the Essential Commodities Act), to argue that the Appellant was exempt from obtaining a licence for storage of Hexane, since according to him, the Appellant had stored less than 20 kilolitres of Hexane.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the said notification clearly stipulated that there was no requirement of a licence for storing up to 20 kilolitres of Hexane.	None
On the other hand, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Respondent, Shri P.P. Malhotra, contended that repudiation of the claim was justified, inasmuch as the Appellant had not disclosed that it was not in possession of the requisite licence for storing Hexane.	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended that the Appellant was required to obtain a licence as per either Article 3 or Article 7 of the First Schedule to the Petroleum Rules, 1976 ( 1976 Rules).	Arguments of Respondent
5.1 It was further argued that even assuming that the aforementioned notification dated 21.11.2001 exempted the Respondent from obtaining a licence for storing Hexane up to 20 kilolitres, the second surveyors report, against which the Appellant had not raised any objection, was categorical in its finding that the factory premises held over 90 kilolitres of Hexane, out of which 79.152 kilolitres of Hexane had suffered damage.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, no reliance could be placed on the exemption under this notification in the instant facts and circumstances.	None
5.2 Learned Counsel also argued in favour of the finding of the National Commission with respect to overvaluation of the subject factory by the Appellant while taking insurance.	None
At the outset, we must observe that we are at a loss to understand why the insurance policy was taken by the Appellant for only one month and extended thereafter, again, for only one more month.	Reasoning
It is also quite perplexing as to why the Respondent agreed to issue a policy for such a short period of time, and no plausible reasons are forthcoming from the records to explain the peculiar nature of this transaction.	Reasoning
Be that as it may, upon perusing the material on record and after hearing the learned counsel, we find that two issues arise in the instant case, to determine whether repudiation of the claim was justified for breach of policy terms whether the Appellant was not duly licensed to store Hexane, and therefore had suppressed a material fact, thus breaching Clause 1 of the policy, and whether the Appellant overvalued the subject factory while taking insurance, amounting to fraud under Clause 8 of the policy.	Issue
In this regard, we find it relevant to reproduce the said clauses of the insurance policy This policy shall be voidable in the event of mis representation, misdescription or nondisclosure of any material particular.	None
x x x If the claim be in any respect fraudulent, or if any false declaration be made or used in support thereof or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by the insured or any one acting on his behalf to obtain any benefit under the policy or if the loss or damage be occasioned by the willful act, or with the connivance of the insured, all benefits under this policy shall be forfeited.	None
With respect to the question of licensing, the Respondents case is that the Appellant had not disclosed that it had stored Hexane without having obtained a licence for the same, as required under the 1976 Rules.	Arguments of Respondent
In this respect, the Respondent has relied on Articles 3 and 7 of the First Schedule to the 1976 Rules.	Arguments of Respondent
Articles 3 and 7 specifically refer to petroleum Class A, which is defined as follows under Section 2(b) of the Petroleum Act, 1934 ( the Petroleum Act) (b) petroleum Class A means petroleum having a flashpoint below twentythree degree centigrade.	Arguments of Respondent
To show that Hexane falls within Class A, learned Counsel for the Respondent has drawn our attention to literature from the National Fire Protection Association ( the NFPA), an international nonprofit organisation working towards eliminating death, injury, property and economic loss due to fire.	None
As per the records of physical properties of selected chemicals prepared by the NFPA, the flash point of nHexane is 23C. NFPA 497, Recommended Practice for the Classification of Flammable Liquids, Gases, or Vapors and of Hazardous (Classified) Locations for Electrical Installations in Chemical Process Areas (2017 edition).	None
Admittedly, the substance being stored by the Appellant was nHexane, or normal Hexane.	None
Indeed, as per nomenclature adopted by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry, the substance carrying the molecular formula C 6 H 14 is known as Hexane or nHexane.	None
National Center for Biotechnology Information, PubChem Compound Database, available at https pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov compound Hexane.	None
This is also supported by Brethericks Handbook of Reactive Chemical Hazards, referred to by the Respondent, which notes that Hexane, having the formula C 6 H 14 , has a flash point of 23C. BRETHERICKS HANDBOOK OF REACTIVE CHEMICAL HAZARDS, Vol.	None
I, 2032 (PG Urben ed., 7th edition, 2006).	None
Since the flash point of the substance is well below 23C, it can safely be said that it falls under the category of petroleum Class A. Against this backdrop, we find it useful to refer to the relevant Articles of the First Schedule to the 1976 Rules, which were the rules in force as on the date of the incident FIRST SCHEDULE table Before looking into whether the Appellant was required to obtain a licence under the provisions reproduced above, it is relevant to note that the Appellant has not challenged the second surveyors report, or its finding that the factory premises contained over 90 kilolitres of Hexane, out of which 79.152 kilolitres were damaged.	Arguments of Respondent
On the contrary, the Appellant seeks to rely on the report heavily.	Reasoning
The Respondent has contended that the Appellant was required to obtain a valid licence under the Petroleum Act and the 1976 Rules.	Arguments of Respondent
In this regard, it is pertinent to note that Section 8 of the Petroleum Act makes it clear that storage of small quantities of petroleum Class A does not require any licence.	Reasoning
It reads No licence needed for import, transport or storage of small quantities of petroleum Class A.(1)	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, a person need not obtain a licence for the import, transport or storage of petroleum Class A not intended for sale if the total quantity in his possession does not exceed thirty litres.	Reasoning
Petroleum Class A possessed without a licence under this section shall be kept in securely stoppered receptacles of glass, stoneware or metal which shall not, in the case of receptacles of glass or stoneware, exceed one litre in capacity or, in the case of receptacles of metal exceed twentyfive litres in capacity.	None
13.1	None
Therefore, it is evident that for the storage of petroleum Class A less than 30 litres in quantity, no licence is required under the Petroleum Act or rules thereunder.	Reasoning
As per Article 3, a licence issued by the District Authority is required for importing and storing petroleum Class A in a quantity not exceeding 300 litres.	Reasoning
Thus, the Respondent may be justified in arguing that for storage of petroleum Class A ranging from 30 litres to 300 litres in quantity, a licence under Article 3 may be required.	Reasoning
However, in the instant case, it is clear that the Appellant had stored much more than 300 litres of Hexane, and therefore, a licence under Article 3 would not be sufficient.	Reasoning
The Respondent also drew our attention to Article 7 of the 1976 Rules to further its argument on the requirement of the licence.	Arguments of Respondent
Article 7 deals with storage of certain forms of petroleum otherwise than in bulk.	Arguments of Respondent
The expression petroleum in bulk is defined in clause (xv) of Rule 2 of the 1976 Rules as follows petroleum in bulk means petroleum contained in a tank irrespective of the quantity of petroleum contained therein (emphasis supplied) 14.1	Reasoning
In turn, the term tank is defined in clause (xxii) of Rule 2 in the following manner tank means a receptacle for petroleum exceeding 1000 litres in capacity From the definitions reproduced above, it becomes evident that irrespective of the quantity of petroleum, when petroleum is stored in a tank, it is referred to as petroleum in bulk under the 1976 Rules.	None
As mentioned earlier, Article 7, on which the Respondent seeks to place reliance, deals with the grant of a licence for storage of petroleum otherwise than in bulk, i.e. otherwise than in a tank.	Reasoning
In other words, for petroleum Class A exceeding 300 litres, a licence under Article 7 is required when it is not being stored in receptacles exceeding 1000 litres in capacity.	Reasoning
In this regard, we may also refer to Condition 2 of Form XIV of the Second Schedule to the 1976 Rules.	None
Form XIV corresponds to the licence granted under Article 7 of the First Schedule, and Condition 2 of the said Form reads as follows The petroleum shall be stored only in the storage shed which shall be constructed of suitable non combustible materials, provided that when no petroleum Class A is stored, the beams, rafters, columns, windows and doors may be of wood.	None
(emphasis supplied) 16.1	None
In turn, the term store shed is defined in clause (xxi) of Rule 2 as follows store shed means a building used for the storage of petroleum otherwise than in bulk, whether forming part of an installation or not, but does not include a building used for the stores of petroleum exempt from licence under Sections 7,8 or 9 of the Act 16.2 A store shed, therefore, is a building where petroleum is stored otherwise than in bulk, i.e., otherwise than in receptacles with a capacity of over 1000 litres.	None
Most significantly, clause (xxi) of Rule 2 states that a store shed may be a part of an installation.	None
At this juncture, it is relevant to note that this term is also defined under the 1976 Rules, in clause (xiv) of Rule 2 installation means any premises wherein any place has been specially prepared for the storage of petroleum in bulk, but does not include a wellhead tank or service station Upon reading the definitions of store shed and installation together, it becomes clear that installation carries a much broader meaning.	None
In order for any premises to be an installation under the 1976 Rules, it must necessarily contain a place specially prepared to store petroleum in bulk.	None
In other words, such a place must have the capacity to hold receptacles with a capacity of 1000 litres or more (which would be nothing but a tank as defined under the 1976 Rules).	None
At the same time, an installation may also have the capacity to store petroleum otherwise than in bulk.	None
An installation, therefore, may consist of both tanks and storage sheds, or it may consist only of tanks.	None
In the instant case, the second surveyor had clearly stated that the Hexane had leaked from the tanks in which it was stored.	Reasoning
However, it is not clear from the material on record whether or not the term tank was assigned the same meaning as under the 1976 Rules.	Reasoning
If the tanks referred to by the second surveyor were receptacles that could not store more than 1000 litres of petroleum, then they would not constitute tanks under the 1976 Rules, and the petroleum stored in such tanks would fall under the category of petroleum stored otherwise than in bulk.	Reasoning
In such a case, a licence would be required under Article 7.	Reasoning
At this stage, we may fruitfully refer to the application preferred by the Appellant to obtain a licence under Article 6 of the First Schedule to the 1976 Rules, which pertains to the import and storage of petroleum in an installation, vide letter dated 22.10.2001.	None
In its response to the above application, the Controller of Explosives, Nagpur noted vide letter dated 05.11.2001, that the drawings of the site and layout of the proposed installation had been approved, subject to the condition that the pump motor to be incorporated were flame proof, in accordance with IS2148.	None
Further, the Appellant was asked to submit certain documents that were necessary in connection with the grant of the licence applied for, such as an application under Form VIII (which is an application for the grant, amendment, renewal, or transfer of a licence to import and store petroleum), a Safety and Test Certificate required under Rule 130 and 126 of the 1976 Rules issued by a competent person, a NoObjection Certificate from the Local District Authority along with the site plan duly endorsed by such authority, and so on.	None
Additionally, the Appellant was directed to comply with the provisions of the Solvent, Raffinate and Slop (Acquisition, Sale, Storage and Prevention of Use in Automobiles) Order, 2000 ( the 2000 Order).	None
The above communication clearly indicates that even the Controller of Explosives was of the opinion that the premises where the Appellant was storing Hexane amounted to an installation.	Reasoning
As we have discussed supra, for a premises to be considered as an installation, it must contain a place prepared to hold tanks as defined under the 1976 Rules.	Reasoning
This strongly suggests that the tanks referred to by the second surveyor were indeed tanks as envisaged under the 1976 Rules.	Reasoning
In our considered view, this shows that the Appellant may well have been required to obtain a licence under Article 6 itself.	Reasoning
It is not the case of the Appellant that it provided the documents stipulated by the Controller of Explosives.	Reasoning
No further communication between the Appellant and the said authority has been placed on record either.	Reasoning
There is nothing on record to show that a licence under Article 6 was granted to the Appellant.	Reasoning
In light of the above discussion, we are of the view that the Appellant was required to obtain a licence under the 1976 Rules for the storage of Hexane, be it under Article 6 or 7, and has failed to show that it possessed any such licence.	Reasoning
Having examined the scheme of the 1976 Rules with respect to licensing requirements, we may now turn to the Appellants contention that it was exempt from obtaining a licence under the said rules, by virtue of the notification dated 21.11.2001 issued by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, amending the 2000 Order.	None
The relevant clause of the amended order that is being relied upon by the Appellant is as follows Restriction on sale and use of solvents, raffinates, slops and other product No person shall either acquire, store or sell solvents included in the Schedule, without a licence issued by the State Government or the District Magistrate or any other Officer authorised by the Central or the State Government Provided that no such licence shall be required for consumption of 50 KLs per month or less and storage of 20 KLs or less of solvents listed in the Schedule combined.	None
Evidently, there is an exemption carved out in the proviso dispensing with the need for a licence in the cases laid down thereunder.	Reasoning
Significantly, Hexane is mentioned in the Schedule referred to in the above clause, making it clear that the substance is governed by the same.	Reasoning
The Appellant seeks to argue that pursuant to the above proviso, it was not required to obtain a licence under the 1976 Rules for the storage of Hexane on its premises.	None
In order to determine whether the reference to a licence in the said clause includes licences under the Petroleum Act, it is essential to examine the background and scheme of the 2000 Order.	None
A glance at the notification dated 21.11.2001, amending the 2000 Order, as well as the said order itself, reveals that both were issued in exercise of the powers of the Central Government under Section 3(1) of the Essential Commodities Act.	None
This statute, as is evident from its Statement of Objects and Reasons, was enacted to provide for the control of the production, supply and distribution of and trade and commerce in certain commodities, in the interest of the general public.	None
Further, Section 3 empowers the Central Government to pass orders providing for the regulation or prohibition of the production, supply and distribution of any essential commodity, and trade and commerce therein, under certain conditions.	None
Section 3(1), in particular, reads as follows Powers to control production, supply, distribution, etc., of essential commodities.	None
If the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do for maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity or for securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair prices, or for securing any essential commodity for the defence of India or the efficient conduct of military operations, it may, by order, provide for regulating or prohibiting the production, supply and distribution thereof and trade and commerce therein.	None
Clearly, orders under Section 3(1) may pertain to the following objectives maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity securing the equitable distribution and availability at fair prices of such commodity or, securing any essential commodity for the defence of India or the efficient conduct of military operations.	None
Furthermore, Section 3(2) contemplates particular aspects with respect to which orders may be passed in exercise of the power under Section 3(1).	None
In this regard, it is relevant to refer to clause (d) of Section 3(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by subsection (1), an order made thereunder may provide?	None
x x x (d) for regulating by licences, permits or otherwise the storage, transport, distribution, disposal, acquisition, use or consumption of, any essential commodity.	None
Thus, it is clear that the Central Government has the power to pass orders under the Essential Commodities Act to provide for licensing regimes governing the storage of an essential commodity, in pursuance of the three objectives set out in Section 3(1).	Reasoning
The 2000 Order, in our considered view, is one such order, providing for a licensing regime regulating the acquisition, sale, storage and prevention of use in automobiles of solvents, raffinates and slops, particularly for the purposes of the Essential Commodities Act.	Reasoning
There is nothing in the said order to suggest that it intends to replace or modify any other existing licensing regime under any other law in force, including the Petroleum Act and the rules formulated thereunder.	Reasoning
In fact, we find that the notifications issued in pursuance of the 2000 Order set to rest any residual doubt in this regard.	Reasoning
For instance, a perusal of G.R.S. 578(E), an order dated 30.06.2000 issued by the Central Government under Clause 3 of the 2000 Order, clearly reveals that the licence being referred to under the order is the Solvent, Raffinate and Slop Licence.	Reasoning
The said notification reiterates that the said licence is to be issued by the State Government, District Magistrate, or the officer authorised by the Central or State Government, as also mentioned in Clause 3(1) of the 2000 Order.	Reasoning
There cannot be any dispute that the licence issued under the Essential Commodities Act and control orders are for a different purpose altogether compared to the Petroleum Act.	Reasoning
Thus, it is clear that the licensing regime envisaged in clause 3 of the 2000 Order, and the exemption granted thereto, is in addition to the licensing requirements under the Petroleum Act.	Reasoning
The direction of the Controller of Explosives vide letter dated 05.11.2001 to comply with the requirements under the 2000 Order is an additional requirement to be complied with in order to obtain a licence under the Petroleum Act.	Reasoning
It cannot be said that an exemption from obtaining a licence under the 2000 Order would amount to an exemption to obtain a licence under the Petroleum Act.	Reasoning
Hence, even assuming that the Appellant was exempt from obtaining a licence under the 2000 Order by virtue of the said exemption, the Appellant was still required to obtain a licence in accordance with the 1976 Rules.	Reasoning
We hasten to add here that, as already mentioned supra, the quantity of Hexane stored by the Appellant was more than 20 kilolitres.	Reasoning
Hence, the Appellant was required to obtain a licence under the 2000 Order as well.	Reasoning
From the above discussion, it is evident that the 1976 Rules prescribed that a licence had to be obtained for the purposes of storing Hexane of the quantity involved in the instant case, and the Appellant has failed to comply with this requirement.	Reasoning
In the absence of such a licence, the Appellant could not have lawfully stored Hexane.	Reasoning
Therefore, we are of the view that the nondisclosure of the nonpossession of a licence was of a material nature, and constituted a violation of Condition 1 of the insurance policy.	Reasoning
As a result, we are inclined to affirm the finding of the National Commission that the Respondent was justified in repudiating the claim of the Appellant on this ground.	Reasoning
The second issue, regarding the overvaluation of the subject factory, was not seriously argued by either party.	Reasoning
Moreover, it is a question of fact, which this Court generally does not probe deeply.	Reasoning
Thus, we shall refrain from examining the merits thereof.	Reasoning
The same is also unnecessary in light of our above finding that the repudiation of the instant claim was justified on the ground pertaining to the Appellant lacking a licence for storing Hexane under the Petroleum Act and 1976 Rules.	Reasoning
Before we part with this matter, we may note that some objection was raised by the Appellant against the appointment of the third surveyor by the Respondent.	Reasoning
Suffice it to state that the appointment of the third surveyor was for the limited purpose of examining whether the Appellant was in possession of the requisite licences for the storage of Hexane.	Reasoning
Moreover, neither did the findings of the third surveyor disturb the findings of the second surveyor, nor were they material to the conclusion against the Appellant arrived at by the National Commission.	Reasoning
The second surveyor had given a categorical finding that about 90 kilolitres of Hexane were stored in the factory premises, and this finding has not been challenged by the Appellant.	Reasoning
At the same time, while the findings of the third surveyor supplement the reasoning of the National Commission visvis the absence of a licence under the Petroleum Act and 1976 Rules, they are not crucial to this conclusion, inasmuch as the Appellant itself never contended that it was in possession of the requisite licences for the storage of Hexane.	Reasoning
As a result, we find that irrespective of whether or not the appointment of the third surveyor was proper, the findings of the said surveyor do not materially affect the outcome of the instant case.	Reasoning
In light of the above discussion, we find no reason to interfere with the conclusion in the impugned judgement of the National Commission that the repudiation of the claim was justified for breach of Clauses 1 and 8 of the insurance policy.	Decision
The instant appeal is therefore dismissed.	Decision
Ordered accordingly.	Decision
