 V. Ramana, J. Delay condoned.	None
Leave granted.	None
This appeal arises out of the impugned order dated 17.10.2016 passed by the High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital in AO No. 266 of 2014, wherein the High Court dismissed the appeal on the grounds of delay of 45 days.	Issue
The facts in brief giving rise to this appeal are as follows The deceased aged 26 years, met with an accident on 15.04.2011, as his bike crashed into a truck parked negligently on the road, without any backlights indication.	Facts
Resultantly, he succumbed to the injuries while being taken to the hospital.	Facts
The Appellants (parents of the deceased) preferred a petition before the Motor Accident Claim Tribunal seeking compensation to the tune of Rs. 10 lakhs.	Facts
Vide order 07.02.2014, the tribunal awarded a total sum of Rs. 2.24 Lakhs as compensation along with interest of 6 p.a.	Facts
Aggrieved, the Appellants approached the High Court for seeking enhancement of compensation.	Facts
It is to be noted that the aforesaid appeal before the High Court was filed with 45 days delay.	Facts
In order to explain the same, the Appellants herein filed an application being CLMA 6569/2014, seeking condonation of delay on the ground that his wife was ill, which prevented him from appealing in time.	Facts
By impugned order dated 17.10.2016, the High Court dismissed the aforesaid delay condonation application, consequent upon which the appeal also got dismissed.	Facts
Aggrieved by the aforesaid order, the Appellants herein have approached this Court through special leave petition.	Facts
The counsel on behalf of the Appellants submitted that High Court has acted in an unjustified manner in dismissing the application for condonation of delay.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the contrary, the counsel on behalf of the Respondent supported the judgment passed by the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Having heard the counsel for both parties, the short question which arises for consideration in this appeal is whether the High Court erred in dismissing the delay condonation application for 45 days?	Issue
This question turns on interpretation of Section 173 of Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	None
At the outset, we must note that, Chapter XII of the Act is a beneficial legislation intended at protecting the rights of victims affected in road accidents.	Reasoning
Moreover, the Act is a selfcontained code in itself which provides procedures for filing claims, for passing of award and for preferring an appeal.	Reasoning
Even, the limitations for preferring the remedies are contained in the code itself.	Reasoning
The interpretation of a beneficial legislation must be remedial and must be in furtherance with the purpose which the statute seeks to serve.	Reasoning
The aforesaid view has been reiterated by this Court on multiple occasions wherein this Court has highlighted the importance acknowledging legislative intention while interpreting the provisions of the statute.	Reasoning
This Court in the case of Bombay Anand Bhavan Restaurant v. Deputy Director, Employees State Insurance Corporation.	Reasoning
, (2009) 9 SCC 61 while interpreting the provisions of the Employees State Insurance Act held that it being a beneficial legislation should receive a liberal construction so as to promote its objectives.	Reasoning
This Court held therein The Employees State Insurance Act is a beneficial legislation.	Reasoning
The main purpose of the enactment as the Preamble suggests, is to provide for certain benefits to employees of a factory in case of sickness, maternity and employment injury and to make provision for certain other matters in relation thereto.	Reasoning
The Employees State Insurance Act is a social security legislation and the canons of interpreting a social legislation are different from the canons of interpretation of taxation law.	Reasoning
The courts must not countenance any subterfuge which would defeat the provisions of social legislation and the courts must even, if necessary, strain the language of the Act in order to achieve the purpose which the legislature had in placing this legislation on the statute book.	Reasoning
The Act, therefore, must receive a liberal construction so as to promote its objects.	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)	None
Similarly, this Court in the case of Vimla Devi v. National Insurance Co. Ltd., (2019) 2 SCC 186 while interpreting the provisions of the Act held that strict compliance of procedures can be relaxed in order to ensure that victims receive just compensation.	None
This Court observed therein At the outset, we may reiterate as has been consistently said by this Court in a series of cases that the Act is a beneficial piece of legislation enacted to give solace to the victims of the motor accident who suffer bodily injury or die untimely.	None
The Act is designed in a manner, which relieves the victims from ensuring strict compliance provided in law, which are otherwise applicable to the suits and other proceedings while prosecuting the claim petition filed under the Act for claiming compensation for the loss sustained by them in the accident.	None
(emphasis supplied) While keeping in view, the general nature of the legislation, it is pertinent for us to have a look at Section 173 of the Act which reads as under Appeals.(1) Subject to the provisions of Subsection (2), any person aggrieved by an award of a Claims Tribunal may, within ninety days from the date of the award, prefer an appeal to the High Court Provided that no appeal by the person who is required to pay any amount in terms of such award shall be entertained by the High Court unless he has deposited with it twentyfive thousand rupees or fifty per cent of the amount so awarded, whichever is less, in the manner directed by the High Court Provided further that the High Court may entertain the appeal after the expiry of the said period of ninety days, if it is satisfied that the Appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from preferring the appeal in time.	None
No appeal shall lie against any award of a Claims Tribunal, if the amount in dispute in the appeal is less than ten thousand rupees.	None
(emphasis supplied) Section 173 provides that, any person aggrieved by the award passed by the Tribunal may approach the High Court within ninety days.	None
However, the second proviso states that the High Court may still entertain such appeal even after the expiry of ninety days, if the Appellant satisfies the Court that there exists sufficient reason behind the delay.	None
Ordinarily, the word may is not a word of compulsion.	None
(Justice G.P. Singh in Principles of Statutory Interpretation, 14th Edn.,page 519)	None
It is an enabling word and it only confers capacity, power or authority and implies discretion.	None
(Chinnamarkathian alias Muthu Gounder v. Ayyavoo alias Periana Gounder, (1982) 1 SCC 159 )	None
It is used in a statute to indicate that something may be done which prior to it could not be done.	None
(Madanlal Fakirchand Dudhediya v. Shree Changdeo Sugar Mills Ltd., 1962 Supp (3) SCR 973) The legislature by usage of the word may in Section 173 of the Act, conferred sufficient discretionary powers upon the Court to entertain appeals even beyond the period of ninety days.	None
The pertinent issue before us relates to what the extent of such discretionary power is.	None
In order to understand the extent of conferment of power by the usage of the word may, we may observe Official Liquidator v. Dharti Dhan (P.) Ltd., (1977) 2 SCC 166 , wherein this Court held The principle laid down above has been followed consistently by this Court whenever it has been contended that the word may carries with it the obligation to exercise a power in a particular manner or direction.	None
In such a case, it is always the purpose of the power which has to be examined in order to determine the scope of the discretion conferred upon the donee of the power.	None
If the conditions in which the power is to be exercised in particular cases are also specified by a statute then, on the fulfilment of those conditions, the power conferred becomes annexed with a duty to exercise it in that manner (emphasis supplied)	None
This Court has firstly held that purpose of conferment of such power must be examined for the determination of the scope of such discretion conferred upon the court.	Reasoning
refer to Bhaiya Punjalal Bhagwandin v. Dave Bhagwatprasad Prabhuprasad AIR 1963 SC 120 Shri Prakash Chand Agarwal v. Hindustan Steel Ltd., (1970) 2 SCC 806 .	Reasoning
Our analysis of the purpose of the Act suggests that such discretionary power is conferred upon the Courts, to enforce the rights of the victims and their dependents.	Reasoning
The legislature intended that Courts must have such power so as to ensure that substantive justice is not trumped by technicalities.	Reasoning
Secondly, it has been held that if the specific conditions wherein the power could be exercised is also provided in the statute, then the Court must exercise the aforesaid discretion in the manner as specified by the statute itself.	Reasoning
In the second proviso to Section 173 it is stated that Court has the power to condone delay only if it is satisfied that there existed sufficient cause.	Reasoning
At this juncture, we need to interpret the term sufficient cause as a condition precedent for the granting of the discretionary relief of allowing the appeal beyond the statutory limit of ninety days.	Reasoning
Although this Court has held that provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963 does not apply while deciding claims under the Motor Vehicles Act, but it is relevant to note that even while interpreting sufficient cause under the Limitation Act Courts have taken a liberal interpretation.	Reasoning
This Court in the case of Perumon Bhagvathy Devaswom, Perinadu Village v. Bhargavi Amma (Dead) by LRs., (2008) 8 SCC 321 , observed that 13The words sufficient cause for not making the application within the period of limitation should be understood and applied in a reasonable, pragmatic, practical and liberal manner, depending upon the facts and circumstances of the case, and the type of case.	Reasoning
The words sufficient cause in Section 5 of the Limitation Act should receive a liberal construction so as to advance substantial justice, when the delay is not on account of any dilatory tactics, want of bona fides, deliberate inaction or negligence on the part of the Appellant.	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)	None
The aforesaid view was reiterated in the case of Balwant Singh (Dead) v. Jagdish Singh, (2010) 8 SCC 685 , wherein this Court held that We may state that even if the term sufficient cause has to receive liberal construction, it must squarely fall within the concept of reasonable time and proper conduct of the party concerned.	None
The purpose of introducing liberal construction normally is to introduce the concept of reasonableness as it is understood in its general connotation.	None
The law of limitation is a substantive law and has definite consequences on the right and obligation of a party to arise.	None
These principles should be adhered to and applied appropriately depending on the facts and circumstances of a given case.	None
Once a valuable right has accrued in favour of one party as a result of the failure of the other party to explain the delay by showing sufficient cause and its own conduct, it will be unreasonable to take away that right on the mere asking of the applicant, particularly when the delay is directly a result of negligence, default or inaction of that party.	None
Justice must be done to both parties equally.	None
Then alone the ends of justice can be achieved.	None
If a party has been thoroughly negligent in implementing its rights and remedies, it will be equally unfair to deprive the other party of a valuable right that has accrued to it in law as a result of his acting vigilantly.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The Court in the abovementioned cases, highlighted upon the importance introducing the concept of reasonableness while giving the Clause sufficient cause a liberal interpretation.	Reasoning
In furtherance of the same, this Court has cautioned regarding the necessity of distinguishing cases where delay is of few days, as against the cases where the delay is inordinate as it might accrue to the prejudice of the rights of the other party.	Reasoning
In such cases, where there exists inordinate delay and the same is attributable to the partys inaction and negligence, the Courts have to take a strict approach so as to protect the substantial rights of the parties.	Reasoning
The aforesaid view was taken by this Court in the case of Maniben Devraj Shah v. Municipal Corporation of Brihan Mumbai, (2012) 5 SCC 157 wherein the Court held that What needs to be emphasised is that even though a liberal and justiceoriented approach is required to be adopted in the exercise of power Under Section 5 of the Limitation Act and other similar statutes, the courts can neither become oblivious of the fact that the successful litigant has acquired certain rights on the basis of the judgment under challenge and a lot of time is consumed at various stages of litigation apart from the cost.	Reasoning
What colour the expression sufficient cause would get in the factual matrix of a given case would largely depend on bona fide nature of the explanation.	Reasoning
If the court finds that there has been no negligence on the part of the applicant and the cause shown for the delay does not lack bona fides, then it may condone the delay.	Reasoning
If, on the other hand, the explanation given by the applicant is found to be concocted or he is thoroughly negligent in prosecuting his cause, then it would be a legitimate exercise of discretion not to condone the delay.	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)	None
Therefore, the aforesaid provision being a beneficial legislation, must be given liberal interpretation to serve its object.	Reasoning
Keeping in view the substantive rights of the parties, undue emphasis should not be given to technicalities.	Reasoning
In such cases delay in filing and refiling cannot be viewed strictly, as compared to commercial claims under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 or the Commercial Courts Act, 2015.	Reasoning
In P. Radha Bai v. P. Ashok Kumar, (2019) 13 SCC 445 , wherein this Court while interpreting Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, held that the right to object to an award itself is substantively bound with the limitation period prescribed therein and the same cannot merely a procedural prescription.	Reasoning
In effect the Court held that a complete petition, has to be filed within the time prescribed Under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act and not thereafter.	Reasoning
The Court while coming to the aforesaid conclusion, reasoned as under 36.1 First, the purpose of the Arbitration Act was to provide for a speedy dispute resolution process.	Reasoning
The Statement of Objects and Reasons reveal that the legislative intent of enacting the Arbitration Act was to provide parties with an efficient alternative dispute resolution system which gives litigants an expedited resolution of disputes while reducing the burden on the courts.	Reasoning
Article 34(3) reflects this intent when it defines the commencement and concluding period for challenging an award.	Reasoning
This Court in Popular Construction case Union of India v. Popular Construction Co., (2001) 8 SCC 470 highlighted the importance of the fixed periods under the Arbitration Act.	Reasoning
We may also add that the finality is a fundamental principle enshrined under the Arbitration Act and a definitive timelimit for challenging an award is necessary for ensuring finality.	Reasoning
If Section 17 were to be applied, an award can be challenged even after 120 days.	Reasoning
This would defeat the Arbitration Acts objective of speedy resolution of disputes.	Reasoning
The finality of award would also be in a limbo as a party can challenge an award even after the 120 day period.	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied) Coming back to the Motor Vehicles Act, the legislative intent is to provide appropriate compensation for the victims and to protect their substantive rights, in pursuit of the same, the interpretation should not be as strict as commercial claims as elucidated above.	Reasoning
Undoubtedly, the statute has granted the Courts with discretionary powers to condone the delay, however at the same time it also places an obligation upon the party to justify that he was prevented from abiding by the same due to the existence of sufficient cause.	Reasoning
Although there exists no strait jacket formula for the Courts to condone delay, but the Courts must not only take into consideration the entire facts and circumstances of case but also the conduct of the parties.	Reasoning
The concept of reasonableness dictates that, the Courts even while taking a liberal approach must weigh in the rights and obligations of both the parties.	Reasoning
When a right has accrued in favour of one party due to gross negligence and lackadaisical attitude of the other, this Court shall refrain from exercising the aforesaid discretionary relief.	Reasoning
Taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of the present case, we are of the opinion that the delay of 45 days has been properly explained by the Appellants, which was on account of illness of the wife of Appellant No. 1.	Reasoning
It was not appropriate on the part of the High Court to dismiss the appeal merely on the ground of delay of short duration, particularly in matters involving death in motor accident claims.	Reasoning
Moreover, in the present case no mala fide can be imputable against the Appellants for filing the appeal after the expiry of ninety days.	Reasoning
Therefore, we are of the opinion that the strict approach taken in the impugned order is hypertechnical and cannot be sustained in the eyes of law.	Reasoning
In view of the above, the appeal is allowed and the impugned order of the High Court is set aside.	Decision
As the adjudication on the merits of the case has not taken place, we remand the matter to the said Court for fresh consideration on merits.	Decision
Taking into consideration the fact that the appeal is of the year 2014, we request the High Court to dispose of the same within a period of six months from the date of communication of this order.	Decision
