 Khanna, J.1.	None
This appeal on certificate is directed against the Judgment of the Calcutta High Court whereby that court answered the following question referred to it under section 66(1) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 against the assesseeappellant and in favour of the revenueWhether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the sum of Rs. 7,14,398/ was liable to be included in the total income of the assessee under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 ?	Issue
2.	None
The matter relates to the assessment year 195354, the corresponding accounting period for which ended on June 30, 1952.	Facts
The assessee is.	Facts
a limited company with its head office at Calcutta.	Facts
One , of its activities was the purchase and sale of jute in the State of Orissa and for this purpose the assessee was a registered dealer under the Orissa Sales Tax Act, 1947.	Facts
During.	Facts
the accounting year the assessee sold jute to M s. McLeed Co. Ltd. for being used in two jute miffs situated in Andhra Pradesh under the management of the purchaser company.	Facts
The assessee used to charge from the purchaser sales tax on the purchase of goods at the rate of one anna per rupee of the value of the goods.	Facts
The sales tax was charged under a separate head in the bill.	Facts
The words use d in the bill in this respect were Sales tax buyers account at the rate of /1/ per rupee to be paid to Orissa Government.	Facts
The total amount shown as Liabilities for expenses in the balance sheet as on June 30, 1952 included a sum of Rs 16, 54 455 on account of sales tax.	Facts
The said sum was, however, not paid to the State Government as the sale by the assessee to the purchaser company were stated to be interState sale.	Facts
The assessee contended before the incometax officer that the sales tax realised from the purchaser did not form part of the sale price of the jute and as such did not constitute receipt in jute business.	Facts
The contention was rejected by the incometax officer who held that the sales tax formed a part of, the consideration for the sales and, therefore, the accumulation on that account represented the assessees income.	Facts
The incometax officer accordingly added the aforesaid sum of Rs. 16, 54, 455 to the assessees total income.3.	None
On appeal by the assessee the Appellate Assistant Commissioner found that the actual amount received as sales tax during the relevant period amounted to only Rs. 7, 41, 962, out of which Rs. 27, 564 had been paid to the Orissa Government.	Facts
He, t herefore, held that the amount which was to be added to the assessees total income was Rs. 7, 14, 398.	Facts
The contention of the assessee that the sales tax realised was not part of the taxable receipt of the assessee was rejected.4.	None
The assessee preferred second appeal before the Tribunal and submitted that the purchaser paid the sales tax and the price of goods to the assessee on the understanding that if ultimately no sales tax was exigible on those sales, the amount collected as sale s tax would be refunded to the purchaser.	Facts
The amount collected as sales tax, according to the assesseecompany, could not belong to it but belonged to the purchaser and as such could not be treated as income of the assessee.	Facts
The Tribunal held that where a dealer collects sales tax under the provisions of section 9B of the Orissa Sales Tax Act, the amount of the tax does not form part of the sale price and the dealer doe not acquire any beneficial interest in that amount.	Facts
According to the Tribunal, if at the time of the collection the amount was collected as sales tax the subsequent failure of the assessee to deposit the amount in the Orissa Treasury could not transform the character of that amount.	Facts
The Tribunal consequently came to the conclusion that the Appellate Assistant Commissioner had erred.	Facts
in treating Rs. 7, 14, 398 as part of the total income of the assessee.	Facts
On the application of the Commissioner of Incometax the Tribunal referred the question reproduced above to the High Court.5.	None
The High Court held that if tax, which is validly exigible, is realised by a trader from his customer, and, is then utilised in his business, the tax so realised.	Facts
cannot but form part of the sales price.	Facts
According to the High Court, the tax would be included in the trading receipt of the dealer and would become part of his income as the money realised from the purchaser on account of tax was employed by the dealer for the purpose of making profit and was not separated from price simpliciter.	Facts
The High Court in this context referred to the fact that the assessee did not earmark the amount realised as sales tax and did not put it in a different account or deposit it with the Government.	Facts
It was further found that the assessee had treated the amount of sales tax as his own money.	Facts
Reference was made in the High Court to subsection (3) of section 9B of the Orissa Sales Tax Act which reads as under(3)	None
The amount realised by any person as tax, on sale of any goods, shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act, be deposited by him in a Government treasury within such period as may be prescribed, if the amount so realised exceeds the amount payable as tax in respect of that sale or if no tax is payable in respect thereof.	None
The High Court in the above context observed There is no finding that the trader did not use that money for his trading purpose, and because of the fact that money was not deposited in terms of section 9B(3).	Facts
In such circumstances simply because the trader had a duty to refund, we cannot say it would not constitute trading receipt.	Facts
If a trader received money as trading receipt and employs that money as his own fund and is then called upon to refund the money even then it is trading receipt of the trader but when he pays back that money the amount refunded may be considered for deduction at the time when it is refunded.6.	Facts
In appeal before us, Dr. Pal on behalf of the assessee appellant has contended that the amount received as sales tax retained its character , as such and could not be considered to be a part of trading receipt.	Arguments of Petitioner
As against the above, Mr. Sen on behalf of the revenue submits that the amount in question constituted trading receipt.	Arguments of Respondent
According to Mr. Sen, the matter is concluded by a decision of this Court in the case of Chowringhee Sales Bureau P. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax West Bengal.(1973 87 I.T.R. 542.)	Arguments of Respondent
The submission of Mr. Sen, in our opinion is well founded.7.	Arguments of Respondent
In the case of Chowringhee Sales Bureau P. Ltd. the appellant company was a dealer in furniture and also act ed as an auctioneer.	Reasoning
In respect of sales effected by the appellant as auctioneer, it realised during the year in question in addition to the commission, Rs. 32, 986 as sales tax.	Reasoning
This amount was credited separately in its account books under the head sales tax collection account.	Reasoning
The appellant did not pay the amount of sales tax to the actual owner of the goods nor did it deposit the amount realised by it as sales tax in the State exchequer because it took the position that statutory provision creating that liability upon it was not valid.	Reasoning
The appellant also did not refund the amount to persons from whom it had been collected.	Reasoning
In the cash memos issued by the appellant to the purchasers in the auction sales the appellant was shown as the seller.	Reasoning
This Court held that the sum of Rs. 32, 986 realised as sales tax by the appellant company in its character as an auctioneer formed part of the trading or business receipts.	Reasoning
The fact that the appellant credited the amount received as sales tax under the head sales tax collection account did not make any material difference.	Reasoning
According to this Court, it is the true nature and quality of the receipt and not the head under which it is entered in the account books as would prove decisive.	Reasoning
If a receipt is a trading receipt the fact that it is not so shown in the account books of the assessee would not prevent the assessing authority from treating it as trading receipt.	Reasoning
The Court further observed that the appellant company would be entitled to claim deduction of the amount as and when it paid it to the State Government.8.	None
The above decision, in our opinion, fully applies to this case and in view of it, there is no escape from the conclusion that the amount of Rs. 7, 14, 398 should be treated as trading receipt.9.	None
Dr. Pal has tried to distinguish the decision of this Court in the case of Chowringhee Sales Bureau P. Ltd. on the ground that there was no provision in the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Ac t, 1941 under which the sales tax was realised by the appellant in that case corresponding to subsection (3) of section 9B of the Orissa Sales Tax Act, 1947.	None
This circumstance, in our opinion, hardly constitutes a sufficient ground for not applying the dictum laid down in the case of Chowringhee Sales Bureau P. Ltd. to the present case.	None
The provisions of subsection (3) of section 9B of the Orissa Sales Tax Act have already been reproduced above.	None
It is not necessary for the purpose o	None
f the present case to express an opinion on the point as to whether in view of the decisions of this Court in the cases of R. Abdul Qyader Co. v. Sales Tax Officer, Second Circle, Hyderabad, (1964 15 S.T.C. 403.)	None
Ashoka Marketing Ltd. v. State of Bihar Anr.(1970 26 S.T.C. 254) and State of U.P. Anr.	None
v. Annapurna Biscuit Manufacturing Co. (1973 32 S.T.C. 1.)	None
the State legislature was competent to enact that provision and whether the same was constitutionally valid.	None
Assuming that the said provision is valid, that fact would not prevent the applicability of the dictum laid down in	None
Chowringhee Sales Bureau P. Ltd.	None
The aforesaid decision did take into account the possibility of the appellant in that case being compelled to deposit the amount of sales tax in the State exchequer.	None
It was accordingly observed that the appellant company would be entitled to claim deduction of the amount as and when it paid the amount to the State Government.	None
Likewise, we would like to make it clear in the present case that if any when the appellant pays the sum of Rs. 7, 14, 398 or any part.	None
thereof either to the State Government or to the purchaser, the appellant would be entitled to claim deduction of the sum so paid.10.	None
Dr. Pal points out that the appellant may have to refund the amount realised by it as sales tax to the purchaser.	None
So far as this aspect is concerned, we have already mentioned above that if and when the appellant refunds any part of the amount of sales tax to the, purchaser, the appellant would be entitled to claim deduction on that account.11.	None
Lastly, reference has been made by Dr. Pal to the case of Morley (H. M. Inspector of Taxes) v. Messrs. Tattersall, (22 T.C. 51.)	None
and it is submitted that once an amount was received as sales tax by the appellant it could never be treated as trading receipt.	None
We find it difficult to, accede to the above submission because the case of Chowringhee Sales Bureau P. Ltd. is a direct authority, for the proposition that an amount even though realised as sales tax can in a caselike the present be, treated as trading receipt.	None
It would be pertinent in this context to refer to the finding of the High Court that the assesseeappellant in the present case did not separately earmark the amount realised as sales tax, or put it in a different account.	None
The assessee also did not deposit the amount with the Government as and when realised nor did the assessee refund it to the purchaser from who m the amount had been realised.	None
The High Court has further found that the assessee company mixed up the amount of sales tax with its own funds and treated the same as its own money.	None
Nothing cogent has been brought to our notice to justify interference with the above findings.12.	None
In.	None
the case of Messrs George Oakes (Private) Ltd. v. The State of Madras Ors.	None
(1961 12 STC 476 ) the Constitution Bench of this Court held that the Madras General Sales Tax (Definition of Turnover and Validation of Assessments)	None
A ct, 1954 was not bad on the ground of legislative incompetence.	None
In that context this Court observed that when the seller passes on the tax and the buyer agrees to pay sales tax in addition to the price, the tax is really part of the entire consideration and the distinction between the two amounts tax and priceloses all significance.	None
This Court in that case relied upon the following observation of Lawrence J. in Paprika Ltd. Anr.	None
v. Board of Trade.(1944	None
1 All.	None
E.R. 372.)Whenever a sale attracts purchase tax, that tax presumably affects the price which the seller who is liable to pay the tax demands but it does not cease to be the price which the buyer has to pay even if the price is expressed as X plus purchase tax.13.	None
Reliance was also placed upon the following observation of Goddard, L. J. in Love v. Norman Wright (Builders) Ltd.(1944 1 All.	None
E.R. 618.)Where an article is taxed, whether by purchase tax, customs duty, or excise duty, the tax becomes part of the price which ordinarily the buyer will have to pay.	None
The price of an ounce of tobacco is what it is because of the rate of tax, but on a sale there is only one consideration though made up of cost plus profit plus tax.	None
So, if a seller offers goods for sale, it is for him to quote a price which includes the tax if be desires to pass it on to the buyer.	None
If the buyer agrees to the price, it is not for him to consider how it is made up or whether the seller has included tax or not.14.	None
After referring to these observations S. K. Das J. speaking for the Constitution Bench of this Court observedWe think that these observations are apposite even in the context of the provisions of the Acts we are considering now, and there is nothing in those provisions which would indicate that when the dealer collects any amount by way of tax, that cannot be part of the sale price.	None
So far as the purchaser is concerned, he pays for the good s what the seller demands viz., X price even though it may includes tax.	None
That is the whole consideration for the sale and there is no reason why the whole amount paid to the seller by the purchaser should not be treated as the consideration for the sale and included in the turnover.15.	None
We are, therefore, of the view that the submission which has been made by Dr. Pal that the sales tax should not be treated to be a part of the price realised by the assessee from the purchaser is not wellfounded.	None
The case of Tattersall can be of no help to the appellant because the amount with which the court was concerned in that case was, never received by the assessee as income or trading receipt.	Reasoning
In any case, as already observed, the question with which we are concerned stands concluded by the case of Chowringhee Sales Bureau P. Ltd.16.	Reasoning
As a result of the above, we dismiss the appeal with cost.17.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
