 Dr. AR.	None
Lakshmanan, J. The unsuccessful respondents 2, 3, and 4 before the High Court of Allahabad are the appellants in this appeal.	None
The writ petition was filed by the first respondent herein to quash the order dated 12.03.1999 (Annexure 17 to the writ petition) and for mandamus restraining the appellants herein from interfering in the business in certified seeds either before or after processing and further in restraining the appellants from demanding and realising market fee on the transaction of unprocessed or processed certified seeds.	Issue
A Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court allowed the writ petition following the decision of this Court in State of Rajasthan vs. Rajasthan Agriculture Input Dealers Association reported in AIR 1996 SC 2179 which has also been followed by the Division Bench of the said Court in Writ Petition No. 7262 of 1993 dated 18.12.1996.	None
The High Court quashed the impugned order dated 12.03.1999 and also held that the respondents in the writ petition appellants herein cannot charge mandi fee on the seeds in which the first respondent herein deals.	None
Aggrieved by the judgment of the High Court in Civil (M) No. 17877 of 1999 dated 25.8.1999, a Special Leave Petition was filed under Article 136 of the Constitution of India.	None
When the Special Leave Petition came up for hearing on 6.9.2001, leave was granted by this Court and considering the importance of the questions involved, the matter was placed before Honble the Chief Justice for referring to a larger Bench.	None
The fact giving rise to this appeal are stated below The U.P. Krishi Uptadan Mandi Adhiniyam, 1964 (hereinafter referred to as the Adhiniyam) was enacted to regulate sale and purchase of agricultural produce and for establishment, superintendence and control of market in U.P. Section 6 provides for declaration of market area and Sections 9 and 10 prohibit business of specified agricultural produce in such areas without licence.4.	Facts
Specified Agricultural produce is defined under Section 2(a) of the Adhiniyam, as follows 2(a) agricultural produce means such items of produce of agriculture, horticulture, viticulture, apiculture, sericulture, pisciculture, animal husbandry or forest as are specified in the Schedule, and includes admixture of two or more of such items, and also includes any such item in processed form, and further includes gur, rab, shakkar, khandsari and jaggery.	Facts
The schedule appended to the Adhiniyam provides a list of agriculture produce.	Facts
Section 17(iii) of the Adhiniyam provides for imposition of market fee on the transactions of such specified agricultural produce in the market area, on such rates notified by the State.	Facts
Wheat is specified in the Schedule at Serial No.1 under the heading of cereals.	Facts
It was submitted that wherever seeds have been intended to be notified, it has been specifically mentioned as seeds.	Facts
In case of wheat, however, it has not been notified for seeds and thus the seeds of wheat are not covered in the Schedule and are thus not covered by the definition of Specified Agricultural Produce.6.	Facts
In first respondentcompany is a private limited company, engaged in production of certified seeds since 199697 and holds valid registration certificate from the District Agriculture Officer, Pilibhit under the Seeds Control Order 10983 valid upto 25.5.2000 and holds a certificate of registration from the U.P. Seeds Certification Agency, Alam Bagh, Lucknow.7.	Facts
According to the first respondent, the business of the company is to purchase breeder seeds from Agricultural Research Institute and to produce certified seeds.	Facts
The first step of production is to distribute this breeder seeds to the listed and scheduled farmers.	Facts
The breeder seeds are sown and are germinated under strict supervision of the statutory Seeds Certification Agency, set up under the Seeds Act, 1966 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Facts
The harvest is selected carefully under supervision of the Agency.	Facts
The lots which do not conform to specifications are rejected.8.	Facts
It was further submitted that the standardized seeds so obtained are called Foundation Seeds.	Facts
These foundation seeds are thereafter again supplied to the listed farmers variety wise with intimation to the Agency.	Facts
The farmers show these foundation seeds which are again supervised by the Agency.	Facts
This crop is again germinated under strict supervision of the agency and once again the lots rejected are not taken back by farmers.	Facts
After harvesting the approved standardised certified seeds, these lots are fumigated for preservation under the samples of each lot is tested in the laboratories of Seeds Certification Agency at Alam Bagh (Lucknow), Kanpur, Rudrapur (Udham Singh Nagar).	Facts
The rejected lots and losses at processing are returned to farmers only after the foundation seeds are certified as conforming to specifications, the lots are subjected to treatment with insecticides (Cell phose, Quick phose) and pesticides (thiram and barastin) at the time of packing.9.	Facts
It is the case of the first respondent that the bags are marked as poison and are thereafter marketed.	Facts
The entire production, operation is supervised by the Seed Certification Agency.	Facts
It was submitted that until the seeds are certified they continue to be the property of the farmer, who agrees to such agreement on the foundation seed distribution form.	Facts
In the year 1988, the Market Committee issued notices to the companies engaged in certified seeds.	Facts
The notices were challenged and that after contest, the High Court allowed the writ petition holding that certified seeds are not specified agricultural produce and the notices issued by the Mandi Samiti were quashed.	Facts
The aforesaid was challenged by the Mandi Samiti in Civil Appeal Nos. 106110 of 1990.	Facts
This Court relying upon the judgment in State of Rajasthan vs. Rajasthan Agricultural Input Dealers Association, (supra) dismissed the civil appeals.	Facts
Based on the aforesaid judgment, all the pending writ petitions were also decided in favour of the dealers in certified seeds.	Facts
However, by notice dated 15.10.1997, the Mandi Samiti directed the Ist respondent to deposit the market fee on seeds.	Facts
The first respondent submitted a detailed reply annexing certificates issued by the Seeds Certification Agency and the other relevant documents.	Facts
The first respondent also submitted that they are not dealing in sale and purchase of food grains or wheat but deals only in certified seeds and that the stock by them were not wheat but by the certified seeds to wheat under the supervision of the U.P. Seeds Certification Agency.	Facts
The appellants rejected the representation of the first respondent and directed them to pay market fee.	Facts
The first respondent challenged the aforesaid order by filing Writ Petition No. 1090 of 1997.	Facts
Again by Notification dated 11.8.1998, the first respondent was required to submit information regarding sale and purchase of wheat for the year 19971998.	Facts
A reply was submitted protesting the demands against law laid down by this Court.	Facts
Aggrieved by the demands, the first respondent filed Writ Petition No. 31740 of the 1998 against the order dated 22.9.1998.	Facts
The writ petition was disposed of with a direction to the first respondent herein to file a fresh representation.	Facts
In pursuance of the aforesaid order, the first respondent filed a detailed representation dated 15.2.1999.	Facts
The representation was rejected by the appellants on 12.3.1999 and a demand has been made for payment of market fee which was again challenged by the first respondent herein by filing the present Writ Petition No. 17877 of 1999 which was allowed by the High Court on 25.8.1999.10.	Facts
Against the said judgment of the High Court the above appeal by way of special leave petition has been filed.	Facts
The instant appeal arises the following questions of law What is the true scope and ambit of Section 2(a) and 17(iii)(b) of the Krishi Utpadan Mandi Samiti Adhiniyam, 1964?(ii) Whether the market fee can be levied on the purchases of wheat by the seed processing unit to process and convert the same into certified seed by treating it chemically?(iii)	Issue
Whether there is any difference in wheat and wheat seed before it is chemically treated and converted into certified seed and thus becomes unfit for human consumption?(iv)	Issue
Whether it is necessary to notify seeds of cereals which can itself be used as seed when the object of the legislature was to notify only those seeds which are different from produce itself?	Issue
On the above pleadings, we heard Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants and Mr. Dushyant A. Dave, learned senior counsel for the contesting respondent.	None
It was submitted by the appellants herein respondents in the writ petition that after the first respondent purchased wheat, they convert it into seed by applying pesticides and other chemicals and then the sale was effected as wheat seed and on this transaction, Mandi Samiti is not demanding market fee.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also submitted that the decision of this Court in State of Rajasthan vs. Rajasthan Agricultural Input Dealers Association (supra) are not applicable in the case of the first respondent and that what is purchased by the first respondent herein is nothing but wheat and the entire transaction of wheat is within the market area of Mandi Samiti, Pilibhit and hence subject to payment of market fee.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also submitted that the first respondent Company is engaged in producing certified seeds but for that purpose it purchases regularly wheat and other commodities for preparing seeds and on these transactions, the first respondent is liable to pay market fee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Before adverting to the respective arguments, it is beneficial to reproduce subsections (a) (b) of Section 17(iii) of the Adhiniyam, which reads as under levy and collect(a) such fees as may be prescribed for the issue or renewal of licences and(b) market fee, which shall be payable on transactions of sale of specified agricultural produce in the market area at such rates, being not less than one percentum and not more than two and a half percentum of the price of the agricultural produce so sold as the State Government may specify by notification, and development cess which shall be payable on such transactions of sale at the rate of half percentum of the price of the agricultural produce so sold, and such fee or development cess shall be realised in the following manner(1) if the produce is sold through a commission agent, the commission agent may realise the market fee and the development cess from the purchaser and shall be liable to pay the same to the Committee(2) if the produce is purchased directly by a trade from the producer, the trader shall be liable to pay the market fee and development cess to the Committee(3) if the produce is purchased by a trader from another trader, the trader selling the produce may realise it from the purchaser and shall be liable to pay the market fee and development cess to the CommitteeProvided that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any judgment, decree or order of any court, the trader selling the produce shall be liable and be deemed always to have been liable with effect from June 12, 1993 to pay the market fee to the Committee and shall not be absolved from such liability on the ground that he has not realised it from the purchaserProvided further that the trader selling the produce shall not be absolved from the liability to pay the development cess on the ground that he has not realised it from the purchaser(4) in any other case of sale of such produce, the purchaser shall be liable to pay the market fee and development cess to the CommitteeProvided that no market fee or development cess shall be levied or collected on the retail sale of any specified agricultural produce where such sale is made to the consumer for his domestic consumption onlyProvided further that notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Committee may at the option of, as the case may be, the commission agent, trader or purchaser, who has obtained the licence, accept a lump sum in lieu of the amount of market fee or development cess that may be payable by him for an agricultural year in respect of such specified agricultural produce, for such period, or such terms and in such manner as the State Government may, by notified order specifyProvided also that no market fee or development cess shall be levied on transactions of sale of specified agricultural produce on which market fee or development cess has been levied in any market area if the trader furnishes in the form and manner prescribed, a declaration or certificate that or such specified agricultural produce market fee or development cess has already been levied in any other market area.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted by Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants that the first respondent being the purchaser trader is liable to pay market fee under Section 17(iii) of the Act and that the contention of the respondent that they sell wheat and the entire transaction is of wheat within the market area of Mandi Samiti cannot be accepted.15.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, learned senior counsel for the appellants, submitted that at the time of hearing in the case of State of Rajasthan vs. Mangi Lal Pindwal, (1996 (5) SCC 60 by this Court, it could not be brought to the notice of this Court that the intention of the legislature was to notify only those seeds which are different from its produce and that the definition of agricultural produce being so wide that seeds of the cereals are included in that entry and hence there was no necessity to notify the same separately because there is no difference in Bazra or seed of Bazra.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also submitted that in the aforesaid judgment, this Court has held that seeds which are manufactured after chemical treatment of Bazra by adding insecticides that market fee cannot be levied on the sale and purchase of the same because the same cannot be used for human consumption and ceases to be a cereal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, it is clear that before chemical treatment Bazra remains an agricultural produce and sale and purchase of the same attracts imposition of market fee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Arguing further, learned senior counsel for the appellants contended that the High Court failed to appreciate that the cereals are seeds itself and hence the same have not been notified separately because there is no difference between wheat and seed of wheat and that Wheat includes its seed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Otherwise also the appellant is imposing market fee on wheat and not its certified seed as manufactured by the first respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
Concluding his arguments, learned senior counsel, submitted that since the Wheat purchased by the first respondent is neither chemically treated nor the same unfit for the human consumption and hence market fee was rightly imposed.16.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, Mr. Dushyant A. Dave, learned senior counsel appearing for the first respondent, submitted that the respondent is not dealing in sale and purchase of food grains or wheat but deals only in certified seeds and the stocks stored by them were not of wheat but the certified seeds of wheat.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted that the first respondent purchases breeder seeds from Agricultural Universities and that seeds of Wheat is not included in the Schedule to the Adhiniyam.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further argued that the first respondent intakes only the standardised and certified seeds from the farmers and the undersize, oversize and seeds found unfit by Seed Certificate Agency are returned to the farmers and the certified seeds so purchased are thereafter chemically treated at the processing plant and, therefore, these certified seeds either before processing with chemical or thereafter do not fall within the definition of term wheat and its purchasers are not liable to market fee.	Arguments of Respondent
At the time of hearing, our attention was drawn to a note on method and process of seed production submitted by the first respondent.	None
The principle and method of production, as submitted in the note, is as under Reasons for Seed ProductionAll high yielding seeds are made by scientists by changing the composition of genes in the seeds so that the seed gives high yields.	None
However, natures force has a tendency to change the seeds over a period of time and therefore, it is necessary to produce pure seed year after year.2.	None
Laws governing seeds business2.1 The seed industry for production and sale is regulated under the Seeds Act, 1966 and Rules and Seed Control Order, 1983.	None
Under the seeds Act, the Government has made State Seed Certification Agencies who are responsible to certify seeds and monitor their production and sales.2.2.	None
The Indian Minimum Seed Standards lay down the minimum seed standards required for each crop which can be certified.3.	None
Method of Seed Production3.1.	None
The company purchases breeder seed from the Agricultural Universities and then produces the next stage i.e. foundation seeds.	None
These foundation seeds are given to contract farmers for further production to certified seed.	None
This certified seed is sold to trade and subsequently to farmers.	None
Foundation Seed is the progeny of Breeder Seed and certified seed the progeny of Foundation Seed.4.	None
Production of production4.1 Purchase of breeder seeds from universities.	None
(Rule 14(a)4.2 Classification of foundation seed from breeder seed.	None
(Rule 14(a)4.3 Giving foundation seed to contract farmers.	None
(Rule 14(c)4.4.	None
Registration of the contract farmers with the State Seed Certification Agency and payment of registration and inspection charges to the agency (Rule 6(d)	None
Form I)4.5	None
Sowing the foundation seed by the contract farmer in his field.4.6 Inspection of the farmers field by an inspector of all the State Seed Certification Agncy, at least two times during the growth of the crop.	None
(Rule 6 (k).4.7 Submission of final field report by the State Seed Certification Agency, inspector stating that the crop meets the standards or rejecting the crop if it does not meet the standards.	None
The final filed report also states the estimated quantity of produce of every field and farmer which the Company can purchase (Rule 6(k) and	None
23(3).4.8	None
If the farmers seed crop has been found satisfactory and indicated as such in the final field report prepared by the State Seed Certificate Agency inspect it is purchased by the company and the seed stored in company godowns.4.9	None
The seed is then processed under the supervision of an inspector of the State Seed Certification Agency who takes samples of sends them to the Government Seed Testing Laboratory.	None
(Rule 6(g)	None
6(e).4.10 After testing the Government Seed Testing Laboratory gives a report which shows that either the seed meets the Minimum Seed Standards or it does not.	None
Rule 21(3).4.11 If the seeds meets the Minimum Seed Standards, the chemical treatment and baging to the seeds is made under the supervision of an inspector of the State Seed Certification Agency.	None
(Rule 17A)4.12	None
After the seed is put in bag the inspector of the Seed Certification Agency will seal and tag each bag and this seed and bag is called certified seed which goes to the market.	None
(Rule 17 II)4.13 The seed inspector will also give a certificate to the company stating that the seed has been found above the Minimum Seed Standards and has been certified as such by the State Seed Certification Agency.	None
(Rule 17)	None
A letter under Reference No. 3374/1252001600 (88)/93 dated 7th January, 2002 sent by the Secretary, U.P. Government to the Director, Mandi Parishad, U.P. Lucknow, was placed before us for our perusal with an english translation and Hindi version.	None
Teh English translation of the letter reads thusNo.	None
3374/1252001600(88)/93From Dr. Naseem Jedi,Secretary,U.P. GovernmentToDirectorMandi	None
ParishadU.P. Lucknow.	None
Krishi Anubhag  5Lucknow Dated 07 January, 2002Sub Exemption of certified seeds by Trade Tax Department and accordingly exemption of certified seeds by Mandi Parishad from Mandi Tax.	None
Sir,Regarding your letter dated 13.8.2001, in relation to the above subject No.V.P. M.SH/760/T.C. II Khand/8620011220, I have been ordered to inform you that the production of certified seeds of various crops is taken through farmers and then this seed is procured by the corporation in uncertified form, after which it goes through the certification procedures and chemical treatment, and finally certified seed is produced.	None
Therefore, please note that for production of certified seeds, on the purchase of raw uncertified seeds there will be no Mandi Tax Liability.	None
Please ensure immediately and appropriate action to enforce this decision.	None
(Emphasis supplied).Yours faithfullySd (Dr. Naseem Jedi)Secretary A reading of the said letter would also show that the production of certified seeds, on the purchase of raw uncertified seeds there will be no Mandi Tax Liability.	None
Learned senior counsel appearing for the parties also drew our attention to the relevant provisions of the Seeds Act, 1966 (Act No. 54 of 1966) and the Seeds Rules, 1968 (hereinafter referred to as the Rules).	None
We have also perused the Schedule (Sections 2(a) and 4A) to the Adhiniyam in which under the Heading AAgriculture, Wheat is included as Item No. in the subheading Cereals.	None
In the Statement of Objects and Reasons, it is stated that in the interest of increased agricultural production in the country, it is considered necessary to regulate the quality of certain seeds, such as seeds of food crops, cotton seeds, etc. to be sold for purposes of agriculture including horticulture.	None
Section 2 of the Act deals with definition of Agricultural produce, Certification Agency and the Seed etc.	None
Section 2(11) defines Seed which means any of the following classes of seeds used for sowing or planting  seeds of food crops including edible oil seeds and seeds of fruits and vegetables(ii) cotton seeds(iii)	None
Seeds of cattle fodder(iv) jute seeds, and includes seedlings and tubers, bulbs, rhizomes, roots, cuttings, all types of grafts and other vegetatively) propagated material, of food crops or cattle fodder Under Section 3 of the Act, the Central Government has the authority to constitute a Committee called the Central Seed Committee to advice the Central Government and the State Governments on matters arising out of the administration of this Act and to carry out the other functions assigned to it by or under this Act.	None
Section 4 deals with the authority of the Central Government to establish a Central Seed Laboratory or declare and seed laboratory as the Central Seed Laboratory to carry out the functions entrusted to the Central Seed Laboratory by or under this Act.	None
Section 5 of the Act deals with power to notify kinds or varieties of seeds by the Central Government.	None
Section 6 of the Act deals with the power of the Central Government to specify minimum limits of germination and purity, etc.	None
Section 8 of the Act deals with Certification Agency which authorities the State Government or the Central Government to establish a Certification Agency for the State to carry out the functions entrusted to the Certification Agency by or under this Act.	None
Section 9 provides the procedure for grant of certificate by Certification Agency.	None
Section 25 deals with power of the Central Government to make Rules.	None
Rule 2(e) of the Rules defines certified seed.	None
Under Rule 2(f) of the Rules Certified seed producer has been defined.	None
Rule 2(j) defines processing and 2(m) defines treated.	None
The functions of the Central Seed Laboratory has been dealt with under Rule 5 of the Rules.	None
The functions of the Certification Agency has been specified under Rule 6 of the Rules.	None
Rule 15 deals with the procedure for making application for the grant of certificate under subsection (1) of Rule 9.	None
Form I is prescribed for application for Seed production under the Seeds Certification programme.	None
We are not now concerned with the other Rules.	None
We have already reproduced Section 2(a) and Section 17(iii) of the Adhiniyam.	Reasoning
Section 17(iii) of the Adhiniyam provides for imposition of market fee on the transactions of sale of specified agricultural produce in the market area at such rates notified by the State.	Reasoning
As already noticed, Wheat is specified in the Schedule at S. No.1 under the Heading Cereals.	Reasoning
A perusal of the Schedule would show that wherever seeds have been intended to be notified, it has been specifically mentioned as Seeds.	Reasoning
In case of Wheat, however, Schedule does not provide or notify seed of wheat and thus the seeds of wheat are not specified in the Schedule and are thus not covered by the definition of Agricultural produce.	Reasoning
We have also referred to the Objects and Reasons for enacting the Seeds Act, 1966 and the Seeds Rules, Rules, 1968.	Reasoning
As already seen, Seeds Rule 1968 have made detailed provisions of production, processing and certification of seeds under the Seed Certification Agency.	Reasoning
The Central Government in order to exempt the movement of seeds and in exercise of its powers under the Essential Commodities Act, has enacted Foodgrains Movement Restriction (Exemption of Seeds) Orders, 1970 and the Seeds Control Order, 1983.	Reasoning
The seeds are also exempted from Sales Tax under an exemption dated 19.8.1970 issued under Section 4(1)(a) of the Act (Annexure CA 3).25.	Reasoning
We have already referred to the essential conditions incorporated in the Certificate of Registration.	Reasoning
One of the essential conditions incorporated in the Certificate of Registration is that the certificate holder shall not carry on any business such as dealing in food grains, other than the business of sale of certified seeds.	Reasoning
Under the terms and conditions of such certificate, the first respondent is not carrying any other business except the business of certified seeds and it is also not in dispute that the respondent does not hold any other licence for dealing in food grains including wheat.	Reasoning
It was also argued by Mr. Dushyant A. Dave that the Market Committee has completely failed to appreciate the declaration of law in the case of State of Rajasthan vs. Rajasthan Agriculture Input Dealer Dealers Association (supra) affirmed by this Court on 21.8.1996.	Arguments of Respondent
In these orders, two reasonings were adopted to hold that the transaction of seeds do not attract market fee namely (a) that the definition of agricultural produce includes items specified in Schedule and that wherever it was intended to separately cerealised seeds, they have been distinctly found mentioned in the Schedule and that wherever the Schedule does not include seeds specifically in the serialised item such seeds are not specified agricultural produce and (b) on the process of coating and applying insecticides, other chemicals and poisonous substances the basic character i.e. its consumption as food by human being or animals is irretrievably lost and that such commodity is distinct from food grains.	None
The decision of the State Government does not take into account the first reasoning and treats only that commodity as seeds which is treated with chemicals and that the action, in our view, is apparently and palpably wrong.	None
It is to be noticed that the farmers are paid prices on the certified seed only after its certification and that the entire quantity of such seeds is chemically treated and is thus a distinct commodity as certified seeds.	None
It was denied that the first respondent purchased wheat from farmers and the seeds purchased from the farmers are of very high quality specified standardised seeds each of which price is very high as compare to wheat.	None
It is not sold in the market and cannot be so sold as wheat and the entire quantity is taken for processing with chemicals at processing plant.	None
The High Court has, in our view, correctly appreciated and accepted the contention of the respondentCompany and has rightly relied upon the judgment of this Court in State of Rajasthan vs. Agricultural Input Dealers Association (Supra).28.	None
Learned senior counsel appearing for the first respondent dew our attention to Annexure CA 11 which is the representation in pursuance to the judgment of the High Court in Writ Petition No. 3274 of 1998.	None
The relevant portion of the representation reads as under Thus our business procedure makes it clear that by the time we purchase seeds from farmers it remain no longer simple unprocessed seed but it comes into the category of certified seed after chemical treatment.	None
At the time of purchase, this wheat is necessary to be determined is the nature of commodity at the time of purchase.	None
As per the specific view taken by Honble Supreme Court in M s. State of Rajasthan Agriculture Input Dealer Association (AIR 1996 2179) seed undergone chemical and pesticide treatment is an entirely different commodity and the same is not subject to market fee on account of its non inclusion on the Schedule of Mandi Act.	None
Under provisions of Section 17(iii)(b)(2) of the Mandi Act if agricultural produce is purchased directly by a trader from a producer, the trade shall be liable to pay the market fee but in the present circumstances it is clear that we have purchased only certified seeds from the farmers and certified seed not being scheduled produced the same is not liable to fee at our level.	None
In the same reference, the decision taken in the meeting dated 16.5.1998 presided by Secretary Agriculture is also important.	None
In the abovesaid meeting, it has been decided that if trader purchases unprocessed seed before chemical treatment in that case the trader is liable to pay market fee on such purchase of unprocessed seeds.	None
However, in the present case, that trader has not purchased unprocessed seed before chemical treatment, therefore, trader is not liable to pay fee on such purchases.	None
Thus direction, issued by Secretary Agriculture in meeting dated 16.5.1998 also support traders stand.	None
I.A.	None
No. 3 of 2001 is filed by the first respondent for seeking permission to place on record a letter dated 19.1.2000 annexed as Annexure a which is very important for the final adjudication of the case.	None
The said I.A. be taken on record.	None
By the said I.A., the first respondent sought to place on record a letter dated 19.1.2000 addressed by the Principal Secretary, Government of Uttar Pradesh to the Commissioner, Trade Tax Department, Government of Uttar Pradesh directing that instructions be issued to the taxation officers that when the growers or the distributors, seed certification machinery sell the seeds in sealed containers after producing themselves after certification along with the tag of the Uttar Pradesh Certification Agency affixed as under the Central Seed Act, 1966 then in such circumstances, no liability of purchase tax is attracted under Section 3 AAAA (4).	None
We have perused the communication dated 19.1.2000 marked as Annexure A.	None
The judgment in the case of State of Rajasthan vs. Rajasthan Agriculture linput Dealers Association (supra) was heavily relied on by the learned senior appearing for the first respondent.	None
In the said case, the respondent therein claimed themselves to be engaged in the business of purchasing and selling seeds and, in particular, Bazra seeds.	None
According to them seeds can not be termed to be agricultural Produce for the purposes of the Rajasthan Agricultural Produce Market Act, 1961 and its Schedule, as amended from time to time by the State Government in exercise of powers under Section 40 enabling it to add, amend or cancel any of the items of agricultural produce specified in the Schedule.	None
It is maintained that seeds are a processed item and coated by insecticides, chemicals and other poisonous substances whereby the grains employed lose their use and utility as foodgrains and become unfit for human or animal consumption or for extraction therefrom for such consumption.	None
The challenge posed by the respondents before the High Court was answered by the appellants (State of Rajasthan) maintaining that foodgrains of all sorts, as mentioned in the Schedule, were seeds, per se, the only exception carved out from the items mentioned in the Schedule being those relating to blue tagged certified seeds and white tagged certified foundation seeds such exceptions have been notified by way of amendment to the Schedule in exercise of the power of the State Government under Section 40 of the Act.	None
The High Court took the view that when foodgrains of particular varieties were treated and subjected to chemical process for preservation, those grains become commercially known as seeds.	None
It was ordered that no licence under the Act was required for sale of such seeds.	None
On appeal this Court held as under It is undoubtedly true that foodgrains per se could be used as seeds for being sown and achieving germination, but in that from they retain the dual utility of being foodgrains as well as seeds.	None
By process of coating and applying insecticides, other chemicals and poisonous substances to the foodgrain meant to be utilised as seeds, one o its basic character, i.e. its consumption as food by human beings or animals or for extraction for the like purpose, gets irretrievably lost and such processed seeds become a commodity distinct from foodgrains as commonly understood.	None
That distinction was borne in mind by the High Court in allowing the writ petition of the respondents, and in our view rightly.	None
The other decisions cited by the counsel for the appellants will not be of any assistance in deciding the factual dispute involved in the instant case.	None
In our view, the High Court has correctly applied the above judgment.	None
This Court held that no market fee could be levied by the State of Rajasthan on seeds on the ground that a seed was distinct from foodgrains inasmuch as they were not fit for human consumption.	Reasoning
The ratio decidendi of the above decision is squarely applicable to this case wherein the appellant seeks to give a wide connotation to the words in the Schedule.	Reasoning
In our opinion, that giving a wide interpretation is not possible and as Wheat Seed is not included in the Schedule, the Mandi Samiti is not allowed to levy a market fee on purchase.	Reasoning
As the Mandi Samiti plays no role in the trade of the respondents seeds, it may not be allowed to levy the market fee.	Reasoning
It is also not in dispute that the Breeder Seeds are allocated by the Ministry of Agriculture or by the Universities to the various seed producing agencies and companies who multiply the breeder seeds into foundations seeds.	Reasoning
It is also very useful to refer hereunder the process by which the seeds is manufactured under the Seeds Act and the Seeds Rules Seeds developed in laboratories are classified as Breeder Seeds and are sold through the Ministry of Agriculture or notified Agriculture Universities to producing agencies, Companies and farmers.	None
Foundation Seeds (Stage I and II) are developed as progenies of Breeder Seeds and are required to obtain a Certificate from the Seed Certification Agency.(ii)	None
The production of Foundation Seeds is supervised and approved by the Certification Agency to maintain specific genetic identity and genetic purity and are required to conform to certification specified for the crop variety being certified.(iii)	None
The Foundation Seed is then grown by the farmer in a land earmarked specifically for the sowing of the Foundation Seed.	None
The offsprings of these Seeds are terms as Certified Seeds, which too are required to meet the minimum standards of genetic purity and genetic identity.(iv)	None
It is only if the Seeds meet the minimum standards are they subsequently categories as Certified Seeds and can be purchased by the respondent for further processing.(v)	None
The processing done by the respondent is done under the aegis of an Inspector of the State Seed Certification Agency and thereafter the samples are taken for testing to notified Government Seed Testing laboratories.(vi)	None
It is only after meeting the minimum standards of genetic purity and genetic identity that the Seed is put in a bag that is sealed and tagged by the Inspector of the Seed Certification Agency.	None
It is this seed which is allowed to be sold in the market and a certificate is issued by the Agency stating the standards of the Seed and other particulars.	None
It was submitted by the first respondent that all the above mentioned stages of Certification are as per the provisions of the Rules and that right from the inception to the time when the Seed is sold in the market, it is done under regulation issued to govern each and every stage of seed production and certificates are only issued after the seed is found to achieve the minimum standards of genetic identify and genetic purity.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also pointed out that no such certification standards exist for food grains sold by farmers to the Mandi Samiti.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus the production of seeds is an integrated process and needs to be regulated at every stage, right from the inception, in order to maintain genetic identity and genetic purity.35.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no nexus whether the seed has been chemically treated or not and the levy of market fees.	Reasoning
Since the seed is a separate commodity from grain, the same is not covered under Schedule I of the Adhiniyam and as such no market fee is leviable over the sale and or purchase of the same.36.	Reasoning
We are, thereafter, of the view that the seeds are not specified agricultural produce under the provisions of the Act and, therefore, the business of purchase and sale of seeds under the supervision of Seed Certification Agency established under the Act is not a business of sale and purchase of specified agricultural produce and as such the first respondent is not required to pay the market fee or to take out a licence.37.	Reasoning
We are also of the view that the respondents have grossly erred in ignoring the law settled by this Court in the case of State of Rajasthan vs. Rajasthan Agricultural Input dealers Association (supra) under Article 141 of the Constitution in demanding market fee on seeds.	Reasoning
Since the processing of wheat resulting in loss of its basic characteristics of being cereal,, it cannot be subjected to levy as agricultural produce since the purchase by the respondent is for the purpose of growing seeds, no levy is permissible and, therefore, market fee cannot be imposed on seeds which are unfit for human consumption.	Reasoning
Question No.	Reasoning
I38.	Reasoning
Thus, the true scope and ambit of Section 2(a) and 17(iii) (b) of the Act has been explained in paras supra.	Reasoning
Question No.	Reasoning
II39.	Reasoning
The appellant has no authority to levy market fee on the purchase of wheat by the seed processing unit.	Reasoning
This question is answered in the negative.	Reasoning
Question No. III40.	Reasoning
Wheat seed converted into certified seed is unfit for human consumption and, therefore, market fee levy is impermissible.	Reasoning
Question No. IV41.	Reasoning
The object of legislature was to notify only those seeds which are different from the produce itself.	Reasoning
Thus all the questions are answered as above.	None
The argument of the counsel for the first respondent is well merited and founded on sound legal principles and on practical and factual aspects of the matter.	Reasoning
For the foregoing reasons, we hold that the appeal has no merit and is liable to be rejected.	Decision
Accordingly, we do so.	Decision
However, there will be no order as to costs.  	Decision
JUDGMENT B. Sinha, J. The core question involved in this appeal is as to whether seed would come within the purview of the expression wheat within the meaning of the provisions of U.P. Krishi Utpadan Mandi Samiti Adhiniyam (the Act).	None
The Act was enacted to curb the malpractices in the old markets.	None
Mandi Samitis are established under Section 12 thereof.	None
The Mandis are entitled to collect market fee on the sale and purchase of agricultural produce in terms of Section 17 of the Act.	None
Agricultural produce is defined in Section 2(a) of the Act to mean 2(a) Agricultural produce means such items of produce of agriculture, horticulture, viticulture, apiculture, sericulture, pisciculture, animal husbandry or forest as are specified in the schedule and includes admixture of two or more of such items and also includes any such item in processed from and further includes gur, rab, shakkar, khandsari and jaggary.	Facts
Section 2(y) defines trader to mean Trader means a person who in the ordinary course of business is engaged in buying or selling agricultural produce as a principal or as a duly authorized agent of one or more principals and includes a person, engaged in processing of agricultural produce.	None
It is not in dispute that the respondents are engaged in production and sale of seeds which is governed by a Parliamentary Act known as the Seeds Act, 1966 (1966 Act).	None
The entire process beginning from procurement of seeds breeder, further production thereof as well as sale is governed by 1966 Act and Rules framed thereunder and Seed Control Order 1983.	None
The preamble of the 1966 Act suggests that the same was enacted with a view to monitor the production and sale of seeds.	None
The purport and object of enacting the 1966 Act was to bring green revolution in the country as would appear from the following statement of objects and reasons thereof	None
In the interest of increased agricultural production in the Country, it is considered necessary to regulate the quality of certain seed, such as seeds of food crops, cotton seeds etc. to be sold for purposes of agriculture (including horticulture).The methods by which the Bill seeks to achieve this object are (a) Constitution of a Central Committee consisting of representatives of the Central Government and the State Government, the National Seeds Corporation and other interests to advise those Governments on all matters arising out of the proposed Legislation(b) fixing minimum standards of germination, purity and other quality factors(c) testing seeds for quality factors at the seed testing laboratories to be established by the Central Government and the State Government(d) Creating of seed inspection and certification service in each State and grant of licences and certificates to dealers in seeds(e) Compulsory labelling of seed containers to indicate the quality of seeds offered for sale, and(f) restricting the export import and interState movement of nondescript seeds.	None
Section 2(11) of the Seeds Act defines seeds to mean Seed means any of the following classes of seeds used for sowing or planting(i) seeds of food crops including edible oilseeds and seeds of fruits and vegetables includes seedings, and tubers and bulbs, rhizomes, roots, cutting, all topes of grafts and other vegetatively propogated material, of food crops or cattle fodder.	None
The definition of seeds, therefore, is not exhaustive.	None
It is not in dispute that the entire process for procurement of breeder seeds to sale or seeds is governed under the provision of the Seeds Act as well as the rules framed thereunder.	None
Wheat is an agricultural produce within the meaning of Section 2(a) which together with thirteen other food products have been placed under the heading cereals.	None
The Act contains both penal and fiscal provisions.	None
A trader within the meaning of the said Act would be a person who carries on business inter alia in the agricultural produce.	None
The question is as to whether in the aforementioned situation the respondent would be a trader of Agricultural produce within the meaning of the provisions of the said Act.	None
It is not disputed that seed as purchased and sold is not meant to be used as a cereal.	None
The respondent buys only certified seeds and sales the same as seeds after processing the same.	None
Seeds which are sold by the respondent admittedly are not consumable.	None
It is furthermore not disputed that in terms of the licences granted in their favour under the 1966 Act, they are not permitted to deal in the commodities for any other purpose.	None
In the State of Andhra Pradesh vs. M s. H. Abdul Bakhi others (AIR 1965 SC 531 ), the Supreme Court held We are unable to agree with this view of the High Court.	None
A person to be a dealer must be engaged in the business of buying or selling or supplying goods.	None
The expression business though extensively used is a word of indefinite import in taxing statutes it is used in the sense of an occupation, or profession which occupies the time, attention and labour of a person, normally with the object of making profit.	None
To regard an activity as business there must be a course of dealings, either actually continued or contemplated to be continued with profit motive, and not for sport or pleasure.	None
Yet again in Sri Krishna Coconut Co. vs. East Godavari Coconut and Tobacoo Market Committee (AIR 1967 SC 973 ), this Court while considering interpretation of Section 11 of the Madras Commercial Crops Markets Act held The relevant provisions of the said Act and the rules which fell for consideration by the Supreme Court would be evident from paragraph 5 of the reported case which is in the following terms11.	None
Section 11(1) with which we are concerned in these appeals readsThe Market committee shall, subject to such rules as may be made in this behalf, levy fees on the notified commercial crop or crops bought and sold in the notified area at such rates as it may determine.	None
Although the dictionary meaning of business may be wide, in our opinion, for the purpose of considering the same is context of regulatory and penal statute like the Act, the same must be read as carrying on a commercial venture in agricultural produce.	None
The rule of strict construction should be applied in the instant case.	None
The intention of the legislature in directing the trader to obtain licence is absolutely clear and unambiguous in so far as it seeks to regulate the trade for purchase and sale.	None
Thus a person who is not buying an agricultural produce for the purpose of selling it whether in the same form or in the transformed from may not be a trader.	None
Furthermore, it is well known that construction of a statute will depend upon the purport and object of the Act, as has been held in Sri Krishna Coconuts case (supra) itself.	None
Therefore, different provisions of the statute which have the object of enforcing the provisions thereof, namely, levy of market fee, which was to be collected for the benefit of the producers, in our opinion, is to be interpreted differently from a provision where it requires a person to obtain in a licence so as to regulate a trade.	None
It is now well known that in case of doubt in construction of a penal statute, the same should be construed in favour of the subject and against the State.	None
In the case of London and North Eastern Railway Company and Berriman, 1946 AC 278 Lord Simonds quoted with approval the following observations of Lord Esher N.K. in the case of Tuck Sons vs. Priester, (1887) 19 QBD, 629, 638.	None
We must be very careful in construing that section, because it imposes a penalty.	None
If there is a reasonable interpretation which will avoid the penalty in any particular case, we must adopt that construction.	None
If there are two reasonable construction we must give the more lenient one.	None
That is the settled Rule for the construction of penal sections.	None
It is trite that fiscal statute must not only be construed literally, but also strictly.	None
It is further well known that if in terms of the provisions of a penal statute a person becomes liable to follow the provisions thereof it should be clear and unambiguous so as to let him know his legal obligations and liabilities thereunder.	None
The matter may be considered from another angle, Expressio unius (persone vel rei)est exclusio alterius, is a well known maxim which means the express intention of one person or thing is the exclusion of another.	None
The said maxim is applicable in the instant case.	None
(See M s. Khemka Co. (Agencies) Pvt. Ltd. etc. vs. State of Maharashtra etc.  (1975) 2 SCC 22 paras 47 and 48).	None
Having regard to the fact that in the event it is held that buying of seeds which is a commodity governed by a Parliamentary Act would attract payment of market fee in terms of the said Act, a conflict would arise.	None
In ordinary parlance at particular stages in which seeds are grown from breeder seeds may take the form of wheat but the said production which is bought by the respondents is also governed by the provisions of the Seeds Act and the Rules framed thereunder.	None
The definition of seed as noticed hereinbefore is of wide amplitude.	None
It includes seedling of food crops.	None
It is, thus, necessary to construe both the statutes harmoniously.	None
Both, the Statutes must be given proper effect and allowed to work in their respective fields.	None
Even if there is some overlappings, the same should be ignored.	None
Taking into consideration the totality of the situation and upon giving harmonious construction to both the 1966 Act as well as the said Act, we are of the opinion that the respondent cannot be said to be a trader of agricultural produce as in the ordinary course of business, he is engaged in buying or selling agricultural produce.	None
One it is held that the respondent is not a trader, no market fee can be demanded from it by the appellant.17.	None
Seed is also an essential commodity within the meaning of the provisions of the Essential Commodities Act 1955 which has been enacted by the Parliament in exercise of its power conferred under Entry 33 of List III of the 7th Schedule of the Constitution of India.	None
Further more, if a Parliamentary Act governs the entire field, the seeds which are bought and further seeds produced therefrom and processed upon being governed by the Parliamentary Acts and Statutory Rules must be held to have been excluded from the purview of the provisions of the said Act.	None
The Central Government, made Foodgrains Market Restrictions (Exemption of Seeds) Order, 1970 and Seeds Control Order, 1983 in exercise of its power under Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955.	Reasoning
In terms of subsection (2) of Section 4 of the Act, the provisions of Section 3 of Essential Commodities Act, 1955 and the orders made thereunder shall have effect, notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in the said Act or in any law made thereunder, thus, the seeds which are subject matter of not only a Parliament Act but also an order made under Section 3 of Essential Commodities Act would by necessary implication are not meant to be included within the definition of agricultural produce under the said Act.	None
Furthermore the interpretation Clauses contained in Section 2 of the said Act is prefaced with the expressions unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context.	None
This Court in State of Maharashtra vs. Indian Medical Association and others, (2002) (1) SCC 589 ), inter alia, held that the expression contained in one Statute may have to be read differently in a particular context.	None
Recently in S. Samuel, M.D. Harrisons Malayalam Anr.	None
vs. Union of India and others (J.T. 2003(8)	None
SC 413), this Court has held that tea does not come within the purview of the expression food stuff contained within the meaning of the provisions of Essential commodities Act, holding  It is thus clear that in common parlance food is something that is eaten.	None
In a wider sense food may include not only solid substances but also a drink.	None
Still the fact remains that whether a solid or a liquid , the substance called food should possess the quality to maintain life and its growth it must have nutritive or nourishing value so as to enable the growth, repair or maintenance of the body.	None
As the purpose for which the respondents purchase the seeds is not meant to be used as a cereal which is an agricultural produce within the meaning of the provisions of the said Act, the High Court, in our opinion, has rightly held that the respondents are not liable to pay any market fee.23.	None
I respectfully agree with the proposed judgment of Brother Dr. AR.	None
Lakshmanan that the appeal be dismissed.	None
