LOKESHWAR SINGH PANTA, J. ( 1 ) BHARAT Sewa Sansthan has filed this appeal challenging the final judgment and order dated 14.	None
09.	Issue
2004 of the learned Single judge of the High Court of Judicature at allahabad, Lucknow Bench, in Writ Petition no.	Issue
3388/2004 (MS) by which the order of the learned Additional District Judge (Special judge, E. C. Act) Lucknow, dismissing the application filed by the U. P. Electronics Corporation limited hereinafter referred to as the respondentCorporation under Section 8 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, has been set aside with direction to the learned additional District Judge to refer the matter to arbitration and both the parties are directed to appoint their Arbitrator as per the arbitration clause in the lease agreement.	Facts
( 2 ) BACKGROUND facts in a nutshell are as follows 2. 1	Facts
Bharat Sewa Sansthan hereinafter referred to as the appellantSansthan is a charitable society registered under the Societies registration Act.	None
The main object of the appellantSansthan is to work for the social, economic, educational and cultural upliftment of the people.	None
The appellantSansthan is the sole and exclusive owner of multi storeyed building known as chandra Bhanu Gupta smarak Nav Chetna Kendra located at No. 10, Ashok Marg in the city of Lucknow (U. P. ).	Facts
On 11. 11.	None
1980, the respondentCorporation took for office accommodation an area measuring 14,925 square feet on the first floor of the multistoreyed building of the appellantSansthan on monthly rent of Rs. 47,7607 rs.	Facts
3. 20p per square foot, which comprised (a) basic rent Rs.	None
2/ per square foot amounting to Rs.	None
29,850/ and (b) the balance amount of Rs.	None
17,910/ Rs. 1. 20p per square foot towards the ancillary services provided for the said accommodation in the form of elevators (lifts), a designated area for parking of vehicles, lights for public and common passages and sewerages etc.	None
under a lease granted by the appellantSansthan to the respondentCorporation on 01. 12.	None
1980.	Facts
( 3 )	Facts
IT is the case of the appellantSansthan that in the month of June, 1981 the respondentCorporation expressed its requirement to the appellantSansthan for some additional accommodation on the first floor of the building adjoining to the accommodation which the respondentCorporation had earlier occupied for setting up a Marketing Office and a Registered office of M s Uptron India Limited, which is the subsidiary of the respondentCorporation.	Facts
M s Uptron India Limited was established for the manufacturing of electronic equipments and components, such as the television, computer, capacitors, process control, EPABX systems etc.	None
It was mutually agreed between the appellantSansthan and the respondentCorporation that additional accommodation measuring 3000 sq. ft. in area shall be leased out to the respondentCorporation w. e. f. 25.	Facts
06. 1981 on a monthly rent of Rs. 9,750/ i. e. Rs. 3. 20 per sq. ft. , which comprised of (a) basic rent RS.	Facts
2/per sq. ft. amounting to Rs.	None
6000/ and (b)balance amount of Rs. 3750/ Rs. 1. 20p.	Facts
per sq. ft. towards such ancillary charges as has been included in the case of the lease in respect of the first portion of the accommodation let out to the respondentCorporation.	Facts
( 4 ) IT is further the case of the appellantSansthan that the tenancy of both the portions of the accommodation let out to the respondentCorporation had continued without any interruption from the respective dates of commencement of lease, subject to periodical escalation of the rent including other charges on the basis of mutual agreement with the result that the consolidated monthly rent of the two portions of the accommodation let out to the respondentCorporation had risen to Rs. 79,083. 75p.	Facts
(Rupees Seventy nine thousand and eighty three and seventy five paise only) well before 29.	Facts
07. 1999, on which day the lease was determined.	Facts
The appellantSansthan on 10. 03. 2000 filed Suit no. 16/2000 for eviction and recovery of arrears of rent against the respondentCorporation in the Court of learned Additional District judge (Special Judge, E. C. Act) at lucknow.	Facts
In the said suit, the respondentCorporation presented two applications before the Trial Court before filing of the written statement.	Facts
The first application being C12 was moved under Section 8 (1) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (for short arbitration Act) and the second application no.	None
C17 was filed under Order XI Rule 14 of the Civil Procedure Code for summoning of the original lease deeds from the appellant sansthan.	None
( 5 ) LEARNED Additional District Judge (Special judge, E. C. Act), Lucknow, had rejected both the abovesaid applications.	Facts
Being aggrieved, the respondent  Corporation has assailed the order of the Trial Court by way of Writ Petition before the High Court.	Facts
The learned Single judge of the High Court allowed the writ petition and held that the learned Trial Court has wrongly rejected the application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act as the subjectmatter of the suit is arbitral witn further direction to the learned Additional District Judge (Special Judge, E. C. Act), Lucknow, to refer the matter to arbitration and both the parties may appoint their Arbitrator as per the arbitration clause in the lease agreement.	Facts
( 6 ) FEELING aggrieved, the appellantSansthan has filed this appeal, by special leave, challenging the correctness and validity of the impugned judgment and order of the learned single Judge of the High Court.	Facts
( 7 ) WHEN the matter came up before the Court on 24. 03. 2006, this Court passed the following orders A.	Facts
No 2 of 2005 is allowed.	Facts
Leave granted.	Facts
Since this appeal pertains to a charitable institution and appears to be an urgent matter, the appeal shall be placed on board for expeditious final hearing on 11th july, 2006.	Facts
( 8 ) IT appears from the record that the appeal was called on for hearing on 11.	Facts
07.	Facts
2006, when the following order came to be passed the case was argued at length by Mr. Shanti Bhushan, learned Senior Counsel for the appellant.	Facts
We also heard reply on certain preliminary issues from Mr. Manoj swarup, learned counsel for the respondents.	Facts
We also permit Mr. Manoj Swarup to file additional documents in this appeal.	Facts
In the meanwhile, the respondent  U. P. Electronics Corporation Limited shall handover peaceful vacant possession of the area which was under the occupation of M s. Uptron Limited, sublessee of respondent no. 1 herein, within one week from today.	Facts
This Court will decide the arrears of rent payable by Uptron Limited at the next hearing.	Facts
In the meantime, U. P. Electronics Corporation Limited shall pay entire arrears of rent for the portion in their occupation at the admitted rate.	Facts
Since some details are required, we direct both the parties to file a memo of calculation before this Court so that this Court will be in a position to pass a detailed order.	Facts
Treat this matter as part heard.	Facts
Post this matter at 2. 00	Facts
p. m. on 12th July, 2006.	Facts
( 9 ) ON 12.	None
07.	Facts
2006, this Court passed a detailed order, which reads as followsafter hearing both the parties, we passed the following order on 11th July, 2006.	Facts
the case was argued at length by Mr. Shanti Bhushan, learned Senior Counsel for the appellant.	Facts
We also heard reply on certain preliminary issues from Mr. Manoj swarup, learned counsel for the respondent.	Facts
We also permit Mr. Manoj Swarup to file additional documents in this appeal.	Facts
In the meanwhile, the respondent U. P. Electronics Corporation Ltd. shall handover peaceful vacant possession of the area which was under the occupation of M s UPTRON LTD. , sublessee of respondent no. 1 herein, within one week from today.	Facts
This Court will decide the arrears of rent payable by the UPTRON Ltd. at the next hearing.	Facts
In the meantime, U. P. Electronics Corporation Ltd. , shall pay entire arrears of rent for the portion in their occupation at the admitted rate.	Facts
Since some details are required, we direct both the parties to file a memo of calculation before this Court so that this Court will be in a position to pass a detailed order.	Facts
Treat this matter as partheard.	Facts
Post this matter at 2. 00	Facts
PM on 12th July 2006.	None
As directed Mr. Manoj Swarup, learned counsel for the respondentCorporation placed before us a Fax Message from U. P. Electronics Corporation Limited in regard to the total rent payable to the appellant upto 30.	Facts
06.	Facts
2006.	Facts
The Fax Message reads thus P. ELECTRONICS corporation LTD.	Facts
Total rent payable to BSS upto 30.	Facts
06.	Facts
2006.According to the learned counsel for the appellant, there is some discrepancy in regard to the calculation of rent payable as per the agreement.	Facts
We, therefore, as an interim measure, without going into the correctness of the statement now placed before us, direct the u. P Electronics Corporation Limited to pay a sum of Rs. 32,69.	Facts
155.	Facts
50 to the appellant herein within four weeks from today.	Facts
The U. P. Electronics Corporation Limited has also deducted the tax in a sum of Rs. 6,46,650/ .	None
Thus, as per the fax message, the rent is calculated upto 30.	None
6. 2006.	Facts
We, therefore, direct U. P. Electronics Corporation limited to pay rent from 1 st July, 2006 to the appellant herein for the actual area in their occupation as per the terms of the agreement.	Facts
The rent shall be paid on or before 10th of every succeeding month without any default.	Facts
The respondent shall hand over peaceful vacant possession to the appellant herein within one week from today the portion in the occupation of uptron India Limited, a sublessee ot respondent No. 1 herein, which according to respondent no. 1 is 60 of the total area namely, 17,925 sq. ft.	Facts
This Court will decide the arrears of rent payable by the uptron India Limited at the time of final hearing.	Facts
It is also stated by the learned counsel for the appellant that U. P. Electronics Corporation limited has not paid the electricity charges and water and sewerage taxes to the authorities concerned in full.	Facts
The U. P. Electronics Corporation Limited is directed to pay the entire arrears to the authorities concerned within four week from today.	Facts
This order is passed as an interim measure without prejudice to the rights and contentions of both the parties.	Facts
It is open to both the parties to file additional documents.	Facts
Treat this matter as partheard.	Facts
Post after six weeks for reporting compliance of the aforesaid directions.	Facts
Pendency of this appeal before this Court will not prevent me parties from settling the matter amicably.	Facts
( 10 )	None
THE appeal was listed for hearing on 08.	Facts
09. 2006, when further following order was recorded learned senior counsel for the appellant has placed before us a fresh calculation memo with the Statement of Accounts duly stamped by a Chartered Accountant.	Facts
Mr. Krishnamani, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent seeks time to respond to the Memo of Calculation filed now.	Facts
Three weeks time is granted for the purpose.	Facts
The respondent is directed to file reply to this Calculation Memo within the said time.	Facts
Parties will discuss further in regard to the possession and re adjustment of the areas and file reply thereto.	Facts
Further directions will be made on the next adjourned date of hearing.	Facts
( 11 ) ON 7. 11. 2006, upon hearing the counsel on both sides, this Court made the following order memo of Understanding between the parties to this appeal filed in this Court, pursuant to this Courts order dated 8. 9. 2006, is taken on record.	Facts
A rough sketch plan is also attached to the Memo of Settlement.	Facts
Clause (c) of the Memo says that the respondent, namely, U. P. Electronics Corporation limited will vacate the portion marked in pink as per the map within two weeks from date of Memo of Understanding i. e. 10.	Facts
10. 2006.	Facts
It is now represented by Mr. Prashant Bhushan, learned counsel for the appellant that in spite of the undertaking under clause (c) of Memo of settlement, the U. P. Electronics Corporation limited have not vacated the entire portion marked in pink and also constructed wall separating the pink and green marked portion.	Facts
Since the undertaking has not been complied by M s. U. P. Electronics corporation Limited further time is given to them to comply with the undertaking by three weeks from day.	Facts
The clause (c) of the Memorandum shall be complied with in full and the entire portion shall be handed over to the appellant within that time and also the construction of the wall shall be completed in time.	Facts
When the matter came up for hearing on 8. 9. 2006, the learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent had sought some time to respond to the Memo of Calculation filed and that three weeks time was granted for the purpose.	Facts
So far no response has been filed to the Memo of calculation.	Facts
The respondent is directed to file the response to Memo of Calculation within two weeks from today.	Facts
Call after four weeks for reporting compliance.	Facts
( 12 ) AGAIN on 26.	None
02. 2007, the following order came to be passed mr. Prashant Bhushan, learned counsel for the appellant placed before us a Statement in respect of the amount due in regard to 60 area occupied by the respondent and their subsidiaries upto June, 2006.	Facts
A copy of the said Statement has also been furnished to the learned counsel for the respondent.	Facts
Post after two weeks for filing response by the respondent.	Facts
( 13 ) IN terms of the above extracted interim orders passed by this Court on a number of hearings, the appellantSansthan submitted its statement of accounts in which a total sum of Rs. 95,09,467.	Facts
50 has been claimed as arrears of rent for the Front Block and the Tower block, measuring 17,925 sq. ft. of area, out of which a sum of Rs. 32,69,155.	Facts
50 in terms of interim order dated 12.	Facts
07. 2006 passed by this Court has been paid to the appellantSansthan by the respondentCorporation for 40 area in its occupation.	Facts
In addition to the arrears of rent from July 1997 to June 2006, the appellantSansthan has claimed a sum of Rs. 6,46,645. 00	Facts
in regard to TDS Certificates.	Facts
Further, a sum of Rs. 13,38,492.	Facts
43 has been claimed on account of water and sewerage tax from July 1997 to June 2006 The appellantSansthan has also claimed a sum of Rs.	None
40,95,867/ on account of interest at the rate of 12 p. a. on the arrears of rent in relation to 15,925 sq. ft. area which was let out to the respondentCorporation in the year 1980.	None
( 14 ) IN response to the order of this Court, the respondentCorporation has filed affidavit dated 18. 11. 2006 along with details of calculations of arrears of rent of 40 area arrears of rent of 60 area and also details of calculation of amount for water and sewerage tax the stand of the respondent Corporation in the affidavit is that in pursuance to the interim order of this Court dated 12. 07.	Facts
2006, a sum of Rs. 32,69,155.	Facts
50 towards arrears of rent (Rs. 25,95,310.	Facts
50 as rent and Rs.	Facts
6,73,845. 00 as TDS for the 40 portion, which was actually occupied by the respondent Corporation has been paid to the appellantsansthan.	Facts
The respondent Corporation stated that as per its statement of calculation and after deduction of the amount already paid in pursuance to the interim order of this Court, the amount payable in respect of the portion which was under occupation of M s Uptron india Limited and the possession thereof has already been handed over to the appellant sansthan (subject to the adjustment made in the MOU dated 10. 10. 2006) comes to rs.	Facts
75,47,368.	Facts
50 which is more than what has been calculated and indicated by the appellant Sansthan in paragraph 6 of its affidavit dated 06.	Facts
09. 2006 and an amount of rs.	Facts
6,46,645. 00 is taken into account twice and shown as paid in excess.	Facts
( 15 )	Facts
IT is also submitted that during the pendency of this case and in compliance of order dated 12.	Facts
07.	Facts
2006, another sum of rs.	Facts
3,97,161. 00 was also paid to the appellantsansthan.	Facts
Thus, the total payment made by the respondentCorporation to the appellant sansthan towards water and sewerage tax comes to Rs.	Facts
5,95,238. 80 for the area which is in possession of the respondentCorporation.	None
The respondentCorporation contended that as per the calculation sheet annexed with the affidavitinreply, the balance amount comes to Rs. 24,558.	None
20 towards water and sewerage tax for the portion in possession of respondent corporation, which is also tendered to the appellantSansthan by Cheque no. 275979 dated 12.	Facts
10. 2006 of Andhra bank, Lucknow.	Facts
The balance amount of rs.	Facts
9,26,763. 00	Facts
towards water and sewerage tax is due in regard to the portion vacated by m s Uptron India Limited and the possession of that area has already been handed over to the appellantSansthan.	Facts
( 16 ) THE Divisional Incharge (Personnel), working in the respondentCorporation in his reply affidavit to calculation statement filed by the appellantSansthan on 26. 02. 2007, states that in terms of the order dated 12. 07.	Facts
2006 of this Honble Court, the entire amount is paid in respect of the portion in possession of the respondentCorporation.	None
The possession of 60 area which was previously in use and occupation of M s Uptron india Limited, which is a Sick Industrial company, has already been given to the appellant sansthan and the payment of rent for the said area is not covered under the directions of this Court.	Facts
It is stated that the calculation chart submitted by the appellant sansthan showing the amount due and payable pertains to 60 portion for which rent was paid by M s Uptron India Limited through the respondentCorporation and the first part of the calculation chart filed by the appellant sansthan indicating total amount of rs. 66,74,131.	Facts
50 due, is in respect of 60 portion of the leased area.	Facts
It is also stated that the respondentCorporation was always ready and willing to make payment of agreed rent for the portion under its occupation and, in fact, it had tendered the amount, which was not accepted by the appellantSansthan.	None
It is also stated in the affidavit that Clause l (3) of the lease agreement as alleged by the appellant sansthan is not applicable in the present case and as such no interest at the rate of 12, as claimed, is payable and the appellantSansthan has calculated the interest on total amount of rent payable in respect of total area including the one which was under use and occupation of M s Uptron India Limited.	Facts
( 17 ) WE have heard the learned counsel for the parties and examined the material on record.	Facts
( 18 ) SHRI Shanti Bhushan, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantSansthan, submitted that this Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 142 of the constitution of India for doing complete justice to the appellantSansthan is empowered to pass an order of payment of arrears towards water and sewerage tax and payment of interest at the rate of 12 p. a. on the arrears of rent in terms of the agreement.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that sending the matter at this stage to the Arbitrator will prolong the agony of the appellantSansthan in getting its legitimate claims settled as per the calculation statement submitted before this Court in terms of its interim orders.	Arguments of Petitioner
( 19 ) PER contra, Shri Manoj Swarup, learned counsel for the respondentCorporation, submitted that the balance amount of arrears of rent, payment of water and sewerage tax and the amount of interest as claimed by the appellant sansthan in its calculation statement cannot be decided by this Court in the absence of any satisfactory and tangible evidence appearing on record of this appeal.	Arguments of Respondent
He next submitted that in terms of the clause of the Agreement, this Court will be slow in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India as the parties are governed by the procedure of the Arbitration act, which is speedy and less expensive for effective adjudication of the dispute in issue.	Arguments of Respondent
( 20 ) WE have carefully considered the respective contentions of the learned counsel for the parties.	None
( 21 )	None
IT is not in dispute that on 11.	None
11.	None
1980 the respondent Corporation took from the appellantSansthan an area measuring 14,925 sq.	None
ft. on monthly rent under a lease agreement.	None
In June 1981, the appellantSansthan let out additional accommodation measuring 3000 sq. ft. area on monthly rent for setting up marketing Office of M s Uptron India Limited, which is the subsidiary of the respondentCorporation.	None
The appellantSansthan filed suit for recovery of arrears of rent and ejectment of the respondentCorporation from the demised premises.	None
In the trial court, the respondent corporation preferred two applications, i. e. one under Section 8 (1) of the arbitration Act and second under Order XI rule 14 CPC for summoning of the original lease deed from the appellantSansthan.	None
The learned Additional District Judge (Special judge, E. C. Act), Lucknow, has rejected both the applications.	Facts
The High Court in writ petition filed by the respondentCorporation against the order of the trial court, allowed the application of the respondentCorporation filed under Section 8 (1) of the Arbitration Act.	None
It was the specific case of the respondentCorporation before the High Court that the original agreements are in the possession of the appellant Sansthan, whereas the stand of the appellantSansthan was that the original agreements are not in its possession.	None
The respondentCorporation placed on record of the trial court photocopies of the agreements along with an application under Section 8 (1)of the Arbitration Act.	None
The High Court, in our view, has rightly held that the photocopies of the lease agreements could be taken on record under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act for ascertaining the existence of arbitration clause.	Reasoning
Thus, the dispute raised by the appellantSansthan against the respondent corporation in terms of the arbitration clause contained in the lease agreement is arbitral.	None
( 22 ) NOW, the question pressed before us is whether we should, in exercise of our power and jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India as submitted by Shri Shanti bhushan, grant the payment of balance of arrears of rent, payment of balance arrears of water and sewerage tax and interest on the arrears of rent to the appellantSansthan, which amounts are disputed by the respondent corporation before us.	Issue
The nature and ambit of the power of this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, no doubt, is meant to do complete justice between the litigating parties, but at the same time this Court has to bear in mind that the power is conceived to meet the situations which cannot be effectively and appropriately tackled by the existing provisions of law.	None
Human and equitable approach should be balanced to do complete justice to both the parties and not be tilted in favour of either party without ignoring the statutory provisions.	None
This Court in exercise of its jurisdiction can grant appropriate relief where there is some manifest illegality, or where there is manifest want of jurisdiction, or where some palpable injustice is shown to have resulted to the parties.	None
( 23 ) IN the light of above factual aspects, the claim relating to balance arrears of rent, balance arrears of water and sewerage tax and rate of interest on payment of arrears of rent raised by the appellantSansthan in its calculation statement filed before this Court is at variance with the calculation statement submitted by the respondentCorporation.	None
The respondentCorporation has denied the payment of interest to the appellantSansthan.	None
The abovesaid disputed claims can to appropriately tackled and adjudicated upon by the Arbitrator in terms of the arbitration clause.	None
The main objectives of the Arbitration act is to make provision for an arbitral procedure which is fair, efficient and capable of meeting the needs of the specific arbitration and to minimise the supervisory role of courts in the arbitral process and to permit an arbitral Tribunal to use mediation, conciliation or other procedures during the arbitral proceedings in settlement of disputes, etc. etc.	Reasoning
This Court ordinarily will not be obliged to bypass the provisions of the Arbitration and conciliation Act, 1996 in exercise of its power and jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
( 24 ) IN the backdrop of this case, we do not find it a fit case to grant relief to the appellant sansthan as claimed by it in its calculation statement which is vehemently disputed by the respondentCorporation.	None
Therefore, the contention of the appellantSansthan that this Court can grant the payment of balance amount of arrears of rent and arrears of water and sewerage tax and interest on arrears of rent detailed in calculation statement submitted before this Court, does not merit acceptance.	Reasoning
( 25 ) SHRI Shanti Bhushan, learned senior counsel, has fairly stated that in Civil Suit no. 16/2000 the appellantSansthan has not claimed the arrears of rent and water and sewerage tax for the additional area of 2000 sq. ft. , which was subsequently let out to the respondentCorporation, as such the claim to that extent in terms of the calculation statement filed before this Court is not pressed in this appeal.	Reasoning
He submitted that for claiming the relief for 2000 sq. ft. area, the appellantSansthan will take appropriate proceedings before the Court forum.	Reasoning
We do not wish to express any views on this aspect of the matter in this appeal.	Reasoning
( 26 ) IN this view of the matter, we do not find any perversity or infirmity in the order of the high Court to warrant any interference.	Reasoning
( 27 ) FOR the aforestated reasons, the appeal deserves and it is accordingly dismissed.	Decision
The order of the learned Single Judge dated 14.	Decision
09.	Issue
2004 passed in Writ Petition No. 3388 (MIS) of 2004 shall stand affirmed.	Decision
However, the parties are left to bear their own costs.	Decision
( 28 ) BEFORE parting, we may make it clear that any observation made in this judgment shall not be construed as an expression of opinion on the merits of the case.	Decision
The dispute raised by the parties shall be adjudicated upon by the Arbitrator (s) on its own merit in accordance with law.	Decision
