 K. Das, ACJ.	None
(For himself and Hidayatullah J.).1.	None
With much regret, we have come to a conclusion different from that of our learned brother Sarkar, J. as respects of the true scope and effect of S. 57 of the Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958, hereinafter referred to as the Control Act of 1958.	None
The Control Act of 1958 repeals the Delhi and Ajmer Rent Control Act, 1952, hereinafter called the Control Act of 1952, in so far as that Act was applicable to the Union territory of Delhi, but contains certain savings in respect of suits and proceedings pending at the commencement of the Control Act of 1958.	None
To these savings we shall advert later.2.	None
The facts giving rise to the appeal have been stated fully in the judgment of Sarkar, J. and we need not restate the facts.	Facts
The respondent, Pratap Chand, relied on cl.	Facts
(c), subcl.	Reasoning
(i) of the proviso to Section 13 (1) of the Control Act of 1952 in support of his claim for eviction of the appellant from a room, being room No.6, in Pratap Buildings situate in Connaught Circus, New Delhi.	Facts
Sub s. (1) of S. 13 of the Control Act of 1952 states that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law or any contract, no degree or order for the recovery of possession of any premises shall be passed by any Court in favour of the landlord against any tenant (including a tenant whose tenancy is terminated) the proviso creates certain exceptions and states that nothing in subs.	Facts
(1) shall apply to any suit or other proceeding for such recovery of possession if the case comes within the exceptions mentioned in the proviso.	Facts
One of the exceptions is mentioned in cl.	Facts
(c) subcl.	Facts
( i ), of the proviso.	Facts
That exception relates to a case where the tenant without obtaining the consent of the landlord has before the commencement of the Control Act of 1952 sublet, assigned or otherwise parted with the possession of the whole or any part of the premises.	Facts
The principal question for decision in the appeal is whether the respondent landlord is entitled to rely on the exception provided by cl.	Facts
(c), subcl.	Reasoning
( i ), of the proviso to subs.	Facts
(1) of S. 13 of the Control Act of 1952.3.	Facts
The learned trial judge by his judgment dated June 11, 1956 gave a decree in favour of the respondentlandlord.	Facts
One of the questions raised before the learned trial Judge was whether the respondent landlord had acquiesced in the subletting in favour of the appellant.	Facts
The learned trial Judge decided against the appellant on the question of acquiescence.	Facts
There was then an appeal which was heard by the learned Additional Senior Subordinate Judge of Delhi.	Facts
The learned Subordinate Judge found  (1) that the subletting had commenced not later than November, 1950, and (2) that thereafter the respondentlandlord continued to receive rent with full knowledge of the subletting.	Facts
On these findings he held that the respondentlandlord was not entitled to avail himself of the exception stated in cl.	Facts
(c), subcl.	Reasoning
( i ), of the proviso to subs.	Facts
(1) of S. 13 of the Control Act of 1952.	Facts
The learned Subordinate Judge gave his judgment on June 11, 1957.	Facts
It has to be noted that these judgments were given prior to the coming into force of the Control Act of 1958.	Facts
That Act came into force on February 9, 1959.	Facts
On August 26, 1957 the respondent landlord moved the High Court of Punjab in revision under S.35 of the Control Act of 1952.	Facts
When the revision was pending in the High Court, the Control Act of 1958 came into force.	Facts
The High Court held that there was no evidence to justify the finding of the learned Subordinate Judge that the respondent landlord had acquiesced in the subletting of the room in favour of the appellant, and the case being one where there is no evidence to justify a finding, it was open to the High Court to interfere in revision.	Facts
The question of the true scope and effect of S.57 of the Control Act of 1958 was agitated before the High Court and the High Court held that by reason of the provisions of subs.	Facts
(2) of S. 57 of the Control Act of 1958, the revision before it had to be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of the Control Act of 1952.	Facts
Accordingly, the High Court allowed the petition in revision and restored the decree for possession made by the trial Court.	Facts
The appellant then moved this court for special leave and having obtained such leave has preferred the present appeal from the judgment and order of the High Court dated December 13, 1962.4.	Facts
We are in complete agreement with the conclusions reached by our learned brother, Sarkar, J. in respect of the following questions (1) whether the High Court was competent on an application in revision to set aside the finding of the lower appellate court on the question of acquiescence(2) whether the High Court was right in its view that there was no evidence in the case to support the finding of the learned Subordinate Judge on the question of acquiescence and(3) whether the appeal before the learned Subordinate Judge was maintainable in the absence of an appeal by the Automobile Association of Upper India.	None
On the conclusions reached on the aforesaid three questions, the respondentlandlord will be entitled to succeed, unless S. 57 of the Control Act of 1958 stands in his way.	None
If the provisions of the Control Act of 1958 apply, then subs.	None
(1) of S. 14 of the Control Act of 1958 will stand in the way of the respondentlandlord, because the subletting in the present case did not take place on or after June 9, 1952 and will not therefore come within the exception provided in cl.	None
(b) of the proviso to subs.	Facts
(1) of S. 14 of the Control Act of 1958.	Facts
Therefore, the narrow question before us is  is the present case governed by cl.	None
(c), subcl.	Reasoning
(i), of the proviso to subs.	Facts
(1) of S.13 of the Control Act of 1952 or is it governed by the provisions of the Control Act of 1958?	None
The answer to this question depends on the true scope and effect of S.57 of the Control Act of 1958.5.	None
We now proceed to read S.57 of the Control Act of 1958.	None
That section is in these terms57 (1) The Delhi and Ajmer Rent Control Act, 1952, in so far as it is applicable to the Union territory of Delhi, is hereby repealed.(2)	None
Notwithstanding such repeal, all suits and other proceedings under the said Act pending, at the commencement of this Act, before any court or other authority shall be continued and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of the said Act, as if the said Act had continued in force and this Act had not been passed	None
Provided that in any such suit or proceeding for the fixation of standard rent or for the eviction of a tenant from any premises to which section 54 does not apply, the court or other authority shall have regard to the provisions of this Act Provided further that the provisions for appeal under the said Act shall continue in force in respect of suits and proceedings disposed of thereunder .Two	None
questions arise out of S. 57 .	Reasoning
It is clear beyond dispute that had subs.	None
(2) of S.57 stood by itself, then the present case would be governed by the provisions of the Control Act of 1952, assuming that an application in revision is a proceeding within the meaning of the subsection.	Reasoning
There are however two provisos to subs.	None
(2) of S.57.	Reasoning
It is the interpretation of these two provisos which had caused much difficulty in the present case.	None
The first question is, what is the true scope and effect of the first proviso, with particular reference to the expression shall have regard to the provisions of this Act occurring therein ?	Issue
The second question is  does an application in revision come within the expression suits and proceedings occurring in subs.	None
(2) by reason of the second proviso which makes a special provision for appeals ?	None
If, however, we decide against the appellant on the first question and hold that the application in revision, assuming it to be a proceeding within the meaning of subs.	None
(2), must be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of the Control Act of 1952, then the second question need not be decided by us in the present case.6.	None
Therefore, we proceed to deal with the first question the answer to which will be decisive of the appeal.7.	None
S.57 of the Control Act of 1958 has been the subject of several decisions in the Punjab High Court.	None
We shall refer to these decisions at a later stage.	None
We prefer first to consider the question on general principles of construction having regard to the words used in the section.8.	None
But before we do so, a brief reference may be made to the general scheme of the two Control Acts.	None
Chapter II of the Control Act of 1952 dealt with standard rent and also contained provisions relating to other charges by the landlord.	None
The dominant object was to prevent payment of rent in excess of standard rent and unlawful charges made by the landlord.	None
Chapter III dealt with control of eviction of tenants and in this chapter occurred S. 13 to which we have already made a reference.	None
Chapter IV dealt with hotels and lodging houses and as we are not concerned with hotels and lodging houses, no reference need be made to the provisions in this chapter.	None
Chapter V dealt with jurisdiction of Courts, Appeals, Review and Revision and Chapter VI dealt with miscellaneous provisions.	None
The point to be noticed with regard to the provisions in chapter V is that the Control Act of 1952 conferred power and jurisdiction on ordinary civil courts with the usual right of appeal from the first court as in other civil proceedings and a right to move the High Court in revision from the appellate judgment, in respect of suits for recovery of possession of all premises as defined in the Act, which definition excluded rooms in a hotel or lodging house.	None
With regard to hotels and lodging houses, jurisdiction was conferred on a Controller to be appointed by the Central Government.9.	None
The Control Act of 1958 made a radical change in respect of many matters.	None
So far as eviction of tenants is concerned, a matter with which we are concerned in the present appeal, jurisdiction was conferred on the Controller to be appointed under S. 35 to order recovery of possession of the premises on one or more of the grounds mentioned in the proviso to S. 14 of the Control act of 1958.	None
S. 16 of the Control Act of 1958 put certain restrictions on subletting and one of these restrictions was that no premises which had been sublet either in whole or in part on or after June 9, 1952 without obtaining the consent in writing of the landlord should be deemed to have been lawfully sublet but where at any time before June 9, 1952 a tenant had sublet the whole or any part of the premises and the subtenant was at the commencement of the Act in occupation of such premises, then notwithstanding that the consent of the landlord was not obtained for such subletting, the premises would be deemed to have been lawfully sublet.	None
S. 17 required the subtenant to give notice to the landlord and S. 18 provided that in certain circumstances the subtenant was to be treated as the tenant.	None
With the details of these provisions we are not concerned in the present case except to point out that the Control Act of 1958 made radical changes in the matter of eviction of tenants on the ground of subletting.	None
In the matter of subletting the relevant date was taken as June 9, 1952 the date on which the Control Act of 1952 came into force, and a distinction was made between subletting before that date and subletting after that date.	None
A subletting before June 9, 1952 was treated as lawful subletting if the subtenant was in occupation of the premises at the commencement of the Control Act of 1958 but a subletting after June 9, 1952 without the previous consent in writing of the landlord was treated as unlawful for the purposes of the Control Act, of 1958.10.	None
Let us now consider S. 57, of the Control Act of 1958 against the background of the scheme of the two Control Acts, as stated above.	Reasoning
The first subsection of S. 57 repeals the Control Act of 1952 in so far as it is applicable to the Union territory of Delhi.	Reasoning
If the repeal stood by itself the provisions of the General Clauses Act (X of 1897) would have applied with regard to the effect of the repeal and the repeal would not affect the previous operation of any enactment repealed or anything duly done or suffered thereunder or affect any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under any enactment so repealed.	Reasoning
The provisions of the General Clauses Act will not, however, apply where a different intention appears from the repealing enactment.	Reasoning
Such an intention is clear from subs.	Reasoning
(2) of S. 57 which contains the saving clause.	Reasoning
It states in express terms that notwithstanding the repeal of the Control Act of 1952 all suits and proceedings under the Control Act of 1952 pending before any court or other authority at the commencement of the Control Act of 1958, shall be continued and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of the Control Act of 1952, as if the Control Act of 1952 had continued in force and the Control Act of 1958 had not been passed.	Reasoning
Nothing can be more emphatic in the matter of a saving clause than what is contained in subs.	Reasoning
(2) of S. 57.	Reasoning
We had said earlier that had subs.	Reasoning
(2) of S. 57 stood by itself without the provisos, then the incontestable position would have been that the present case would be governed by the provisions of the Control Act of 1952.	None
The question before us is, does the first proviso to subs.	None
(2) make a change in the position and if so, to what extent?	None
The first proviso states inter alia that in the matter of eviction of a tenant from any premises to which S. 54 does not apply, the court or other authority shall have regard to the provisions of the Control Act of 1958.	Reasoning
Section 54 need not be considered by us as it merely saves the operation of certain enactments which do not apply to the premises under our consideration.	Reasoning
What is the meaning of the expression shall have regard to the provisions of this Act (meaning the Control Act of 1958)?	None
Does it mean that the proviso takes away what is given by subs.	Issue
(2), except in the matter of jurisdiction of the civil court to deal with an eviction matter which was pending before the Control Act of 1958 came into force?	Issue
We are unable to agree that such is the meaning of the first proviso.	None
We think that the first proviso must be read harmoniously with the substantive provision contained in subs.	Reasoning
(2) and the only way of harmonising the two is to accept the view which the Punjab High Court has accepted, namely, that the words shall have regard to the provisions of this Act merely mean that where the new Act has slightly modified or clarified the previous provisions, these modifications and clarifications should be applied.	Reasoning
We see no other way of harmonising subs.	Reasoning
(2) with the first proviso thereto.11.	Reasoning
A similar expression occurring in S. 49 of the Electricity (Supply) Act (LIV of 1948) was considered by this court in the Mysore State Electricity Board v. Bangalore Wollen, Cotton and Silk Mills Ltd., C. A. Nos. 629 to 632 of 1961 D  15111962 unreported (now reported in AIR 1963 SC 1128 ).	None
This court referred to the decision of the Privy Council in Ryots of Garabandho v. Zamindar of Parlakimedi, 70 Ind App 129 (AIR 1943 PC 164) and expressed agreement with the view of the Privy Council that the expression have regard to or having regard to has no more definite or technical meaning than that of ordinary usage, and only required that the provisions to which regard must be had should be taken into consideration.	None
If the expression have regard to in the first proviso to subs.	None
(2) means that the provisions of the Control Act of 1958 shall apply to all such suits or proceedings as are referred to in subs.	None
(2) except in the matter of jurisdiction of the civil court, then in reality the substantive provision of subs.	None
(2) will be denuded of its full effect for all practical purposes.	None
We do not think that it would be right to read the first proviso of subs.	Reasoning
(2) in that way.	Reasoning
It was argued before us that the first proviso related only to two matters, (a) fixation of standard rent and (b) eviction of a tenant, and the intention was that in these two matters only the provisions of the Control Act of 1958 would apply and not in others.	Reasoning
If that was the intention, nothing would have been easier than to say in subs.	Reasoning
(2)  Notwithstanding such repeal, all suits and other proceedings under the said Act except those for fixation of standard rent and eviction of a tenant etc. Subs.	Reasoning
(2) does not, however, say so, and if the first proviso is to be interpreted in the manner suggested by the appellant, the provisions as to jurisdiction in the new Act would affect the power of the civil court to pass a decree for eviction.12.	Reasoning
We now turn to the decisions of the Punjab High Court.	None
In Shri Krishna Aggarwal v. Satya Dev, 61 Pun LR 574 (AIR 1959 Punj 501)	None
it was held that the first proviso to subs.	None
(2) of S. 57 was directory in character and not mandatory therefore, the courts and authorities concerned had a discretion conferred on them to take into consideration the provisions of the new Act when it was considered necessary in a proper case and in the interest of justice.	None
We do not wish, however, to base our decision on these grounds.	Reasoning
We think that the proper way of reading subs.	Reasoning
(2) and the first proviso thereto is to harmonise both in the best way possible.	Reasoning
In Bulaqi Das Madan Mohan v. Ram Sarup, 62 Pun LR 231 the view expressed was that the proviso must have some meaning and force and the proviso intended that where the old provisions had been repeated with modifications, the old Act should be interpreted in the light of the modifications so long as they did not involve creating any rights and liabilities.	Reasoning
A similar view was expressed by the same Judge in Shri Bimal Parshad Jain v. Shri Niadaramal, 62 Pun LR 664.	Reasoning
The question was considered by a Division Bench in Shri Jhabar Mal Chokhani v. Shri Jinendra Pershad, 65 Pun LR 469.	Reasoning
At pages 474 and 475 of the report Dulat, J. who spoke for the Bench said It would thus appear that apart from Gosain, J. the other learned Judges of this court have generally agreed that the proviso to s. 57, subsection (2), does not demand that a suit for the eviction of a tenant filed under the previous Act of 1952 must be governed entirely by the provisions of the new Act but that, on the other hand, the provisions applicable continue to be the provisions of the old Act with this addition that, where the new Act has slightly modified or clarified the previous provisions, those modifications and clarifications should be applied, but, where entirely new rights and new liabilities have been created, the new provisions must not be allowed to override the provisions of the previous Act, and nearly all the cases have been decided on that basis.	None
We agree with the view expressed by Dulat J.	None
We also agree with the High Court that if the first proviso to subs.	None
(2) of S. 57 is interpreted in the way contended for by the appellant here, it would really be giving effect to the provisions of the Control Act of 1958 retrospectively, though subs.	Reasoning
(2) of S. 57 states in clear terms that all suits and proceedings pending at the commencement of the new Act will be dealt in accordance with the provisions of the old Act.	Reasoning
This is really putting the same argument that the proviso must be read harmoniously with the substantive provision in another way.13.	Reasoning
For the reasons given above we have come to the conclusion that in the present case the respondentlandlord is entitled to the benefit of cl.	Reasoning
(c), subcl.	Reasoning
(i), of the proviso to S. 13(1) of the Control Act of 1952 and the first proviso to subs.	Reasoning
(2) of S. 57 of the Control Act of 1958 does not stand in his way.	Reasoning
He is therefore, entitled to succeed, as the appellant has failed to make out any acquiescence by the landlord to the subletting in question.	Reasoning
Therefore, the High Court rightly allowed the petition in revision and restored the decree for possession made by the trial Court.	Decision
The appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.	None
Sarkar, J.14.	None
The respondent Pratap Chand, hereafter referred to as the respondent, who was the owner of Pratap Buildings in Connaught Circus, New Delhi had let a room in it, being room No. 6, to the respondent, the Automobile Association of Upper India, formerly known as the Automobile Association of Northern India and hereafter referred to as the Association.	None
The appellant was a subtenant of the room under the Association.	None
These facts are not in dispute.	None
On October 5, 1959, the respondent gave the Association a notice to quit and on December 25, 1954 brought a suit against the Association and the appellant for their eviction from the room.	None
It is out of this suit that the present appeal arises and the question is, Is the appellant liable to be evicted?15.	None
Section 13 of the Delhi and Ajmer Rent Act, 1952 and which had come into force on June 9, 1952 and governed the case, prohibited Courts from directing eviction of a tenant at the suit of a landlord excepting in the cases mentioned in the proviso to it.	None
Clause (c) of this proviso said that a decree for recovery of possession might be made where the Court was satisfied that the tenant without obtaining the consent of the landlord has, before the commencement of this Act, sublet, assigned or otherwise parted with the possession of, the whole or any part of the premises.	None
The respondent relied on this provision in the Act and contended that the Association had without his consent sublet the shoproom to the appellant and that he had come to know of this subletting about the end of May 1954.	None
The Association does not appear to have seriously contested the suit but the appellant did.	None
Both the Association and the appellant admitted that the landlord had not consented to the subletting before it started but the appellant contended that the respondent had full knowledge of his occupation of the shoproom as a subtenant and had with such knowledge accepted rent from the Association and thereby acquiesced in the subletting and was, therefore not entitled to eviction on the ground of subletting without the landlords consent.16.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned trial Judge by his judgment dated June 11, 1956 held that the respondent landlord had not acquiesced in the subletting and in that view of the matter directed ejectment of the Association and the appellant.	None
The appellant then went up in appeal under S. 34 of the Act to the Additional Senior SubJudge of Delhi who held that the subletting had commenced not later than November 1950 and that the respondent continued to receive rent with full knowledge of the subletting.	None
He, therefore, decided that the respondent was not entitled to the decree for possession and allowed the appeal, set aside the judgment of the trial Court and dismissed the suit by his judgment dated June 11, 1957, On August 26, 1957, the respondent moved the High Court of Punjab in revision under S. 35 of the Act.17.	Arguments of Petitioner
While the revision petition was pending in the High Court the Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958 came into force.	None
It repealed the Act of 1952 but made some of the provisions of the repealed Act applicable to certain pending matters.	None
One of the questions in this appeal will be, which of the provisions of the new Act are to apply to the pending cases.18.	None
In the revision petition, apart from challenging the finding of acquiescence by the learned Senior SubJudge, the respondent contended that the appellate judgment was in any event wrong because the tenant, the Association, not having appealed from the decree in ejectment made against it by the learned trial Judge, that decree stood and as a result of it the tenancy was at an end and, therefore, the appellant subtenant who only derived title through the tenant, had no right to remain in possession of the demised room.	None
The appellant on his part in opposing the petition supported the judgment of the Additional Senior SubJudge on the merits, disputed that his rights were concluded by the failure of the Association to appeal from the judgment of the trial Judge and further contended that in view of the provisions of S. 57(2) of the Act of 1958 to which I will later refer, the right of the landlord to possession had to be decided by the provisions of that Act and under S. 16 of this Act the respondent was not on the facts found entitled to an order for ejectment on the ground of subletting without his consent.19.	None
The various points raised in the case were not all heard together in the High Court but the result of the several hearings was as follows that the fact that the tenant had not appealed did not take away the subtenants right to relief, that there was no evidence to justify the appellate Courts finding that the respondent had acquiesced in the subletting by the Association to the appellant, that the High Court could in revision set aside the judgment of the lower appellate Court on this ground and lastly, that S. 57(2) of the Act of 1958 did not require the High Court in exercising its revisional powers to decide the landlords right to possession by reference to the provisions of the Act of 1958.	None
In that view of the matter the High Court allowed the petition for revision and restored the decree for possession passed by the trial Court.	Facts
This judgment of the High Court is challenged in this appeal.20.	None
The first question is whether the High Court was competent in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction to set aside the finding of the lower appellate Court that the landlord had acquiesced in the subletting.	Issue
Section 35 of the Act of 1952 under which the revision petition had been filed gave jurisdiction to the High Court to satisfy itself that the decision of the Court below had been according to law, it has been held by this Court in Hari Sankar v. Girdhari Lal Chowdhury, C. A. No. 94 of 1959 (unreported) (now reported in AIR 1963 SC 698 ) that a revisional petition under S. 35 of the Act of 1952 did not lie to interfere with a plain finding of fact.	None
Relying on this case learned counsel for the appellant contended that the High Court had no jurisdiction to interfere with the finding of acquiescence by the lower appellate Court.	None
In that case however there was evidence which could have supported the finding arrived at by the Court below the High Court and the High Court had only reassessed the value of that evidence.	None
This, it was held, the High Court could not do.	None
Such a case is very different from a case where, as in the present, the High Court interferes with the finding on the ground that there is no evidence to support it.	None
If a Court had arrived at a finding without any evidence to support it, it can be legitimately said that it had not decided the case according to law see Pooran Chand v. Motilal,	None
C. A. No. 624 of 1962 (unreported) (now reported in AIR 1964 SC 461 ).I may also refer to Lala Beni Ram v. Kundan Lal, 26 Ind App 58 (PC) cited on behalf of the respondent where it was observed that, acquiescence is not a question of fact but of legal inference from the facts found.21.	None
The question then arises whether the High Court was right in its view that there was no evidence in the case to support the finding of acquiescence.	None
The evidence only showed that the respondent knew that the appellant was in occupation of the demised premises.	None
I think that the High Court pointed out rightly that the fact that a landlord had knowledge that a person other than a tenant was in possession did not by itself always lead to an inference that the landlord had knowledge that the person in possession was a subtenant.	None
The facts of the present case made such an inference more difficult.	None
They were as follows The appellant had been in possession of the room from sometime in 1949 till November 1950 along with the Association.	None
All this time he was publishing a magazine called the All India Motorist which was the official organ of the Association.	None
This he was doing under an agreement with the Association which provided that office accommodation for the staff of the A. I. Motorist to be provided by the Association in 6, Pratap Buildings.	None
He was at one time the General Secretary of the Association and constantly on the premises doing also his own business there.	None
In November 1950 the Association took another premises as the demised room was found too small for its expanding activities.	None
From November 1950, the appellant remained in sole possession of the premises carrying on his businesses there as previously, including the business of publishing the aforesaid official organ of the Association.	None
In May 1954 the agreement between the Association and the appellant for the printing and publication of the magazine was brought to an end and the Association started its own magazine.	None
Since then the appellant alone has been using the room for his own purposes.22.	None
I do not think that these facts establish that the respondent had any reason to think that from November 1950 when the subtenancy commenced, the appellant had been in possession as a subtenant for he had been using the room for the work of the Association.	None
Only since May 1954, the appellant occupied the room solely for his own purposes.	None
The respondent might well, therefore, have thought that the occupation of the appellant prior to 1954 was really for the Association.	None
Since 1954 however the respondent had not accepted any rent.	None
I am unable in this state of the evidence to hold that the view that the High Court took was erroneous.	None
I do not think that the case of Mukesh Chand v. Jamboo Parshad, 65 Pun LR 285 to which learned counsel for the appellant referred assists him on this point.	None
There it was held that knowledge of possession was on the facts of the case evidence of knowledge of possession under a licence.	None
It is not necessary to pronounce on the correctness of that decision for we are concerned with a different question, namely, whether knowledge of possession is evidence of knowledge of possession under a contract of subtenancy.	None
A point was raised at the bar that even if acquiescence had been proved that would not have affected the landlords statutory right to recover possession on proof of a subletting without his consent.	None
I do not think it necessary to deal with that question in the present case as no acquiescence was proved.23.	None
The next question is as to the rights of the appellant in the absence of an appeal by the Association from the decision of the trial Court.	Issue
This question does not present any real difficulty.	None
The suit had been filed both against the tenant and the subtenant, being respectively the Association and the appellant.	None
One decree had been passed by the trial Judge against both.	None
The appellant had his own right to appeal from that decree.	None
That right could not be affected by the Associations decision not to file an appeal.	None
There was one decree and, therefore, the appellant was entitled to have it set aside even though thereby the Association would also be freed from the decree.	None
He could say that that decree was wrong and should be set aside as it was passed on the erroneous finding that the respondent had not acquiesced in the subletting by the Association to him.	None
He could challenge that decree on any ground available.	None
The lower appellate Court was, therefore, quite competent in the appeal by the appellant from the joint decree in ejectment against him and the Association, to give him whatever relief he was found entitled to, even though the Association had filed no appeal.24.	None
I come now to the last and the more difficult of the points argued in this case.	None
That point turns on the interpretation of S. 57 of the Act of 1958 the terms of which are as follows Section 57.	None
(1) The Delhi and Ajmer Rent Control Act, 1952, in so far as it is applicable to the Union Territory of Delhi, hereby repealed.(2)	None
Notwithstanding such repeal, all suits and other proceedings under the said Act pending, at the commencement of this Act, before any court or other authority shall be continued and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of the said Act, as if the said Act had continued in force and this Act had not been passed.	None
Provided that in any such suit or proceeding for the fixation of standard rent or for the eviction of a tenant for any premises to which S. 54 does not apply, the court or other authority shall have regard to the provisions of this Act Provided further that the provisions for appeal under the said Act shall continue in force in respect of suits and proceedings disposed of thereunder.25.	None
It is said by the appellant that the first proviso to subs.	None
(2) of S. 57 of the Act of 1958 required the High Court to decide the claim for ejectment in the revision case pending before it in accordance with the provisions of that Act and as under S. 16 of the Act no decree in ejectment could be passed against the Association or the appellant on the facts of the present case, the High Court was wrong in passing such a decree.26.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents answer to this contention is twofold.	None
It is first said that the proviso only required a Court to have regard to the provisions of this Act and that meant that only those provisions of the new Act were to be applied which were clarifications and modifications of the old but none other.	None
If this is so, no doubt the new Act could be of no assistance to the appellant.	None
This contention is based on judgments of the Punjab High Court but I am unable to accept it as correct.27.	None
The earliest case before the High Court was 61 Pun LR 574 (AIR 1959 Punj 501).	None
There it was held that the first proviso only gave a discretion to the Court to apply the provisions of the new Act when the interests of justice required it.	None
This view has not however been accepted in the later cases and has been expressly given up in the last case which was 65 Pun LR 469.	None
As it has not been pressed before us, it is not necessary to discuss it further.	None
Plainly, an interpretation which makes the substantive rights of parties depend on the discretion of court is impossible of acceptance.28.	None
The reasons which have been given to support the contention that the first proviso only made the provisions of the new Act which were modifications and clarifications of the provisions of the old Act are various but none of them appears to me to be well founded.	None
First, it is said that the words have regard to support that view and reliance is placed on 70 Ind App 129 (AIR 1943 PC 164) for this purpose see Jhabar Mals case, 65 Pun LR 469.	None
In that case the Judicial Committee held that the words meant that the provisions referred to must be taken into consideration but it was not obligatory to follow them.29.	None
Apart from the fact that the view expressed by the Judicial Committee turned on the statute before it as it was careful to observe by saying any general interpretation of such a phrase is dangerous and unnecessary, I am unable to see how the decision supports the view for which it was cited in Jhabar Mals case 65 Pun LR 469.	None
In that case the words were given the meaning that compliance with the provisions indicated was not obligatory, a meaning which is not sought to be put on them in the present case by any one, for the view that the first proviso gives a discretion to the Court has been discarded.	None
Surely the Parlakimedis case, 70 Ind. App 129 (AIR 1943 PC 164) is no authority for the view that the words shall have regard to the provisions of this Act mean that it shall be obligatory to apply only such of the provisions of the new Act which are modifications or clarifications of the earlier Act, and this is the meaning which is canvassed by the respondent.	None
The Judicial Committee were indeed not concerned with the provisions of two statutes of one of which had been repealed, as we are.	None
The two cases are wholly different.	None
The decision of this Court in C. A. Nos. 629 and 632 of 1961 D  15111962 (unreported) (now reported in AIR 1963 SC 1128 ) in which the same words fell to be considered, is of even less assistance.30.	None
Another reason given is that the rule is that no more retrospective operation is to be given to a statute than its language renders necessary see Shri Krishnas case, 61 Pun LR 574 (AIR 1959 Punj 501).	None
A somewhat similar view was expressed in 62 Pun LR 231 where it was said that the proviso should be read as making only those provisions of the new Act applicable which are modifications of the old as that would cause least disturbance of the vested rights.	None
Again I am unable to agree.	None
The words shall have regard to the provisions of this Act do give these provisions a retrospective operation and there is nothing in them to limit the scope of such operation to some of those provisions.	None
The rule that a statute is not presumed to have retrospective operation is no justification for astuteness in limiting the scope of that operation where the words do not indicate any limit.	None
I am wholly unable to agree that the words shall have regard to the provisions of this Act at all provide any limit.	None
They would not indicate any limit if no question of retrospective operation arose (see Parlakimedis case, 70 Ind App 129 (AIR 1943 PC 164) and the natural meaning of the words is not changed when they are used in a clause for giving retrospective operation to a statute.	None
I may add that this reasoning is based only on those words.31.	None
The last reasoning on which the respondent founded his contention was that the proviso had to be construed harmoniously with the first part of subsection (2) and not so as to destroy it altogether see Shri Krishnas case, 61 Pun LR 574 (AIR 1959 Punj 501) and Jhabar Mals case, 65 Pun LR 469.	None
There is no doubt about this principle but it is applicable when there is a conflict between two parts of a statute, a conflict which could not have been intended.	None
But where, as in the present case  and as to this I feel no doubt at all  the proviso is an exception to the part to which it is attached, there is no conflict for it was intended to reduce the field of operation of that part by the proviso.	None
There is no occasion in such a case to feel perturbed if the plain language of the proviso has the effect of cutting down the scope of operation of a large part of the provision to which it is attached, for such was the intention of the legislature.	None
There is of course no sounder principle of interpretation of statutes than to give plain language its plain meaning.32.	None
Suppose the words in the proviso were shall apply the provisions of this Act.	None
Then those provisions would have to be applied even though the result was the wiping out of the larger portion of the first part of the subsection.	None
The words however are shall have regard to the provisions of this Act.	None
Whatever they mean, they do not mean that the intention was that some of the provisions of the new Act only were to be applied and they cannot be given that meaning because otherwise the effect of the proviso would be to largely wipe out the first part of the subsection.	None
There is no justification for twisting the language of the proviso in a zealous quest for harmony.	None
The expressed intention must be given effect to and no question of creating any harmony arises.	None
Since those words do not confer a discretionary power they must be read as imposing obligatory duties.33.	None
I do not also think that if the provisions of the new Act are applied to pending proceedings there would be a tremendous disharmony, a disharmony which could not have been intended.	None
Under the first part of the subsection all pending suits and proceedings are to be disposed of under the old Act.	None
Under the proviso in some of them the court or authority before whom they are pending are to have regard to the provisions of the new Act.	None
Now, the courts and authorities under the two Acts are different.	None
The first part of the subsection requires the courts and authorities under the old Act to dispose of the matter pending before them and the proviso does not touch this portion of that part, for it requires the courts and authorities under the old Act to dispose of some of the pending matters by applying some of the provisions of the new Act.	None
Again the proviso leaves the scope of the first part of the subsection wholly unaffected as regards pending suits and proceedings other than those for eviction of a tenant or fixation of standard rent.	None
These would include proceedings by tenants for being put back into possession and those between hotels and lodging house keepers and their boarders.	None
It may be that these would be fewer than the proceedings for ejectment of tenants or standardisation of rents, but that would be irrelevant.	None
What I wish now to observe is that if the proviso is interpreted as making it obligatory to apply all the provisions of the new Act to pending proceedings other than those I have indicated above, the result would not be to wipe out the first part of the subsection altogether a good part would still remain operative.	None
I do not conceive it to be the duty of a court interpreting a statute to give words a meaning which they do not plainly bear because otherwise some or even a large portion of another part of the statute would become inoperative.	None
This would be more so where one part was intended admittedly to cut down the effect of another.	None
One must not further forget that in interpreting a beneficent statute the effort should always be in cases of doubt to put that interpretation which confers the larger benefit on those intended to be benefited Jiva Bhai Purshottam v. Chhagan Karson 19621	None
SCR 568 at p. 573 (AIR 1961 SC 1491 at p. 1494).	None
I do not however wish it to be understood that I feel a doubt that the words shall have regard to the provisions of this Act may mean those provisions only of the new Act which are modifications or clarifications of the provisions in the old Act.34.	None
I have now discussed all the reasons advanced in support of the respondents contention and am unable to accept it for the reasons earlier mentioned.	None
I think the proviso plainly makes it obligatory to apply the provisions of the new Act in the decision of the pending suits and proceedings for ejectment of tenants by the courts before whom they were pending under the old Act.35.	None
The respondent then said that the first proviso to S. 57(2) of the Act of 1958 did not in any event make any part of the Act of 1958 applicable to pending revision cases for that priviso only referred to suits or proceedings and a revision case was neither.	None
This view receives support from Shri Krishnas case.	None
61 Pun LR 574 (AIR 1959 Punj 501) and Man Mohan Lal v. B. G. Gupta, 64 Pun LR 51 but a contrary view was taken in 62 Pun LR 664.	None
In fact the two earlier mentioned judgments in the High Court held that the words suit or proceeding in the first proviso did not include either an appeal or a revision case.36.	None
This view is based on the terms of the second proviso to subsection (2) of S. 57 which I have earlier set out.	None
It was said that by dealing specifically with appeals in that proviso the legislature has indicated clearly that it did not intend an appeal to be considered as a suit or proceeding in that subsection.	None
It was also said that if a suit or proceeding included in an appeal then the second proviso would become wholly redundant for what is provided there would then come within the rest of subs.	None
(2).37.	None
This reasoning seems to me to be based on a misreading of the second proviso which states that the provisions for appeal under the said Act shall continue in force in respect of suits and proceedings disposed of thereunder.	None
Now what are provisions for appeal?	None
They of course mean the provisions which set out how or when and in what court an appeal may be filed and so on, that is, provisions dealing with the institution of appeals, their competence, their procedure and the Court where they may be filed and so on.	None
The words do not refer to any provision of the old Act dealing with the merits of an appeal.	None
The old Act does not contain, as indeed no Act does, any specific provision for the decision of the merits of an appeal as distinguished from the decision of the same case at the trial stage.	None
The provisions for deciding the merits are always the same in both cases.	None
The words provisions for appeal therefore cannot possibly refer to provisions dealing with the merits of a case.	None
The word appeal had to be used in the second proviso as it was concerned with appeals from suits or proceedings mentioned in it, namely, those which had been disposed of under the old Act.	None
That word was not used to indicate that suits or proceedings mentioned in the rest of the subsection were not to include an appeal.	None
Furthermore the second proviso would not be redundant if the words suit or proceedings in the rest of subsection were understood as including an appeal, for it states under which law the competence of appeals and revision petitions from cases disposed of under the old Act are to be decided while the text of the subsection does not deal with such matter but deals with the courts where pending matters are to be heard and the law by which they are to be decided and disposed of.	None
I may also point out that under the two Acts jurisdiction is conferred on different authorities.	None
There is, therefore nothing in the second proviso which would indicate that the words suit or proceeding in the first part of subsection (2) or in the first proviso were not intended to include an appeal or a revision case.38.	None
Another reason given was that a revision could not be a suit because it was not a rehearing.	None
Even if this is so, it would not be an answer to the contention that the word proceeding would include an appeal or a revision case.	None
Furthermore, it is conceded that an appeal is a rehearing and would be included within the word suit if the second proviso was not there.	None
I have already shown why the second proviso does not prevent an appeal from being included in the words suit or proceeding in the rest of the subsection.	None
Now if an appeal is to be held a suit and as no distinction can be made between an appeal and a revision case, it would follow that the word suit might on this reasoning include a revision case.	None
It is indeed admitted that the word appeal in the second proviso includes a revision case.	None
Obviously any other view would be untenable for no intelligible reason can be found why a revision case should be treated differently from an appeal.	None
For myself however I would say that as a matter of plain English there is no difficulty in including with the word proceeding an appeal or a revision case.	None
I see no reason why the legislature should have thought of applying one law for cases which were pending at the original stage when the new Act came into force and another law for the appeals or revision cases from original trials which were pending then.39.	None
A third reason given why suits or proceeding in the first part of subsection (2) and the first proviso should not include an appeal or a revision case is that that might necessitate a remand for further evidence.	None
This is admittedly an argument of convenience and hence not of great strength.	None
But I am unable to see why a remand would be necessary .	None
Exhypothesi the case had been started under the old Act and all evidence that should have been led had already been led.	None
A remand for taking fresh evidence should only be necessary if an amendment of the pleading was allowed in view of the fresh rights created by the new Act.	None
So far as a new right is given to the landlord he can always file a fresh suit.	None
The taking of the new evidence which it is said would be an inconvenience cannot therefore in any event be avoided.40.	None
If the words suit or proceeding in the first part of subsection (2) or the first proviso do not include an appeal or a revision case the result would be somewhat anomalous.	None
It is clear that S. 6 of the General Clauses Act keeping alive certain rights under repealed Act cannot be availed of to keep alive rights under the 1952 Act for subsection (2) of S. 57 of the 1958 Act specifically states which of the provisions of the 1952 Act are to remain available in spite of the repeal of that Act.	None
On the respondents contention nothing in the first part of subs.	None
(2) or the first proviso to it would make the old Act applicable to pending appeals or one that came to be filed after the coming into force of the new Act.	None
One is then left wondering by which law the appeals and revision cases which are pending when the new Act comes into force or are subsequently filed under the second proviso are to be governed.	None
It clearly could not have been intended that the pending appeals or revision cases were not to be proceeded with any more.	None
Therefore, it seems to me that it would be an unnatural construction of the words suit or proceeding in the first part of subsection (2) or the first proviso to it to say that they do not include appeals or revision cases.	None
In my view the High Court was under S. 57(2) of the 1958 Act bound to apply the provisions of that Act in deciding the merits of the revision case pending before it when the new Act came into force.41.	None
The next question is, how were the merits of the pending revision case affected by the new Act?	Issue
The appellant contends that S. 16 of this Act prevents a decree in ejectment being passed against him by the High Court in the revision case.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is fallacious.	None
Section 16(1) no doubt says that certain sublettings would be deemed to be lawful sublettings.	None
It is also true that the subletting to the appellant was of the kind mentioned in S. 16(1).	None
The effect however of making sublettings lawful under S. 16(1) is to prevent an ejectment being ordered against the subtenant when the tenancy of the intermediate tenant comes to an end but this only in cases where the subtenant has given the prescribed notice see Ss. 17 and 18.	None
The appellant cannot get the benefit of these provisions for he had not given that notice.	None
Section 16(1) does not otherwise prevent the ejectment of a tenant or subtenant.42.	None
None the less however as the provisions of the new Act apply to the pending revision case, the respondent has to show that he is entitled to an order for ejectment under those provisions.	None
Now the only ground on which the respondent claims ejectment is for subletting without his consent.	None
The circumstances under which ejectment can be decreed under the new Act are set out in the proviso to S. 14.	None
Under that proviso a subletting on or after June 9, 1952 without the consent of the landlord in writing may justify a decree for possession but not any other kind of subletting.	None
In the present case on the facts found, the subletting to the appellant was not of this kind for it took place in November 1950.	None
A subletting which took place on that date even if it was without the landlords consent would not justify an order for possession against the tenant at the instance of the landlord.	None
No other provision in the new Act has been pointed out under which for such subletting the landlord was entitled to an order for possession.	None
It follows that the High Court was not entitled to pass a decree for the possession but should have dismissed the revision case.	None
Whether the landlord respondent is entitled to an order for possession for any other reason under the new Act is not a question that arises in this appeal and I express no opinion on it.43.	None
I would, therefore, allow the appeal.	None
ORDER OF THE COURT44.	None
In view of the majority judgment, the appeal stands dismissed with costs.45.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	Decision
