Dr. B.S. CHAUHAN, J. All the aforesaid appeals have been filed against the judgments and orders of the High Court of Orissa at Cuttack which have been passed placing reliance on its earlier judgments in similar cases.	None
The facts and legal issues involved herein are the same.	None
Thus, they are heard together and are being disposed of by the common judgment and order.	None
However, for convenience, Civil Appeal No. 1272 of 2011 is taken to be the leading case and some reference to facts would be taken from other appeals as and when necessary in the context of legal issues involved herein.	None
The appeal has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 22.3.2006 of the High Court of Orissa at Cuttack in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 14157 of 2005.	None
FACTS 3.	None
(A)	None
The respondent was appointed as a Lecturer in Niali College, Niali, on 9.7.1979 and her appointment as such was approved by the Director of Higher Education, Orissa, a statutory authority  the appellant No. 2, vide order dated 18.12.1985, and she was granted the benefit of receiving 1/3rd grantinaid.(B)	Facts
In order to provide better facilities to teachers and enhance the standard of higher education, the Government of Orissa, came out with a Notification dated 6.10.1989 with a revised pay scale enforceable with effect from 1.1.1986 as per the recommendations of UGC.	Facts
However, the said Notification was applicable only in such cases where the post has been granted the benefit of grantinaid Scheme by 1.4.1989 and person manning that post had a good academic record i.e. 54 per cent or its equivalent grade in a Masters Course.(C)	Facts
Respondent did not make any representation before any authority to get the benefit of the said Notification dated 6.10.1989, rather approached the High Court on 11.11.2005 by filing Writ Petition (Civil) No. 14157 of 2005 seeking a direction to the State Government to pay the prerevised pay scale with effect from 1.1.1986 placing reliance on the various orders passed by the High Court earlier in cases of other persons e.g. in case OJC No. 3705 of 1987.(D)	Facts
The present appellants contested the said writ petition pointing out that the respondent had secured only 40 per cent marks in her Masters course.	Facts
She was by no means, eligible for appointment.	Facts
Her appointment, being not in consonance with law, remained illegal.(E)	Facts
The High Court placing reliance on its earlier judgments, allowed the said writ petition giving the benefit of the U.G.C. pay scale to her w.e.f. 1.6.1984.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	Facts
The submissions made in all these appeals, particularly by the respondents are that the High Court had been dealing with the subject matter for a long time and judgments of the High Court have been upheld by this court.	Arguments of Respondent
Once the SLPs against the judgments of the High Court which had been relied upon by the High Court while deciding these cases, have been dismissed in limine, judicial discipline and decorum demand that this Court should follow the same order.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, the judgments and orders impugned herein did not warrant any interference.	Arguments of Respondent
On the other hand, it has been submitted by learned counsel for the appellants that factual and legal issues involved in these cases have never been considered either by the High Court or by this Court in proper perspective.	Arguments of Petitioner
For example, in Civil Appeal No. 1274 of 2011, State of Orissa v. Mrs. Manju Patnaik, the matter had initially been filed before the Orissa Education Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therein, the question arose as to whether the respondent herein had been appointed by following the procedure prescribed by the law for making the appointment.	Arguments of Petitioner
As the State had raised the issue that respondent had been appointed without following any procedure known in law for this purpose her appointment itself was illegal and void.	Arguments of Petitioner
The vacancy on the post of Lecturer in Chemistry in Paramananda College, Bolgarh, Dist.	Arguments of Petitioner
Khurda was never advertised nor were the names of eligible candidates requisitioned from the Employment Exchange.	Arguments of Petitioner
Admitted facts in the said case remain that the vacancy was advertised merely by affixing notices on the notice board of the College and of Bolgarh Block Office inviting applications from the eligible candidates.	Arguments of Petitioner
More so, the respondent had not even faced an interview before the Selection Board, as envisaged by the Statutory Rules in force at the relevant time, rather she had been interviewed merely by representatives of the Committee of Management of the College.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Tribunal accepted the case of the State to that effect, but granted her reliefs sought by her.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court did not even consider the issue of validity of her appointment.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that none of the courts till today has considered that in case the institution has been accorded the benefit of grantinaid scheme subsequent to 1.6.1986, there could be no liability of the government to contribute partly or fully to the salary of any employee of the said college, prior to the date of grant of such benefit, whether UGC pay scale could be given prior to the date of according grantinaid benefits.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Civil Appeal No. 1318 of 2011, State of Orissa v. Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Manjushree Patnaik, the post of respondent was included under grantinaid scheme w.e.f. 1.6.1988.	Arguments of Petitioner
She did not possess the requisite qualifications and the said respondent was put in grantinaid with effect from 1988 though vide impugned judgment she has been given benefit from 1.1.1986.	Arguments of Petitioner
In all these cases, admittedly most of the respondents did not possess the minimum eligibility, i.e., 54 marks in Masters course and some of them acquired it at a much later stage.	None
It is pointed out by the learned counsel for the respondents herein, that Utkal University at Bhubneshwar had condoned the deficiency of eligibilityqualification by passing general orders from time to time.	None
However, they failed to point out any statutory provision conferring competence upon the University to condone the deficiency, what to talk of reasonableness or propriety in condoning such deficiency.	None
It is evident from Civil Appeal No. 1280 of 2011, State of Orissa Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Dr. Jadumani Sahoo,	None
that the respondent was appointed as a Lecturer in Political Science in Begunia College, Begunia, Khurda, on 5.9.1978 and the post which he held came into grantinaid scheme on 1.6.1984.	None
He acquired the degree of Ph.D. in 2000.	None
His deficiency in qualification was condoned after about 10 years by the Utkal University on 28.10.1987, and he has also been granted the benefit of UGC pay scale w.e.f. 1.1.1986.	None
There are letters circulars issued by the University as well as by the State of Orissa for condonation of the deficiency.	None
However, the question does arise as to whether this kind of orders can be given effect to or be considered by the courts to grant a relief to the persons whose appointments had been illegal for want of eligibility and for not following the procedure prescribed by law, i.e. advertisement, etc.	None
Most of the petitions had been filed before the High Court after 101520 years for grant of UGC pay scales w.e.f. 1.1.1986 and to pay the arrears etc.	None
The High Court in all the cases granted the same with effect from 1.1.1986 or even with effect from 1.6.1984, without considering the issue of delay and laches, merely placing reliance upon its earlier judgments.	None
Thus, the question does arise as to whether the delay and laches could be condoned all together giving the respondents the impetus of the earlier judgments in cases of persons who had been diligent enough to approach the Court within a reasonable period.	None
It has been further submitted by learned counsel for the respondents that teachers in government colleges have also been granted the said benefit though not entitled and the respondents herein cannot be given hostile treatment in case the impugned judgments and orders herein are not upheld.	None
Thus, the question does arise as to whether Article 14 of the Constitution is meant to perpetuate an illegality.	None
Considering the rival submissions made by learned counsel for the parties, we are of the view that as the questions raised hereinabove had never been considered by any of the courts and involve substantial questions of law of public importance, the cases require proper adjudication.	Reasoning
12.(A) STATUTORY PROVISIONS  RELEVANT PARTS	None
The Orissa Education (Recruitment and Conditions of Service of Teachers and Members of the Staff of Aided Educational Institutions) Rules, 1974 (hereinafter called Rules 1974).	None
Rule 2 (i)  	None
University means Utkal University, Berhampur University, Sambalpur University and Sri Jagannath Sanskrit Vishwa Vidyalaya.	None
Chapter II provides for establishment of the Selection Board and Rule 4 reads that there will be a Selection Board constituted by the Government for the purpose of making appointments of teaching and other staffs in aided schools.	None
Rule 5(1) thereof provides that the educational institutions would determine the vacancies subjectwise and indicate the same to the Director of Education who shall process the applications so received for those posts and transmit the same to the Selection Board after determining the genuineness of the vacancies in a particular college.	None
Rule 5(2)  	None
The Selection Board shall, on receipt of applications and certificates referred to in Subrule (1) recommend a list of candidates in order of merit strictly according to the number of vacancies, to the concerned Directors who shall thereupon, allot candidates to the concerned institutions strictly in order of merit as per vacancy.	None
Rule 5(3)  	None
Appointment shall be made by Managing Committee or the Governing Body as the case may be, of the candidates allotted under Subrule (2).	None
Rule 6 provides for Procedure of Selection  (1)	None
The Selection Board shall, at such intervals as it deems proper, call for applications for various posts in respect of which vacancies are likely to arise in the course of the next one year in such manner as may be determined in the regulation of the Selection Board.	None
The Selection Board shall conduct examinations including a viva voce examination of any candidate or all candidates with a view to determining their merit and suitability in the matter appointed in its regulations.	None
Rule 7  Condition of eligibility of candidates  Provided that upper age limit may be relaxable in respect of candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and such other categories as may be specified by Government from time to time for recruitment to the similar or corresponding post under the Government.	None
The Orissa Aided Educational Institutions Employees Common Cadre and Inter transferability Rules, 1979 (hereinafter called Rules 1979), make the post of teaching staff transferable to any other college, affiliated to any other University.	None
In view of the above, University means all the four universities of Orissa, not only Utkal University at Bhubneshwar.	None
It is the Selection Board constituted under the Rules 1974, which could call the candidates for interview tests and make the selection according to merit.	None
The Selection Board shall make the teachers available to individual colleges as per their need.	None
Thus, the Committee of Management does not have a right to make the appointment of a teacher of its own.	None
More so, the teachers so appointed are liable to be transferred throughout the State of Orissa even to a College which may be affiliated to either of the aforesaid universities.	None
RELEVANT PART OF NOTIFICATIONS CIRCULARS LETTERS Government of Orissa  Education and Youth Services Department Resolution dated 5.9.1978 dealt with the subject qualification for recruitment of lecturers in affiliated colleges of the State of Orissa and the relevant part reads as under A consistently good academic record with at least Ist or high second class (B in the seven point scale) at the Masters degree in a relevant subject.	None
In other words, the University Grants Commission intended to determine high second class as average of minimum percentage of marks of second division and first division as (4860)	None
54 Orissa State Gazette, August 19, 1983 published a resolution dated 16.7.1983 prescribing the eligibility for appointment of teachers in affiliated colleges.	None
The relevant part reads as under Candidate should have an M.Phil degree or a recognized degree beyond Masters level with atleast a second class Masters degree A candidate not holding an M.Phil degree should possess a high second class Masters degree i.e. 54 of marks and a second class Honours Pass in the B.A. B.Sc.	None
B.Com examination or A candidate not holding an M.Phil degree but possessing a second class Masters degree should have obtained a first class in the Honours Pass in B.A. B.Sc.	None
B.Com examination.	None
Utkal University passed a resolution dated 20.8.1986 and condoned the deficiency of qualification of different nongovernment college teachers.	None
Government of Orissa, Education and Youth Services Department Circular dated 27.11.1986 dealt with the subject  Continuance of underqualified teachers in NonGovernment CollegesEligibility to receive grantinaid from Government.	None
The relevant part reads as under The decision of Utkal University communicated to Government in their letter NO.	None
A.13570/86 dated 20.8.86 cannot be treated as a valid order of condonation of under qualification unless the concurrence of University Grants Commission has been obtained.	None
The Universities which have made order of condonation after the concerned Regulation of the U.G.C. may refer the matter to U.G.C. and secure their concurrence for condonation.	None
Government of Orissa, Education and Youth Services Department Circular dated 23.4.1987 provides that the requirement of seeking condonation by two other universities had been withdrawn.	None
Resolution dated 6.10.1989 published in the Gazette on 3.11.1989 provided for the revised pay scale of teachers i.e. UGC pay scales w.e.f. 1.1.1986.	None
Resolution dated 6.11.1990 provides for grant of UGC pay scales as the Utkal University has condoned the deficiency of eligibility i.e. qualifications.	None
The aforesaid Circulars Letters fixed the minimum 54 marks in Masters Course as eligibility and the University has condoned the deficiency in eligibility i.e. educational qualification.	None
The UGC pay scale granted by the Notification dated 6.10.1989 could be made available w.e.f. 1.1.1986.	None
While dealing with the aforesaid issues we have taken into consideration all submissions made by all the counsel involved in these group matters.	None
However, the main arguments have been advanced by Shri Shibashish Misra, Ms. Kirti Renu Mishra and Shri Radhey Shyam Jena, Advocates for the State and Shri A.K. Sanghi, Shri P.N. Misra, Shri Shambhu Prasad Singh, Senior Advocates, Shri Ashok Panigrahi, Shri Kedar Nath Tripathy, and Shri Bharat Sangal, Advocates for the respondents.	None
EDUCATION Education is the systematic instruction, schooling or training given to the young persons in preparation for the work of life.	None
It also connotes the whole course of scholastic instruction which a person has received.	None
Education connotes the process of training and developing the knowledge, skill, mind and character of students by formal schooling.	None
The excellence of instruction provided by an educational institution mainly depends directly on the excellence of the teaching staff.	None
Therefore, unless they themselves possess a good academic record minimum qualifications prescribed as an eligibility, it is beyond imagination of anyone that standard of education can be maintained enhanced.	None
We have to be very strict in maintaining high academic standards and maintaining academic discipline and academic rigour if our country is to progress.	Reasoning
Democracy depends for its very life on a high standard of general, vocational and professional education.	Reasoning
Dissemination of learning with search for new knowledge with discipline all round must be maintained at all costs.	None
(Vide The Sole Trustee Loka Shikshana Trust v. The Commissioner of Income Tax, Mysore, AIR 1976 SC 10 Frank Anthony Public School Employees Association v. Union of India Ors., AIR 1987 SC 311 Osmania University Teachers Association v. State of Andhra Pradesh Anr., AIR 1987 SC 2034 and Director (Studies), Dr. Ambedkar Institute of Hotel Management, Nutrition Catering Technology, Chandigarh Ors.	None
v. Vaibhav Singh Chauhan, (2009) 1 SCC 59).	None
In Meera Massey (Dr) v. S.R. Mehrotra (Dr) Ors., AIR 1998 SC 1153 , this Court extensively quoted the Report of the University Education Commission, i.e., Radhakrishnan Commission, wherein grave concern was expressed observing that there is negligence in applying criteria of merit in the selection of teachers.	None
The Court also quoted from another Report of the Committee on some problems of University Administration 1964(1967) as The most important factor in the field of higher education is the type of person entrusted with teaching.	None
Teaching cannot be improved without competent teachers.	None
The most critical problem facing the universities is the dwindling supply of good teachers.	None
The supply of the right type of teachers assumes, therefore, a vital role in the educational advancement of the country.	None
The Court further observed as under University imparts education which lays foundation of wisdom.	None
Future hopes and aspiration of the country depends on this education, hence proper and disciplined functioning of the educational institutions should be the hallmark.	None
If the laws and principles are eroded by such institutions it not only pollutes its functioning, deteriorating its standard but also exhibits to its own students the wrong channel adopted.	None
If that be so, how could such institutions produce good citizens?	None
It is the educational institutions which are the future hope of this country.	None
They lay the seed for the foundation of morality, ethics and discipline.	None
If there is any erosion or descending by those who control the activities all expectations and hopes are destroyed.	None
(emphasis added) 16	None
In Chandigarh Administration Ors.	None
v. Rajni Vali	None
Ors., AIR 2000 SC 634 , this Court observed as under It is a constitutional mandate that the State shall ensure proper education to the students on whom the future of the society depends.	None
In line with this principle, the State has enacted statutes and framed rules and regulations to control regulate establishment and running of private schools at different levels.	None
The State Government provides grantinaid to private schools with a view to ensure smooth running of the institution and to ensure that the standard of teaching does not suffer on account of paucity of funds.	Reasoning
It needs no emphasis that appointment of qualified and efficient teachers is a sine qua non for maintaining high standards of teaching in any educational institution.	None
(emphasis added)	None
In view of the above, it is evident that education is necessary to develop the personality of a person as a whole and in totality as it provides the process of training and acquiring the knowledge, skills, developing mind and character by formal schooling.	Reasoning
Therefore, it is necessary to maintain a high academic standard and academic discipline along with academic rigour for the progress of a nation.	Reasoning
Democracy depends for its own survival on a high standard of vocational and professional education.	Reasoning
Paucity of funds cannot be a ground for the State not to provide quality education to its future citizens.	Reasoning
It is for this reason that in order to maintain the standard of education the State Government provides grantinaid to private schools to ensure the smooth running of the institution so that the standard of teaching may not suffer for want of funds.	Reasoning
Article 21A has been added by amending our Constitution with a view to facilitate the children to get proper and good quality education.	Reasoning
However, the quality of education would depend on various factors but the most relevant of them is excellence of teaching staff.	Reasoning
In view thereof, quality of teaching staff cannot be compromised.	Reasoning
The selection of the most suitable persons is essential in order to maintain excellence and the standard of teaching in the institution.	Reasoning
It is not permissible for the State that while controlling the education it may impinge the standard of education.	Reasoning
It is, in fact, for this reason that norms of admission in institutions have to be adhered to strictly.	Reasoning
Admissions in mid academic sessions are not permitted to maintain the par excellence of education.	Reasoning
APPOINTMENT EMPLOYMENT WITHOUT ADVERTISEMENT	None
At one time this Court had been of the view that calling the names from Employment Exchange would curb to certain extent the menace of nepotism and corruption in public employment.	Reasoning
But, later on, came to the conclusion that some appropriate method consistent with the requirements of Article 16 should be followed.	Reasoning
In other words there must be a notice published in the appropriate manner calling for applications and all those who apply in response thereto should be considered fairly.	Reasoning
Even if the names of candidates are requisitioned from Employment Exchange, in addition thereto it is mandatory on the part of the employer to invite applications from all eligible candidates from the open market by advertising the vacancies in newspapers having wide circulation or by announcement in Radio and Television as merely calling the names from the Employment Exchange does not meet the requirement of the said Article of the Constitution.	Reasoning
(Vide Delhi Development Horticulture Employees Union v. Delhi Administration, Delhi Ors., AIR 1992 SC 789 State of Haryana Ors.	None
v. Piara Singh Ors., AIR 1992 SC 2130	None
Excise Superintendent Malkapatnam, Krishna District, A.P. v. K.B.N. Visweshwara Rao Ors., (1996) 6 SCC 216 Arun Tewari Ors.	None
v. Zila Mansavi Shikshak Sangh Ors., AIR 1998 SC 331 Binod Kumar Gupta Ors.	None
v. Ram Ashray Mahoto Ors., AIR 2005 SC 2103 National Fertilizers Ltd.	None
Ors.	None
v. Somvir Singh, AIR 2006 SC 2319 Telecom District Manager Ors.	None
v. Keshab Deb, (2008)	None
8 SCC 402 State of Bihar v. Upendra Narayan	None
Singh Ors., (2009) 5 SCC 65 and State of Madhya Pradesh Anr.	None
v. Mohd.	None
Ibrahim, (2009) 15 SCC 214).	None
Therefore, it is a settled legal proposition that no person can be appointed even on a temporary or ad hoc basis without inviting applications from all eligible candidates.	Reasoning
If any appointment is made by merely inviting names from the Employment Exchange or putting a note on the Notice Board etc. that will not meet the requirement of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Such a course violates the mandates of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India as it deprives the candidates who are eligible for the post, from being considered.	Reasoning
A person employed in violation of these provisions is not entitled to any relief including salary.	Reasoning
For a valid and legal appointment mandatory compliance of the said Constitutional requirement is to be fulfilled.	Reasoning
The equality clause enshrined in Article 16 requires that every such appointment be made by an open advertisement as to enable all eligible persons to compete on merit.	Reasoning
ORDER BAD IN INCEPTION It is a settled legal proposition that if an order is bad in its inception, it does not get sanctified at a later stage.	Reasoning
A subsequent action development cannot validate an action which was not lawful at its inception, for the reason that the illegality strikes at the root of the order.	Reasoning
It would be beyond the competence of any authority to validate such an order.	Reasoning
It would be ironic to permit a person to rely upon a law, in violation of which he has obtained the benefits.	Reasoning
If an order at the initial stage is bad in law, then all further proceedings consequent thereto will be non est and have to be necessarily set aside.	Reasoning
A right in law exists only and only when it has a lawful origin.	Reasoning
(vide Upen Chandra Gogoi v. State of Assam Ors., AIR 1998 SC 1289 Mangal Prasad Tamoli (Dead) by L.Rs. v. Narvadeshwar Mishra (Dead) by L.Rs.	None
Ors. , AIR 2005 SC1964 and Ritesh Tiwari Anr.	None
v. State of U.P. Ors., AIR 2010 SC 3823 ).	None
The concept of adverse possession of lien on post or holding over are not applicable in service jurisprudence.	None
Therefore, continuation of a person wrongly appointed on post does not create any right in his favour.	None
(Vide Dr. M.S. Patil v. Gulbarga University Ors., AIR 2010 SC 3783 ).	None
ELIGIBILITY LACKING In Dr. Prit Singh v. S.K. Mangal Ors., 1993 Supp (1) SCC 714, this Court examined the case of a person who did not possess the requisite percentage of marks as per the statutory requirement and held that he cannot hold the post observing It need not be pointed out that the sole object of prescribing qualification that the candidate must have a consistently good academic record with first or high second class Masters Degree for appointment to the post of a Principal, is to select a most suitable person in order to maintain excellence and standard of teaching in the institution apart from administration The appellant had not secured even second class marks in his Master of Arts Examination whereas the requirement was first or high second class (55).	None
The irresistible conclusion is that on the relevant date the appellant did not possess the requisite qualificationsOn the date of the appointment the appellant did not possess the requisite qualifications and as such his appointment had to be quashed.	None
(emphasis added)	None
In Pramod Kumar v. U.P. Secondary Education Services Commission Ors., AIR 2008 SC 1817 , this Court examined the issue as to whether a person lacking eligibility can be appointed and if so, whether such irregularity illegality can be cured condoned.	None
After considering the provisions of the U.P. Secondary Education Services Commission Rules, 1983 and U.P. Intermediate Education Act, 1921, this Court came to a conclusion that lacking eligibility as per the rules advertisement cannot be cured at any stage and making appointment of such a person tantamounts to an illegality and not an irregularity, thus cannot be cured.	None
A person lacking the eligibility cannot approach the court for the reason that he does not have a right which can be enforced through court.	None
This Court further held as under If the essential educational qualification for recruitment to a post is not satisfied, ordinarily the same cannot be condoned.	None
Such an act cannot be ratified.	None
An appointment which is contrary to the statute statutory rules would be void in law.	None
An illegality cannot be regularised, particularly, when the statute in no unmistakable term says so.	None
Only an irregularity can be.(See Secy., State of Karnataka v. Umadevi (3), (2006) 4 SCC 1 , National Fertilizers Ltd. v. Somvir Singh, (2006) 5 SCC 493 and Post Master General, Kolkata v. Tutu Das (Dutta), (2007) 5 SCC 317 ).	None
RELAXATION	None
In Dr. J.P. Kulshrestha Ors. v. Chancellor, Allahabad University Ors., AIR 1980 SC 2141 , issue of relaxation of eligibility came for consideration before this Court wherein it was held as under We regretfully but respectfully disagree with the Division Bench and uphold the sense of high second class attributed by the learned single Judge.	None
The midline takes us to 54 and although it is unpalatable to be mechanical and mathematical, we have to hold that those who have not secured above 54 marks cannot claim to have obtained a high second class and are ineligibleWe have earlier held that the power to relax, as the Ordinance now runs, in so far as high second class is concerned, does not exist.	None
Inevitably, the appointments of the 3 respondents violate the Ordinance and are, therefore, illegal.	None
(emphasis added)	None
In Rekha Chaturvedi v. University of Rajasthan Ors., 1993 Supp (3) SCC 168, this Court again dealt with the power of relaxation of minimum qualifications as the statutory provisions applicable therein provided for relaxation, but to what extent and under what circumstances, such power could be exercised was not provided therein.	None
Thus, this Court issued the following directions The University must note that the qualifications it advertises for the posts should not be at variance with those prescribed by its Ordinance Statutes.	None
B.	None
The candidates selected must be qualified as on the last date for making applications for the posts in question or on the date to be specifically mentioned in the advertisement notification for the purpose.	None
C. When the University or its Selection Committee relaxes the minimum required qualifications, unless it is specifically stated in the advertisement notification both that the qualifications will be relaxed and also the conditions on which they will be relaxed, the relaxation will be illegal.	None
D. The University Selection Committee must mention in its proceedings of selection the reasons for making relaxations, if any, in respect of each of the candidates in whose favour relaxation is made.	None
E.	None
The minutes of the meetings of the Selection Committee should be preserved for a sufficiently long time, and if the selection process is challenged until the challenge is finally disposed of.	None
An adverse inference is liable to be drawn if the minutes are destroyed or a plea is taken that they are not available.	None
(emphasis added)	None
In P.K. Ramachandra Iyer Ors.	None
v. Union of India Ors., AIR 1984 SC 541 , this Court while dealing with the same issue, held that once it is established that there is no power to relax the essential qualifications, the entire process of selection of the candidate was in contravention of the established norms prescribed by advertisement.	None
The power to relax must be clearly spelt out and cannot otherwise be exercised.	None
In Secretary, A.P. Public Service Commission v. B. Swapna Ors., (2005) 4 SCC 154 , this Court held that Another aspect which this Court has highlighted is scope for relaxation of norms Once it is most satisfactorily established that the Selection Committee did not have the power to relax essential qualification, the entire process of selection so far as the selected candidate is concerned gets vitiated.	None
This Court in Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan Ors. v. Sajal Kumar Roy Ors., (2006) 8 SCC 671 , held The appointing authorities are required to apply their mind while exercising their discretionary jurisdiction to relax the age	None
limitsThe requirements to comply with the rules, it is trite, were required to be complied with fairly and reasonably.	None
They were bound by the rules.	None
The discretionary jurisdiction could be exercised for relaxation of age provided for in the rules and within the four corners thereof.	None
(emphasis added)	None
In Food Corporation of India Ors. v. Bhanu Lodh Ors., AIR 2005 SC 2775 , this Court held Even assuming that there is a power of relaxation under the Regulations the power of relaxation cannot be exercised in such a manner that it completely distorts the Regulations.	None
The power of relaxation is intended to be used in marginal cases We do not think that they are intended as an open sesame for all and sundry.	None
The wholesale goby given to the Regulations, and the manner in which the recruitment process was being done, was very much reviewable as a policy directive, in exercise of the power of the Central Government under Section 6(2) of the Act.	None
In Dr. Bhanu Prasad Panda v. Chancellor, Sambalpur University Ors., (2001) 8 SCC 532 , one of the questions raised has been as to whether a person not possessing the required eligibility of qualification i.e. 55 marks in Masters degree can be appointed in view of the fact that the UGC refused to grant relaxation.	None
On the issue of relaxation of eligibility, the Court held as under the essential requirement of academic qualification of a particular standard and grade viz.	None
55, in the relevant subject for which the post is advertised, cannot be rendered redundant or violated The rejection by UGC of the request of the Department in this case to relax the condition relating to 55 marks at post graduation level is to be the last word on the claim of the appellant and there could be no further controversy raised in this regard (emphasis added)	None
In view of the above, this Court held that the appointment of the appellant therein has rightly been quashed as he did not possess the requisite eligibility of 55 marks in Masters course.	None
In absence of an enabling provision for grant of relaxation, no relaxation can be made.	None
Even if such a power is provided under the Statute, it cannot be exercised arbitrarily.	None
(See Union of India v. Dharam Pal Ors., (2009) 4 SCC 170 ).	None
Such a power cannot be exercised treating it to be an implied, incidental or necessary power for execution of the statutory provisions.	None
Even an implied power is to be exercised with care and caution with reasonable means to remove the obstructions or overcome the resistance in enforcing the statutory provisions or executing its command.	None
Incidental and ancillary powers cannot be used in utter disregard of the object of the Statute.	None
Such power can be exercised only to make such legislation effective so that the ultimate power will not become illusory, which otherwise would be contrary to the intent of the legislature.	None
(vide Matajog Dobey v. H.S. Bhari, AIR 1956 SC 44 and State of Karnataka v. Vishwabharathi House Building Cooperative Society Ors., (2003) 2 SCC 412 ).	None
More so, relaxation in this manner is tantamount to changing the selection criteria after initiation of selection process, which is not permissible at all.	None
Rules of the game cannot be changed after the game is over.	None
(Vide K. Manjusree v. State of Andhra Pradesh Anr., AIR 2008 SC 1470 and Ramesh Kumar v. High Court of Delhi Anr., AIR 2010 SC 3714 ).	None
DELAY LACHES	None
In the very first appeal, the respondent filed Writ Petition on 11.11.2005 claiming relief under the Notification dated 6.10.1989 w.e.f. 1.1.1986 without furnishing any explanation for such inordinate delay and on laches on her part.	None
Section 3 of the Limitation Act 1963, makes it obligatory on the part of the court to dismiss the Suit or appeal if made after the prescribed period even though the limitation is not set up as a defence and there is no plea to raise the issue of limitation even at appellate stage because in some of the cases it may go to the root of the matter.	None
(See Lachhmi Sewak Sahu v. Ram Rup Sahu Ors., AIR 1944 Privy Council 24 and Kamlesh Babu Ors.	None
v. Lajpat Rai Sharma Ors, (2008) 12 SCC 577 ).	None
Needless to say that Limitation Act 1963 does not apply in writ jurisdiction.	Reasoning
However, the doctrine of limitation being based on public policy, the principles enshrined therein are applicable and writ petitions are dismissed at initial stage on the ground of delay and laches.	Reasoning
In a case like at hand, getting a particular pay scale may give rise to a recurring cause of action.	Reasoning
In such an eventuality, the petition may be dismissed on the ground of delay and laches and the court may refuse to grant relief for the initial period in case of an unexplained and inordinate delay.	Reasoning
In the instant case, the respondent claimed the relief from 1.1.1986 by filing a petition on 11.11.2005 but the High Court for some unexplained reason granted the relief w.e.f. 1.6.1984, though even the Notification dated 6.10.1989 makes it applicable w.e.f. 1.1.1986.34.	Reasoning
This Court has consistently rejected the contention that a petition should be considered ignoring the delay and laches in case the petitioner approaches the Court after coming to know of the relief granted by the Court in a similar case as the same cannot furnish a proper explanation for delay and laches.	Reasoning
A litigant cannot wake up from deep slumber and claim impetus from the judgment in cases where some diligent person had approached the Court within a reasonable time.	Reasoning
(See M s Rup Diamonds Ors., v. Union of India Ors., AIR 1989 SC 674 State of Karnataka Ors.	None
v. S.M. Kotrayya Ors., (1996)	None
6 SCC 267 and Jagdish Lal Ors.	None
v. State of Haryana	None
Ors., AIR 1997 SC 2366 ).	None
RELIEF NOT CLAIMED  CANNOT BE GRANTED Pleadings and particulars are required to enable the court to decide the rights of the parties in the trial.	None
Thus, the pleadings are more to help the court in narrowing the controversy involved and to inform the parties concerned to the question in issue, so that the parties may adduce appropriate evidence on the said issue.	Reasoning
It is a settled legal proposition that as a rule relief not founded on the pleadings should not be granted.	Reasoning
Therefore, a decision of a case cannot be based on grounds outside the pleadings of the parties.	Reasoning
The pleadings and issues are to ascertain the real dispute between the parties to narrow the area of conflict and to see just where the two sides differ.	Reasoning
(Vide Sri Mahant Govind Rao v. Sita Ram Kesho, (1898) 25 Ind. App.	None
195 M s. Trojan Co. v. RM.	None
N.N. Nagappa Chettiar, AIR 1953 SC 235 Ishwar Dutt v. Land Acquisition Collector Anr., AIR 2005 SC 3165 and State of Maharashtra v. Hindustan Construction Company Ltd., (2010) 4 SCC 518.)	None
ARTICLE 14	None
It is a settled legal proposition that Article 14 is not meant to perpetuate illegality and it does not envisage negative equality.	Reasoning
Thus, even if some other similarly situated persons have been granted some benefit inadvertently or by mistake, such order does not confer any legal right on the petitioner to get the same relief.	Reasoning
(Vide Chandigarh Administration Anr v. Jagjit Singh Anr., AIR 1995 SC 705 Yogesh Kumar Ors.	None
v. Government of NCT Delhi Ors., AIR 2003 SC 1241 M s Anand Buttons Ltd. etc. v. State of Haryana Ors., AIR 2005 SC 565 K.K. Bhalla v. State of M.P. Ors., AIR 2006 SC 898 Maharaj Krishan Bhatt Anr.	None
v. State of Jammu Kashmir Ors., (2008) 9 SCC 24 Upendra Narayan Singh (supra) and Union of India Anr.	None
v. Kartick Chandra Mondal Anr., AIR 2010 SC 3455 ).	None
This principle also applies to judicial pronouncements.	None
Once the court comes to the conclusion that a wrong order has been passed, it becomes the solemn duty of the court to rectify the mistake rather than perpetuate the same.	None
While dealing with a similar issue, this Court in Hotel Balaji Ors.	None
v. State of A.P.	None
Ors., AIR 1993 SC 1048 observed as under To perpetuate an error is no heroism.	None
To rectify it is the compulsion of judicial conscience.	None
In this, we derive comfort and strength from the wise and inspiring words of Justice Bronson in Pierce v. Delameter (A.M.Y. at page 18 a Judge ought to be wise enough to know that he is fallible and, therefore, ever ready to learn great and honest enough to discard all mere pride of opinion and follow truth wherever it may lead and courageous enough to acknowledge his errors.	None
(See also re Sanjiv Datta, Dy. Secy., Ministry of Information Broadcasting, (1995) 3 SCC 619 Nirmal Jeet Kaur v. State of M.P. Anr., (2004) 7 SCC 558 and Mayuram Subramanian Srinivasan v. CBI, AIR 2006 SC 2449 ).	None
We are fully alive of the object and purpose of according recognition and affiliation to educational institutions.	Reasoning
It is the educational authorities of the State which grant recognition to a Committee of Management for opening or running an educational institution.	Reasoning
Affiliation is granted by the particular University or Board for undertaking the examination of the students of that college for awarding degrees and certificates.	Reasoning
Therefore, while granting the recognition and affiliation even for nongovernmental and nonaided private colleges, it is mandatory to adhere to the conditions imposed by them, which also include the minimum eligibility for appointment of teaching staff.	Reasoning
The authority at the time of granting approval has to apply its mind to find out whether a person possessing the minimum eligibility has been appointed.	Reasoning
In the instant case, it appears to be a clear cut case of arbitrariness which cannot be approved.	Reasoning
ARBITRARINESS	None
The rule of law inhibits arbitrary action and also makes it liable to be invalidated.	Reasoning
Every action of the State or its instrumentalities should not only be fair, legitimate and aboveboard but should be without any affection or aversion.	Reasoning
It should neither be suggestive of discrimination nor even give an impression of bias, favouritism and nepotism.	Reasoning
Procedural fairness is an implied mandatory requirement to protect against arbitrary action where Statute confers wide power coupled with wide discretion on an authority.	None
If the procedure adopted by an authority offends the fundamental fairness or established ethos or shocks the conscience, the order stands vitiated.	None
The decision making process remains bad.	None
(Vide Haji T.M. Hassan Rawther v. Kerala Financial Corporation, AIR 1988 SC 157 Dr. Rash Lal Yadav v. State of Bihar Ors., (1994)	None
5 SCC 267 and Tata Cellular v. Union of India, (1994) 6 SCC 651 ).	None
In the State of Andhra Pradesh Anr.	None
v. Nalla Raja Reddy Ors., AIR 1967 SC 1458 , a Constitution Bench of this Court observed as under Official arbitrariness is more subversive of doctrine of equality than the statutory discrimination.	None
In spite of statutory discrimination, one knows where he stands but the wand of official arbitrariness can be waived in all directions indiscriminately.	None
Similarly, in S.G. Jaisinghani v. Union of India Ors., AIR 1967 SC 1427 , a Constitution Bench of this Court observed as under absence of arbitrary power is the first essence of the rule of law, upon which our whole Constitutional system is based Rule of law, from this point of view, means that the decision should be made by the application of known principle and rules and in general such decision should be predictable and the citizen should know where he is, if a decision is taken without any principle or without any rule, it is unpredictable and such a decision is antithesis to the decision taken in accordance with the rule of law.	None
(See also Commissioner of Police, Bombay v. Gordhandas Bhanji, AIR 1952 SC 16 ).	None
It is a matter of common experience that a large number of orders letters circulars, issued by the State statutory authorities, are filed in court for placing reliance and acting upon it.	None
However, some of them are definitely found to be not in conformity with law.	None
There may be certain such orders circulars which are violative of the mandatory provisions of the Constitution of India.	None
While dealing with such a situation, this Court in Ram Ganesh Tripathi Ors.	None
v. State of U.P. Ors., AIR 1997 SC 1446 came across with an illegal order passed by the statutory authority violating the provisions of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.	None
This Court simply brushed aside the same without placing any reliance on it observing as under The said order was not challenged in the writ petition as it had not come to the notice of the appellants.	None
It has been filed in this Court along with the counter affidavit	None
This order is also deserved to be quashed as it is not consistent with the statutory rules.	None
It appears to have been passed by the Government to oblige the respondents (emphasis added)	None
The whole exercise done by the State authorities suffers from the vice of arbitrariness and thus is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.	None
Therefore, it cannot be given effect to.	None
PER IN CURIAM  Doctrine Incuria literally means carelessness.	Reasoning
In practice per incuriam is taken to mean per ignoratium.	Reasoning
The Courts have developed this principle in relaxation of the rule of stare decisis.	Reasoning
Thus the quotable in law, is avoided and ignored if it is rendered, in ignoratium of a Statute or other binding authority.	Reasoning
In Mamleshwar Prasad Anr.	None
v. Kanahaiya Lal (Dead) by Lrs., AIR 1975 SC 907 , this Court held where by obvious inadvertence or oversight a judgment fails to notice a plain statutory provision or obligatory authority running counter to the reasoning and result reached, it may not have the sway of binding precedents.	None
It should be a glaring case, an obtrusive omission.	None
(emphasis added)	None
In State of Orissa Anr.	None
v. Damodar Nayak Anr., AIR 1997 SC 2071 , question arose that in case the teacher at the time of appointment, did not possess the requisite eligibility, i.e., qualifications, whether he could claim any benefit under the grantinaid Scheme.	None
Respondentteacher therein had secured 53.9 marks and required eligibility provided for 54.	None
This Court held that undoubtedly 53.9 marks were very close to required marks i.e. 54, but the teacher so appointed did not possess the eligibility.	None
The court took notice of the fact that he was appointed in 1978 but acquired further qualification on 10.7.1987, and held Admittedly, since the first respondent on the date of his appointment was not possessing the requisite qualification and acquired the same only on 10.7.1987 he will be eligible to the benefit of the grantinaid w.e.f. 1.8.1987 and onwards This Court while hearing the SLP (C) Nos. 1420614209 of 2001, State of Orissa Anr.	None
v. Kalidas Mohapatra Ors., on 11.3.2002 observed as under Heard.	None
The socalled contention of deficiency in the qualification being much earlier in the circular of the Government dated 06.11.1990, we see no infirmity with the impugned judgment requiring our interference.	None
The Special Leave Petitions are dismissed accordingly.	None
This Court further dismissed the Review Petition Nos. 15291532 of 2002 against the said judgment and order on 28.8.2002.	None
From the aforesaid discussion, the following picture emerges The procedure prescribed under the Rules, 1974 has not been followed in all the cases while making the appointment of the respondents teachers at initial stage.	None
Some of the persons had admittedly been appointed merely by putting some note on the Notice Board of the College.	None
Some of these teachers did not face the interview test before the Selection Board.	None
Once an order of appointment itself had been bad at the time of initial appointment, it cannot be sanctified at a later stage.(ii)	None
At the relevant time of appointment of the respondents teachers there has been a requirement of possessing good second class i.e. 54 marks in Masters Course and none of the said respondents had secured the said percentage.(iii)	None
Their appointments had been approved after a long long time.	None
In some cases after 1012 years of their initial appointment by the statutory authority i.e. Director of Higher Education.(iv)	None
A candidate becomes eligible to apply for a post only if he fulfils the required minimum benchmark fixed by the rules advertisement.	None
Thus, none of the respondents could even submit the application what to talk of the appointments.(v)	None
The socalled relaxation by the Utkal University was accorded by passing a routine order applicable to large number of colleges, that too after a lapse of long period i.e. about a decade.(vi)	None
Fixation of eligibility falls within the exclusive domain of the executive and once it has been fixed by the State authorities under the Rules 1974, the question of according relaxation by Utkal University could not arise and, therefore, the order of condonation etc. is nullity.(vii)	None
The relaxation has been granted only by Utkal University though Rule 2(i) of Rules 1974 defined University means Utkal University, Berhampur University, Sambalpur University and Sri Jagannath Sanskrit Vishwa Vidyalaya.(viii)	None
Granting relaxation at this stage amounts to change of criteria after issuance of advertisement, which is impermissible in law.	None
More so, it is violative of fundamental rights enshrined under Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of the similarly situated persons, who did not apply considering themselves to be ineligible for want of required marks.(ix)	None
The exercise of condonation of deficiency had not been exercised by any University other than Utkal University.(x)	None
The post of the teachers i.e. respondents is transferable to any college affiliated to any other University under the Rules 1979.(xi)	None
The power to grant relaxation in eligibility had not been conferred upon any authority, either the University or the State.	None
In absence thereof, such power could not have been exercised.(xii)	None
This Court in Damodar Nayak (supra) has categorically held that a person cannot get the benefit of grantinaid unless he completes the deficiency of educational qualification.	None
Further, this Court in Dr. Bhanu Prasad Panda (supra) upheld the termination of services of the appellant therein for not possessing 55 marks in Master Course.(xiii)	None
The aforesaid two judgments in Damodar Nayak (supra) and Dr. Bhanu Prasad Panda (supra), could not be brought to the notice of either the High Court or this Court while dealing with the issue.	None
Special leave petition in the case of Kalidas Mohapatra Ors.	None
(supra) has been dealt with without considering the requirement of law merely making the reference to Circular dated 6.11.1990, which was not the first document ever issued in respect of eligibility.	None
Thus, all the judgments and orders passed by the High Court as well as by this Court cited and relied upon by the respondents are held to be not of a binding nature.	None
(Per in curiam)(xiv)	None
In case a person cannot get the benefit of grantinaid scheme unless he completes the deficiency of educational qualification, question of grant of UGC pay scale does not arise.(xv)	Reasoning
The cases had been entertained and relief had been granted by the High Court without considering the issue of delay and laches merely placing reliance upon earlier judgments obtained by diligent persons approaching the courts within a reasonable time.(xvi)	None
The authority passed illegal orders in contravention of the constitutional provisions arbitrarily without any explanation whatsoever polluting the entire education system of the State, ignoring the purpose of grantinaid scheme itself that it has been so provided to maintain the standard of education.(xvii)	None
The High Court granted relief in some cases which had not even been asked for as in some cases the UGC pay scale had been granted with effect from 1.6.1984, i.e., the date prior to 1.1.1986 though the same relief could not have been granted.	None
Thus, it clearly makes out a case of deciding a case without any application of mind.(xviii)	None
In some cases the UGC pay scale has been granted by the High Court prior to the date of according the benefit of grantinaid scheme to the concerned teachers which was not permissible in law in view of the law laid down by this Court in Damodar Nayak (supra).(xix) The grievance of the respondents that not upholding the orders passed by the High Court in their favour would amount to a hostile discrimination is not worth acceptance for the reason that Article 14 of the Constitution envisages only positive equality.(xx)	None
Concept of adverse possession of lien on post or holding over are inapplicable in service jurisprudence.(xxi)	None
The submission on behalf of the respondents that Government orders circulars letters have been complied with, therefore, no interference is called for, is preposterous for the simple reason that such orders circulars letters being violative of statutory provisions and constitutional mandate are just to be ignored in terms of the judgment of this Court in Ram Ganesh Tripathi (supra).	None
In view of the above, it stands crystal clear that a teacher who had been appointed without possessing the requisite qualification at initial stage cannot get the benefit of grantinaid scheme unless he acquires the additional qualification and, therefore, question of grant of UGC pay scale would not arise in any circumstance unless such teacher acquires the additional qualification making him eligible for the benefit of grantinaid scheme.	Reasoning
The cumulative effect therefore comes to that such teacher will not be entitled to claim the UGC pay scale unless he acquires the higher qualification i.e. M.Phil Ph.D.48.	Reasoning
In the facts and circumstances of the case, we feel that terminating the services of those who had been appointed illegally and or withdrawing the benefits of grantinaid scheme of those who had not completed the deficiency in eligibility educational qualification or withdrawing the benefit thereof from those who had been granted from the date prior to completing the deficiency, may not be desirable as a long period has elapsed.	Reasoning
So far as the grant of UGC pay scale is concerned, it cannot be granted prior to the date of acquisition of higher qualification.	Reasoning
In view of the above, the impugned judgment order cannot be sustained in the eyes of law.	Reasoning
The full particulars of the respondentteachers are not before us as in some cases there had been claim and counter claim of possessing the requisite marks i.e. 54 in Masters Course, as in Civil Appeal No. 1253 of 2011, State of Orissa Anr.	Decision
v. Lokanath Mishra Ors.	Decision
Thus, we pass the following directions In case of dispute regarding possessing of 54 marks, the authorities, Secretary of Higher Education Director of Higher Education may examine the factual position and decide the case of individual teachers in accordance with law laid down in this case(ii) If a person did not possess the requisite qualification on the date of appointment and was not entitled for grantinaid scheme unless he completes the deficiency, his case would be considered from the date of completing the deficiency for grant of UGC pay scale.	Decision
However, in no case, the UGC pay scale can be granted prior to the date of according the benefit of the grantinaid scheme, i.e. by acquiring the degree of M.Phil Ph.D(iii)	Decision
The aforesaid exercise shall be completed within a period of four months from today and(iv)	Decision
The arrears of pay, if any, shall be paid to the teacher concerned within a period of four months thereafter.	Decision
In view of the above, all appeals stand disposed of.	Decision
No order as to costs.	Decision
