 Ray, J. (For himself on behalf of Sikri, C.J.) 1.	None
This writ petition challenges the application of the General Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Ordinance 1971, the General Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Act 1971 as well as the General Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Amendment Act 1972 to the petitioner company.	None
The petitioners are three in numbers, viz., the company and two Directors and shareholders.	Facts
2.	None
The petitioners asked for a declaration that the order dated 13 May 1971 made in exercise of powers conferred by Section 4 (1) of the General Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Ordinance 1971 and the directions dated 13 May 1971 given by virtue of powers conferred by Section 4 (3) of the General Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Ordinance 1971 are illegal.	Facts
3.	None
The paid up capital of the Neptune Assurance Company referred to as the company is Rs. 10,00,000.	Facts
The petitioner Jalan is a Director of the company.	Facts
He holds 16,725 ordinary shares of the face value of Rs. 20 each.	Facts
The petitioner Goenka is a Director of the company.	Facts
He holds 2,000 ordinary shares of the face value of Rs. 20 each.	Facts
4.	None
The company carried on business as general insurers consisting of fire and miscellaneous insurance business.	Facts
In the month of September 1970 about 2343 insurance policies of the company were in force.	Facts
On 17 September 1970 the Board of Directors of the company resolved that the company would cease to underwrite any insurance business as from the close of business hours on 30 September 1970.	Facts
On 30 September 1970 the company wrote to the Controller of Insurance about the decision of the company to cease to do business as on the close of business on 30 September 1970.	Facts
The company returned its registration certificate for the current year to the Controller of Insurance.	Facts
After close of business on 30th September 1970 the company stopped doing all insurance business.	Facts
5.	None
On 3rd October, 1970, the Controller of Insurance returned to the company its registration certificate.	Facts
The Controller pointed out that there was no provision for return of certificate.	Facts
The Controller advised the company not to apply for renewal of registration certificate for the year 1970.	Facts
6.	None
In the month of October, 1979, there was an agreement between the company and the New Great Insurance Company of India Ltd. referred to as the New Great in respect of an intended transfer of the entire business of the company to the New Great.	Facts
The agreement provided inter alia the following features.	Facts
Before transfer of the entire general insurance business by the company it will obtain the consent of the shareholders at the general meeting for transfer of the general insurance business to the New Great.	Facts
The company shall prepare a detailed list of all the claims received from policies issued by the company and which claims are outstanding and or pending on 30th September, 1970, and give the same to the New Great with all particulars.	Facts
7.	None
On 20 October 1970 notice was given that an extraordinary general meeting of the company would be held on 17th November, 1970.	Facts
The extraordinary general meeting was inter alia to transact the business of the proposal for transfer of the companys insurance business and also of the liabilities in respect of claims relating to the insurance business to the New Great upon the terms recorded in the agreement dated 15th October, 1970.	Facts
The second business to be transacted at the said extraordinary general meeting was to resolve that pursuant to Section 149 (2A) of the Companies Act 1956 the company would do business as set out in Clause III, subclauses (8) and (9) of the Memorandum of Association of the Company except Banking business.	Facts
The company thought of investment and finance business.	Facts
As required by Section 173 of the Companies Act the company gave an explanatory statement of the extraordinary general meeting.	Facts
8.	None
In the month of October, 1970, circular letters were issued to all policyholders about the company ceasing to underwrite new insurance business with effect from 1st October, 1970.	Facts
The company sent to all policy holders letters to express their confirmation of the arrangement for taking over the liabilities by the New Great.	Facts
On 17th November, 1970, there was an extraordinary general meeting of the company.	Facts
The resolutions which had been notified were passed.	Facts
It may be stated here that about 50 policy holders demanded cancellation of policies on receipt of circular letters.	Facts
About 1,389 policy holders did not send any reply.	Facts
The company advised that they would not be completely discharged from their liabilities unless and until all policy holders agreed to transfer policies to the other insurance company or desired cancellation.	Facts
9.	None
On 2nd February, 1971, there was a resolution of the Board of Directors of the company cancelling the agreement dated 15th October, 1970, entered into with the New Great.	Facts
There was a second resolution cancelling all policies as from 10/12th March, 1971, after giving due notice to all policy holders.	Facts
There was a third resolution to terminate all reinsurance treaties both inward and outward from 31st December, 1970.	Facts
The company and the New Great by mutual consent cancelled the agreement dated 15th October, 1970.	Facts
In the month of February, 1971, the company issued circular letters to all policy holders effecting cancellation of all policies under relevant clause in each policy.	Facts
The company refunded to policy holders the sum of Rs. 48,000/ on cancellation of the policies.	Facts
The uncollected refund amounts to Rs. 2013.98.	Facts
10.	None
On 16th February, 1971, the Controller of Insurance effected cancellation of the registration of the company with effect from 5th April, 1971, under Section 3 (4) (F) of the Insurance Act, 1938.	Facts
11.	None
On 22nd February, 1971, the company gave letters to Indian Guarantee and Central Insurance Co. and M s. India ReInsurance Corporation Ltd., cancelling all reinsurance treaties with effect from 31st December, 1970.	Facts
12.	None
The company alleged that it ceased to do all new insurance business from the close of business from 30 September, 1970.	Facts
The company refunded to policy holders premia excepting a small sum of Rs. 2,000 which was not collected.	None
The company reduced its staff from the month of September, 1970.	Facts
By the month of February, 1971, the total staff of the company was reduced to one officer, one clerk, one typist and one peon drawing total emoluments of Rs. 1,854.20 per month as contrasted with salary bill of Rs. 7,179.10 per month prior to the month of September, 1970.	None
On these allegations the company said that its business was being voluntarily wound up since 30th September, 1970.	None
13.	None
On 13th May, 1971, the General Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Ordinance 1971, referred to as the Ordinance was promulgated.	None
On 13th May, 1971 an order under Section 4 (1) of the Ordinance was made by the Central Government appointing respondent No. 2 as the custodian of the company.	None
On the same day directions were given by the Central Government under the Ordinance in regard to the management of the undertaking of the company.	None
14.	None
On 17th June, 1971, the General Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Act 1971, referred to as the Act was enacted.	Facts
The Act replaced the Ordinance.	None
The Act was retrospectively brought into force with effect from 13th May, 1971.	None
The Ordinance as well as the Act contain similar provisions.	None
15.	None
The purpose of the aforesaid legislative measures was to provide for the taking over in the public interest of the management of general insurance business pending nationalisation of such business.	None
By general insurance business is meant under the Act fire, marine or miscellaneous insurance business, whether carried on singly or in combination with one or more of them, but does not include capital redemption business and annuity business.	None
An insurer under the Act means an insurer as defined in the Insurance Act, 1938, referred to as the Insurance Act who carries on general insurance business in India, and includes an insurer whose registration under the Insurance Act has not remained wholly cancelled for a period of six months immediately before the appointed day.	None
Undertaking is defined by the Act to mean in relation to an insurer incorporated outside India, the undertaking of that insurer in India.	None
16.	None
Section 3 of the Act states that as from the appointed day which is 13th May, 1971, the management of the undertakings of all insurers shall vest in the Central Government.	None
It is further provided that pending the appointment of a custodian the persons in charge of the management of the undertaking shall be in charge of the management for and on behalf of the Central Government.	None
An insurer is forbidden without the previous approval of the person specified by the Central Government in this behalf to make any payment or grant any loan otherwise than in accordance with the normal practice observed by him in respect of such matters immediately before the appointed day.	None
There is similar prohibition to incur any expenditure from the assets appertaining to the undertaking, the transfer or otherwise dispose of any such assets, to invest in any manner any moneys forming part of such assets, to acquire any immovable property out of any moneys forming part of such assets to enter into contract of service or agency.	None
Every insurer is also required to deliver to the persons specified by the Central Government various documents, namely, minutes book, current cheques books, registration books containing particulars relating to investments, loans, advances, promissory notes and certificates.	None
17.	None
Section 4 of the Act is the other important provision.	None
Under that section the Central Government is empowered to appoint a custodian for the management of the company.	None
The Central Government is also empowered to issue directions to the custodian as to his powers and duties in relation to the management of the company.	None
18.	None
The Act provides for payment of compensation.	None
The Act places a bar against winding up of a company the management of which is vested in the Central Government.	None
After the appointed day the Controller of Insurance shall not issue any new certificate of insurance to any person.	None
19.	None
The crucial provisions are Section 15 (a) of the Act.	None
It is enacted that nothing contained in this Act shall apply to (a) any insurer whose business is being voluntarily wound up or is being wound up by Court.	None
20.	None
The petitioners strongly rely on Section 15 (a) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners allege that the business of the company was being voluntarily wound up at all material times within the meaning of the Ordinance and the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the petitioners contend that the company is not within the mischief of those legislative measures.21.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Government contention is that Section 15 (a) of the Act applies only to an insurance company which is being voluntarily wound up and is being wound up by Court.	Arguments of Respondent
It is emphasized that when an insurance company or an insurer ceases to carry on any particular kind of business it is not being voluntarily wound up.	Arguments of Respondent
Voluntary winding up or winding up by Court is said by the Government to mean only winding up within the meaning of the Indian Companies Act and the Insurance Act.	None
The meaning of the words an insurer whose business is voluntarily wound up or is wound up by Court is, according to the Government, an insurance company which is being voluntarily wound up or wound up by Court.	None
22.	None
At the threshold it is important to notice that the Act uses the word insurer and not the words insurance company.	None
The Insurance Act has throughout the Act used the words insurer as well as insurance company.	None
The appropriate section in each instance will indicate as to why the Act uses the word insurer in one section and the words insurance company in the other.	None
An insurance company under the Insurance Act means any insurer being a company, association or partnership which may be wound up under the Indian Companies Act or to which the Indian Partnership Act applies.	None
A partnership to which the Indian Partnership Act applies is not a company within the meaning of the Indian Companies Act.	None
The Insurance Act has yet included a partnership within the meaning of an insurance company.	None
An insurer, on the other hand, under Section 2 clause (9) of the Insurance Act means (a) any individual or unincorporated body of individuals or body corporate, incorporated under the law of any country other than India carrying on business not being a person specified in subclause (c) of clause (9) of Section 2, (b) any body corporate incorporated under any law for the time being in force in India and (c) any person who in India has a standing contract with underwriters who are members of the Society of Llyods whereby such person is authorised within the terms of such contract to issue protection notes, cover notes, or other documents granting insurance cover on behalf of underwriters.	None
Therefore an insurer under the definition of the Insurance Act is of wider amplitude than an insurance company.	None
It is an individual or any unincorporated body of individuals or a body corporate incorporated under the law of a foreign country.	None
23.	None
Section 2C of the Insurance Act which came into effect in 1950 enacted that after the commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act 1950 which brought that section into existence no person after the expiry of one year from the commencement of the Amendment Act shall continue to carry on business unless he is (a) a public company, or (b) a society registered under the Cooperative Societies Act, or (c) a body corporate incorporated under the law of any country outside India.	None
Therefore after 1950 an individual will not be allowed to carry on business as an insurer.	None
There is however a proviso to Section 2C of the 1950 Amendment that the Central Government may by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt from the operation of Section 2C any person or insurer for the purpose of carrying on the business of granting superannuation allowances and annuities as mentioned in Section 2 (11) (c) of the Act or for the purpose of carrying on any general insurance business.	None
It is also provided that an insurer carrying on general insurance business will not be entitled to such notification being issued having effect for more than three years at any one time.	None
It, therefore, follows that an insurer as an individual may be allowed by the Government to carry on general insurance business under the Government exemption.	None
24.	None
The various kinds of insurance business are fire insurance business, general insurance business, life insurance business, marine insurance business and miscellaneous insurance business defined in clauses (6A), (6B), (11), (13A) and (13B) of Section 2 of the Insurance Act.	None
General insurance business means fire, marine or miscellaneous insurance business whether carried on singly or in combination with one or more of them.	None
25. Section 3 of the Insurance Act speaks of registration of the persons carrying on insurance business.	None
Section 3 (4) of the Insurance Act speaks of cancellation of the registration of an insurer.	None
Section 3 (5C) of the Insurance Act states that where the registration is cancelled the Controller may at his discretion revive the registration.	None
The instances where registration may be revived are also specified.	None
If the registration is cancelled on the ground that the insurer is in liquidation the registration cannot be revived.	None
It is noticeable that the Insurance Act speaks of liquidation of an insurer.	None
Liquidation here means winding up of an insurance company.	None
Liquidation in the first place does not apply to individuals or partnerships, and secondly liquidation is not the same thing as ceasing to carry on business.	None
Under Section 3 (5D) where the registration is cancelled the Controller may after the expiry of six months from the date on which the cancellation took effect, apply to the Court to wind up the insurance company unless the registration has been revived under subsection (5C).	None
26.	None
The Insurance Act in Sections 53 to 60 speaks of winding up.	None
Section 53 states that the Court may order the winding up of an insurance company.	None
Section 54 speaks of the voluntary winding up of an insurance company.	Reasoning
Section 55 deals with valuation of liabilities in the winding up of an insurance company.	None
Section 56 deals with application of surplus assets of life insurance fund in liquidation of insurance company or insolvency of insurer.	None
Liquidation is spoken of companies.	None
Insolvency is spoken of insurers.	None
The distinction between an insurer and an insurance company is apparent to emphasise the difference between winding up and insolvency.	None
Section 57 relates to winding up of secondary companies.	None
That section defines secondar company to be an insurance company whose insurance business or any part of the insurance business has been transferred under and arrangement to a principal company.	None
If the principal company is wound up by or under the supervision of the Court the Court shall order the secondary company to be wound up in conjunction with the principal company.	None
27.	None
Section 58 deals with partial winding up of insurance companies.	None
Partial winding up happens when the affairs of an insurance company in respect of any class of business should be wound up but any other class of business should continue to be carried on by the company or transferred to another insurer.	None
A scheme for partial winding up is to be submitted to Court for confirmation.	None
A scheme shall provide for allocation and distribution of the assets and liabilities of the company.	None
A scheme is to contain provisions for altering the memorandum of the company with respect to its object giving effect to the scheme when the company carries on another class of business.	None
There may be winding up of the company when under the scheme it is proposed to transfer the business to another insurer.	None
The provisions relating to the valuation of liabilities of insurers in liquidation and insolvency and to the application of surplus assets of the life insurance fund in liquidation are to apply to the winding up of any part of the affairs of the company in case of any partial winding up.	None
An order of the Court confirming a scheme under this Section whereby the memorandum is altered as to its objects shall as respects the alteration have effect as if it were an order confirmed under Section 12 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and the provisions of Sections 15 and 16 of that Act shall apply accordingly.	None
28.	None
Section 59 speaks of return of deposits in the case of winding up of an insurance company other than in a case to which Section 58 applies.	None
Section 60 states that on the winding up of an insurance company, the persons appearing by the books be entitled to or interested in the policies granted by the company are to be given notice of policy values.	None
Section 61 states that where an insurance company is in liquidation the Court may make an order reducing the amount of the insurance contracts of the company.	None
29.	None
The first noticeable feature is that Sections 53, 54 and 58 of the Insurance Act which deal with winding up by Court, voluntary winding up and partial winding up respectively speak only of insurance company.	None
There are some sections which speak of insolvency of any other insurer.	None
These sections are 55, 56 and 61 of the Insurance Act which deal respectively with valuation of liabilities, application of surplus assets of life insurance fund and powers of the Court to reduce contracts of insurance.	None
Insolvency of other insurer will refer to Cooperative Societies, individuals and companies which are incorporated outside India.	None
Under the Insurance Act these are not insurance companies.	None
A foreign company which is in voluntary liquidation or is being wound up by Court will be an insurer within the meaning of the 1971 Act and will also be described as an insurer who is insolvent.	None
These sections indicate the distinction between an insurance company and in insurer.	None
30.	None
The second important matter to be noticed in all the sections relating to winding up in the Insurance Act is that voluntary winding up and partial winding up of insurance companies is not the same as under the Indian Companies Act.	None
A voluntary winding up under the Insurance Act is impermissible except for the purpose of effecting an amalgamation or a reconstruction of the company or on the ground that by reason of its liabilities it cannot continue its business.	None
The provisions of the Indian Companies Act do not apply to such voluntary winding up of an insurance company.	None
Under the Indian Companies Act 1956 a company may be voluntarily wound up if the company passes special resolution that the company be wound up voluntarily.	None
The special provisions of the Insurance Act regarding voluntary winding up rule out the application of the provisions of the Indian Companies Act.	None
Amalgamation and Reconstruction under the Indian Companies Act are a different matter.	None
Under Section 394 of the Indian Companies Act a transferor company on Amalgamation may be dissolved without any winding up.	None
Again under Section 392 of the Indian Companies Act 1956 the Court at the time of sanctioning a compromise or an arrangement may make an order winding up the company.	None
It will be treated as winding up by Court.	None
These provisions indicate that voluntary winding up of companies under the Indian Companies Act and the voluntary winding up of insurance companies under the Insurance Act are not the same.	None
31.	None
Next comes the partial winding up of Insurance companies.	None
There is no such provision in the Indian Companies Act.	None
A partial winding up under the Insurance Act is treated as an alteration of a memorandum of the company, A partial winding up under the Insurance Act will in relation to that part which is wound up attract the provisions of the Insurance Act regarding valuation of liabilities and application of surplus assets in liquidation or insolvency.	None
32.	None
The Government relied on Sections 53, 54 and 58 of the Insurance Act in support of the contention that the winding up or a voluntary winding up will mean only voluntary winding up or winding up of the company and will never mean the voluntary cesser of doing any kind of insurance business by a company.	None
It is said that if a business can be said to be voluntarily wound up without a voluntary winding up of the company the sections will be robbed of their full effect.	None
Reliance was also placed by the Government on Section 2D of the Insurance Act which states that every insurer shall be subject to all the provisions of the Act in relation to any class of insurance business so long as his liabilities in India in respect of business of that class remain unsatisfied or not otherwise provided for.	None
The Government leaned on this section to emphasize that if a company ceasing to do any business could be said to be one whose business was being voluntarily wound up it could not again be said to be subject to the provisions of the Act on the ground that the liabilities remain unsatisfied.	None
33.	None
The Insurance Act speaks of winding up of insurance companies.	None
The legislature has yet in the General Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Ordinance 1971 and the General Insurance (Emergency Provision) Act 1971 not spoken of an insurance company being voluntarily wound up or wound up by Court.	None
On the contrary, the legislative measure in the present case have used the words an insurer whose business is voluntarily wound up or is being wound up by a Court.	None
In this context, it may be stated that when the Life Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1956 came into existence both the Life Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Ordinance, 1956 and its successor the Life Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1956 used identical words that nothing in the Ordinance or in the Act shall apply to any insurer whose business is voluntarily wound up or is wound up under order of Court.	None
The legislature knows the distinction between voluntary winding up of an insurance company or winding up of it by a Court and an insurer whose business is being voluntarily wound up or is wound up by Court.	None
Full effect is to be given to the words used in a legislative measure.	None
The words which are not found in the present legislative measures cannot be substituted by words which are used in other statutes.	None
That would be defeating the entire purpose of the Act.	None
The word insurer cannot be read in place of insurance company.	None
34.	None
An insurer is not for all purposes the same as an insurance company.	None
An individual is an insurer.	None
A cooperative society is an insurer.	None
A company incorporated in a foreign country and carrying on business in India is an insurer.	None
A cooperative society is not wound up under the Indian Companies Act.	None
A cooperative society is dissallowed under the provisions of the Cooperative Societies Act.	None
The consequence of dissolution of a cooperative society is the winding up of the society by the appointment of a liquidator.	None
A company incorporated in a foreign country is neither voluntarily wound up nor wound up by Court like other companies under the Indian Companies Act.	None
A foreign company may under Section 584 of the Indian Companies Act be wound up as an unregistered company.	None
Therefore the words an insurer whose business is being voluntarily wound up or is being wound up by a Court will refer not only to an insurance company incorporated in India ceasing to do insurance business but also to individuals or cooperative societies or foreign companies in the same position.	Reasoning
35.	None
The provisions in the Insurance Act relating to voluntary winding up and partial winding up of insurance companies indicate the difference between the concepts of voluntary winding up under the Insurance Act and the business of an insurance company being voluntarily wound up.	None
A voluntary winding up under the Insurance Act occurs for the purpose of effecting a reconstruction or amalgamation or on the ground that a company cannot continue its business because it cannot meet its liabilities.	None
None of these contingencies is the same as voluntarily winding up business.	None
A partial winding up of an insurance company is winding up of a particular type of business.	None
That company does not cease to do business.	None
Nor is the company voluntarily wound up in such a case.	None
36.	None
The deliberate choice of words in the Ordinance and the Act of 1971 in the present case indicates that the legislature did not by the crucial words in Section 15 (a) mean voluntary winding up of insurance companies.	None
The legislature meant also insurers who are not necessarily insurance companies.	None
The concept of voluntarily winding up business is more akin to individuals or other persons winding up business than to companies being voluntarily wound up under the provisions of the Insurance Act.	None
The voluntary winding up under the Insurance Act is applicable not only to reconstruction or to amalgamation but to a company being unable to continue business because of liabilities.	None
The idea of business being voluntarily wound up is quite a different matter.	None
37.	None
In the present case, the company resolved to wind up its business.	None
The company discontinued to do insurance business.	None
The company cancelled all outstanding policies in the month of February, 1971.	None
The company has not undertaken any new business after 30th September, 1970.	None
After 30th September, 1970, the company had taken steps to wind up voluntarily all insurance business.	None
The company informed the Controller of its decision to stop doing insurance business.	None
The company returned its registration certificate.	None
All these features lead to the inescapable conclusion that the business of the insurer was being voluntarily wound up.	None
Therefore, the provisions contained in Section 15 (1) (a) will apply to the company whose business is being voluntarily wound up.	None
38.	None
The provisions in Section 2D of the Insurance Act show that an insurer is subject to liabilities under the Act.	None
The company does not dispute that proposition.	None
The company has made provisions to meet those liabilities.	None
The company is required under Section 7 of the Insurance Act to keep in deposit with the Reserve Bank of India sums of money.	None
Under Section 9 where an insurer has ceased to carry on in India all classes of insurance business and his liabilities in India in respect of all classes of insurance business have been satisfied or are otherwise provided for, the Court may, on the application of the insurer, order the return to the insurer of the deposit made by him.	None
Section 10 provides that where an insurer carries on business of more than one of the classes of insurance business he shall keep a separate account of all receipts and payments.	None
These provisions show that liabilities under the Act are to be satisfied and provided for over and above the deposit under Section 7 of the Insurance Act even after the business has been voluntarily wound up.	None
39.	None
Counsel for the Government relied on the decision of this Court in Vanguard Fire and General Insurance Co. Ltd., Madras v. M s. Fraser and Ross, (1960) 3	None
SCR 857 (AIR 1960 SC 971 ) in order to find out the meaning of closing of business of any insurer.	None
The company in that case carried on various kinds of insurance business other than life insurance business.	None
The share holders of the company passed a resolution by which the business was to be closed.	None
On the application of the company the Controller cancelled the certificate of business.	None
Thereafter complaints are received by the Government against the company.	None
The Government passed an order under Section 33 of the Insurance Act directing the Controller to investigate the affairs of the company.	None
The company challenged the legality of the order on the ground that the Government had no jurisdiction to pass an order.	None
The contention of the company was that Section 33 spoke of an order of investigation by the Central Government of the affairs of an insurer who, as defined in Section 2 (9), is one who is actually carrying on the business of insurance.	None
Section 2D of the Insurance Act was contended to be applicable to cases where an insurer was carrying on different classes of business and had closed some of them but not all of them.	None
Section 2D was also said by the company to be not applicable as the companys liabilities did not remain unsatisfied.	None
This Court held that Section 33 of the Insurance Act refers not only to a person who is carrying on the business of insurance but also to one who has substantially closed it.	None
Section 2D was also held to be applicable to cases where an insurer who was carrying on different classes of business but closed all of them.	None
Section 2D was also held to apply to make provision for liabilities of the company over and above the deposit.	None
The words in Section 33 are that the Central Government may, at any time, direct the Controller to investigate the affairs of an insurer.	None
The meaning ascribed to a word in the definition clause was held by this Court to be not inflexible because there might be sections in the Act where the meaning might have to be departed from.	None
40.	None
This Court in the Vanguard Fire and General Insurance Co. Ltd. case, (1960) 3	None
SCR 857 (AIR 1960 SC 971 ) (supra) said that the word insurer has been used in some sections to mean not only a person carrying on an insurance but also one who intents to carry on the business of insurance but has not actually started it and also a person who was carrying on the business of insurance but has ceased to do so.	None
Section 9 of the Insurance Act which speaks of refund of deposit furnishes an instance of the Act applying the word insurer in relation to one who has ceased to carry on business.	None
Section 55 of the Act also speaks of the insolvency of an insurer.	None
An insurer in Section 2D of the Act is an insurer who was carrying on the business of insurance but has closed it.	None
Section 2D was held to dispel all doubts that the word insurer would not be referable to one who ceased to carry on any business inasmuch as all the provisions of the Act applied to an insurer so long as his liabilities remained unsatisfied or otherwise not provided for.	None
Some provisions of the Insurance Act will apply to insurers who ceased to carry on business.	None
41.	None
It was said on behalf of the Government that if Section 15 (a) applied to the case of an insurer whose business is being voluntarily wound up or is being wound up by Court it might not be applicable to the case of an insurance company which was being voluntarily wound up under the provisions of the Insurance Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It is for the legislature to legislate as to the class to which the Act will apply.	Arguments of Respondent
On the language of Section 15 (a) the company in the present case is an insurer whose business is being voluntarily wound up.	None
Therefore the Ordinance and the Act do not apply to the petitioner company.	None
42.	None
It was also contended on behalf of the insurance company that if the Ordinance and the Act applied Article 31A of the Constitution could not protect the taking over of the management of the company.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under Article 31A (1) (b) the taking over of management of the property for a limited period either in public interest or in order to secure the proper management of the property is protected.	Arguments of Petitioner
It cannot be said in the present case that the management was taken over for a limited period nor was it said on behalf of the Government that Article 31A (1) (b) applied.	None
43.	None
On behalf of the Government it was said that Article 31A (1) (d) applied because the legislative measures in the present case modified the rights of the managing agents.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also said on behalf of the petitioners that Article 14 was offended.	None
In view of our conclusion that the Ordinance and the Act do not apply to the petitioner company it is not necessary to express any opinion on the two contentions based on those two Articles.	None
44.	None
The Government contended that the petitioner company could not invoke fundamental rights.	None
Apart from the company the other petitioners are two shareholders and Directors.	Facts
In R. C. Cooper v. Union of India, (1970) 3	None
SCR 530 (AIR 1970 Sc 564 ) which is referred to as the Bank Nationalisation case the petitioner fulfilled three capacities.	None
He was a shareholder, a Director and a holder of deposit of current account in the Bank.	None
The locus standi of the petitioner was challenged in the Bank Nationalisation case, (1970) 3	None
SCR 530 (AIR 1970 SC 564 ) (supra) on the ground that no fundamental right of the petitioner was directly impaired by the Ordinance or the Act or any action taken thereunder.	None
The petitioner in that case claimed that rights guaranteed under Articles 14, 19 and 31 of the Constitution were impaired.	None
The ruling of this Court in the Bank Nationalisation case, (1970) 3	None
SCR 530 (AIR 1970 SC 564 ) was this A measure executive or legislative may impair the rights of the company alone, and not of its shareholders it may impair the rights of the shareholders and not of the company it may impair the rights of the shareholders as well as of the company.	None
Jurisdiction of the Court to grant relief cannot be denied, when by State action the rights of the individual shareholder are impaired if that action impairs the rights of the company as well.	None
The test in determining whether the shareholders right is impaired is not formal it is essentially quantative if the State action impairs the rights of the shareholders as well as of the company, the Court will not, concentrating merely upon that technical operation of the action, deny itself jurisdiction to grant relief.	None
45.	None
It follows that the Court finds out whether the legislative measure directly touches the company of which the petitioner is a shareholder.	None
A shareholder is entitled to protection of fundamental rights.	None
That individual rights of a shareholder is not lost by reason of the fact that he is a shareholder.	None
The reason why the shareholders fundamental rights are protected is that when their fundamental rights as shareholders are impaired by State action the Court applies the qualitative test on the ratio that the shareholders rights are equated to and correspond to the rights of the company.	None
The shareholders own the property through the company.	None
The shareholders carry on business through the medium of the company.	None
The shareholders investment in the shares is affected by the State action or the legislative measure.	None
46.In the Bank Nationalisation case, (1970) 3	None
SCR 530 (AIR 1970 SC 564 ) (supra) this Court said that the Court will not, concentrating merely upon the technical objection to the action, deny itself jurisdiction to grant relief to the shareholders when the rights of shareholders as well as of the company are impaired.	None
The locus standi of the petitioners cannot be challenged.	None
47.	None
For these reasons, the petitioners succeed.	None
There will be an order quashing the orders dated 13th May, 1971 being Exhibits K and L to the petition.	None
A mandamus will also go requiring the respondents to forbear from acting on and giving effect to the two orders.	None
Parties will pay and bear their own costs.	None
Dwivedi, J.  (for himself and on behalf of Palekar Beg, J.) 48.	None
There are three petitioners in this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution (1) The Neptune Assurance Company Ltd., (2) Sanwar Prasad Jain and (3) Krishna Murari.	Facts
The first petitioner is a public company incorporated under the Indian Companies Act.	Facts
The second and third petitioners are shareholders and Directors of the first petitioner (hereinafter called the Neptune Assurance).	Facts
The Union of India, the first respondent, appointed a Custodian over the undertaking of the Neptune Assurance under Section 4 of the General Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Ordinance, 1971 on May 13, 1971.	Facts
The said Ordinance was eventually reenacted as General Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1971 (hereinafter called the Act).	Facts
The Custodian appointed under the Ordinance is continuing to manage the undertaking by virtue of Section 4 of the Act.	Facts
49.	None
The Union of India also issued certain directions on May 13, 1971.	Facts
Those directions regulate the management of the undertaking of the Neptune Assurance by the Custodian.	Facts
The petitioners challenge the validity of the aforesaid order and directions.	Issue
They also question the constitutionality of a part of Section 2 (e) and Section 15 (a) of the Act.	Issue
They pray for the quashing of the aforesaid order and direction and for a direction to the respondents to hand over charge of the undertaking of the Neptune Assurance to the petitioners.	Facts
50.	None
Upto the end of March, 1971, the Neptune Assurance was registered under the Indian Insurance Act, 1938.	Facts
The registration authorised it to carry on the business of general insurance comprising fire and miscellaneous insurance.	Facts
On September 17, 1970, its Board of Directors resolved that it would cease to underwrite any insurance business as from the close of business hours on September 30, 1970.	Facts
On that very date it informed the Controller of Insurance of the resolution and returned its certificate of registration for the year 1970 to the Controller of Insurance.	Facts
After the close of business on September 30, 1970, it stopped doing any kind of general insurance business.	Facts
On October 3, 1970, the Controller of Insurance returned the registration certificate to it with the remark that there was no provision in the Insurance Act for return of a certificate.	None
The Controller advised it not to apply for renewal of certificate for the year 1971.	Facts
In October, 1970 there was an agreement between it and the New Great Insurance Company of India Ltd. with respect to transfer of its entire business to the New Great Insurance Company of India Ltd. On October 20, 1970 notice was given to the shareholders of the Neptune Assurance that an extraordinary general meeting would be held on November 17, 1970 to consider the proposal of transferring its insurance business and liabilities to the New Great Insurance Company of India Ltd.	Facts
The agenda of the meeting included certain other matters for consideration.	Facts
It is not necessary to mention them.	None
On November 17, 1970, in the extraordinary general meeting the aforesaid resolution regarding transfer of business and liabilities was passed.	Facts
In the month of October 1970 a letter was sent to all the policyholders informing them that the Neptune Assurance had ceased to underwrite new insurance business with effect from October 1, 1970.	Facts
It also sought their approval to transfer of business and liabilities of the Neptune Assurance to the New Great Insurance Company of India Ltd. 51.	Facts
About 50 policyholders demanded cancellation of the policies.	None
About 1389 policyholders did not send any reply.	Facts
It appears that the Neptune Assurance was advised that it would not be completely discharged from its liabilities unless and until all the policyholders had agreed to the transfer of its business and liabilities to the New Great Insurance Company of	Facts
India Ltd.	Facts
So on February 2, 1971, the Board of Directors of the Neptune Assurance cancelled the agreement with the New Great Insurance Company of India Ltd.	Facts
The Board of Directors also passed a resolution cancelling all policies with effect from March 10/12, 1971 after giving due notice to the policyholders.	Facts
Another resolution was passed terminating all reinsurance treaties, both inward and outward, with effect from December 31, 1971.	Facts
52.	None
As the agreement was cancelled, it did not have any effect.	None
In February, 1971, the Neptune Assurance issued circular letters to all policyholders cancelling the policies in accordance with the cancellation clause in each policy.	Facts
The Neptune Assurance refunded to policyholders a sum of Rs. 48000/ on cancellation of their policies.	Facts
The uncollected refund amount comes to Rs. 2013.98.	Facts
53.	None
On February 16, 1971, the Controller of Insurance cancelled the registration of the Neptune Assurance with effect from April 5, 1971.	Facts
He cancelled the registration under Section 3 (4) (f) of the Insurance Act.	Facts
On February 22, 1971, the Neptune Assurance sent letters to the Indian Guarantee and General Insurance Company and M s. India ReInsurance Corporation Ltd. cancelling all reinsurance treaties with effect from December 31, 1970.	Facts
54.	None
The Neptune Assurance reduced its staff from the month of September, 1970.	None
By the end of February, 1971 the total staff consisted of one officer, one clerk, one typist and one peon.	Facts
The total emoluments of the staff upto September, 1970 were Rs. 7179.18 per month, but after that month they have come down to Rs. 1154.20 per month.	None
55.	None
It is not disputed that many claims which had accrued before the cancellation of policies are still outstanding against the Neptune Assurance.	None
Some cases are pending in courts with respect to some of them.	Facts
56.	None
The first arguments is that as the Neptune Assurance had ceased to do general insurance business several months before the commencement of the Ordinance and the Act, it is out of the purview of the Act by virtue of Section 15 (a) of the Act.	None
It cannot be taken over by the Central Government under Section 3 of the Act.	None
The rival contention of the respondents is that it is not covered by the provisions of Section 15 (a) and that accordingly it can be taken over by the Central Government under Section 3.	None
So the real issue is What is the true construction of Section 15 (a)?	None
Section 15, in so far it is relevant for this case, providesNothing contained in this Act shall apply to  (a) any insurer whose business is being voluntarily wound up or is wound up by a Court (b) any insurer to whom the Insurance Act does not apply by reason of the provisions contained in Section 2E thereof 57.	Arguments of Respondent
The argument of the Neptune Assurance is that the expression whose business is being voluntarily wound up in clause (a) also signifies the voluntary cessation of business by an insurance company.	None
One of the dictionary meaning of the word wind up is to bring to a close to bring an affair to a final settlement.	None
(See Shorter Oxford Dictionary, 3rd Edition).	None
Adopting that meaning, counsel for the Neptune Assurance submits that the expression whose business is being voluntarily wound up would also mean whose business is being voluntarily brought to a close or to a final settlement.	None
58.	None
The true meaning of clause (a) of Section 15 is to be determined in the light of its language, scheme and setting.	None
Language and setting The last word in clause (a) is Court.	None
This word is not defined in the Ordinance and the Act.	None
But Section 2 (i) of the Act provides that the words and expressions used in the Act but not defined and defined in the Insurance Act have the meaning assigned to them in that Act.	None
Section 2 (6) of the Insurance Act defines the word Court as the principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction in a district, and includes the High Court in exercise of its ordinary original civil jurisdiction.	None
The word insurer in clause (a) of Section 15 is defined in Section 2 (e) of the Act.	None
For our present purposes it is sufficient to say that it means an insurer as defined in the Insurance Act, who carries on general insurance business in India.	None
Section 2 (9) of the Insurance Act defines insurer as (a) any individual or unincorporated body of individuals or body corporate incorporated under the law of any country other than India, carrying on insurance business in India, or having his or its principal place of business or domicil in India or employing a representative or maintaining a place of business in India with the object of obtaining insurance business (b) any body corporate incorporated under any law for the time being in force in India and carrying on business of insurance.	Reasoning
There is yet another class of insurer, but we are not concerned with it in this case.	None
The words Insurance Company are defined in Section 2 (8) of the Insurance Act as any insurer being a company, or partnership which may be wound up under the Companies Act, or to which the Partnership Act applies.	None
It is apparent from the definition of insurer in the Insurance Act that an insurer may be an individual, a partnership firm, an association of persons and a company incorporated in or outside India.	None
59.	None
Section 2C of the Insurance Act, however, has limited the denotation of insurer from the date of the commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1950.	None
Section 2C (1) provides that no person shall, after the commencement of the Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1950 begin to carry on any class of business in India and no insurer carrying on any class of insurance business in India shall, after the expiry of one year from such commencement, continue to carry on any such business unless he is a public company incorporated in or out of India or a society registered under any law relating to Cooperative Societies Act, 1912.	None
In the result, at the commencement of the Ordinance and the Act, insurer included a public company either incorporated under the Companies Act or under a foreign Company Law and a cooperative society.	None
An individual, a partnership firm, and an unincorporated association of persons could not be an insurer at the time of the commencement of the Ordinance and the Act.	None
According to the proviso to Section 2C (1) the Central Government may by a Gazette notification, exempt from the operation of Section 2C (1) any person or insurer for the purpose of carrying on general insurance business for not more than three years at any one time.	None
Counsel for the Neptune Assurance has admitted that the Central Government has issued no such notification.	None
In any case no such notification has been shown to us.	None
60.	None
Cooperative Societies are excluded from the ambit of insurer in Section 15 (a).	None
We have examined the provisions of the Cooperative Societies Act, 1912, and various State laws relating to cooperative societies.	None
It appears from those laws that a cooperative society can neither be voluntarily wound up nor wound up by a Court.	None
It is wound up by an order of the Registrar of Cooperative Societies.	None
It is significant to notice that the cessation of business by a cooperative society is one of the grounds for its being wound up by an order of the Registrar.	None
So various State laws dealing with cooperative societies make a distinction between the cessation of business by a cooperative society and its winding up by an order of the Registrar.	None
When a cooperative society has ceased to do business, it cannot be said that it is voluntarily wound up.	None
61.	None
To sum up, the word insurer in Section 15 (a) of the Act includes only two classes of persons (1) a public company incorporated under the Companies Act and (2) a public company incorporated under a foreign Company Law.	Reasoning
The next important word in Section 15 (1) is business.	None
It is not disputed that it means the entire business of an insurer.	None
It will follow from this discussion that clause (a) of Section 15 may be paraphrased in this manner	None
Any public company incorporated under the Companies Act or under a foreign Company Law whose entire business is being voluntarily wound up or is being wound up by a Court.	None
62.	None
Turning now to the crucial words being voluntarily wound up and being wound up by a count, it is necessary to observe that these twin expressions have acquired a crystallised meaning in the Company and Insurance jurisprudence.	None
They have been used in that sense in the Companies Act and the Insurance Act.	None
In the Companies Act the expression voluntary winding up means a winding up by a special resolution of a company to that effect.	None
Similarly, the expression winding up by the Court means winding up by an order of the Court in accordance with Section 433 of the Companies Act.	None
Section 53 (1) of the Insurance Act provides that an insurance company may be wound up in accordance with the Companies Act.	None
Section 53 (2) supplements the grounds for the winding up of an insurance company by the Court.	None
Section 54 does not apply the provisions of the Companies Act in regard to the voluntary winding up of an insurance company.	None
It provides its own procedure for the voluntary winding up of an insurance company.	None
According to it, an insurance company shall not be wound up voluntarily except for the purpose of effecting amalgamation or reconstruction of a company or on the ground that by reason of its liability it cannot continue its business.	None
63.	None
A citizen is presumed to know the laws of his country.	None
A fortiori , Parliament will be presumed to know that the expressions voluntary winding up and winding up by the Court have acquired a technical meaning in our Company and Insurance jurisprudence.	None
Like the Cooperative Society Laws, the Companies Act and the Insurance Act also make a distinction between the cessation of business by a company and its voluntary winding up or winding up by an order of the Court.	None
Section 433 (c) of the Companies Act provides that a company may be wound up by the Court, if it suspends its business for a whole year.	None
Section 560 deals with the powers of the Registrar to strike a defunct company off the register.	None
It provides that where the Registrar has reasonable cause to believe that a company is not carrying on business he shall proceed to strike its name off the register in the manner provided therein.	None
According to Section 583 (4) (a) an unregistered company may be wound up if it has ceased to carry on business.	None
Section 584 provides that where a company which has been incorporated outside India and which has been carrying on business in India ceases to carry on business in India, it may be wound up as an unregistered company.	None
64. Section 2E of the Insurance Act provides that where an insurer as defined in paragraphs (i) and (ii) of subclause (a) of clause 9 of Section 2 in relation to any class of insurance business has ceased before the commencement of that Act to enter into any new contracts of that class of business, the Insurance Act shall not apply to him.	Reasoning
According to Section 3 (5D) where the registration of an insurance public company stands cancelled for more than six months from the date of its cancellation, the Controller of Insurance may apply to the Court for an order to wind it up.	None
The registration may be cancelled inter alia, on the ground that the insurance public company has not applied for the renewal of its registration.	None
When the registration is cancelled, the company is forbidden from entering into any new contracts of insurance.	None
So when an insurance company has ceased to do the business of insurance for more than six months from the date of the cancellation of its registration, it may be wound up by an order of the Court at the instance of the Controller.	None
As already mentioned Section 53 (1) of the Insurance Act provides that the insurance public company may be wound up in accordance with the Companies Act.	None
We have already mentioned that Section 433 (c) of the Companies Act provides for the winding up of a company when it suspends its business for a whole year.	None
It would follow from the foregoing provisions that the Insurance Act also makes a distinction between the cessation of insurance business by an insurance public company and its voluntary winding up or winding up by an order of the Court.	None
Indeed, the cessation of its business for a whole year or the cessation of its business for more than six months from the date of the cancellation of its registration for not applying for renewal thereof is one of the grounds for its winding up by the Court.	None
Parliament will be presumed to be aware of the distinction between the cessation of business by an insurance public company and its voluntary winding up or winding up by an order of the Court.	None
There is nothing unequivocal in Section 15 (a) of the Act to show that Parliament intended to depart from the technical meaning of voluntary winding up and winding up by the Court and to bid a goodbye to the distinction in our Company and Insurance jurisprudence between mere cessation of business by a company and its voluntary winding up or winding up by an order of the Court.	None
65. Section 15 (a) consists of two limbs (a) an insurer whose business is being voluntarily wound up (2) an insurer whose business is being wound up by a Court.	None
The word wound up forms part of both limbs.	None
It is reasonable to assume that it is used in the same sense in both limbs.	None
It is not and cannot be disputed that in the second limb it is used in the sense in which it is understood in our Company and Insurance jurisprudence.	None
The Companies Act and the Insurance Act provide for the winding up of a company by an order of the Court.	None
Neither of them provides for the winding up of anything other than the entire business of a company by an order of the Court.	None
The specified case in Section 58 of the Insurance Act of partial windingup of any particular class of business by preparing scheme for confirmation by the court cannot be described as winding up by the order of the Court within the meaning of Section 53.We have earlier shown that insurer in Section 15 (a) means a public company incorporated in and out of India and none else.	None
Accordingly, in the second limb the expression whose business is being wound up by the Court must be construed to mean the winding up of an insurance public company by an order of the Court.	None
This should settle the meaning of the word wound up in the first limb also.	None
The phrase voluntarily wound up in the first limb would mean the voluntary winding up of an insurance public company in accordance with Section 54 of the Insurance Act.	None
66.	None
A company is a creature of statute.	None
Its birth, progress, and extinction are all controlled by the statute.	Reasoning
As the Neptune Assurance is carrying on the business of general insurance, it is controlled by the Insurance Act read with the Companies Act.	Reasoning
Section 54 of the Insurance Act provides for the voluntary winding up of an insurance company.	Reasoning
According to it, an insurance company may be voluntarily wound up only in three circumstances.	Reasoning
Those circumstances are (1) amalgamation, (2) reconstruction of the company or (3) the inability to carry on business on account of its liabilities.	Reasoning
Section 58 (1) of the Insurance Act provides for the winding up of only a class of an insurance business of a company in certain circumstances provided a scheme for that purpose is submitted to and confirmed by the Court.	Reasoning
The Neptune Assurance has not claimed before us that it is being wound up under Section 54 or Section 58.	Reasoning
The Neptune Assurance could not voluntarily be wound up otherwise than in accordance with Section 54.	Reasoning
It is accordingly difficult to comprehend the argument that the cessation of business by the Neptune Assurance means voluntary winding up of its business.	Reasoning
This kind of voluntary winding up of business is unknown to the Insurance Act.	Reasoning
67.	None
It is said that our construction makes redundant the word business in Section 15 (a).	Reasoning
But there is no redundancy.	Reasoning
A company which is being would up voluntarily or by the court may, without the least violence to language, be described as a company whose business is being voluntarily wound up or is being wound up by the Court.	Reasoning
Winding up of a company is, in effect, the same as the winding up of the entire business of the company.	Reasoning
Both expressions in substance convey the same sense.	Reasoning
Moreover, the expression any insurer whose business is being wound up by the court is more appropriately applicable to the context of a foreign company whose business in India is being wound up by the Court under Section 584 of the Companies Act, 1956.	Reasoning
The expression any insurer who is being wound up by the court could not be appropriate in its application to a foreign company because the business of that company outside India cannot be wound up by an order of the Court in India.	Reasoning
Its entire business in India may be wound up.	Reasoning
That may be a reason for introducing the word business in Section 15 (a).	Reasoning
Section 481 of the Companies Act, 1956 provides that when the affairs of a company have been completely wound up, the court shall make an order that the company be dissolved from the date of the order.	Reasoning
Upon that order the company shall stand dissolved.	None
The phrase the affairs of a company have been completely wound up is significant.	None
It shows that the expressions winding up of a company and winding up of the affairs of a company convey the same sense, for we think that the phrase the affairs of a company means the business affairs of a company.	None
(Regina v. Board of Trade, (1965) 1 QB 603.	None
In this case it was held that the phrase the affairs of a company in Section 165 of the English Companies Act connotes its business affairs.	None
Section 165 corresponds to Section 237 of the Companies Act, 1956).	None
In Rajah of Vizianagaram v. Official Receiver, Vizianagaram, 1962 Supp 1 SCR 344 (AIR 1962 SC 500 ) speaking about the winding up of a foreign company in India, this Court said It is therefore necessary that if a company carries on business in countries other than the country in which it is incorporated, the courts of those countries too should be able to conduct winding up proceedings of its business in their respective countries.	None
Such winding up of the business. . . . . . .	None
.	None
is really an ancillary winding up of the main company.	None
(emphasis added).	None
68.	None
It appears from these observations that the winding up of a foreign company by an order of the Court in India really means the winding up of its business in India.	None
Having regard to the foregoing consideration we are of opinion that the word business is not redundant in Section 15 (a).	None
On the other hand, the charge of redundancy may really be made against the construction suggested bhy the Neptune Assurance.	None
That construction makes the word voluntarily redundant in the first limb.	None
If Parliament had really intended that the first limb should apply also to an insurer who is in the process of closing its business, it should have expressed the first limb in some such manner as any insurer whose business is being closed or is being wound up.	None
The construction put forward by the Neptune Assurance assigns little significance to the word voluntarily and makes it a surplusage.	None
69.	None
Section 15 (b) of the Act provides that the Act shall not apply to any insurer to whom the Insurance Act does not apply by reason of Section 2E thereof.	None
Section 2E of the Insurance Act provides that it shall not apply to any insurer as defined in paragraph (i) and (ii) of subclause (a) of clause 9 of Section 2 in relation to any class of insurance business where the insurer has ceased before the commencement of that Act to enter into new contracts of that class of business.	Reasoning
Section 2 (9) (a) (i) and (ii) of that Act includes in the definition of insurer a public company incorporated under a foreign law and carrying on business in India or having its principal place of business or domicial in India.	Reasoning
If such a company has ceased before the commencement of the Insurance Act to enter into any new contracts of insurance business or a class of insurance business, as the case may be, it shall not be governed by the provisions of the Insurance Act.	Reasoning
According to Section 15 (b) of the Act such a company shall also not be governed by the Act.	Reasoning
Thus Section 15 (b) refers to a foreign insurance company which had ceased to do insurance business or class of insurance business in India before the commencement of the Insurance Act.	Reasoning
Section 2 (e) of the Act excludes from the definition of insurer an insurance public company whose registration under the Insurance Act has remained wholly cancelled for a period of six months immediately before May 13, 1971.	Reasoning
We have already discussed that the registration of an insurance public company may be cancelled by the Controller if the Company has not applied for the renewal of its registration.	Reasoning
One of the reasons for not so applying may be cessation of business.	Reasoning
So Section 2 (e) also refers to an insurance public company which has ceased to do business for a certain period.	Reasoning
70.	None
Section 15 (a) should be construed in the setting of Section 15 (b) and Section 2 (e).	None
So construed, it is difficult to believe that Parliament has not used the expression whose business is being voluntarily wound up in the technical sense.	Reasoning
If Parliament had intended to exempt from the operation of the Act an insurance public company which has of its own accord ceased to do business before the commencement of the Act, it would have inserted in the Act a clear provision like Section 15 (b) or Section 2 (e).	Reasoning
Now the deliberate insertion of Section 15 (b) and Section 2 (e) necessarily implies that Parliament did not intend to exclude an insurance public company which has merely ceased to do business of its own accord.	Reasoning
Scheme.	None
One of the professed objects of the Act is to protect the interest of the policyholders pending nationalisation of the general insurance business.	Reasoning
The interpretation suggested by the Neptune Assurance would defeat that legislative object.	Reasoning
Assuming that Section 15 (a) is susceptible of two meanings  the wider and the narrower (the technical), the one which fructifies the said legislative object should be preferred.	Reasoning
This preference is also made persuasive by the nature of the provisions of Section 15 of the Act.	Reasoning
Section 15 carves out an exception to Section 15 carves out an exception to Section 3.	Reasoning
It excludes certain insurance public companies and some other institution from the operation of the Act.	Reasoning
Ordinarily an exception is strictly construed.	Reasoning
So the technical meaning of the expression whose business is being voluntarily wound up should be preferable to the wider meaning of that expression.	Reasoning
71.	None
In the light of the foregoing discussion we are of opinion that the Neptune Assurance cannot get the benefit of Section 15 (a) and will be subject to the provisions of Section 3 of the Act which provides for the takeover of the management of the insurance companies.	Reasoning
72.	None
The next submission of the Neptune Assurance is that a part of Section 2 (e) and Section 15 (a) as construed by us run a foul of Art.	None
14 of the Constitution.	None
The offending part of Section 2 (e) according to it is this and includes an insurance company whose registration under that Act has not remained wholly cancelled for a period of six months immediately before the appointed day.	None
It is said that this part of Section 2 (e) creates two classes of insurance companies.	None
The first class consists of those insurance companies, whose registration under the Insurance Act has remained wholly cancelled for a period of six months immediately before the appointed day the second class consists of those companies whose registration under the Insurance Act has remained wholly cancelled for less than six months immediately before the appointed day.	None
The Neptune Assurance falls within the second class.	None
It is complained that the temporal difference as to the cancellation of registration between the two classes is no valid reasons for treating them differently.	None
The second class should also have been excluded from the definition of insurer in Section 2 (e).	None
The same argument is reiterated with reference to Section 15 (a).	None
It is said that there is no reason why any insurance company which is closing its business of its own accord should not be excluded from the purview of the Act.	None
The respondents, on the other hand, have urged that Art. 14 will not help the Neptune Assurance on account of the Act being protected by Art.	None
31A (b) and (d) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
73.	None
It is not and cannot be denied that an insurance company whose registration under the Insurance Act has remained wholly cancelled for six months immediately before the appointed day is in one very important respect radically unlike the insurance company whose registration under the Insurance Act has remained wholly cancelled for less than six months immediately before the appointed day.	None
An insurance company whose registration under the Insurance Act has remained wholly cancelled for more than six months from the appointed day has become defunct.	Reasoning
It cannot be revived.	Reasoning
It may be wound up by the Court on the application of the Controller under Section 3 (5D) of the Insurance Act.	Reasoning
An insurance company whose registration under the Insurance Act has remained wholly cancelled for less than six months from the appointed day is a state of suspended animation.	Reasoning
It can revive itself.	Reasoning
The Controller cannot make an application to the Court for its winding up.	Reasoning
The temporal differentia as to the cancellation of registration between the two classes of companies determines the liability of one of them to be wound up under Section 3 (5D).	Reasoning
This is a meaningful and intelligible differentia.	Reasoning
It is not arbitary, whimsical, or illusory.	Reasoning
The differentia has got rational relation to one of the objects of the Act.	Reasoning
According to the preamble, the protection of the interests of the policy holders is an object of the Act.	Reasoning
The differentia is calculated to accomplish this legislative object.	Reasoning
Where the registration of a company has remained wholly cancelled for six months from the appointed day, the Controller may apply to the Court for its winding up under Section 3 (5D).	Reasoning
As soon as the judicial process is set in motion, the company comes under the control of the Court.	Reasoning
A liquidator will be appointed to wind up its affairs.	Reasoning
The Courts control will protect those policyholders who have got unsatisfied claims against the company.	Reasoning
The liquidator will collect the assets of the company and pay those claims as far as possible from the realised assets.	Reasoning
The company whose registration has remained wholly cancelled for less than six months from the appointed day can revive itself.	Reasoning
It cannot be wound up by the Court at the instance of the Controller.	Reasoning
The claims of the policyholders against such a company will go unprotected.	Reasoning
The company may or may not pay the claims.	Reasoning
It may fritter away its assets.	Reasoning
The policyholders would be constrained to resort to litigation against the company for the realisation of their claims against it.	Reasoning
The takeover of the undertaking of the company under the Act improves by reason of Governments management the prospects of their claims satisfaction.	Reasoning
It is also calculated to protect all interests by applying after the take over, if that course is deemed necessary, to revive the business of the company.	Reasoning
Section 2 (e) is in our view not discriminatory.	None
74.	None
For the foregoing reasons, Section 15 (a) also is not discriminatory.	None
75.	None
As in our view the attack based on Art. 14 cannot succeed, it is unnecessary to deal with the respondents contention based on Art.	None
31A (b) and (d) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
76.	None
In the result, we would dismiss the petition with costs.	None
ORDER 77.	None
In accordance with the opinion of the majority, the writ petition is dismissed with costs.	Decision
78.	None
Petition dismissed.	None
