 C. Shah, J. 1.	None
At a bye election held in April 1967 to elect a member of the Lok Sabha from the Srikakulam parliamentary constituency there were two contesting candidatesBoddepalli Rajagopala Raohereinafter called the appellant  and	Facts
N.G. Rangahereinafter called the respondent.	None
The respondent was declared elected.	Issue
The appellant filed an application in the High Court of Andhra Pradesh to set aside the election of the respondent on the ground that the respondent had committed diverse corrupt practices described in Section 123(1)(A)(a), (b), (5) and (6) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951.	Facts
The respondent denied the allegations made in the petition.	None
He also submitted that the allegations were vague and indefinite and some of those allegations did not constitute any corrupt practice within the meaning of the Representation of the People Act, 1951.	None
The appellant amended the petition and submitted particulars of certain corrupt practices set out in the original petition.	None
The appellant then filed his additional written statement.	Issue
The High Court held on a detailed consideration of the evidence that the corrupt practices alleged by the appellant in the petition were not proved, and dismissed the petition.	Facts
The appellant has appealed to this Court under Section 116A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951.	Facts
2. Counsel for the appellant restricted his argument to the following charges set out in the petition (1) A charge of bribery in respect of an amount of Rs. 4,000/ paid to a candidate in the election as gratification for not standing for election, Rs. 10,000/ for constructing a high school building in the village Kothakota with the object of inducing the voters in the village and three other contiguous polling stations to vote for him and Rs. 1,000/ paid for completing the excavation of a well in consideration of promise of votes for the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereby corrupt practices of bribery within the meaning of Section 123(A) (IB) were committed (2) Providing on the day of polling a number of motorvehicles for the free transport of voters to the polling stations, and especially motorjeep No. APK9486, motorlorry No. APK 9250, motorlorry No.	Arguments of Petitioner
APG35 11 and motorbus No. APS1315.	None
Thereby a corrupt practice under Section 123(5) was committed (3) Causing the printing and publication of a leaflet containing false and defamatory statements in relation to the personal character of the appellant.	None
Copies of the leaflet were distributed at several meetings held by the Swatantra Party at Srikakulam and other places.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent and his election agent also exhorted, with the object of tarnishing the image of the appellant and lowering him in the estimation of the voters, the voters at those meetings not to vote for the appellant who it was alleged had misappropriated public funds.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereby the respondent committed a corrupt practice under Section 123(4) of the Representation of the People Act.	None
(4) That the account of the expenditure returned by the respondent did not disclose many items of expenditure which were incurred in connection with the election.	None
The respondent had expended a sum exceeding Rupees 3 lakhs, and the expenditure returned was a gross under estimate of the expenses incurred by the respondent in connection with his election.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereby he committed a corrupt practice under Section 123(6) read with Section 77 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951.	None
In respect of the charge of bribery there were three heads (i) that the respondent and his election agent G. Latchanna induced one Suvari Sanyasi Apparao not to stand as a candidate at the election by paying him Rs. 4,000/as gratification.	None
According to the appellant Suvari Sanyasi Apparao who was defeated in the contest for a seat in the Legislative Assembly of Andhra Pradesh in the general elections held in 1962 and February, 1967, intended to contest for the Lok Sabha seat in the byeelection and was canvassing support before the appointed date for filing nominations, but the respondent and his election agent at a meeting on March 29, 1967 in the travellers bungalow at Amadalvalasa dissuaded Suvari Sanyasi Apparao from contesting the election in consideration of payment of Rs.	None
4,000/.	None
This was denied by the respondent.	Reasoning
In support of his case the appellant examined Suvari Sanyasi Apparao P.W. 24 and B. Suryanarayana P.W. 25.	None
He relied also upon two documents Exts.	None
P41 and P83.	None
In rebuttal the respondent relied upon his own testimony and of his election agent Latchhana.	None
Suvari Sanyasi Apparao was also examined as a witness R. W. 2.	None
The respondent examined a number of other witnesses K. Chalapatirao Patnaik R. W. 1, Bendi Appalla Suri R. W. 3 Dola Jagannatha Rao, R. W. 6, Sylada Pyditalli Naidu R. W. 9, B. Achuta Raju R. W. 10, B. Narayana Swamy R. W. 15, Kolanganti Sathi Raju R. W. 25 and Cokina Chandra Rao R. W. 26 and relied upon certain documents.	None
The two witnesses examined on behalf of the appellant deposed to the circumstances leading to their presence at Amadalavalasa travellers bungalow and payment of Rs. 4,000/ to Suvari Sanyasi Apparao by Latchanna after the respondent and Latchhana had requested him not to file the nomination paper and to help the respondent in the election.	None
The learned Trial Judge made a detailed analysis of the evidence and held that there were contradictions and material discrepancies in the statements of the witnesses for the appellant, and that the statements of the witnesses did not inspire confidence.	None
The burden of proving that the respondent and his election agent went to Amadalvalasa travellers bungalow and persuaded Suvari Sunyasi Apparao not to file his nomination paper in consideration of receiving a bribe lay upon the appellant.	None
The witnesses examined on his behalf are, as found by the High Court, highly interested and their testimony was rebutted by the witnesses named by him as the persons present at the time.	None
Besides, the evidence of the witnesses as found by the High Court. was discrepant and did not accord with probabilities.	None
Both the oral and documentary evidence falsified it.	None
There were inherent improbabilities in the allegation itself.	None
No substantial argument was advanced before us to persuade us to take a different view.	None
(ii) In respect of the charge of bribery of Rs. 10,000/, it was alleged in the petition that Latchhana, election agent of the respondent visited Kothakota at 800 p.m. on April 26, 1967 and paid Rs. 10,000/ to one D. Jagannatha Rao a resident of that village for constructing a High School building in that village.	None
The payment, it was said, was made with the object of inducing the voters of Kothakota and three contiguous polling stations to vote for the respondent.	None
This was denied by the respondent.	Reasoning
In support of the allegation the appellant examined Dhavala Appalla Suri P. W. 7, Kusumanchi Adinarayana P. W. 8, Galala Ramulu P. W. 9 and Amballa Appalla Suri P. W. 11 and relied upon some documentary evidence also.	None
In answer the respondent examined himself, his election agent and witnesses K. Chalapatirao Patnaik, R. W. 1, Dola Jagannatha Rao R. W. 6, D. Kondaih Choudari R. W. 8 and Alla Venkatarao R. W. 16, and relied upon certain documentary evidence.	None
On a consideration of the evidence the learned Judge observed that the entire oral evidence in support of the appellants case was highly discrepant and did not merit credence.	None
The High Court observed that the petition did not refer to the place of incident, whether it was rice mill premises or outside the rice mill where the payment is alleged to have been made.	None
While some of the witnesses said it was rice mill premises itself, others said that it was near the rice mill.	None
The High Court also observed that apart from the interested nature and the fact that their testimony was replete with material contradictions, there were inherent improbabilities in the story told, which made it highly difficult to accept the testimony.	None
After considering the testimony of the respondent and his witnesses the Court observed that the oral testimony on behalf of the appellant was inconsistent and did not make out a case of corrupt practice, that the probabilities of the case were strongly against the appellants contention and there was no reason to disbelieve the testimony of the witnesses for the respondent.	Reasoning
Even in respect of this charge of corrupt practice no argument seeking to persuade us to take a different view was advanced by counsel for the appellant.	None
(iii)	None
In respect of the third head of the charge of bribery, it was alleged by the appellant in his petition that at Pathokota a village falling within the limits of Budarsingi polling station the respondent and his election agent convened an election meeting on April 23, 1967, that the villagers assembled at that meeting requested the respondent to donate a sum of Rupees .1,000/ to complete the excavation of a well in return for their votes, and that as directed by the respondent on the same day at about 500 P.M. Negineni Venkayya agent of the respondent paid Rupees 1,000/ to Biridhar and Judisti, members of the village Youth League in the presence of the Sarpanch and village elders.	None
In support of this plea the appellant examined Khanda Judishtra Kumaro P. W. 17 and Chinchalam Satyanarayana P. W. 18.	None
In rebuttal, the respondent examined himself, his election agent Latchhanna, Kavuri Venkaiah R. W. 28, Giridhar Kumar R. W. 13 of village Patakota and two others of the same village Harinarayan Dolao R. W. 17 and Mansing Kumarao R. W. 18.	None
On a consideration of the evidence, the Court held that the evidence on behalf of the appellant was marred by improbabilities, and it could not be accepted.	None
Again the evidence for the respondent in the view of the High Court was sufficient to disprove the corrupt practice alleged.	None
The High Court held that the corrupt practice was accordingly not established even in respect of this head of charge.	None
Counsel did not urge any substantial argument to persuade us to take a different view.	None
3.	None
The charge of corrupt practice under Section 123(5) arose out of the allegation that Latchanna procured a number of lorries, jeeps, motor cars, buses and other vehicles, for free transport of voters to the polling stations on the date of polling.	None
It was averred in the petition that jeep No. APK9486 was used for the free transport of voters between 1000 A.M. and 2.00 P.M. on the polling day from Killoi village and Killoi Colony to the polling station at Konkadapatti.	None
The jeep, it was said, carried the Swatantra Party Flag as well as the agent of the respondent one Dunkuru Mangule	None
This was witnessed by the Presiding Officer, among others, when a complaint was made by the agent of the appellant Hadia Naiko to the Presiding Officer.	None
In support of this plea of corrupt practice the appellant examined three witnesses Papi Naidu, Presiding Officer, P. W. 10, Hadia Naiko P. W. 20 and D. Ramamurthy P. W. 26.	None
The respondent denied that the jeep No. APK9486 was used for transporting voters as alleged.	None
According to him the vehicle belonged to the Swatantra Party and stood registered in the name of Narayan Dandekar Secretary of the Party.	None
4. D. Ramamurthy P. W. 26 was examined on behalf of the appellant in support of his case on this plea of corrupt practice.	None
The witness said that the jeep was entrusted to him at Sompeta to deliver it to Dunkuru Mungalo, polling agent of the respondent at Konkadaputti.	None
According to the witness it was jeep	None
No. APK9486 which Latchanna had brought from Guntur side for purposes of election, that the jeep was delivered to the polling agent for bringing voters from neighbouring villages to the polling booths, that the jeep was used for that purpose from 10 A.M. to 2 P.M. and that he reached Konkadaputti at 9.30 A.M. and remained near the polling station till 2 P.M. asking voters to vote for the Star Symbol of the Swatantra Party.	None
The learned Judge observed that the witness, did not impress him as a witness of truth and it was impossible to place reliance upon his testimony.	None
His story that the voters were transported free of charge in the jeep to the polling station on the date of polling could not therefore be believed.	None
5.	None
Papi Naidu, the Presiding Officer, stated that a complaint was lodged by the agent of the appellant that the voters were being brought by the supporters of the Swatantra Party to the polling station.	None
The witness also stated that he saw voters getting down the jeep and joining the queue and that there were 7 or 9 such voters.	None
But the witness admitted that the people who were getting down the jeep were not known to him, that he had no opportunity to get them identified, that they had joined the queue but whether they were voters or not he could not say, that he asked the agent to put his complaint in writing but that was not done, and that the agent was not known to him and he had never seen him afterwards.	None
The witness did not mention this incident in the report as such complaints were not usually mentioned at all.	None
He did not give the number of the jeep, nor did he state that he had seen the Swatantra flag on the jeep.	None
He could not vouch for the fact that those who alighted were voters or that they had voted at that polling station.	None
In the view of the learned judge the testimony of Papi Naidu, P.W. 10, did not satisfy all the component elements of the corrupt practice alleged.	None
6.	None
Nadia Naiko was the polling agent of the appellant.	None
He stated that Dunkuru Mungalo was bringing voters from Killoi Colony and Killoi village between 10 A.M. and 2 P.M. and on seeking this he told Dunkuro Mungalo that it was not proper for him to bring the voters in jeep cars and when the latter asserted that he had a right to do so, he complained to the Presiding Officer who asked for a written complaint which he could not comply with as he was not proficient enough to write one and none on behalf of the appellant had come who could do the needful.	None
The witness did not give the number of the jeep nor the names of the voters.	None
In the view of the learned Judge the procurement of the jeep for free conveyance was not proved.	None
The High Court observed that it was unnecessary to discuss the evidence on behalf of the respondent for the appellant had failed to establish the corrupt practice alleged.	None
7.	None
The next head under this charge of corrupt practice as alleged by the appellant related to the use of motorlorry No. APK9250 which was flying the Swatantra Party flag and was used for free transport of voters on the polling day between 10 A.M. and 2 P. M. from the surrounding villages to the polling station at Guttavalli.	None
During one of the trips, it was said that there ensued a free fight between the persons who were carried by the lorry and others who were present near the polling station as the former raised slogans acclaiming the respondent and denouncing the appellant.	None
A complaint was given to the police by some of the voters that they were being conveyed in the lorry, two of those voters being Kolla Appanna and Sarpanch Sinupanapalaum.	None
It was admitted therein that while they were being transported for exercising their vote for the respondent there was obstruction from the supporters of the appellant Sanapalli Manumula Appalaw and his son and that a free fight ensued.	None
The respondent denied these allegations.	None
In support of the allegations, the appellant examined Kolla Appanna P. W. 12, Gedala Lakshmi Naidu P. W. 16, Sanapala Narsimha Rao P. W. 21, Sanapali Raja Rao P.W. 24 and P. Chandra Rao P.W. 27.	None
In rebuttal, the respondent examined Jammana Jogi R. W 7, Garimella Kameswara Rao R.W. 11 and Dannana Appanna R.W. 23 and relied upon the first information which was lodged about the fight.	None
The High Court analysed the evidence of the witnesses on behalf of the appellant.	None
In regard to the testimony of Kolla Appanna P.W. 12 the High Court observed that his assertion that he went in a lorry was highly doubtful and that the story deposed to by the witness was palpably false, that the story that the witness Gedala Lakshmi Naidu P. W. 16 that he travelled by the lorry was open to doubt, that testimony of Ganapala Narsimha Rao who is closely related to the appellant was tainted, and that the evidence of Sanapali Raja Rao P.W. 24 was also not believable.	None
On a review of the evidence the High Court observed that the number of the lorry was not given by any of the witnesses, and there was no evidence about its ownership.	None
There was again no evidence as to its procurement for free conveyance and the alleged use of the vehicle for free conveyance was, therefore, not established.	None
Thus the contention as to the alleged incidence must be held against the appellant.	None
8.	None
The third branch under this head related to the use of motorlorry No. APG3911 and motorbus No. APS1315.	None
It was alleged in the petition that the two vehicles were flying the Swatantra Party flag and were used for transporting voters free of charge on the polling day to Torrivandan polling station from Puruinwada and Appanyaturu that a report was lodged by Boyana Kanakiah and B. Mamaray to the police SubInspector of Kothun who was on election duty at Sarnakota stating that a number of voters were being carried by lorry	None
No. APG3911 and bus No. APS1315 to vote for the respondent, that the SubInspector prepared the statement of the bus conductor, the lorry driver and other persons and that a mediation report was also recorded in that connection.	None
The respondent denied the allegations.	None
In his additional written statement he also pleaded that there was absence of essential particulars relating to the names of the voters and that the petition did not disclose a cause of action since the allegations did not make out a corrupt practice.	None
In support of his case the appellant relied upon his own evidence and the evidence of the witnesses Boyana Kanakiah P. W. 13 and	None
Boyina Kama Raju P. W. 14.	None
It was the case of the appellant that these witnesses had seen the incident and had given a report promptly to the SubInspector of Police, and that SubInspector had detained the motor lorry and bus and got a mediators report prepared.	None
But the SubInspector of police to whom the report is alleged to have been made was (though cited as a witness) not examined in the case and the report or the proceedings started pursuant thereto were not brought on the record.	None
After the evidence was closed the appellant applied for calling the SubInspector as a Court witness but the application was rejected.	None
Boyana Kanakiah P.W. 13 and Boyina Kama Raju P.W. 14 are cousins of the appellant.	None
In their evidence they did not specify the persons who used the said lorry and bus on behalf of the respondent, nor did their evidence disclose the names of the voters conveyed by the said lorry or bus. 9.	Reasoning
In the view of the High Court the conditions of a corrupt practice falling within the meaning of Section 123(5) of the Representation of the People Act were not established.	None
The High Court pointed out that even if it be held that what Boyana Kanakiah P. W. 13 and Boyina Kama Raju P. W. 14 said that certain persons travelled by the lorry and bus was true unless it was established that the voters were taken to and from the polling stations at the instance of the respondent, no charge of corrupt practice can be deemed to be made out for not a single person was named and no person was brought before the Court to prove that he had travelled in the bus or the lorry.	None
The High Court held that the case set up in respect of the two vehicles was also not established.	None
10.	None
The finding of the learned Trial Judge is based upon appreciation of evidence of the witnesses in the light of probabilities.	None
A charge of corrupt practice under the Representation of the People Act must be established by clear and cogent evidence.	None
When the Court of First Instance on a consideration of the evidence of the witnesses has refused to place any reliance upon their testimony the burden lying upon the party setting up a plea of corrupt practice becomes no lighter in appeal.	None
The charge cannot be held established merely upon suspicion, or preponderance of probabilities.	None
Unless the appellant establishes that the appreciation of evidence was vitiated by gross misreading or misconception of the evidence or because of failure to consider important pieces of evidence which had a bearing on the charge or because of serious irregularities in procedure which amount to a denial of a fair trial the appellate court will not proceed to reappreciate the evidence on which the findings are recorded by the Court of First Instance on the credibility of witnesses.	Reasoning
11.	None
The third head of charge relates to the printing and publication of a leaflet defamatory of the appellant and falling within Section 123(4) of the Act.	None
It was stated in the petition that one Dola Jagannatha Rao agent of the respondent caused the printing and publication at the instance of the election agent of the respondent of a leaflet containing the following false and defamatory statements in relation to the personal character of the appellant(a) that the appellant misappropriated large amounts to the tune of about Rs. 60 lakhs belonging to the Cooperative Sugar Factory and the Cooperative Central Bank for his own ends (b) that the Supreme Court con firmed the order of the High Court sentencing the appellant for contempt of Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The leaflet posed the question whether the Congress Party could not get a candidate with better character and record of selfless public service?	None
The appellant said that the leaflet was printed at Sri Ramakrishna Printing Works at Srikakulam and the printing expenses thereof amounting to Rupees 85/ were according to the appellant defrayed by the election agent of the respondent, that the election agent of the respondent caused the distribution of those leaflets at several meetings held by the Swatantra Party at Srikakulam at 900 P.M. on April 24, 1967, at Mandasa at 600 P.M. on April 21, 1967, at Takkali at 700 P.M. on April 20, 1967 and at Palasa at 1100 AM.	Arguments of Petitioner
on April 21, 1967 and at other places to sponsor the candidature of the respondent to a seat in the Parliament.	None
It was further averred that the respondent and his election agent exhorted the people at those meetings not to vote for a person who had misappropriated public funds.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent denied that he and his election agent had knowledge or had consented to, or were concerned with the leaflet, its printing, publishing and distribution.	Arguments of Respondent
He also denied that he or his election agent exhorted the voters as alleged by the appellant.	None
12.	None
The leaflet in question is in the form of several interrogations.	None
The caption of the leaflet is Peoples Questionnaire to the Respected Minister.	None
The relevant part of the leaflet is1.	None
Did not 18 gentlemen including Andhra Pradesh Congress Secretary Srikulapu Lokshammana Das, District Board President Sri Gorie Sriramulu Naidu, ExAssembly member Sri Andhavarapu Tavitayya, Sri Challa Narasimhulu Naidu and others, present a memorandum in June 1966 to the Chief Minister and to the Minister for Cooperation stating that Sri Boddepalli Rajagopala Rao, who is to contest as a Congress party candidate in the Srikakulam Parliamentary Constituency byeelection on the 27th of this month, had misused like water nearly 60 lakhs of rupees of governmental monies and peoples monies belonging to Cooperative Sugar Factory, District Cooperative Central Bank and such other cooperative institutions which were treated as his own and managed under his control?	None
What action has been taken against it by the Government?	None
2. Did not your Government appoint the Regional Officer of Cooperative Societies, Panchayati Samiti, Araadalayalasa, to inquire into the affairs of the Gandhi Building Society which is managed under the control of Sri Boddepalli Narayana Murthy who is the brother of Rajagopala Rao, member of the Legislative Assembly?	None
Could anybody deny the fact that when that officer brought to light the inner secrets and brought them to the notice of the Government, the Government on the ground that that officer did not obey their instructions, brought him out in the midnight, beat him almost to death and broke his legs and threw him on the road ?	None
Is he not still in the hospital?	None
When he complained to the police authorities, what action has been taken?	None
Is there no protection under your Government to your officers who are just and impartial?	None
3. Did not the Supreme Court confirm the fine of Rs. 500/ imposed by the High Court on Rajagopala Rao for contempt of court because he flouted the orders of the High Court in that he by force, oppressive behavior and threat to the Factory Manager, forcibly took all ballot papers and himself, acting as an officer, conducted the Sugar Factory elections in an irregular manner?	None
When it is clearly stated in the Cooperative Act that such persons should not be even primary members in cooperative societies, could you tell how this person could still be in the governing body of cooperative societies?	None
Could you not get a candidate who is better and who could render selfless service to people?	None
Of course, it is difficult to get men of high and moral caliber in the 1967 model congress.13.	None
Section 123(4) of the Re presentation of the People Act, 1951, defines one of the corrupt practices, as under The publication by a candidate or his election agent or by any other person with the consent of a candidate or his election agent of any statement of fact which is false, and which he either believes to be false or does not believe to be true, in relation to the personal character or conduct of any candidate, or in relation to the candidature , or withdrawal, of any candidate, being a statement reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of the candidates election.14.	None
To constitute a corrupt practice under Section 123(4) four conditions are required to be fulfilled (1) that there should be publication of a statement of fact relating to the personal character or conduct of the candidate (2) that the statement should be false (3) that the person making it should either believe it to be false or should not believe it to be true and that the statement was reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of that candidates election and (4) that it was published by the candidate or his election agent or by any other person with the consent of a candidate or his election agent.	None
If the publication is by a person other than the candidate or his election agent, the consent of the candidate or his election agent must be established before the charge is held proved.	None
Proof of express consent is not necessary inference of such consent may be raised from the circumstances.	None
Prior knowledge of the contents and the knowledge that it is likely to be published may raise an inference of consent, if the candidate deliberately keeps quiet and does not stop the publication if it be within his power.	None
Where the offending matter has already been published and thereafter it comes to the knowledge of the candidate at the election and he does not take steps to repudiate it, the consent may not necessarily be inferred unless the candidate or his election agent permits or aids in publication.	None
Section 100 of the Act sets out the grounds on which the election may be held to be void and one of the grounds is that if the High Court is of opinion that any corrupt practice has been committed by a returned candidate or his election agent or by any other person with the consent of a returned candidate or his election agent, the High Court shall declare the election of the returned candidate to be void.	None
Mere commission of a corrupt practice is not sufficient it is proof of consent of the candidate or his election agent to the commission of the corrupt practice which requires the Court to declare the election void.	None
In the matter of publication of statements which are false and are reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of the candidates election, proof of consent not infrequently assumes great importance, for, even if it be proved that the publication has been made, unless it is shown that it was with the consent of the candidate or his election agent, the corrupt practice may not be held to be committed so as to invalidate the election.	None
Case of publication without authority or with a view to create evidence by interested persons against the candidate who is likely to be successful are not unknown.	None
15.	None
It is not in dispute that the leaflet Ext. P357 was published.	Reasoning
The leaflet was again reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of the appellants election.	Reasoning
Parts of the leaflet related to the personal character and conduct of the appellant and were defamatory of him and were likely to lower him in the estimation of the electorate.	Reasoning
16.	None
It is not necessary to decide whether the statements of fact made were false, for the High Court has held that it is not proved that the respondent or his election agent was concerned with the publication or distribution of the leaflet and we agree with that view.	Reasoning
17.	None
The evidence on this part of the case may be considered in three sections evidence relating to the printing of the leaflet evidence relating to the distribution of the leaflet at the meetings held at several places as part of the election campaign of the respondent and evidence relating to the making of oral statements reproducing the contents of Ext. P357 at those meetings.	None
18.	None
It is common ground that one Dola Jagannatha Rao procured the leaflet printed at Sri Ramakrishna Printing Works at Srikakulam.	Reasoning
It was averred in the election petition that the printing expenses were de frayed by Latchanna the election agent of the respondent and that Lat channa had caused distribution of the leaflet at several meetings held by the Swatantra Party at Srikakulam on April 24, 1967 at Mandasa on April 21, 1967, at Takkali on April 20, 1967 and at Palasa on April 21, 1967.	Reasoning
This was denied by the respondent.	Reasoning
D. Jagannatha Rao was examined as a witness for the respondent.	Reasoning
He de posed that he did get the leaflet print ed on his own account and not at the instance of anybody else, that he defrayed the expenses and paid on April 9, 1967 the printing charges amounting to Rs. 85, that he wrote the draft of the leaflet in his house at Srikakulam that no one else was	Reasoning
pre sent on that occasion, that he did not consult any other person nor did he take any other persons advice in that behalf that before he took it to the press he did not show it to any other person, and that as the printers could not properly decipher the manuscript they got prepared a fair copy by their own employee.	None
19.	None
The witness admitted that he was a Swatantra party worker and put his signature on the fair copy of the leaflet.	None
Consent of the candidate or his election agent to the printing of the pamphlet cannot be inferred from that circumstance.	None
To establish the consent of the respondent or his election agent to the printing of the leaflet, the appellant examined the Managing Proprietor of Sri Ramakrishna Printing Works who deposed that D. Jagannatha Rao placed with him an order for printing 10,000 copies of the leaflet Ext. P357 and that in his books of account the name of D. Jagannatha Rao was entered as of the person who ordered printing of the leaflet.	None
The witness stated that D. Jagannatha Rao had brought the written matter on 2 or 3 pages, and that the Manager of the Printing Press got it fair copied and took his signature on the fair copy which is Ext. P358.	None
At the time when he took delivery of the printed leaflet, D. Jagannatha Rao paid an amount of Rs. 85 for printing charges.	None
The witness stated that one Chelapati Rao also came over to the printing press but only after D. Jagannatha Rao had paid the charges and that Chelapati Rao had nothing to do with that leaf let.	None
In support of the evidence the witness produced Exts.	None
P346 and P 346/1 copies of the order and the voucher evidencing payment by D. Jagannatha Rao.	None
This testimony fully supported the case of D. Jagannatha Rao.	None
There was some discrepancy about the date of placing the order.	None
D. Jagannatha Rao said that the order was placed on April 7, 1967 the Managing Proprietor said it was on April 4, 1967, but that was a minor discrepancy which did not affect the testimony of either witness.	None
20.	None
This evidence did not sup port the case of the appellant.	Reasoning
He examined D. Ramamurthy P.W. 26 who stated that the leaflet Ext. P357 was drafted in the house of Latchanna by K. Chelapati Rao Patnaik to the dictation of Latchanna in the presence of Dola Jagannatha Rao, that one week thereafter the leaflets were got printed by Chelapati Rao Patnaik and Dola Jagannatha Rao, and that Latchanna gave them Rs. 300 and sent them to Srikakulam.	Reasoning
In crossexamination the witness stated that he could not write Telugu, though he could read a little.	Reasoning
He also admitted that he was not usually consulted in any matter, but whenever required the members of the party used only to take work from him.	Reasoning
To explain his presence at the drafting of the leaflet he stated that Latchanna called him on April 25, 1967 at his residence, that when he reached Latchannas place the leaflet was being drafted and that he was detained till the drafting was over and thereafter he was sent away.	Reasoning
The witness could not explain the reason why the leaflet was not printed at Guntur.	Reasoning
Witness D. Ramamurthy sought to support the case of the appellant on several other matters.	Reasoning
The High Court observed that his statement was highly artificial, that there was no reason why he should have been called by Latchanna to be a witness to the drafting of the manuscript of the leaflet, and that the artificiality of his statement was obvious on the face of it and further his testimony did not bear scrutiny at all.	Reasoning
Nothing has been said before us which would justify us in taking a different view.	Reasoning
21.	None
Chelapati Rao, P.W. 1 was examined on behalf of the respondent.	None
He denied that he wrote the draft or took any part in the printing of the leaflet at Latchanns instance.	None
He said that he had seen the leaflet for the first time only after it was printed and D. Jagannatha Rao had taken delivery and never thereafter.	None
22.	None
Latchanna denied all knowledge in connection with the printing and dictation of the contents of the leaflet Ext. P357.	None
23.	None
The evidence clearly does not make out the case of the appellant.	Reasoning
It was the case of the appellant, that Latchanna got the leaflet drafted and printed.	Reasoning
From the mere fact that D. Jagannatha Rao was a partyman and a member of the State Council of the Swatantra Party of which Latchanna was the President, and that D. Jagannatha Rao had contested on the Swatantra Party ticket for a seat in the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly in the general elections in 1967, no inference arises that the leaflet was published with the consent of the respondent or his election agent.	Reasoning
24.	None
At the trial the appellant relied also upon the publication of the contents of the leaflet in two weekly newspapers  Bahujana and Vahini in their issues of April 17, 1967, and April 24, 1967 respectively.	None
In the first newspaper the caption shows that it was a questionnaire of Srikakulam public to the Minister and in the second newspaper the caption showed that it was a questionnaire by the Srikakulam public through D. Jagannatha Rao, President of Nogrskatakam Swatantra Party.	None
Latchanna is the printer, publisher and editor of Bahujana.	None
The contents which were published in the Bahujana largely tally with Ext. P357.	None
The caption, however, is different.	None
Latchanna deposed that he did not send the leaflet for publication in the newspaper from Srikaku lam to Hyderabad.	None
He denied the suggestion that it was not D. Jagannatha Rao but he himself who caused the publication of the article in Bahujana.	None
He further stated that though he was the editor of the paper he was away from Hyderabad and in his absence his brothers son G. Kranti Kumar was editing the paper, and that he came to know of the publication many days after the election was completed.	None
There was no allegation in the petition that the publication in the Bahujana was caused by Latchanna of by the respondent.	None
The evidence brought before the Court could not cure the defect in the pleadings.	Reasoning
There is no evidence also that either the respondent or his election agent Latchanna had knowledge before the date of the publication or even before the date of the election of the respondent.	Reasoning
25.	None
It was said that the respondent had expressed his thanks for the work done by the Vahini news paper during the election.	Reasoning
This was not a matter relevant to the issue under consideration, and the High Court was right in holding that it would be extending the scope of the inquiry contemplated to be made on the allegations made in the petition to hold that by reason of the publication in the Vahini and Bahujana the respondent or his election agent were guilty of any corrupt practice.	Reasoning
In the petition it was expressly averred that the leaflet Ext. P357 was published by the respondent and his election agent.	None
It was not pleaded that the contents of the leaflet Ext. P357 with some modifications were published in the Vahini and Bahujana and that by that publication a corrupt practice under Section 123(4) was committed by the respondent.	None
26.	None
The appellant also alleged that at meetings held at four places Takkali, Palasa, Mandasa and Srika kulam  these leaflets were distributed.	None
In support of this case Suri Surya narayana P. W. 25, D. Ramamurthy P. W. 26, Kirtichandra Rao P. W. 28, C.V. Babu Rao P.W. 29, M. Narayana	None
Rao P. W. 30 and Sana Veerabhadra Rao P. W. 31 were examined.	None
In rebuttal, K. Chalapati Rao Patnaik R. W. 1, Suvari Sanyasi Appa Rao R.W. 2, Bendi Appalla Suri R.W. 3, D. Kondaih Choudari R. W. 8, Garimella Kameswara Rao R. W. 11, B. Narayana Swamy R. W. 15, Narayan Dandekar R. W.20, G. Chandraih Naidu R.W. 21, N. Veerachari R. W. 22, Bendalam Rama Murthi R. W. 24, Allu Suryanarayana R.W. 29 and Raj Vallabh Misra R. W. 30.	None
besides the respondent and his election agent, were examined to disprove the case of the appellant.	None
The case of the respondent was that he was not present at any of the meetings except at Srikakulam which he attended at its concluding stage.	None
Latchanna also denied that he was pre sent at any of those meetings.	None
27.	None
The High Court made a painstaking analysis of the evidence of the witnesses relating to the holding of the meetings and the distribution of the leaflet Ext. P357 and the witnesses examined on behalf of the respondent, which ran into as many as 23 printed pages, and in conclusion observed From the above discussion it is clear that it was Dola Jagannadha Rao himself who got printed Ext. P357 of his own accord and neither the respondent nor his election agent was in any way concerned with it.	Reasoning
The respondent and the election agent were in no way connected with its publication, when several thousands of copies of the pamphlet had been printed they must of course be for purposes of distribution.	Reasoning
Dola Jagannadha Rao could have personally distributed them or caused their distribution through others.	Reasoning
But there is no positive evidence that these pamphlets were distributed amongst the public either by Dola Jagannadha Rao himself or by the election agent, as alleged, or to the knowledge of either the respondent or his election agent.	Reasoning
We see no reason to disagree with the view of the High Court on the evidence.	None
28.	None
The question which re mains to be considered is whether a corrupt practice falling within Subsection (6) of Section 123 was committed by the respondent.	None
Incurring or authorizing expenditure in contravention of Section 77 is a corrupt practice.	None
Section 77 requires that every candidate at the election shall either by himself or by his election agent keep a separate and correct account of all expenditure in connection with the election incurred or authorised by him or by his election agent between the date of publication of the notification calling the election and the date of declaration of the result thereof, both dates inclusive.	None
By Subsection (3) of Section 77 the total of the said expenditure shall not exceed such amount as may be prescribed.	None
For the parliamentary election an amount of Rs. 25,000/ was prescribed as the maximum amount to be spent.	None
The respondent submitted a return disclosing expenditure of Rs. 15,83492.	None
29.	None
It was averred in the election petition that the total expenditure of Rs.	None
15,834.92 returned by the respondent as election expenditure under Rule 86 was a gross underestimate of the expenses incurred by the respondent in connection with the election, that the respondent had not included in the account various items of expenditure incurred and had also given grossly diminished figures in respect of items included therein, that it was obvious that his accounts did not reflect the expenditure actually incurred, but it only represented a fictitious figure manipulated with a view to conform to R. 90.	None
It was further averred that a large amount aggregating to Rs. 3 lakhs and more was spent for the purpose of the election.	None
After setting out certain argumentative matters, it was stated in the petition that the expenditure in respect of the following items had been sup pressed or diminished or reduced in the account rendered by the respondent 1) the amount of Rs. 1,192/ paid to Vijaya Auto Service under voucher dated April 30, 1967 for the purchase of diesel oil motorspirit and lubricants was not included 2.)	None
though in fact the respondent incurred and paid an amount of Rupees 10,000/ for the purchase of motor spirit from the Esso Standard Bunk, Srikakulam, only an expenditure of about Rs. 200/ was shown in the account of election expenses 3) that an amount of Rs. 6,000/ was spent for the purchase of motor spirit from Esso Standard Bunk, Sompet, but only Rs. 60794 were shown in the account 4) that various amounts aggregating to Rs. 10,000/ were paid at different bunks for motor spirit and diesel oil but those amounts had been deliberately suppressed from the account.	None
Thereafter five names of the proprietors of those petrol bunks were mentioned.	None
The petition then proceeded to say that the total expenditure incurred on motor spirit was far in excess of Rs. 1,000/ odd shown in the account rendered, and that the motor spirit purchased during the period from the motor spirit bunks at Srikakulam, Sompet, Itchapuram, Amadalavalasa and Takkali and other places was ridiculously low, that a number of lorries from outside or within the District were engaged by the respondent during the last week of the election for propaganda purposes, as also on the polling day for conveying voters to the polling stations, and the expenditure on diesel oil, drivers and cleaners in respect of those vehicles had not been included in the account.	None
The petition then referred to the expenditure on wall posters, on printing, distributing and exhibiting them was far below the amount incurred, and only an amount of Rs. 2,081/ was shown as expenditure incurred by the respondent in his account of election expenses on that account.	None
It was then stated that the expenditure incurred by the respondent in respect of cycle rickshaws and jutkas was not shown, that wages and maintenance of about 1,000 workers for about three weeks and about 1500 polling agents on the day of poll was not accounted for, that no expenditure incurred towards boarding and lodging of the workers at the election was accounted for that the amount of Rs. 4,000/ paid by the election agent of the respondent Venkayya to Sri Venkateswara Lodging Boarding, Srikakulam was suppressed in the account of election expenses and finally an amount of Rs. 500/incurred for the purchase of voters lists for the seven assembly constituencies was also not included.	None
30.	None
The case of the appellant was sought to be proved by examining a large number of distributors at petrol bunks from whom motorspirit was purchased on cash in respect of various vehicles.	None
It was sought to be proved that a large number of vehicles were used for his election campaign by the respondent and the expenditure incurred according to the appellant exceeded Rs. 23,000/ for motorspirit alone.	Arguments of Petitioner
A copy of a bank account maintained in the name of Latchanna with the Andhra Bank Ltd., Srikakulam, was tendered in evidence to support the case of the appellant that large amounts were withdrawn from time to time during the election days and it was suggested that all the money withdrawn was utilized by Latchanna for the election campaign of the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was the respondents case that Latchanna did not have custody of the funds intended to be used for the election campaign, that he the respondent had kept his money for the election campaign with one Kavuri Venkaiah and that the latter spent the amount for election purposes.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent said that the amount spent by him was partly his own and partly received from donations.	Arguments of Respondent
He denied that any election fund was opened by him, nor was such fund opened by Latchanna.	Arguments of Respondent
He further stated that apart from Rs. 3,500/ provided by him in cash and Rs. 5,000/ being the proceeds of a cheque received by him as donation, a sum of Rs. 6,000/ was handed over to Kavuri Venkaiah and that some postal money orders addressed to him were received by Venkaiah in his absence.	Arguments of Respondent
Those amounts were sent by his friends who were interested in him.	Arguments of Respondent
The total amount that was received by way of donations or contributions from others was Rs. 18,000/or Rs.	Arguments of Respondent
19,000/.	None
The entire amount was not spent for the election, and Venkaiah who had opened a bank account and kept the amounts in that account, returned the balance to him.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the respondent the expenses of the election were met out of the amounts maintained in K. Venkaiahs name and not from the monies that belonged to Latchanna or the Swatantra Party or any other person.	None
The case of the respondent was supported by Venkaiah.	None
Latchanna also supported that case.	None
Latchanna was the President of the State Swatantra Party.	None
He stated that in the general elections, the Swatantra Party had spent large amounts of money and had incurred debts, and in order to pay off those debts the party had asked for donations from members of the State Party and also the Central Party, that an appeal was also made to the press to invite donations and also a request was made to the Central Party to make some grants, that in March and April 1967 some amounts were received in respect of which he maintained an account with the State Bank, Srikakulam, and a joint account in the State Bank at Sompeta in the names of his wife and himself, that certain amounts were received in his name by cheques and drafts and they were put in the joint current account at Srikakulam.	None
but not one pie out of this account was used for the byeelection, and out of the amount that was left as balance after discharging debts he paid Rupees 16,000/ for the purchase of a jeep for the Central Party.	None
31.	None
A mere general allegation that more than Rs. 3 lakhs were spent by the respondent or his election agent or other persons for the purposes of the election is not sufficient to make out a case under Section 123(6) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951.	Reasoning
It is not sufficient merely to allege that large sums of money were spent for the purpose of the election.	None
32.	None
It is the case of the respondent that his friends and sympathisers sent him certain sums of money, and that whatever monies were received by him or in the name of his wife or by Venkaiah under his authority remained with Venkaiah.	Reasoning
These receipts aggregated to Rs. 19,000 out of which Rs. 15,83492 were spent for the election.	None
Expenditure, if any, incurred by the party which sponsored the candidature of a candidate cannot be taken into account for the purpose of determining whether the corrupt practice within the meaning of Section 123(7) was committed by the candidate.	None
In Rananjaya Singh v. Baijnath Singh AIR 1954 SC 749 this Court held that expenditure incurred by persons other than candidate for election purposes will not be taken into account (unless it is incurred by such third person as the candidates agent) in determining whether a corrupt practice was committed by the candidate see also Ram Dayal v. Brijraj Singh AIR 1970 SC 110 and Mahgraj Patodia v. R.K. Birla, C. A. No. 1069 (1094) of 1969 decided on September (1970) 2 SCC 888	None
It is true that Latchanna had from time to time withdrawn from the Andhra Bank various amounts of money.	None
Those amounts, he says, were utilised for satisfying the debts of the party incurred in the general elections There is no evidence to the contrary led by the appellant.	Reasoning
Nor is there any evidence to show that the respondent had received any amount in excess of Rs. 19,000/ out of which he claimed he had spent Rs. 15,83492.	None
33.	None
A considerable body of evidence was tendered by the appellant to prove that a large number of vehicles were used for the election campaign of the respondent.	None
Many witnesses were examined to support that case.	Reasoning
The High Court made a detailed analysis of the evidence and held that only four vehicles Nos. APK9486 jeep, (2) APU 7414 Ambassadorcar, (3) APY7719 Ambassadorcar and (4) APG4329 Fiatcar, were retained and used for election purposes and expenses for purchase of motorspirit and oil for those vehicles during the election days were shown in the account.	Reasoning
Besides this, in the view of the High Court two more vehicles Nos. APG2123 and APP97 were used for some time for the purpose of the election.	Reasoning
These two vehicles were taken by Balaram and Chitti Babu once to Kanchili petrol bunk, and to that extent they may be held to have been used for the errand of the respondent.	Reasoning
Taking into account this amount, the total amount in relation to the motorspirit used for Kanchili was Rupees 1,14113.	None
The High Court held that on the evidence, the cash bills which were produced by the appellant in respect of the motorspirit expenses were not connected with the motor vehicles of the respondent or of his agent or of any vehicles maintained by the respondent for election purposes.	None
The High Court found the books of account of Vijaya Auto Service and the petrol bunk of Malla Satyanarayana and Brothers at Kanchili unreliable, and held that only those billbooks may be taken into consideration which recorded transactions signed by persons admitted to be the agents of the respondent.	Reasoning
The High Court accordingly held that in addition to the amount admitted by the respondent an amount of Rs. 1,52121 was proved.	Reasoning
No substantial argument was advanced before us challenging the finding recorded by the learned Trial Judge on the question as to the expenditure incurred for the motor vehicles employed in the course of the election of the respondent, and we see no reason to disagree with the conclusion recorded by the High Court on a very elaborate and painstaking analysis of the evidence.	None
34.	None
It was urged that as many as 1100 persons were employed by the respondent during the election days in the campaign for the respondent, and besides their remuneration, expenses for their boarding and lodging were incurred by the respondent, and that amount was not disclosed in the account filed under Section 77(3).	Arguments of Petitioner
It was the case of the respondent that several persons had worked for the Swatantra Party candidate at the election According to the rules of the Swatantra Party they worked voluntarily, and no remuneration was paid to any of the workers, because payment of remuneration to any party workers was against the principles of that party.	None
The High Court held that transport charges and expenses for meals for the workers were not incurred by the respondent, but by the Swatantra Party.	Reasoning
In argument it was conceded there was nothing to show that any expenditure was incurred by the respondent for those workers.	Reasoning
Venkaiah had, it is said, paid under the directions of Latchanna certain amounts of money for the expenses incurred for the workers of the Swatantra Party.	Arguments of Respondent
But in the absence of any evidence to show that any specific sums of money were expended on certain items by the respondent or his election agent, no conjecture can be permitted to defeat a candidate who has been elected.	None
35.	None
Towards the boarding and lodging expenses of the workers, it appears, Simma Jagannadham, President of the District Swatantra Party had paid Rs. 5,000/ and Rs. 1,200/ after the election.	Reasoning
It was proved by the evidence that the party office was in the house of Simma Jagannadham.	Reasoning
The workers were lodged and boarded at a place called Sri Venkateswara Lodging and Boarding Lodge at Srikakulam, and the expenditure incurred for them was met by Sri Venkateswara Lodge.	Reasoning
The amounts which were paid by Simma Jagannadham were not shown to be paid towards the expenses of lodging and boarding of the workers at Sri Venkateswara Lodge.	Reasoning
The Manager of Sri Venkateswara Lodge apparently boarded and lodged those workers free of charge.	Reasoning
In the absence of any reliable evidence to the contrary, the finding of the High Court that no expenditure was incurred in respect of those workers by the respondent must be accepted.	Reasoning
36.	None
The appellants case that expenditure was incurred for wall posters and for printing, distributing and exhibiting them amounting to Rs. 2,081/ was not pressed, nor was the case about the expenditure incurred in respect of cyclerickshaws and jutkas pressed before us.	Reasoning
Even if it be granted that an amount of Rupee 500/ which was incurred for purchasing voters lists be taken into account the total amount proved to have been expended by the respondent does not exceed Rs. 25,000/ prescribed under the Act.	Reasoning
37.	None
We have carefully considered the evidence in the light of the arguments advanced at the Bar, and we are of the view that no case is made out for our interference with the conclusion recorded by the High Court.	Reasoning
38.	None
The appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.	Decision
