Srikrishna, J. The appellant is a charitable institution registered as a public trust which spends its receipts on charitable purposes and is partner in a firm known as Chandrika Enterprises.	Facts
By a partnership deed dated 1.4.1980 the appellant was inducted into the said partnership upon contribution of Rs. 1,000 to the total capital of Rs. 1,61,000 and given a share of 45 in the profit of the said firm.	Facts
There were in all 8 partners apart from the appellant and the partnership deed recited the contribution of each partner towards the capital of the firm as also the varying share of profit loss of each partner.	Facts
With effect from 1.10.1982 the partnership was reconstituted by a deed dated 1.10.1982.	Facts
A new partner, Smt.	Facts
M.U. Indira was inducted into the partnership.	Facts
Consequent upon the induction of said new partner, who contributed a sum of Rs. 25,000 towards the capital, the shares of the profit loss of all the partners were reshuffled, being increased in the case of some and reduced in the case of the others.	Facts
The share of profit loss of each partner prior to 11.10.1982 and thereafter is as under2.	Facts
Clause 9, 10, and 11 of the said partnership deed provide that all the partners had a right to carry on the business of the firm for the common advantage of the firm, though C.K. Jinan (Partner No.3) was to be the managing partner and in overall charge of the affairs of the firm and C.N. Purushuthaman (Partner No.1) was to be the administrative partner and incharge of the day to day affairs of the firm and allowed a salary of Rs. 1000 per month until otherwise decided by other partners.	Facts
The bank accounts of the firm were to be operated by the Managing partner C.K. Jinan or administrative partner C.N. Purushuthaman.	Facts
As a result of the reconstitution of the firm w.e.f. 1.10.1982, the appellants share in the profit loss of the firm was reduced from 45 to 30.3.	Facts
The Gift Tax Officer, taking the view that the reduction of the share of the profit loss of the appellant from 45 to 30 and redistribution in favour of the other partners amounted to a gift, issued a notice under section 16 of the Gift Tax Act calling upon the appellant assessee to file a return of a gift.	Facts
The assessee filed a return showing the value of the taxable gift at nil for the assessment year 198384.	None
By an assessment order dated 31.12.1985 the Assessing Officer held that relinquishment of 15 of the share of the the profits of the firm by the appellantassessee amounted to a gift and, therefore, attracted the provisions of the Gift Tax Act.	Facts
He took the average profits of the firm for the year 198283 to 197879 at Rs. 7,36,650 and, after reducing therefrom interest on capital 12 and managerial remuneration, arrived at 3 years purchase price at Rs. 21,16,000.	Facts
He worked out that 15 of this amount i.e. Rs. 3,17,400 had been surrendered without consideration by the assessee.	Facts
Consequently, after giving exemption under section 5(2) he held that amount of Rs.	None
23,12,400/ was liable to tax and directed payment of tax thereupon at Rs.	None
59,600/.	None
The appellantassessee challenged the assessment order by appeal before the Commissioner of Gift Tax (Appeals).	None
Two contentions were urged by the appellant assessee.	Facts
First, that there was no goodwill of the firm which was capable of being assessed in terms of money, and second, that inasmuch as M.U. Indira had made a capital contribution and was inducted as partner, there was no situation of a gift at all.	Facts
The appeal was dismissed.5.	Facts
The assessee carried the matter in appeal to the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal.	Facts
Before the tribunal the assessee did not seriously canvas the question of goodwill and the issue was held against the appellantassessee.	None
The tribunal took the view that the question, whether there had been a gift of a share by the assessee in the goodwill of the firm, would depend on whether the value of the assets of the firm exceeded its total liabilities.	Facts
Since there was no material on this aspect of the matter, it would normally be necessary to remand the matter, but since the assessee was liable to succeed on another contention there was no need to remand the matter to the Assessing Officer.	Facts
The tribunal took note of the fact that the incoming partner, Smt. M.U. Indira, had contributed Rs. 25,000/ as her share of the capital the usefulness of her service to the firm had not been disputed by the Revenue.	Facts
Though the Revenue was of the view that the incoming partner had been given her share only on account of the reduction of the share of the appellant, it was only partly true.	Facts
The Tribunal pointed out that it was not a case of mere reduction of the share of the appellant, the difference being allotted to the incoming partner, but it was a case of complete realignment of the shares of all the partners consequent upon reconstitution of the firm and that unless and until interest of the concerned partner is ascertained and quantified it could not be said that the consideration for transfer is adequate or not.	Facts
Relying upon the judgment of this Court in Sunil Siddharthbhai vs. Commissioner of Incometax, Ahmedabad (156 ITR 509) , the tribunal held that even though there was a transfer by the assessee in favour of the incoming partner and the existing partners, inasmuch as the consideration for the transfer, which is the right to get the value of his share for the partner, cannot be valued during the subsistence of the partnership, it was not possible to consider and quantify the question of adequacy or inadequacy of consideration.	Facts
In such an event, it could not be held that there was any gift exigible to tax.6.	Facts
The Revenue sought for and obtained a reference of the following two questions to the High Court under Section 26(1) of the Gift Tax Act.	Facts
The two questions referred to the High Court were Whether on the fats and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal is right in law and fact in holding that even though the reconstitution of the firm resulted in the reduction of the share of profit of the assesseetrust, there was not gift exigible to tax in its hands?2) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal is right in law and fact in holding that even though there was a transfer by the assessee in favour of the incoming partner and existing partners, the consideration for the transfer could not be evaluated during the subsistence of the partnership and so the question of adequacy or inadequacy of consideration could not be quantified and so there was not gift exigible to tax?	Facts
The High Court answered the questions in the negative and against the assessee.	Issue
The Assessee is in appeal by special leave.	Issue
The learned counsel for the appellantassessee urged two contentions.	Arguments of Petitioner
First, that in view of the judgment of this Court in Sunil Siddharthbhai case (supra), as the value of the share of the partnership cannot be ascertained as on the date of induction of the new partner, and since the adequacy or inadequacy of consideration cannot be quantified, the same cannot be exigible to tax.	Arguments of Petitioner
Second, in any event, on reconstitution of the partnership, where there is contribution of capital by a new partner and consequent readjustment of the shares of the profit loss of the existing partners, it does not result in a taxable gift since it was obligatory on all the partners to participate in the business and do the work of the firm which, taken together with the contribution made by the incoming partner, was adequate consideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the Revenue however, contends that the judgment of this Court in Sunil Siddharthbhai case (supra) is distinguishable as applicable only to a situation falling under section 45 read with section 48 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and in any event the judgment of this Court in Commissioner of Gift Tax Gujarat vs. Chhotelal (166 ITR 124) this Court has found that even in such a situation the readjustment of the shares of the profit share amounts to a taxable gift.	Arguments of Respondent
In Sunil Siddharthbhai (supra) the assessee was a partner of a firm and he made over to the firm certain shares in a company which were held by him.	None
These were credited to the partners capital account in the book of the firm.	None
The question was whether there was any capital gain which resulted from the transfer of the shares held by the partner to the firm as its capital contribution and whether there was any transfer, within the meaning of section 24 of the Income Tax Act, 1961, of the shares contributed by the partner as capital to the firm.	None
This Court opined that when a partner brings in his personal assets into the partnership firm as his contribution to the capital he reduces his exclusive rights to the assets with the other partners of the firm.	None
Although he may not loss his right in the assets altogether, he enjoys thereafter an abridged right which cannot be identified with a full right which he enjoyed in the assets before it was thrown into the partnership capital.	None
The assets which were originally subject to entire ownership of the partner become subsequently subject to the rights of the other partners in it.	None
To that extent this Court held that there was a transfer of the assets.	None
On the question as to whether there was capital gain this Court was of the view that the evaluation of a partners interest takes place only upon dissolution of the firm or upon his retirement therefrom.	None
What was the exclusive interest of the partner in his personal asset upon its introduction into the partnership firm transforms into the interest shared with the other partners in that asset.	None
Qua that asset, there is a shared interest.	None
During the subsistence of the partnership, the value of the interest of each partner qua that asset cannot be isolated or carved out from the value of the partners interest in the totality of the partnership assets.	None
And in regard to the latter, the value will be represented by his share in the net assets on the dissolution of the firm or upon the partners retirement.	None
It was, hence, held Having regard to the nature and quality of the consideration which the partner may be said to acquire on introducing his personal asset into the partnership firm as his contribution to its capital, it cannot be said that any income or gain arises or accrues to the assessee in the true commercial sense which a businessman would understand as real income or gain.	None
Learned counsel for the Revenue relied on the judgment of this Court in Commission of Gift Tax, Gujarat vs. Chhotalal Mohanlal 166 ITR 124 .	Arguments of Respondent
In that case a partner of a partnership firm having retired, two minor sons of an existing partner were admitted to the benefits of the partnership.	None
This Court held that relinquishment of the share of an existing partner in favour of the minors who are admitted to the benefits of the partnership without any consideration amounted to a gift by the said partner in favour of the minors.	Reasoning
The reason was that the goodwill of the firm is the property of the firm and, upon admission of the two minors to the benefits of the partnership, the right to the money value of the capital stands transferred.	Reasoning
Since this transfer is without consideration, insofar as minors are concerned, the transaction would amount to a taxable gift under the gift tax.	Reasoning
The judgment of this Court in B.T. Patil and sons vs. Commissioner of Gift Tax 247 ITR 589 is also pressed into service by the learned counsel for the Revenue.	Arguments of Respondent
This was a case where the assessee partner transferred certain items of machinery to each of its five partners and debited their accounts with the consideration charged therefor.	None
The consideration was on the basis of the writtendown value of the machinery in the books of accounts.	None
Within a short time the partners floated another partnership and brought in the said machinery as their capital contribution thereto at a value which was almost three times the written down value.	None
The newly floated partnership sold the machinery to another concern for a still higher price.	None
The Gift Tax Officer held that the assessee firm had made a gift of the machinery to each of its five partners for inadequate consideration and, therefore, the transaction was assessable to gift tax.	None
This Court distinguished the judgment in Sunil Siddharthabhai (supra) and held that when there is a dissolution of partnership or a partner retires and obtains in lieu of his interest in the firm an asset of the firm, no transfer is involved for the reason set out in the passage quoted above.	None
But the position is very different, when, during the subsistence of a partnership, an asset of the partnership becomes the asset of only one of the partners thereof, there is, in such a case, a transfer of that asset by the partnership to the individual partner.	None
Where such transfer is for less than the value of that asset, there is a deemed gift to the extent of the difference under the provisions of section 4(1)(a) of the Gift Tax Act, 1958.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the Revenue contended that what was said by this Court in B.T. Patil case (supra) was equally applicable to the case of the present appellant before us.13.	Reasoning
Although it may be possible to say in the appellants case that relinquishment of the share of a profit loss by a partner in favour of the inducted partner may amount to a transfer, we are unable to accept the contention that it was for inadequate consideration so as to amount to a taxable gift within the meaning of section 4(1)(a) of the Gift Tax Act.	Reasoning
The learned counsel for the assessee has drawn our attention to the judgment of the Karnataka High Court in D.C. Shah vs. Commissioner of Gift Tax, Karnataka 134 ITR 493.	None
That was also a case where, upon reconstitution of the firm, an incoming partner who contributed certain amount of capital was given a share in the partnership which was relinquished in his favour by an existing partner.	None
The High Court held that having regard to the nature and constitution of a firm and the implication of the judgment of the Supreme Court in Gheevarghese case 1972 ITR 83, 403 a mere reallocation of shares would not result in a gift.	Reasoning
The fact that there was some contribution by the incoming partners coupled with the obligation under the partnership deed upon the incoming partner to participate in the business and work for it diligently would constitute adequate consideration.	Reasoning
There was an obligation upon all the partners to work for the progress of the business, albeit for administration convenience or overall guidance one of them might have been nominated as a managing partner, but that does not mean that the service to be rendered by other partners was either negligible or in any way diminished or could be left out of account.	Reasoning
Hence, it was held that there was adequate consideration for the transfer by way of reallocation of shares.	Reasoning
The judgment in DC Shah (supra) came to be appealed to this Court at the instance of the Revenue.	Reasoning
The appeal came to be disposed of by this Court by a judgment in Civil Appeal Nos. 455156 of 1984 on September 25, 1996, wherein it was held that the share of one partner is decreased and that of another partner correspondingly increased does not lead to the inference that the former had gifted out to the latter.	Reasoning
The profit sharing ratio in a firm can vary for a number of reasons, among them the ability of partners to devote time to the business of the firm.	Reasoning
The gift of a partners share to another partner has to be established be relevant evidence.	Reasoning
The onus of doing so is on the Revenue.	Reasoning
It has not been discharged in the present case.	Reasoning
The facts found in the present case are that the incoming partner (M.U. Indira) had contributed Rs. 25,000 towards her share of the capital.	Reasoning
The value of her services or usefulness to the firm as partner has not been disputed by the Revenue authorities.	Reasoning
As pointed out by this Court in D.C.	Reasoning
Shah case (supra), the mere fact that upon reconstitution of the firm the share of one partner decreased and that of another increased cannot lead to the inference that the former had gifted the difference to the incoming partner.	Reasoning
There is no other material placed on record by the Revenue to show that, in the facts and circumstances of the case, particularly taking into consideration the obligations of all the partners in the partnership deed dated 1.10.1982, there was inadequate consideration for the reallocation of 12 of the share in favour of the incoming partner.	Reasoning
In our view, the contribution of Rs. 25,000 towards the capital together with the obligations undertaken of sincerely and faithfully carrying on the business for common advantage of the firm was adequate consideration for reallocating the share of the profits and giving 12 of the share in favour of the incoming partner M.U. Indira.	Reasoning
That C.K. Jinan was the managing partner and C.N. Purushuthaman was the administrative head, did not take away the obligations of the other partners including those of M.U. Indira which arose generally under the Partnership Act, as well as under the partnership deed dated 1.10.1982.15.	Reasoning
We are of the view that even assuming that there was a transfer of 12 of the share profit loss in favour of the incoming partner M.U. Indira by the appellant assessee, it was not a situation of transfer for inadequate consideration so as to amount to a taxable gift within the meaning of section 4(1)(a) of the Gift Tax Act, 1958.16.	Reasoning
In the result, we answer the question no. 1 against the Revenue and in favour of the assessee.	Decision
In view of our answer thereto, it is not necessary to answer the second question.	Decision
The appeal is accordingly allowed and the judgment of the High Court is set aside.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs.	Decision
