 DUTT, J.	None
In these writ peti tions, the petitioners are former officers and employees of the Caltex Oil Refining (India) Ltd., which has since been amalgamated with the Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited.	Facts
The complaint of the petitioners is with regard to the inter se fitment of the officers and employees of the Caltex Oil Refining (India) Ltd. and the other two Companies which have also been amalgamated with Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd., namely, ESSO Standard Refining Company of India Ltd. and	Facts
Lube India Ltd.	None
In 1974, the Undertakings in India of ESSO Eastern Inc. that is, ESSO Standard Refining Company of India Ltd. (for short ESSO) and Lube India Ltd. (for short LIL) were acquired by the ESSO (Acquisition of Undertakings in India) Act, 1974 and vested in Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (for short HPCL), a Government Company.	None
In 1977, the shares of Caltex Oil Refining (India) Ltd. and Undertakings in India of Caltex (India) Ltd. were acquired by the Caltex (Ac quisition of Shares of Caltex Oil Refining (India) Ltd. and the Undertakings in India of Caltex (India) Ltd. Act, 1977 and vested in Caltex Oil Refining (India) Ltd. (for short CORIL), a Government Company.	Facts
On May 5, 1978, by the order of the C ompany Law Board, CORIL was amalgamated with HPCL.	None
By an order dated June 17, 1978, the Central Government appointed a oneman Committee of Mr. B.B. Tandon, IAS (Retd.), for the purpose of examining the problems arising out the the integrati on of the management staff of CORIL and HPCL.	Facts
The said Committee was to make recommendation inter alia on the following fitment in equivalent Groups(ii) criteria to be adopted for determination of seniori ty and fixation of inter se seniority and(iii) placement in appropriate positions.	None
In September, 1970, the Tandon Committee submitted a report to the Central Government recommending that for equating positions in the two companies and fitting them in equivalent groups, the f ollowing two principles should be followed1.	Facts
The principle of functional similarity.2.	Facts
The principle of coequal responsibility.	None
We shall have occasion to refer to the report of the Tandon Committee later in this judgment, for much relian ce has been placed by the petitioners on the report.	None
While the report of the Tandon Committee was under the consideration of the Central Government, HPCL appointed two functional directors for the purpose of formulating a rationalisation scheme.	Facts
In this connection, we may refer to a letter dated July 28, 1979 of the Central Government whereby it advised HPCL that the payscales and perquisites of management and employees in the nationalised oil companies should be ratio nalised and fitted into the payscales of the Indian Oil Corporation, hereinafter referred to as IOC, a public sector Company.	Facts
Further, it was stated in the said letter that the guiding principle to be adopted for the purpose was to find out the equivalence, that is to say, the equality of duty and also the equality of responsibility.	None
On July 7, 1980, a circular letter was issued by HPCLannexing thereto a rationalisation scheme consisting of two pans.	None
In the first part, the past service benefits that would be admissible to each employee of CORIL on the basis of existing payscales and in the second pan, details were given of the rationalised conditions of service, payscales, perquisites and retirement benefits.	Facts
In the circular it was stated as follows In relation to your fitment or fixation of salary in the proposed rationa lised scales, should you have any grievance you will be at liberty to represent your case to a Grievance Committee, which has been specially constituted for the purpose.	Facts
I am directed to request you to signify your acceptance of this offer within 30 days from the date of receipt of this letter by returning the duplicate copy of this letter duly signed by you.	Facts
On receipt of your acceptance, consequent letters will be issued.	None
In the scheme the payscales of ESSO, LIL and CORIL sought to be equated with the payscales of HPCL are as followsFrom ESSO To HPCL HPCL Salary Group Salary Group Salary Scale RS.	Facts
E7, E8 A 750401150501550 E6 B 1050501450601750 367 E5, E5A C 1450601690651950 E4 D 1600652120 E  3 E 18501002350 E2 F 20001002500	Facts
O E1 Unclassified G 22501002750 General Manager H 25001003000 From LIL	Facts
To HPCL HPCL Salary Group Salary Group Salary Scale L7 A 750401150501550 L6 B 1050501450601750 L5 C 1450601690651950 L4 D 1600652120 L 3 E 18501002350 L 2 F 20001002350 L 1 G 22501002750 General Manager H 25001003000 From CORIL To HPCL HPCL Salary Group Salary Group Salary Scale R6 A, R6 B A 7594 01150501550 R7 A, R7 B B 1050501450601750	Facts
R8 C 1450601690651950 R9 D 160065 2 120 R 10 E 18501002350 R 11 F 20001002500 R 12 G 22501002750 General Manager H 25001003000.	None
So far as CORIL is concerned, it appears that it has 10 grades, while HPCL has 8 Grades.	None
For, the purpose of equa tion of these 10 grades of CORIL with 8 Grades of HPCL, some compression has been made in the lower Grades, namely, R6 A and R6 B have been clubbed together and equated with Grade A of HPCL.	Facts
Again Grades R7 A and R7 B of CORIL have been clubbed together and equat ed with Grade B of HPCL.	Facts
In ESSO, .the Grades E7 and E8 have been clubbed together and equated with Grade A of HPCL.	Facts
In the Salary Group of ESSO, the Grades E5 and ESA have been shown to be two different Grades, but it is not disputed before u s that these two Grades are really one Grade.	Facts
The complaint of the petitioners is that in the matter of fitment integration of the officers of CORIL, that is, the petitioners, and the officers of ESSO LIL into HPCL IOC Grades, gross dispar ities have been made to the prejudice of the officers of CORIL.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the case of the petitioners that the officers of CORIL have been fitted by HPCL consist ently in one or two Grades lower in HPCL visavis their counterparts in ESSO LIL, perf orming similar duties andhaving similar responsibilities and status.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged on behalf of CORIL that in integrating the officers CORIL with those of ESSO and LIL, HPCL did not make any attempt to equate all the positions held by the officer s of CORIL with those held by the officers of ESSO LIL.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that before any fitment can be made into any scale of pay, it is incumbent to make an equation of posts and without such equation the officers of CORIL could not be fitted into the payscales of HPCL along with the officers of ESSO and LIL.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of the contention that HPCL has not made any equation of posts before fitment in HPCL IOC scales of pay, Mr. Sachar, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the petition ers, has placed much reliance on the Tandon Commit tees Report.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the said report, the post of General Sales Representative of ESSO has been equated with the post of Retail Development Supervisor of CORIL.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the scheme pre pared by HPCL, the post of General Sales Representative of ESSO (E6) and that of Depot Superintendent (E6) have been placed in the Salary Group B of HPCL, while the post of Retail Development Supervisor (R6A) and Depot Superintend ent Relief Depot Superintendent (R6B) of CORIL have been placed in the Salary Group A of HPCL.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Tandon Committees Report, it has been observed that the functional similari ties and the responsibility carried by both these function aries, namely, Retail Development Superviso r of CORIL and General Sales Representative of ESSO, are alike.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, it has been observed that since these two posts are congruent, they can be fitted in the same Group, that is, in Group B of the new HPCL Grade Structure representing IOC scales of pay.	Arguments of Petitioner
The post of Depot Super intendentA (R7B) and that of Mar keting Representative (R7A) of CORIL have been placed in the Salary Group B of HPCL, but similar posts of ESSO being E5/E5A have been placed in the Salary Group C of HPCL.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is thus complained that the scheme, which has been prepared by HPCL, is arbitrary and is not based on a proper equation of posts.	None
On the other hand, it is the case of HPCL that before the rationalisation scheme was finalised.	Arguments of Respondent
HPCL EmployeesManagemen t 369 Staff Association and CORIL Staff Association submitted their written submissions on December 6, 1977 and July 17, 1977 respectively.	Arguments of Respondent
These representations were considered by the Government and after several meetings between the Chief Execut ives of HPCL and CORIL and the Secretary and other senior officers of the Ministry and Bureau of Public Enter prise, Government formulated the guidelines for rationalisa tion and communicated its decision to both CORIL and HPCL by its letter dated July 28, 1979.	Arguments of Respondent
With a view to giving a further opportunity to the employees of erstwhile ESSO and CORIL group of officers, the Chairman of HPCL appointed two Committees to submit their recommendations as to the equiva lence and fitment of existing officers on the basis of IOCs scales of pay in accordance with the Government guidelines.	Arguments of Respondent
HPCL considered the reports submitted by the said two Com mittees and also different methods of fitment and equiva lence of different payscales of ESSO, LI L and CORIL with the payscales of IOC and, keeping in view all these factors including the submissions made by the Officers Association through their representations, HPCL approved the proposal of rationalisation of payscales, allowances and perqui sites.	Arguments of Respondent
Accordingly, an offer letter dated July 7, 1980 together with the terms and conditions of new appointment as per the rationalisation scheme was sent to each of the employees.	Arguments of Respondent
The further case of HPCL is that without exception every one of t he CORIL Management Employees accepted the fresh terms offered to them by the said letter dated July 7, 1980.	None
It is, accordingly, contended by Mr. Pai, learned Coun sel appearing on behalf of HPCL, that the impugned rational isation scheme having b een finalised after repeated consul tations with the officers of CORIL and their Association and all the officers of CORIL having accepted in writing the said scheme, they are precluded from challenging the same.	None
Another fact, upon which relian ce has been placed on behalf of HPCL, is an order of this Court dated December 17, 1979 passed in Civil Appeal No. 3214 of 1979 whereby HPCLchallenged the judgment of the Delhi High Court quashing a circular dated March 8, 1978 issued by the Board of Direc tors of CORIL, on the writ petition filed by the employees of CORIL being Writ Petition No. 426 of 1978.	Arguments of Respondent
Two other appeals being Civil Appeal No. 3212 of 1979 and Civil Appeal No. 35 186 of 1979 were also filed by the officers of CORIL and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. respectively.	Arguments of Respondent
The said order is as follows The petitionerCorporation will be at liberty to frame a 370 scheme, if it wishes to do so, in accordance with the judg ment of the High Court under appeal.	Arguments of Respondent
If the s cheme is framed, it will not be implemented for a period of three weeks from the date of its framing and the respondents will be at liberty within the period of 3 weeks to apply to this Court for stay.	Arguments of Respondent
This order will be without prejudice to the ri ghts and contentions of the petitionerCorporation in the appeal.	None
Admittedly, no application was made to this Court by the officers of CORIL praying for stay of the rationalisation scheme within a period of three weeks.	Reasoning
Relying on the said order of this Court and also on the fact that no application for stay was made to this Court within the period allowed, it is submitted on behalf of HPCL that the petitioners accepted the rationalisation scheme which is also evidenced by their written acceptance.	Reasoning
If they had any objection to the scheme, they would have surely made a representation to this Court in the said Civil Appeal No. 3214 of 1979 which was then pending.	None
In the writ petition, the petitioners have emphatically denied the allegation of HPCL that discussions were made with individuals and groups of Management Staff of CORIL with regard to the rationalisation scheme.	Reasoning
As to the accept ance of the rationalisation scheme, the case of the peti tioners is that on July 12, 1980 a news item appeared in the Bombay edition of the Times of India to the effect that under the scheme of rationalisation, the services of nearly 950 officers of HPCL would be terminated, and that suchofficers would simultaneously be re appointed on the basis of public sector salary.	Reasoning
In view of the said news, the peti tioners filed an application in this Court in the said Civil Appeals praying for stay or suspension of the operation of the said offer letter dated July 7, 1980 and fo r restraining HPCL from terminating the services of the Management Staff of CORIL pending the disposal of the Civil Appeals.	Reasoning
HPCL filed an affidavit in opposition to the said application of the petitioners to the effect that no decision had bee n taken by HPCL to terminate the services of the officers of CORIL.	Reasoning
Accordingly, this Court disposed of the said applica tion recording that in view of the said affidavit of HPCL, no order was needed to be passed.	Reasoning
Further, the case of the petitioner s is that in spite of the said order of this Court, the petitioners still apprehended that HPCL would terminate the services of the petitioners in the event of their refusal to accept the said scheme and, as such, the petitioners under dur ess were forced to signify their con sent to the said scheme.	Reasoning
We have considered the explanation of the petitioner justifying the acceptance of the said offer letter dated July 7, 1988 and the rationalisation scheme sent therewith and also the contention of HPCL in that regard.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the apprehension of the petitioners that in the event of their refusal to accept the scheme, their services will be terminated cannot be rejected on the face of it.	Reasoning
It may be that there was no reasonable basis for such apprehen sion, but the plea that because of such apprehension the petitioners had no other alternative than to accept the scheme, cannot be disbelieved.	Reasoning
At the same time, we do not also put any blame on HPCL fo r implementing the said scheme which was accepted by the petitioners and other officers of CORIL.	Reasoning
Instead of disposing of these writ petitions on this technical grounds, we may proceed to consider the respective contentions of the parties on merits.	None
The main grievance of the petitioners appears to be that in the rationalisation scheme a compression has been made atthe lower level, namely, Grades R6 A and R6 B have been clubbed together and instead of placing them in the Salary Group B of HPC L, as has been done for the equivalent Grade E6 of ESSO, they have been placed in the Salary Group A of HPCL.	Issue
Similarly, the Grades R7 A and R7 B have been clubbed together and placed in Salary Group B of HPCL, while the equivalent Grade of ESSO ha s been placed in the Salary Group C of HPCL.	Issue
The contention of the petitioners is that the compres sion should have been made at the higher grades, namely, Grades R11 and R12 and the Grade of General Manager.	None
This is not for this Court to say whether the compression should have been made in the lower grades or in the higher grades.	Arguments of Petitioner
By such compression, Grades R6 A and R7 A have been upgraded and the persons placed in those Grades have been benefited by such upgradation.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is much subst ance in the conten tion made on behalf of HPCL that if compression had been made in the upper grades, there would be much complications and, moreover, such compression in the upper grades was not convenient to be made in view of functional differen ces.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Grade of General Manager cannot be clubbed together with a lower grade.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the circumstances, we are unable to accept the contention of the petitioners that the compression should have been made in the higher grades of CORIL.	Arguments of Petitioner
The most important question that requires consideration is whether in framing the rationalisation scheme HPCL has really made the equation of posts of CORIL with those of ESSO LIL.	None
It is the 372 positive case of the petitioners that no such equation has been made and the fitment of the officers of CORIL and those of ESSO LIL in the IOC HPCL scales of pay have been made without the equation of posts, which is a sine qua non for integration of officers coming from different sources.	Reasoning
The petitioners have mainly relied upon the recommendation of the Tandon Committee that General Sales Representative of ESSO has been equated with the post of Retail Development Supervisor of CORIL.	Reasoning
In the scheme prepared by HPCL, thepost of General Sales Representative of ESSO and that of Depot Superintendent have been placed in the Salary Group B of HPCL, while the post of Retail Development Supervisor and Depot Superintendent Relief Depot Superintendent of CORIL have been placed in the Salary Grou p A of HPCL.	Reasoning
As against this, the contention of HPCL is that the two Committees that were appointed by the Chairman of HPCL considered the different methods of fitment and equivalence of different payscales of ESSO, LIL and CORIL with the payscales of IOC.	Arguments of Respondent
Except the bare allegation, no material has been produced before us on behalf of HPCL to show that the said Committees had, as a matter of fact, considered the question of equation of posts on the basis of the principle as laid do wn by the Central Government while referring the matter to the Tandon Committee, namely, functional similari ty and coequal responsibility.	Arguments of Respondent
In the affidavits filed on behalf of HPCL, no particulars have been given with regard to the functional equiv alence or otherwise of the different grades of these officers of CORIL, ESSO and LIL.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also not stated what happened to the consideration by the Govern ment of the Tandon Committees report.	Arguments of Respondent
There can be no doubt that the Government is not bound t o accept the recommenda tion of the Tandon Committee but, at the same time, the equation of posts has to be made on the principle of func tional equivalence and coequal responsibility.	Arguments of Respondent
As no mate rials have been produced in that regard on beh alf of HPCL, it is difficult for us to hold that the different grades of posts have been compared before placing the officers of these companies in the IOC HPCL scales of pay.	Arguments of Respondent
While it is not within the domain of the Court to make the equation o f posts for the purpose of integration, it is surely the concern of the Court to see that before the integration is made and consequent fitment of officers in different grades scales of pay is effected, there must be an equation of differ ent posts in accordance with the principle stated above.	Arguments of Respondent
As there is no evidence or material in support of such equation of posts, it is difficult to accept the ra tionalisation scheme with regard to the placing of theofficers of CORIL in d ifferent IOC HPCL grades of pay.	Arguments of Respondent
The petitioners approached the Grievance Committee, but the Grievance Committee did not consider the objections of the petitioners to the said scheme.	None
In our opinion, there is much substance in the contention made on behalf of HPCL that it was not the business of the Grievance Committee to con sider the propriety or otherwise of the rationalisation scheme, but if any officer has not been placed in the proper grade, the Grievance Committee may place such of ficer in the proper grade in accordance with the rationalisation scheme.	Facts
Be that as it may, in the view which we take, namely, that there has been no equation of posts, the rationalisa tion scheme cannot be accepted in full.	Reasoning
The prayer of the petitioners in the writ petition is for a declaration that the said scheme is violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India and for a writ, order or direction in the nature of mandamus directing HPCL to remove the discrim ination aga inst the petitioners in regard to the impugned rationalisation scheme.	Reasoning
The question is whether we should set aside the scheme after the lapse of about eight years.	None
During these eight years, by virtue of implementation of the scheme, many changes have taken place with regard to the positions and ranks of the officers of HPCL including the petitioners and to set aside the whole scheme at this stage would surely affect the service structure of HPCL.	None
We are also not obliv ious of the order of this Court dated July 20, 1984 record ing the statement made in the affidavit of HPCL that if this Court would ultimately decide the matter in favour of the petitioners, HPCL would accord to them all the benefits which they would be en titled to.	Reasoning
That is an undertaking given by HPCL, but we should also look to the interest of several officers of HPCL who would be affected, if the scheme is set aside.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, without setting aside the scheme, we direct HPC L to appoint a Committee consisting of high officials of HPCL and Central Government, other than thosewho were in the previous Committees, within one month from date for the purpose of considering the question of equation of posts on the basis of fu nctional similarity, equivalence and coequal responsibility, that is to say, whether on that basis Grades R6 A and R6 B of CORIL, either jointly or separately, can be equated with the Grade E6 of ESSO and, similarly, Grades R7 A and R7 B of CORI L, either jointly or separately, can be equated with Grade E5/E5A of ESSO.	Decision
In considering the question of equation of posts, the respond ents shall also take into its consideration the report of the Tandon Committee.	Decision
Such consideration shall be 3 74 made within six months from today.	Decision
If such equation is found to be in favour of the petitioners, HPCL shall give effect to the same.	Decision
But, in view of the lapse of about eight years for which the petitioners are also to some extent responsi ble, the date or dates from which the consequential benefit will be given effect to and also the quantum of such benefit will be such as may be deemed fit and proper by the respond ents, having regard to the financial involvement and the changes that have tak en place.	Decision
We make it clear that, in no event, promotions and the existing positions of the officers of HPCL, by virtue of the implementation of the impugned scheme, will be interfered with.	Decision
The writ petitions are disposed of as above.	None
There will be no order as to costs.	Decision
P.S.S Petitions allowed.	Decision
