 Ray, J. 1.	None
These appeals are by certificate against the judgment and order dated 16 April, 1968 of the High Court of Mysore dismissing the applications of the appellants under Article 226 of the Constitution for writs, orders and directions prohibiting the respondentState of Mysore and the Commissioner for Commercial Taxes at Bangalore from levying or taking proceedings to levy any purchase tax on purchase of sugarcane from the grower or from collecting or taking any proceedings for recovery of any such tax with or without penalty from the appellants.	Issue
The appellants also asked for orders, writs and directions for refund of several sums of money collected as and for purchase tax.	Issue
2.	None
The appellants are the India Sugars and Refineries Ltd. and	Facts
the Salar Jung Sugar Mills Ltd.	Facts
The India Sugars and Refineries Ltd. is situated at Hospet in Bellary District in Mysore and the Salar Jung Sugar Mills Ltd. is situated at Munirabad in Raichur District in Mysore.	Facts
3.	None
The appellant, the Indian Sugars and Refineries Ltd. in four applications now Civil Appeals No. 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2014 of 1968 impeached the demand and collection made against the appellant for large sums of money as and for purchase tax and penalty on the purchase of sugarcane from the growers for the period 1April, 1962 to 30 June, 1967 and further asked for refund of large sum of money collected as purchase tax.	Facts
4.	None
The appellant Salar Jung Sugar Mills Ltd. in four applications now Civil Appeals No. 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2002 of 1968 asked for similar orders and directions in respect of the period 1 July, 1963 to 30 June, 1967.	Facts
5.	None
In the fifties practically all the States in which sugarcane was grown for the purpose of manufacturing sugar used to levy cess on sugarcane brought into the premises of sugar factories.	Facts
This Court in Diamond Sugar Mills v. State of U. P. (1961) 3	Facts
SCR 242 (AIR 1961 SC 652 ) held that Section 3 of the U. P. Sugarcane Cess Act, 1956 which empowered the Governor of the State to impose cess on entry of sugarcane into the premises of a factory did not fall within Entry 52 of List II and as there was no entry in the State List or in the Concurrent List in which the said Act could fall, it was beyond the legislative competence of the State Legislature.	Facts
The decision of this Court was given on 13 December, 1960.	Facts
The Sugarcane Cess (Validation) Act, 1961 was passed by Parliament validating the imposition of collection of cess on sugarcane under several State enactments before the commencement of the Validation Act of 1961.	Facts
6.	None
The Mysore State Legislature imposed tax on purchase of sugarcane into force on 1 October, 1961, by Mysore Act No. 11 of 1961 which cane purchased by sugar factories.	Facts
Sugarcane was included at Serial No. 11A in the Third Schedule to the Mysore Sales Tax Act, 1957 The relevant provision in the Mysore Act is as follows11A SugarcanePurchased by the last dealer in the State liable to tax under this Act.	Facts
fifteen per cent.	None
7.	None
As a result of the amendment the appellants were subjected to levy of tax on purchase of sugarcane.	Facts
8.	None
The appellants raised three principal contentions.	Arguments of Petitioner
First, there was no mutual assent by and between the appellants and the growers of sugarcane in regard to supply of sugarcane by the growers and the acceptance by the factories and therefore there was no purchase and sale of sugarcane.	Arguments of Petitioner
Secondly, the appellants are not dealers within the meaning of Section 2 (k) of the Mysore Sales Tax Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Third, the levy of tax on purchase of sugarcane at different rates in different States was discriminatory and in violation of Article 14.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
In order to appreciate the rival contentions on the first ground as to whether there was a purchase or sale of sugarcane the relevant legislation has to be looked into and facts and circumstances have to be ascertained for finding out as to what the actual transaction was.	Issue
10.	None
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 the Central Government in 27 August, 1955 made the Sugarcane Control Order, 1955.	Facts
The Central Government was empowered by Clause 3 of the Sugarcane Control Order, 1955 to fix the minimum price of sugarcane to be paid by purchasers of sugarcane.	Facts
Sale or purchase of sugarcane at a price lower than the price fixed under Section 3 was prohibited.	Facts
The Central Government however, could fix an additional price under certain circumstances and contingencies.	Facts
Clause 4 of the Order of 1955 gave the Government power to prohibit or restrict or otherwise regulate export of sugarcane from any area for supply to different factories and also to direct that no juggery or sugar shall be manufactured from sugarcane except under and in accordance with the conditions specified in a licence issued in that behalf.	Facts
11.	None
On 4 October, 1963 in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Defence of India Act, 1962 the Central Government introduced Rule 125B to the Defence of India Rules.	Facts
Rule 125B inter alia stated that if the Central Government was of opinion that it was necessary or expedient for regulating or increasing the supply of sugarcane or for securing the equitable distribution of sugarcane the Central Government could pass orders to reserve areas where sugarcane was grown for a factory determine the quantity of sugarcane which a factory would require for crushing during a year fix with respect to any specified sugarcane grower in a reserved area the quantity or percentage of sugarcane grown by the such grower for supply to the factory concerned require a factory to enter into an agreement with the grower to purchase the quantity of sugarcane so determined and further direct that no sugarcane shall be exported from a reserved area except under and in accordance with a permit issued by the Central Government.	Facts
12.	None
On 26 September, 1963 sugar was notified under Rule 125B of the Defence of India Rules as a thing essential to the life of the community.	Facts
On 7 October, 1963 the Central Government directed that the powers conferred by Rule 125B of the Defence of India Rules shall be exercised by the State Government.	Facts
13.	None
In this background the Mysore Government on 14 November, 1963 in exercise of the powers conferred by Rule 125B of the Defence of India Rules brought into existence the Mysore Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply) Order, 1963.	Facts
In Schedule I of the Order factories were specified and reserved areas were enumerated in the said Schedule for supply of sugarcane to the specified factory and the sugarcane growers in the reserved areas were to supply 95 per cent.	Facts
of sugarcane grown to the factory concerned.	Facts
Every factory to which supply of sugarcane was to be made was required to enter into an agreement with each sugarcane grower to purchase the quantity of sugarcane determined.	Facts
Purchase of sugarcane by power crusher or for manufacture of gur, shakkar, gul, jaggery, rab or khandasari sugar was prohibited.	Facts
Export of sugarcane from a reserved area was also prohibited except under permit.	Facts
Contravention of the Mysore Sugarcane Control Order was made punishable by forfeiture of property in respect of which there was a contravention.	Facts
The Mysore Sugarcane Control Order, 1963 specified the India Sugars and Refineries Ltd. as the factory and enumerated the areas reserved for supply of sugarcane to the specified factory.	Facts
It may be stated here that the Salar Jung Sugar Mills Ltd. was also specified in the Schedule and it remained specified until 1965 when the Mysore Sugarcane Munirabad Order, 1965 was made as specially applicable to Salar Jung Sugar Mills Ltd. 14.	Facts
On 14 February, 1964 in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, the Central Government amended the Sugarcane Control Order, 1955.	Facts
Clause 4 of the Sugarcane Control Order, 1955 was amended and substituted by a new clause.	Facts
The new Clause 4 conferred powers on the Central Government to reserve areas where sugarcane was grown for a factory, determine the quantity of sugarcane which the factory would require for crushing during the year, fix with respect to any specified sugarcane grower in a reserved area the quantity or percentage of sugarcane grown by such grower which such grower would supply to the factory concerned require the sugarcane grower and the factory to enter into an agreement for supply and purchase of the quantity of sugarcane so determined.	Facts
Clause 4 as amended further provided that every sugarcane grower or factory to whom the order applied would be bound to supply or purchase the quantity of sugarcane covered by the agreement entered into and wilful failure on the part of anyone would constitute a breach of the provisions of the said order.	Facts
15.	None
On 20 February, 1964 in exercise of the powers conferred by Clause 6 of the Sugarcane (Control) Order, 1955, the Central Government directed that the powers conferred on the Central Government by Clause 4 of the said Order, shall be exercisable by the State Governments of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Madras, Maharashtra, Mysore.	Facts
Orissa, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal and the Chief Commissioner of Pondicherry.	Facts
16.	None
On 15 January, 1965 the Mysore Government in exercise of the powers conferred by Clause 4 of the Sugarcane Control Order, 1955 as amended and read with the notification dated 20 February, 1964 made the Mysore Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply) (Munirabad) Order, 1965.The Mysore Sugarcane (Munirabad) Order of 1965 in Clause 2 (c) defined factory to mean the premises of the appellant Salar Jung Sugar Mills Ltd. at Munirabad.	Facts
In Schedule I of the Mysore Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply) (Munirabad) Order, 1965 the area reserved for supply of sugarcane to the factory was enumerated setting out the names of the villages.	Facts
The Mysore Sugarcane Order, 1955 determined the crushing capacity of the appellant Salar Jung Sugar Mills Ltd. to be 1000 tons per day and the quantity of sugarcane required by the factory during the crushing season to be 1,50,000 tons.	Facts
The order further stated that the factory was to secure the quantity of sugarcane from the areas specified in Schedule I and the quantity of sugarcane to be supplied by each grower was fixed at 95 per cent.	Facts
of the sugarcane grown by the grower.	Facts
Every sugarcane grower and the factory concerned were required to enter into an agreement to supply or purchase the quantity of sugarcane determine under Clause 4.	Facts
Export of sugarcane from reserved area was prohibited.	Facts
The Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply) Order, 1963 in so far as it related to matters provided for in the Mysore Sugarcane (Munirabad) Order, 1965 was repealed.	Facts
Thereafter , the Mysore Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply) Order, 1963 applied to the India Sugars and Refineries Ltd. and the Mysore Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply) (Munirabad) Order, 1965 applied to Salar Jung Sugar Mills Ltd. 17.	Facts
On 16 July, 1966 in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 the Central Government made the Sugarcane (Control) Order, 1966 and repealed the Sugarcane (Control) Order, 1955.	Facts
Under the Sugarcane (Control) Order, 1966 factory means any premises including the precincts thereof in any part of which sugar in manufactured by vacuum pan process, price means the price or the minimum price fixed by the Central Government from time to time delivered at the gate of the factory or sugarcane purchasing centre and reserved area means any area where sugarcane purchasing centre and reserved area means any area where sugarcane is grown and reserved for a factory in terms of the Order.	Facts
Clause 3 of the 1966 Sugarcane Control Order dealt with minimum price of sugarcane fixed by the Central Government having regard to (a) cost of production of sugarcane.	Facts
(b) the return to the grower from alternative crops on the general trend of prices of agricultural commodities, (c) availability of sugar to the consumer at a fair price, (d) the price at which sugar produced from sugarcane is sold by producers of sugar, and (e) the recovery of sugar from sugarcane.	Facts
Purchase and sale of sugarcane at a price lower than that fixed was prohibited.	Facts
The price of sugarcane became payable 14 days from the date of delivery.	Facts
Additional price for sugarcane could also be fixed under Clause 5.	Facts
Under Clause 6 of the Order the Central Government could reserve area where sugarcane is grown for the factory having regard to the crushing capacity of the factory, the availability of sugarcane in the reserved area and the need for production of sugar and also determine the quantity of sugarcane required by the factory for crushing during any year and fix the quantity to be supplied by a grower to the factory.	Facts
The grower and the factory were required to enter into an agreement for supply or purchase of sugarcane.	Facts
Export of sugarcane from any reserved area was prohibited.	Facts
18.	None
In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause 6 of Sugarcane (Control) Order, 1966 the Mysore Sugarcane (Regulation of distribution (Munirabad) Order, 1966 was made by the Government of Mysore repealing the Mysore Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply) (Munirabad) Order, 1965.	Facts
The 1966 Sugarcane (Munirabad) Order was in relation to the appellants	Facts
Salar Jung Sugar Mills Ltd.	Facts
Clause 3 of the Order dealt with the crushing capacity of the factory being 1000 tons per day and the quantity of sugarcane required for the factory during the year was determined to be 1,50,000 tons.	Facts
The appellants factory was to secure the quantity of sugarcane determined under Clause 3 (2) from the areas specified in Schedule I being the reserved areas for supply of sugarcane to the factory.	Facts
The sugarcane growers in the reserved area were to supply 95 per cent.	Facts
of the sugarcane grown by them to the factory.	Facts
The sugarcane grower and the factory were required to enter into an agreement for supply and purchase of sugarcane.	Facts
19.	None
Counsel on behalf of the appellants contended that there was no sale and purchase of sugarcane by reason of want of mutual assent and further that the entire transaction was only by operation of statutes, and at no stage there was any element of freedom to buy or sell.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was said that under the statutes these consequences emerged.	Arguments of Petitioner
First, the price was fixed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Secondly, the sugarcane grower was required to deliver sugarcane and the factory was required to receive supply only from the sugarcane grower in the reserved area.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thirdly, the quantity of supply by the sugarcane grower, namely, 95 per cent of the produce was fixed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Fourthly, the quantity of sugarcane required by the factory was fixed at 1,.50,000 tons a year.	Arguments of Petitioner
Fifthly, the grower in the reserved area could not export sugarcane to any place or person outside the area.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sixthly, it was said that entering into agreement between the grower and the factory for supply and purchase of sugarcane was under the statute.20.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel for the State on the other hand contended that the transaction was in essence and substance purchase and sale and there was mutual assent between the parties as to the transactions.	Arguments of Respondent
It was said that a grower after he had grown sugarcane at the commencement of the cultivation season might bargain for a price higher than the minimum price.	Arguments of Respondent
Again, if the factory did not agree to pay higher price the grower might not elect to grow sugarcane or even allow his land to lie fallow.	Arguments of Respondent
The factory might agree to pay a price higher than the minimum price in order to provide sufficient inducement to growers for higher yield.	Arguments of Respondent
Strong reliance was placed by counsel for the State on the agreement entered into between the growers and the factory as decisive of purchase and sale.	Arguments of Respondent
As to the agreement it was said on behalf of the State that to ensure a well phased supply of sugarcane to the factory the latter might enter into an agreement with the growers even before they would plant sugarcane.	Arguments of Respondent
The dates of delivery were to be agreed upon between the parties.	Arguments of Respondent
The growers according to the State might ask for advance payment of price in cash or in the form of seedlings, fertilisers and the like.	Arguments of Respondent
Factories could ask for more than 95 per cent of the yield.	Arguments of Respondent
21.	None
At all relevant times sugarcane was declared to be an essential commodity.	Reasoning
The various orders were made for regulating the supply of sugarcane to the factories having regard to the crushing capacity of the factory, the availability of sugarcane in the area and the need for production of sugarcane.	Reasoning
This coordination between production and distribution of sugarcane on the one hand and production and distribution of sugar on the other hung together as complementary to each other in regard to the requirements of basic ingredient.	Reasoning
The carving out of areas for production and distribution of sugarcane is necessary to preserve continuity of supply and to prevent shortage and defective distribution.	Reasoning
The regulation of supply of sugarcane by fixing the minimum price is an application of the principle of utilitarianism which receives the approbation and goodwill of both the grower and the factory so that the grower is assured of an economic competitive return and the factory is also assured of not being scared by soaring and fluctuating price to thwart and impede production and manufacture of sugar.	Reasoning
22.	None
Counsel for the appellants extracted the famous dictum of Sir Henry Maine and submitted that the orders in the present case were retrograde step and the clock was put back by reversing the historical evolution from status to contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
What was emphasized by counsel for the appellants was as follows The various orders had the effect of brining into existence the status of delivery by the growers and acceptance by the factory of sugarcane as a result of the statutory orders and there was no area of bargain.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was no element of will.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was no aspect of assent.	Arguments of Petitioner
The entire transaction was nothing but a regimentation of pattern of automatic supply and acceptance.	Arguments of Petitioner
The grower was bound to deliver.	Arguments of Petitioner
The factory was bound to accept.	Arguments of Petitioner
Neither party could move out of the apron strings of the statutes.23.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court in State of Madras v. Gannon Dunkerley and Co. (Madras) Ltd. 1959	None
SCR 379 (AIR 1958 SC 560 ) in dealing with the assessment of Gannon Dunkerley and Co. to sales tax on the value of the materials used in the execution of building contracts within the taxable turnover of the company held that the building contract was one entire and indivisible transaction and there was no separate individual sale of the building materials comprised in the construction.	None
It was said by this Court that in a building contract the agreement between the parties was that the contractor should construct the building according to the specifications contained in the agreement and in consideration therefor receive payment as provided therein, and in such an agreement there was neither a contract to sell the materials used in the construction nor did the property pass therein as moveable.	None
The reason why counsel for the appellants relied on the decision in Gannon Dunkerely and Co. 1959	None
SCR 379 (AIR 1958 SC 560 ) was in support of the proposition that the word sale occurring in Entry 54 in List II was to be interpreted in the sense in which the word sale is used in the Indian Sale of Goods Act.	None
This Court in Gannon Dunkerely and Co. 1959	None
SCR 379 (AIR 1958 SC 560 ) referred to the meaning of the word sale in various treatises like Blackstones Commentary, Benjamin on Sale, Halsburys Laws of England and held relying on the meaning given by Benjamin on Sale that the four elements required in a sale were first the parties must be competent to contract secondly, there should be mutual assent, thirdly, property in the thing is to be transferred and, fourthly, the price in money is to be paid.	None
Counsel for the appellants contended that the element of mutual assent was lacking in the present cases.	None
24.	None
In M s. New India Sugar Mills Ltd. v. Commr. of Sales Tax, Bihar (1963) Suppl.	None
2 SCR 459 (AIR 1963 SC 1207 )	None
a question arose as to whether the despatches of sugar to the Province of Madras by dealers in accordance with the directions issued by the Controller under the Sugar and Sugar Products Control Order, 1946 was liable to be taxed as a sale.	None
This Court in the majority opinion held that the despatches of sugar under the directions of the Controller were not the result of any contract of sale because there was no offer by the dealers to the State and no acceptance by the State.	None
The dealer was held to be compelled to carry out the direction of the Controller and there was no volition.	None
Intimation by the State of its requirement of sugar to the Controller or communication of the allotment order to the dealer assessee was held not to amount to an offer.	None
The minority view in that case was that there was a sale of sugar and consent could be express or implied and as long as the parties carried on trade under controls at fixed price they must be deemed to have agreed to such a price there must be an implied contract with an implied offer and an implied acceptance.	None
The decision of this Court in the case of Gannon Dunkerley and Co., 1959 SCR 379 (AIR 1958 SC 560 ) was referred to in the New India Sugar Mills case, 1963 Supp (2) SCR 459 (AIR 1963 SC 1207 ) for the meaning of the word sale.	None
25.	None
The majority view in the case of New India Mills Ltd 1963 Supp (2) SCR 459 (AIR 1963 SC 1027) was on the reasoning that the prerequisite to a sale was a contract of sale which was to be had between the parties.	None
The Province of Madras intimated its requirements to the Controller.	None
The Controller called upon the manufacturing units to supply sugar to the Province.	None
It was held that the Controller did not act as an agent of the Province to purchase goods but that he acted in exercise of his statutory authority.	None
Therefore, there was no offer by the Province to purchase sugar and there was no acceptance of offer by the manufacturer.	None
The ratio was that there was no privity between the manufacturer and the Province.	None
The minority view in that case was that there might be compulsion in both buying and selling but a compelled sale might nevertheless be a sale.	None
Hidayatullah J. for the minority view saidthe affairs of the world are very complicated and sales are not always in their elementary forms.	None
Due to short supply or maldistribution of goods, controls have to be imposed.	None
There are permits, price controls, rationing and shops which are licensed.	None
Can it be said that there was no sale because mutuality is lost on one account or another?	None
It was not said in the case of Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar 1958 SCR 1355 (AIR 1958 SC 452 ) which was a case of control, that there was no sale.	None
The entry should be interpreted in a liberal spirit and not cut down by narrow technical considerations.	None
The entry in other words should not be shorn of all its content to leave a mere husk of legislative power.	None
For the purposes of legislation such as on sales tax it is only necessary to see whether there is a sale express or implied.	None
Such a sale was not found in forward contracts and in respect of materials used in building contracts.	None
I am of opinion that in these transactions there was a sale of sugar for a price and the tax was payable.	None
26.	None
Could a company which supplied steel products to various persons in the State of Madras at the instance of the Steel Controller exercising powers under the Iron and Steel (Control) of Production and Distribution Order, 1941 be assessed to sales tax on those transactions.	None
This was the question in Indian Steel and Wire Products Ltd. v. State of Madras, (1968) 1	None
SCR 479 (AIR 1968 SC 478 ).	None
Clause 5 of the Order in the Madras case stated thatno producer or stockholder shall dispose of or agree to dispose of or export or agree to export from British India any iron or steel except in accordance with the conditions contained or incorporated in a general or special written order of the Controller.the Controller may, by a written order require any person holding stock of iron and steel, acquired by him otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of Clause 4 to sell the whole or any part of the stock to such person or class of persons and on such terms and conditions as may be specified in the Order.	None
27.	None
Clause 4 of the Order dealt with acquisition and stated thatno person shall acquire or agree to acquire any iron or steel from a producer or a stockholder except under the authority of and in accordance with the conditions contained or incorporated in a general or special written order of the Controller.	None
28.	None
The Company contended that the parties to whom the goods were to be supplied, the price which was to be paid, the manner in which goods were to be transported and the mode in which payment was to be made were all determined by the Controller and therefore the transfers were not sales because of compulsion and lack of agreement.	None
Hegde, J speaking for the Court referred to the observations in Cheshire and Fifoot Law of Contract (6th Ed.)	None
at p. 22 and saidLaw invariably imposed some restrictions on freedom of contract.	None
But due to change in political compulsions, the freedom of contract is now being confined gradually to narrower and narrower limits.	None
It would be incorrect to contend that because law imposes some restrictions on freedom to contract, there is no contract at all.	None
So long as mutual assent is not completely excluded in any dealing, in law it is a contract.	None
The transactions were held to be sales because the date for supply of goods, the time for payment and the independent arrangement between the parties for transport predicated the basis of mutual assent.	None
29.	None
The Andhra Pradesh Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) Act, 1961 came up for consideration before this Court in Andhra Sugars Ltd. v. State of Andhra Pradesh, (1968) 1	None
SCR 705 (AIR 1968 SC 599 ).	None
A sugar factory had to buy sugarcane from canegrowers in conformity with the directions of the Cane Commissioner.	None
The State Government by notification had power to tax purchases of sugarcane for use, consumption or sale in a sugar factory.	None
The sugar factories challenged the validity of the Act empowering the Government to tax purchases of sugarcane in those instances because the factories were compelled to buy cane from the sugarcane growers and they were bound to enter into agreements in prescribed terms and conditions and to buy sugarcane in conformity with instructions issued by the Cane Commissioner under the Act and areas were declared as the factory zone for supply of cane to a factory, the factory was bound to purchase quantity of cane grown in that area and offered for sale as might be determined by the Cane Commissioner, the cane growers were prohibited from supplying or selling cane to any factory or person otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule.	None
This Court on reading the provisions of the Act and the Rules framed thereunder found that a canegrower in a factory zone was free to sell or not to sell his sugarcane to the factory.	None
The contention of the factories was that if the grower offered to sell the factory was bound to enter into agreement on prescribed terms and conditions and therefore the factories were compelled by law to buy cane from the growers and the purchases were not made under agreements.	None
30.	None
Bachawat, J speaking for the Court in the Andhra Sugar case said that the decision in the New India Sugar Mills Ltd., 1963 Supp (2) SCR 459 (AIR 1963 SC 1207 ) was not to be treated as an authority for the proposition that there can be no contract of sale under compulsion of a statute.	None
The offer of a cane grower to sell was a free consent and the compulsion of law was not coercion as defined in Section 15 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872.	None
The agreement in spite of the compulsion of law was said to be neither void not voidable.	None
A canegrower made an offer directly to the factories.	None
The factory accepted it.	Arguments of Petitioner
The parties signed an agreement.	None
There was privity of contract between the parties.	None
It was therefore a contract of sale and purchase though the buyer was obliged to give his assent under compulsion of a statute.	None
31.	None
In the case of Andhra Sugars Ltd. (1968) 1	None
SCR 705 (AIR 1968 SC 599 ) this Court referred to the whittling down of the laissez faire concept in a social Welfare State by emphasing the public interest to control unfair competition and combination.	None
It was saidThe canegrowers scattered in the villages had no real bargaining power.	None
The factory owners or their combines enjoyed a near monopoly of buying and could dictate their own terms.	None
In this unequal contest between the canegrowers and the factory owners, the law stepped in and compelled the factory to enter into contracts of purchase of cane offered by the canegrowers on prescribed terms and conditions.	None
32.	None
The Colliery Control Order, 1945 empowered the Central Government to fix price at which coal might be sold by colliery owners.	None
The colliery owners were prohibited from selling or agreeing to sell or offering to sell coal at a price different from the price fixed in that behalf.	None
Where a colliery owners signified to the Deputy Coal Controller (Distribution) in writing his willingness to sell direct to consumers and an allotment was made by the Deputy Controller to a consumer for such direct sale, the coal was to be delivered to the consumer at the price fixed under Clause 4 of the Order.	None
The Central Government was authorised to issue from time to time such directions as it thought fit to any colliery owner regulating the disposal of his stocks of coal or of the expected out of coal in the colliery during any period including directions as to the grade, size and quantity of coal which might be disposed of and persons or class or description of persons to whom coal should or should not be disposed of.	None
The order further provided that no person shall acquire or purchase any coal from a colliery, and no colliery owner or his agent shall despatch or agree to despatch or transport any coal from the colliery except under the authority and in accordance with the conditions contained in a general or special authority of the Central Government.	None
33.	None
The Colliery Coal Control Order 1945 came up for consideration in State of Rajasthan v. M s. Karam Chand Thappar and Bros. Ltd., (1969) 1 CR 861 (AIR 1969 SC 343 ).	Reasoning
Under a contract with Equitable Coal Company, Karam Chand Thappar and Bros. Ltd. acquired the monopoly right to supply coal on behalf of the collieries in Rajasthan and sold coal as the agent of the Equitable Coal Company.	Reasoning
Karam Chand Thappar and Bros. entered into an agreement with the State of Rajasthan to supply coal to the Rajasthan Government.	Reasoning
The company contended that the supply of coal to the State of Rajasthan did not constitute sale as the supply was controlled by the Colliery Control Order, 1945 and even if there was a sale it would be interState sale.	Reasoning
It was held that the Colliery Control Order superimposed upon the agreement between the parties the rate fixed and the elements necessary to render turnover from sale of goods liable to sales tax, namely, competency of parties, mutual assent of the parties, passing of property in the goods supplied to the purchaser and payment or promise of payment of price were present in the transaction.	Reasoning
In the Rajasthan case it was noticed that when the goods supply of which is controlled by statutory orders are delivered pursuant to contract of sale the principle of the decision in the case of New India Sugar Mills Ltd., 1963 Supp.	Reasoning
(2) SCR 459 (AIR 1963 SC 1207 ) has no application.	Reasoning
Shah, J. speaking for the Court in the Rajasthan case said that there was an agreement of sale between the parties competent to contract and in pursuance of the agreement of sale property in goods supplied passed to the purchaser for price agreed to be paid.	Reasoning
The transaction was, therefore, one of sale of goods within the meaning of the Rajasthan Sales Tax Act.	Reasoning
34.	None
The U.P. Wheat Procurement (Levy) Order. 1959 was made for maintaining and securing equitable distribution and availability of wheat at fair prices.	None
By Clauses 3 (1) of the Order every licensed dealer shall sell to the State Government at the controlled prices 50 per cent.	None
of the wheat held in stock by him at the commencement of this Order.	None
Again by Clause 3 (2) licensed dealer is directed to sell to the State Government 50 per cent.	None
of wheat purchased by him every day with the date of the commencement of this Order and until such time as the State Government otherwise directs.	None
The Order enjoins the licensed dealers to deliver the quantities specified in subclause (1) of Clause 3 either to the Controller or to such other person as may be authorised by the Controller to take delivery on his behalf.	None
The Enforcement Officers had power to find out whether the dealer was carrying out the obligation.	None
35.	None
The U. P. Wheat Procurement Order was challenged in M s. Chitter Mal Narain Das v. Commissioner of Sales Tax, (1971) 1	Reasoning
SCR 671 (AIR 1970 SC 2000 ) on the ground that there was no contract between the licensed dealer and the State pursuant to which goods were sold within the meaning of the U. P. Sales Tax Act.	Reasoning
It was held that the obligation to deliver wheat arose out of the statute and there was no volition of the licensed dealer.	Reasoning
The source of the obligations to deliver the goods and pay for them was said to be not in consensus but in the statutory order.	Reasoning
It was said that the order did not envisage any consensual agreement and it did not require the State to enter into even an informal agreement.	Reasoning
It was said On the date of the commencement of the U. P. Wheat Procurement (Levy) Order, upon the licensed dealer was imposed a liability to deliver half the quantity of wheat on hand, and he had also to supply to the State Government 50 per cent of the quantity of wheat procured or purchased by him every day beginning with the date of commencement of the Order.	Reasoning
If he failed to carry out the obligation he was liable to be penalised.	Reasoning
To ensure that he carried out his obligation his premises were liable to be searched and his property sequestered (sic).	Reasoning
The Order ignored the volition of the dealer.	Reasoning
36.	None
The meaning of the words compulsory sale came up for consideration in three English decisions.	None
These are Newcastle Breweries Ltd. v. Inland Revenue Commissioners, (1927) 96 LJKB 735 and also reported in 43 TLR 476, Kirkness (Inspector of Taxes) v. John Hudson and Co. Ltd., 1955 AC 696 and Ridge Nominees Ltd. v. Inland Revenue Commissioners, 1962 Ch. 376.	None
37.	None
In Newcastle Breweries Ltd., (1927) 96 LJKB 735 (supra) the question was whether a sum awarded to the company by way of compensation for a quantity of rum requisitioned by the Admiralty under the Defence of the Realm Regulations was a profit arising from its trade or business.	None
The company contended that it was not, because the compensation represented the compulsory taking by the Crown of a part of the capital of the Company, and therefore, the compensation was not profit from the business.	None
It was held by Rowlatt, J., the Court of Appeal and the House of Lords that the cost of the rum was treated as a outgoing of the business and if raw rum had been voluntarily sold the price would have come into computation of profits and the circumstance that the sale was compulsory made no difference.	None
38.	None
In the case of John Hudson and Company Ltd., 1955 AC 696 the wagons owned by the company were on 1 January, 1948 under requisition by the Minister of Transport under the powers contained in Regulation 53 of the Defence (General) Regulations 1939.	None
On the same day the property in these wagons was vested in the British Transport Corporation by virtue of Section 29 of the Transport Act, 1947.	None
Section 30 of the Transport Act provided compensation to the owner of the wagons.	None
The amount of compensation determined in accordance with the provisions of the Transport Act was substantially higher than the written down value of the wagons for the purposes of Incometax allowances in respect of wear and tear as appearing in the companys books.	None
On these facts a balancing charge under Section 17 of the English Incometax Act, 1945 was made on the company.	None
The amount represented the excess of the original cost over the written down value.	None
The company appealed against the balancing charge to the Commissioners for the special purposes of the Incometax Act who determined the question in favour of the Crown.	None
Upjohn, J. reversed the determination.	None
The Court of Appeal and their house of Lords upheld his decision.	None
39.	None
The decision in the case of John Hudson and Company Ltd., 1955 AC 696 turned on the meaning of the provisions of Section 17 of the English Incometax Act, 1945 as to whether the companys wagons were sold within the meaning of that section.	None
Viscount Simonds, L.C. said that the wagons were not sold and it would be a grave misuse of language to say that they were sold.	None
Under the English Lands Clauses Consolidation Act, 1845 central or local authorities have powers of compulsory acquisition and these powers are commonly referred to as powers of compulsory purchase and the transaction is sometimes referred to as a compulsory sale.	None
The word sale in the English Incometax Act without some context to aid the inclusion of compulsory sale within the meaning of the word sale in the Incometax Act was held not to apply to include a case of compulsory acquisition.	None
The operation of the Transport Act in that case was held to be different from that of the Lands Clauses Consolidation Act, 1845, because the Transport Act did not have the elements which in some degree assimilate a compulsory sale to a sale simpliciter.	None
These compulsory sales under the English Lands Clauses Consolidation Act place the parties in a position to negotiate and apart from the power of compulsion in the background they were like an ordinary vendor and purchaser.	None
40.	None
The consensus between vendor and purchaser which is involved in the natural meaning of the word sale came up for consideration in the recent decision of the Court of Appeal in the case of Ridge Nominees Ltd., 1962 Ch. 376.	Reasoning
Ridge Securities made an offer to purchase from the stockholders of another company Gresham the whole of the stock of that company.	Reasoning
The offer was conditional upon acceptance before a certain date.	Reasoning
A document of transfer of 440 shares in Gresham was made by Mrs. Rita Bell in consideration of 891 paid by Ridge.	Reasoning
The question was whether the document was properly described as a conveyance or transfer on sale of any property within the meaning of the English Stamp Act, 1891.	Reasoning
Section 209 of the English Companies Act, 1948 conferred power on an agent to execute an instrument of transfer on a dissenting shareholders behalf.	Reasoning
The offer made by Ridge Company to purchase shares in Gresham company was conditional upon acceptance by the holders of not less than 90 per cent, of the issued capital of Gresham.	Reasoning
In fact, more than 90 per cent, in value did accept the offer.	Reasoning
Mrs. Rita Bell was one of those who did not think it fit to accept it.	Reasoning
Thereupon Ridge Company invoked powers and provisions of Section 209 of the English Companies Act.	Reasoning
The transfer of the shares of Mrs. Bell was not executed by her but pursuant to the powers given by Section 209 of the English Companies Act by some one on her behalf.	Reasoning
Mrs. Bell was not an assenting but a dissenting shareholder.	Reasoning
Her shares were transferred by virtue of the powers given to the transferee company by the Act.	Reasoning
It is in that context that the question was whether the conveyance or transfer was sale of any property.	Reasoning
The contention was that there could not be a sale because the essential element of mutual assent was absent.	Reasoning
The Court of Appeal held that the instrument must be regarded as a transfer of sale.	Reasoning
Lord Evershed, M. R. said that by the machinery created by the Companies Act and the statutory authority given by the Act to the agent to execute transfer on Mrs. Bells behalf it has in truth brought into being that which ex facie in all its essential characteristics and effect is, and becomes, a transfer on sale of Mrs. Bells stock.	Reasoning
Danckwerts, L. J. in the same case said about the transfer of shares.	None
It seems to me that a sale may not always require the consensual element mentioned in Benjamin on sale, 8th edn.	None
p.2, and that there may, in truth, be a compulsory sale of property with which the owner is compelled to part for a price against his will.	Reasoning
The effect of the statute in such a case is to say that the absence of the transferors consent does not matter and the sale is proceed without it.	Reasoning
41.	None
These decisions establish that statutory orders regulating the supply and distribution of goods by and between the parties under Control Orders in a State do not absolutely impinge on the freedom to enter into contract.	None
Legislative measures or statutory provisions fixing the price, delivery, supply, restricting areas for transactions are all within the realm of planning economic needs ensuring production and distribution of essential commodities and basic necessities of community.	Reasoning
The recent trends in these legal rules delimit the variety of structure of rights and duties which individuals may create by such acts and transactions.	Reasoning
The complexity of modern activities and the consequent difficulty of providing for every eventuality have shaken fervour for freedom of contract as there was during the nineteenth century.	Reasoning
The economic environment has changed.	Reasoning
42.	None
The individual freedom is to be reconciled with adequate performance by the Government of its functions in a highly organised Society.	Reasoning
Delimiting areas for transactions or parties or denoting price for transactions are all within the area of individual freedom of contract with limited choice by reason of ensuring the greatest good for the greatest number by achieving proper supply at standard or fair price to eliminate the evils of hoarding and scarcity on the one hand and availability on the other.	Reasoning
43.	None
In the present case, the parties are certain.	Reasoning
The parties are defined, namely, that the sugarcane grower is delivering and supplying and the factory is accepting the goods.	Reasoning
The property in the goods is transferred from the grower to the factory.	Reasoning
The transaction is not a gift nor an exchange nor a hypothecation nor a loan.	Reasoning
There is consideration for the transfer.	Reasoning
Counsel for the appellants contended that there was no mutual assent because the price was fixed, the quantity for supply and delivery was determined, the parties had no choice to go to strangers or outsiders in the open market.	Reasoning
In Benjamin on Sale, 8th Edn.	Reasoning
at page 68 the law as to mutual assent is stated as this.	Reasoning
The assent need not as a general rule be express.	None
It may be implied from their language or from their conduct may be signified by a nod or a gesture, or may even be inferred from silence in certain cases as if a customer takes up wares off a tradesmans counter and carried them away and nothing is said on other side, the law presumes an agreement of sale for the reasonable worth of the goods.	Reasoning
But the assent must in order to constitute a valid contract, be mutual and intended to bind both sides.	Reasoning
It must also coexist on the same moment of time.	Reasoning
44.	None
The assent must be mutual and bind both sides.	Reasoning
The proposal by one man must be accepted by another and this acceptance must be unconditional.	Reasoning
The assent must be communicated to the other party or some act must be done which the other party has expressly or impliedly offered to treat as a communication.	Reasoning
Judged by these standards in the forefront exists the agreement between the parties in the present case.	Reasoning
The statutory orders required parties to enter into agreement.	Reasoning
The parties did in fact enter into agreements.	Reasoning
The agreement contains intrinsic evidence that the growers agreed to sell and the factory agreed to buy goods.	None
45.	None
Counsel for the appellants contended that mutual assent in the present case would not be free but compulsory and the parties would have no choice in the matter and therefore there would be no sale.	Arguments of Petitioner
The most commonplace illustration of supply and acceptance of goods resulting in sale under the present conditions is furnished by the present system of sale of rationed goods.	None
There are ration shops in particular areas.	Reasoning
Ration cards are distributed to residents in that area.	Reasoning
The owners of these cards are required to go to the particular shop mentioned in the card for supply of rationed articles.	Reasoning
Price is also regulated by the Rationing Order.	Reasoning
Therefore the parties, the price the shop, the supply and the acceptance of goods in accordance with the provisions of the Rationing Order are all regulated.	Reasoning
When one presents a ration card to the shop and the shop owner delivers the rationed articles and the holder of the ration card accepts them and pays the price, there is indisputably a sale.	Reasoning
Counsel for the appellants said that choice was left with the ration card holder to go to the shop or not to go there at all but the parties had no choice in the present case whether the factory would or would not enter into agreement.	Reasoning
In the present case both the factory and the sugarcane grower have some choice in the matter.	Reasoning
The factory owner and the grower might not have occasion to enter into agreements at all.	Reasoning
The factory may be closed.	Reasoning
The grower may not grow sugarcane.	Reasoning
The grower might not tender the goods.	Reasoning
The factory owners might not accept delivery.	Reasoning
The choice of the parties is there as in ordinary sales.	Reasoning
The position of the factory owner visavis the sugarcane grower is either that factory will be shut and closed down or the factory will have to be kept running and for that supply will have to be taken from the sugarcane growers.	Reasoning
This may be comparable to undertaking a journey by rail or air with no choice as to the medium.	None
46.	None
The agreement between the factory owner and the sugarcane grower furnishes the guide to ascertain the real character of the transaction between the parties.	Reasoning
These are the features.	Reasoning
The factory agrees to buy.	Reasoning
The grower agrees to sell.	Reasoning
It is true that 95 per cent, of the sugarcane will be sold.	Reasoning
The parties have the choice to increase the quantity above 95 per cent.	Reasoning
The quantity to be bought and sold is cultivated or to be cultivated by the grower.	Reasoning
The delivery is to be at a factory.	Reasoning
Delivery will be in such lots, on such dates and at such time as shall be agreed upon.	Reasoning
The mode of delivery may also be within the scope of agreement.	Reasoning
The price will be the controlled price.	Reasoning
The grower can bargain for higher price.	Reasoning
The sugarcane grower can ask for payment in advance.	Reasoning
Payment may be in cash or in kind.	Reasoning
The sugarcane will be accepted after inspection.	Reasoning
There is scope for rejection of goods.	Reasoning
Various columns in the agreement indicate the villages where sugarcane is to be cultivated, the names of the varieties of sugarcane to be cultivated.	Reasoning
The last two columns are estimated quantity offered to be delivered and the period of delivery.	Reasoning
All these features indicate with unerring accuracy that there is offer, inspection, and appropriation of goods to the contract.	Reasoning
The goods will be accepted by the factory after inspection and price will be paid on delivery.	Reasoning
The mutual assent is not only implicit but is also explicit.	Reasoning
47.	None
Another feature in the agreements in the present case is that the goods are unascertained.	Reasoning
The agreements speak of inspection of goods.	Reasoning
Inspection and appropriation of unascertained goods indicates not only freedom in the formation but also in the performance of contracts.	Reasoning
Unascertained goods are distinct from specific or ascertained goods in the sense that future goods include goods not yet in existence or goods in existence but not yet acquired by the seller.	Reasoning
It is safe to say that future goods for purposes of passing of property can never be specific.	Reasoning
Future goods if and when sufficiently identified might be specific goods.	Reasoning
Unascertained goods are not defined by the Sale of Goods Act	Reasoning
but they fall into three main categories.	Reasoning
First, goods to be manufactured or grown by the seller which are necessarily future goods.	Reasoning
Second, generic goods, for example, 100 tons of sugarcane or the like which must also be future goods where the seller does not own sufficient goods of the description in question to appropriate to the contract.	Reasoning
The third category is an unidentified part of a specific whole, for example, 1000 tons of sugarcane out of a particular lot of 5000 tons of sugarcane.	Reasoning
In the present case, sugarcane was to be grown by the grower.	Reasoning
Delivery was to be made thereafter.	Reasoning
The goods were to be inspected and then paid for.	Reasoning
Therefore, in the present case, it would be a sale of unascertained goods.	Reasoning
Under Section 23 of the Indian Sale of Goods Act when there is a contract of sale of unascertained goods no property in the goods is transferred to the buyer unless and until the goods are ascertained.	Reasoning
Then again, under Section 23 of the Indian Sale of Goods Act where there is a contract for the sale of unascertained or future goods by description when the goods of that description and in a deliverable state are unconditionally appropriated to the contract, either by the seller, with the assent of the buyer or by the buyer with the assent of the seller, the property in the goods thereupon passes to the buyer.	Reasoning
It is this unconditional appropriation which will pass the property.	Reasoning
Again, under Section 23 of the Indian Sale of Goods Act where the seller delivers the goods to the buyer or to a carrier or other bailee for the purpose of transmission to the buyer and does not reserve the right of disposal he is deemed to have unconditionally appropriated the goods to the contract.	Reasoning
Therefore, in the present case the goods were to be ascertained by identification, delivery, inspection and unconditional appropriation.	Reasoning
48.	None
These foregoing features indicate that the transactions in the present case constituted sale within the meaning of sale in Section 2 (t) of the Mysore Sales Tax Act, 1957.Sale is defined in Section 2 (t) as followssale with all its grammatical variations and cognate expressions means every transfer of the property in goods by one person to another in the course of trade or business for cash or for deferred payment or other valuable consideration, but does not include a mortgage, hypothecation, charge or pledge.	Reasoning
49.	None
The Control Orders are to be kept in the forefront for appreciating the true character of transactions.	None
It is apparent that the area is restricted.	None
The parties are determined by the order.	None
The minimum price is fixed.	Reasoning
The minimum quantity of supply is also regulated.	Reasoning
These features do not complete the picture.	Reasoning
The entire transaction indicates that the parties agree to buy and sell.	Reasoning
The parties choose the terms of delivery.	Reasoning
The parties have choice with regard to obtaining supply of a quantity higher than 95 per cent of the yield.	Reasoning
The parties can stipulate for a price higher than the minimum.	Reasoning
The parties can have terms for payment in advance as well as in cash.	Reasoning
A grower may not cultivate and there may not be any yield.	Reasoning
A factory may be closed or wound up and may not buy sugarcane.	Reasoning
A factory can reject goods after inspection.	Reasoning
The combination of all these features indicates that the parties entered into agreement with mutual assent and with volition for transfer of goods in consideration of price.	Reasoning
Transactions of purchase and sale may be regulated by schemes and may be liable to restrictions as to the manner or mode of sale.	Reasoning
Such restrictions may become necessary by reason of coordination between production and distribution in planning the economy of the country.	Reasoning
The contention of the appellants fails.	Reasoning
The transactions amount to sales within the meaning of the Mysore Sales Tax Act.	None
50.	None
The second contention on behalf of the appellants was that the factories were not dealers within the meaning of then Mysore Sales Tax Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dealer is defined in Section 2 (k) of the Mysore Sales Tax Act of 1957 as followsDealers means any person who carries on the business of buying , selling, supplying or distributing goods, directly or otherwise whether for cash or for deferred payment or for commission remuneration or other valuable consideration and includes  (v) a person who sells goods produced by him by manufacture or otherwise.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that the factory was a manufacturer of sugar and paid excise duty on sugar to the Central Government and sugar was item 34 of the Second schedule and therefore, no tax was payable by a dealer who is a manufacturer of sugar.	None
The purchase of sugarcane was said to be for manufacture of sugar and not for resale of sugarcane	Arguments of Petitioner
and therefore the tax which is levied on the dealer will not fall on the appellants on the purchase of sugarcane.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court held relying on the decision of this Court in State of Andhra Pradesh v. Abdul Bakshi and Bros., AIR 1965 SC 531 that if a person carried on the business of buying or selling a commodity it is not necessary that he should sell the same commodity to become a dealer.	None
The commodity may be converted into another saleable commodity or it may be used as an ingredient in the manufacture of a commodity.	Reasoning
Therefore, the factories which bought sugarcane could be said to carry on the business of buying and selling sugarcane and the factories are dealer within the meaning of the Mysore Sales Tax Act.	Reasoning
51.	None
The third contention on behalf of the appellants was that the levy of 15 per cent purchase tax on the sugarcane on the appellants was in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution inasmuch as the rates were different in different States.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is an indisputable feature in the present appeals that all the factories in Mysore have been treated equally.	None
Different rates in different States are explicable on various grounds.	Reasoning
The quantity available, the conditions of agriculturists, the number of factories will all have distinctive features.	Reasoning
Therefore, there can be no infraction of Article 14 of the Constitution.	None
52.	None
It was also said on behalf of the appellants that tax on purchase of sugarcane could not be collected by the appellants as tax.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court relying on the decision on 1958 SCR 1355 (AIR 1958 SC 452 ) said that the mere circumstance that the appellants could not collect from the purchasers of the sugar the amount the factories had paid as purchase tax on sugarcane would not alter the nature or quality of tax.	Reasoning
This Court in the case of Tata Iron and Steel Co., 1958 SCR 1355 (AIR 1958 SC 452 ) said This is further made clear by the fact that the registered dealer need not, if he so pleases or chooses, collect the tax from the purchaser and sometimes by reason of competition with other registered dealers he may find it profitable to sale his goods and to retain his old customers even at the sacrifice of the sales tax.	Reasoning
This also makes it clear that the sales tax need not be passed on to the purchasers and this fact does not alter the real nature of the tax which, by the express provisions of the law, is cast upon the seller.	Reasoning
It therefore follows that the appellants cannot impeach the imposition or levy of sales tax on the ground that the appellants could not collect from the purchasers of sugar the purchase tax paid by the appellants on purchase of sugarcane.	Reasoning
53.	None
Another contention was raised on behalf of the appellants that the authorities had not taken into account the varying rates of tax on purchase of sugarcane levied by different States while computing the cost of production of sugar and different States and fixing different selling prices of sugar.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court rightly did not entertain this contention because there were no materials to support the contention.	None
54.	None
For these reasons, the appeals fail and are dismissed with costs.	Decision
There will be one set of hearing fees.	Decision
55.	None
Appeals dismissed.	Decision
