 Hidayatullah, C.J. 1.	None
These appeals come before us on a reference by the Constitution Bench referring the question whether the amendment of Section 65 of the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, 1948 by Section 35 (1) of the Bombay Act XIII of 1956, which added the wordsor the full and efficient use of the land has not been made for the purpose of agriculture, through the default of the holder or any other cause whatsoever not beyond his control.	Issue
has the protection of Articles 31A and 31B of the Constitution, At the hearing of this reference before this Special Bench (which included judges of the original Constitution Bench)	None
it was decided to enlarge the reference to include the whole appeals so that they might he decided in their entirety at the same sitting.	Issue
2. These are appeals against the judgment and order of the High Court of Gujarat, 4/5 May, 1966 from many petitions questioning the declaration made by the Deputy Collector, Bulsar under Section 65 of the Act.	Issue
Below is given the text of the section with the amended portion material to these appeals underlined (bracketed herein, Ed.).	None
As a result of the declaration the appellants stand to lose possession of their lands.	Issue
The facts on which the several declarations have come to be made may now be stated.	None
3.	None
The appellants own and possess lands in the district of Bulsar and claim to carry on agricultural operation by raising and cutting grass used as fodder.	Facts
They were served with notices under Section 65 of the Act.	Facts
A sample notice is Annexure B to tile petition of Ramanlal Gulabchand Shah in the High Court.	Facts
It was issued from the office of the Deputy Collector on February 5, 1966 addressed to Ramanlal Gulabchand Shah.	Facts
It read as follows This is to inform you that during the inquiry made by us it has been found that you are holding the following grass land together with the others On making inquiry it has been found that on account of your fault (not) beyond your control you have allowed to grow the grass naturally in the aforesaid land of your possession continuously for two years namely 196364 and 196465 and in two years prior to that kept the said land uncultivated.	Facts
That you have not made full and efficient use of the said land for the purpose of agriculture.	Facts
Therefore, I Shri M. B. Shaikh, Dist.	None
Deputy Collector, Bulsar, in view of the authority vested in me under Section 65 of the Tenancy Act, have to inform you and call upon you to show cause as to why the management of the aforesaid land or a portion thereof should not be assumed by the Government under Section 65 of the Tenancy Act.	None
65. Assumption of management of lands which remained uncultivated.	Facts
(1) If it appears to the State Government that for any two consecutive years, any land has remained uncultivated (or the full and efficient use of the land has not been made for the purpose of agriculture, through the default of the holder or any other cause whatsoever not beyond his control) the State Government may, after making such inquiry as it thinks fit, declare that the management of such land shall be assumed.	Facts
The declaration so made shall be conclusive.	Facts
(2) On the assumption of the management, such land shall vest in the State Government during the continuance of the management and the provisions of Chapter IV shall mutatis mutandis apply to the said land Provided that the manager may in suitable cases give such land on lease at rent even equal to the amount of its assessment.	Facts
Provided further that, if the management of the land has been assumed under subsection (1) on account of the default of the tenant, such tenant shall cease to have any right or privilege under Chapter II or III, as the case may be, in respect of such land, with effect from the date on and from which such management has been assumed.	None
4.	None
In consequence of the notice the parties appeared and denied the allegation that for two consecutive years they had not cultivated these lands.	Facts
Ramanlal Gulabchand in his reply stated that. . . . .	Facts
since 194647 or thereafter we have been getting the said land cultivated by plough and by saving good seeds of grass therein, we have made the grass to grow therein and by ploughing the land it is brought in level and in this manner formerly after cultivating the land with plough the seeds have been sown therein and since last six years or thereafter by cultivating the said lands continuously with the Tractor and sowing seeds of grass therein, the grass is being grown in the said land.	Facts
Therefore, that allegation that said land has been kept uncultivated continuously for two years namely 196364 and 196465 and for the years prior to that made in the notice is absolutely false and we specifically deny the same.	Facts
Further, over and above the cultivation in the said land we are also making the said land clean and also we are erecting hedge round about it we are also removing the thorns and other things lying in the said land and also keeping continuous watch over the same as soon as the grass grown therein and when the grass becomes fit to be cut, we cut the same and bring the same at our house for our cattle and our cattle eat the same for the whole year. . . .	Facts
.(sic).	None
5.	None
The case was then sent to the Additional Mamlatdar for report.	Facts
The Mamlatdars report is not before us.	Facts
On February 28, 1965 the Dist.	Facts
Deputy Collector, Bulsar made his declaration and we get the gist of the Mamlatdars report from his declaration.	Facts
It appears that the Mamlatdar reported that the lands were cultivable and food crops and fruit trees can be grown but the owners had merely allowed grass naturally to grow therein and by such operations only they had not made full and efficient use of the land in the two consecutive years viz.	Facts
196364 and 196465.	Facts
The Deputy Collector declared that he was satisfied that full and efficient use of the lands had not been made consecutively during the years 196364 and 196465 as contemplated under Section 65 of the Act and that the default was not due to circumstances beyond the control of the owners.	Facts
He also declared that the lands could grow food crops or fruit trees.	Facts
He accordingly appointed the Mamlatdars as managers of said lands directing that they should take immediate steps to lease out the lands for cultivation of food crops and manage the land as provided for management of estates under the provisions contained in Chapter IV of the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, 1948.	Facts
This declaration was questioned by the writ petitions from which the present appeals arise.	Facts
6.	None
Before the High Court six grounds were urged in support of the petition.	Issue
Broadly speaking they were the constitutionality of Section 65 of the Act under Articles 14, 19 (1) (f) and (g) and 31 breach of principles of natural justice on the ground that the Deputy Collector who made the declaration did not hear the parties and lastly that the declaration was vitiated on account of omission to take into consideration factors relevant for the purpose of taking action.	Issue
Another ground of attack was that the exercise of power was mala fide and actuated by political considerations.	Issue
This last ground was not presented to us and therefore may not be mentioned again.	Issue
7.	None
The constitutional validity of the addition to Section 65 by the Amending Act was also questioned before us.	Issue
The argument was that the added words introduced a condition which, even if taken with the Rules, was destructive of the fight of a person to hold and enjoy his property and to deprive him of it for all times without compensation.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also submitted that in the law thus made too much power and discretion was left to the officer concerned, without indicating any standards of an objective nature to control them.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also contended that the appellants, in any event, were fulfilling the requirements of cultivation as laid down in the Act itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
8.	None
Before entering into a discussion of these points we may first see what the Act enacts to achieve by itself and by its Rules.	None
The Act has a long preamble which indicates the object of the law.	None
It says inter	None
aliaAnd whereas on account of the neglect of a landholder or disputes between a landholder and his tenants, the cultivation of his estate has seriously suffered, or for the purpose of improving the economic and social conditions o peasants to ensuring the full and efficient use of land for agriculture, it is expedient to assume management of estates held by landholders and to regulate and impose restrictions on the transfer of agricultural lands, dwelling houses, sites and lands appurtenant thereto belonging to or occupied by agriculturists, agricultural labourers and artisans in the Province of Bombay and to make provisions for certain other purposes hereinafter appearing it is hereby enacted as follows The following definitions are material to our purpose.	None
Section 2 (1) provides Agriculture includes horticulture, the raising of crops, grass or garden produce, the use by an agriculturist of the land held by him or a part thereof for the grazing of his cattle, the use of any land whether or not an appendage to rice or paddy land, for the purpose of rab manure but does not include allied pursuits, or the cutting of wood only Provided that in the case of such tracts of land abounding in natural growth of grass as the State Government may, by notification, in the official Gazette, specify, agriculture shall include the cutting of grass for any purpose.	None
To cultivate is defined by S, 2 (5).	None
It reads To cultivate with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions means to till or husband the land for the purpose of raising or improving agricultural produce, whether by manual labour or by means of cattle or machinery, or to carry on any agricultural operation thereon and the expression uncultivated shall be construed correspondingly.	None
Explanation.	None
A person who takes up a contract to cut grass or to gather the fruits or other produce of trees on any land, shall not on that account only be deemed to cultivate such land.	None
To hold land is defined by S. 2 (6c) and means only that the person must be lawfully in actual possession of the land as an owner or tenant, as the case may be.	None
Landholder is defined in S. 2 (9) thus Landholder means a zamindar, jagirdar, saranjamdar, inamdar, talukdar, malik or a khot or any person not hereinbefore specified who is a holder of land or who is interested in land and whom the State Government has declared on account of the extent and value of the land or his interest therein to be a landholder for the purposes of this Act.	None
It must be noticed that this definition does not take into account a tenant.	Reasoning
That word is defined in Section 2 (18) and readsTenant means a person who holds land on lease and includes  (a) a person who is deemed to be tenant under Section 4 (b) a person who is protected tenant and (c) a person who is permanent tenantand the word landlord shall be construed accordingly.	Reasoning
9. Chapter II deals with tenancies, but with its provisions we are not concerned because they bear only upon matters connected with the setting up of tenancies, their continuance and termination, the quantum of rent payable and other such matters.	None
Section 5 of this Chapter prescribes the ceiling area of tenancy lands with reference to jirayat, seasonal irrigated and perennially irrigated lands, Section 7 authorises Government to vary the ceiling area and economic holding taking into consideration the situation of the land, its productive capacity, its situation in backward areas and any other factor that may be prescribed.	None
Chapter III then deals with special rights and privileges of tenants and makes provision for distribution of land for personal cultivation.	None
We are not concerned with any matter involved in it Chapter IV deals with management of estates held by landholders.	None
In view of the definition of landholder this Part cannot be applied directly to nonlandholders but the provisions of S. 65 (2) make the provisions of Chapter IV applicable to the lands of nonlandholders.	None
The intention of Chapter V is to arrange for the management of the land of landholders with a view to better management and the liquidation of their debts.	None
The relevant sections in this chapter (which applies in this indirect manner to nonlandholders lands) are Sections 44 to 48, 58, 59 and 61.	None
Section 44 readsNotwithstanding any law for the time being in force, usage or custom or the terms of contract or grant when the State Government is satisfied that on account of the neglect of a landholder or disputes between him and his tenants, the cultivation of his estate has seriously suffered, or when it appears to the State Government that it is necessary for the said purpose or for the purpose of ensuring the full and efficient use of land for agriculture to assume management of any landholders estate, a notification announcing such intention shall be published in the Official Gazette, and the Collector shall cause notice of the substance of such notification to be given at convenient place in the locality where the estate is situated.	None
Such notification shall be conclusive.	None
10. Section 45 vests the estate in the State Government and the management is deemed to commence from the date on which the notification is published.	None
Section 46 gives the effect of declaration of management.	None
As a result of the publication of the notification under Section 44 all proceedings and processes in civil courts in respect of actions against the landholders get automatically stayed and while the management continues, no further proceedings can be commenced.	None
The holder of the estate also becomes incapable of entering into any contract, mortgage, etc. or to grant valid receipts for rents and profits.	None
The manager, however has competence to do all these things.	None
Section 47 then enumerates the powers of the Manager in the management.	None
He is entitled to receive and recover all rents and profits due in respect of the property under management and for this purpose possesses all the powers of the holder as well as the powers of the Collector under the law for the time being in force.	None
Under Section 48 the Manager is entitled to deduct from the recoveries the cost of the management and repairs, Government revenue and all other debts to Government, the rent to a superior holder and such periodical allowances as the Collector from time to time fixes for the maintenance and other expenses of the holder and such members of his family as the Collector directs and the costs of such improvement of the estates as the manager thinks necessary or as approved by the Collector.	None
The balance is then applied by the Manager for the liquidation of the debts and liabilities of the landholders and if anything remains thereafter, it is paid to the landholder.	None
Sections 49 to 57 deal with claims to be made against the estate and the power to remove the mortgage in possession.	None
Sections 58 and 59 may be read here.	None
They confer powers of sales and lease on the Manager and to pass receipts for any moneys, rents or profits raised or received by him and the discharge of the persons on the strength of such receipts.58.	None
Subject to the rules made under this Act, the Manager after the liquidation scheme has been sanctioned as aforesaid, shall have power to sell or grant on lease all or any part of the estate under the management Provided that the estate or any part thereof shall not be sold or leased for a period exceeding ten years without the previous permission	None
o the Collector Provided further that the Collector shall not give such permission unless he is satisfied that such sale or lease is necessary for the benefit of the estate (or unless such sale is in favour of a tenant under Sections 32, 32F, 321 or 82O).	None
The decision of the Collector shall be final.	None
59.	None
The Managers receipt for any moneys, rents or profits raised or received by him under this Act shall discharge the person paying the same therefrom or from being concerned to see to the application thereof.	None
11.	None
Section 61 next provides for the termination of the management.	Reasoning
It must be read in full61.	None
The State Government, when it is of opinion that it is not necessary to continue the management of the estate, by order published in the Official Gazette direct that the said management shall be terminated.	None
On the termination of the said management, the estate shall be delivered into the possession of the holder, or, if he is dead, of any person entitled to the said estate together with any balances which may be due to the credit of the said holder.	None
All acts done or purporting to be done by the Manager during the continuance of the management of the estate shall be binding on the holder or to any person to whom the possession of the estate has been delivered.	None
The provisions though applicable to landholder are applied by S. 65 (2) mutatis mutandis to the lands of nonlandholders In other words, tile scheme of the management (apart from liquidation of debts) applies to nonlandholders.	Reasoning
The other provisions dealing with management for the liquidation of debts, which are in the nature of the provisions of the Court of Wards Act, may not be considered here because they are not relevant to our purpose.	None
12.	None
We may next see some of the Rules which have been framed under S. 82 of the Act.	None
Rule 30 provides for a notice before action under S. 44 is taken and provides that the landholders statement shall be recorded as regards the intention of the Government to assume management of the estate.	None
Rule 33 provides that when a Manager proposes to sell any estate or any part thereof under S. 58 he shall give notice to the landholder to show cause why the estate or a part thereof should not be sold and must afford him an hearing.	None
The method of selling or leasing of the estate under management or any part thereof is indicated in Rule 34 and it is by public auction unless such a course is, in the opinion of the Manager, unnecessary or inexpedient.	None
Rule 35 is important and may be set down in extenso35.	None
Period of continuance of management of estates.	None
(1) The Manager of an estate of which management has been assumed shall, before the 31st day of March following the year in which the management has been assumed, send to the State Government a report regarding the management of the estate and shall state whether in his opinion it is necessary to continue the management for the purpose for which it was assumed (2) After taking into consideration the report of the Manager made under subrule (1) the State Government shall decide whether the management should be terminated under Section 61 or continued further and if so, for what period, such period not being in excess of five years at a time.	None
(3) If the State Government decides to continue the management the Manager shall, from time to time, forward his report through the Collector and shall in any case submit a report not letter than two months before the expiry of the current period of the management to enable Government to decide whether the management shall be terminated under Section 61 or shall further be continued Provided that if the management is to be continued beyond the expiry of ten years from the date on which it was assumed the Collector shall hold a formal inquiry in the manner prescribed by the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879, and after recording the statement of the landholder or any person acting on his behalf, shall submit the record and proceedings of the inquiry and his report to the State Government, which shall be taken into consideration by the State Government before it decides to continue the management any further.	None
The other Rules do not bear upon the present controversy and may be left out of consideration.	None
We may now proceed to consider this case.	None
13.	None
The first question to consider is the vires of the addition to S. 65 by the Amending Act, which addition has been shown in the section quoted already.	Issue
This matter has to be considered with reference to Arts.	Reasoning
31A and 31B read with the Ninth Schedule.	Reasoning
The protection is claimed on the basis of these two articles by the State.	Reasoning
Article 31B no doubt gives protection to all statutes listed in Schedule IX of the Constitution and this Act is so listed.	Reasoning
But it was listed before the amendment of S. 65 and that amendment cannot be said to have been considered when the Amendment of the Constitution was made.	Reasoning
That Amendment if accepted as unassailable will have the indirect effect of amending the original Schedule IX by including something in it which was not there before.	Reasoning
This is undoubtedly beyond the competence of any State legislature.	Reasoning
The argument of the learned Attorney General that the general scheme of the Preamble and the provisions of S. 44 made applicable by S.65 (2) both of which have the protection of Art.	Reasoning
31B must give protection is fallacious.	Reasoning
Even if the preamble and S. 44 could be read (and we do not decide that they can be so read) to give validity it is clear that the preamble talked only of landholders and the addition of the words to S. 65 is intended to apply the principle to nonlandholders.	Reasoning
Similarly the provisions of S. 44 under the unamended Act, could not have been made applicable to such landholders.	Reasoning
The amendment of S. 65 was really carrying the Act into new fields and not being considered as an amendment of the Constitution, how can it claim the protection given to the unamended Act ?	Reasoning
Therefore Art. 31B and the Ninth Schedule cannot be called in aid.	Reasoning
14.	None
The matter may, however, be considered under Art.	Reasoning
31A.	Reasoning
If Art.	Reasoning
31A gives protection there would be an end to the appellants contention if not the matter must be considered on principles settled by this Court.	Reasoning
Art.	Arguments of Respondent
31A was relied upon strongly by the learned Attorney General.	Arguments of Respondent
He attempted to bring the amendment of S. 65 under Clauses (a) and (b) of Art.	Arguments of Respondent
31A (1).	Reasoning
We may now consider the matter under these two clauses separately.	None
Art.	Arguments of Respondent
31A (1) (a) and (b) read31A (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Article 13, no law providing for (a) the acquisition by the State of any estate or of any rights therein or the extinguishment or modification of my such rights, or (b) the taking over of the management of any property by the State for a limited period either in the public interest or in order to secure the proper management of the property, or shall be deemed to be void on the ground that it is inconsistent with, or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by Article 14, Article 19 or Article 31.	None
The amendment of S. 65 gives additional power of taking over lands of nonlandholders for management on two grounds.	Reasoning
The first is that the land must have remained uncultivated for two consecutive years and the second is that full and efficient use of the land had not been made of the land.	Reasoning
In so far as the first is concerned S. 65 in its original form included that condition and it cannot be challenged because of the protection of Art.	Reasoning
31B read with the Ninth Schedule.	Reasoning
Therefore action could be taken against any land which had remained uncultivated for two years.	Reasoning
The action in this case is not taken because of this part of S. 65.	Reasoning
But in so far as the second part is concerned the question must arise whether taking over of management can be said to be (a) acquisition by State or (b) extinguishment of the rights of the holder or (c) modification of any such rights.	Reasoning
Of these it is impossible to say that this was an acquisition by the State.	Reasoning
That phrase has received construction on more than one occasion in this Court.	Reasoning
Although the decisions connot be said to be uniform, one thing is certain that the taking away must be for the State and by the State.	Reasoning
Such acquisition must transfer the ownership of the property to the State or to a corporation owned or controlled by the State.	Reasoning
Since S. 65 or the other provisions of the Act do not spell out any such thing, there is no acquisition by the State.	Reasoning
There is also no extinguishment of the rights of the holder.	Reasoning
The rights are merely suspended and he continues to be the owner.	Reasoning
There can of course be extinguishment of rights without acquisition by the State but there must be extinguishment, that is complete termination of the rights.	Reasoning
The scheme of the Act in S. 61 contemplates return of the lands unless sold to others and in those cases in which a sale is not affected it cannot be said that there is an extinguishment of the rights.	Reasoning
Therefore that part of Art.	Reasoning
31A (1) (a) does not apply.	Reasoning
The third part namely modification of rights have been considered by us but this Court in Raghubir Singh v. Court of Wards, Ajmer, 1953 SCR 1049 (AIR 1953 SC 373 ) gave a limited meaning to the expression and that case has been applied on many occasions.	Reasoning
It was observed thereThe learned AttorneyGeneral laid emphasis on the word modification used in Article 31A.	None
That word in the context of the article only means a modification of the proprietary right of a citizen like an extinguishment of that right and cannot include within its ambit a mere suspension of the right of management of estate for a time, definite or indefinite.	Reasoning
(emphasis (here in ) added)	None
Thus mere suspension of the right of management of ones property without modification of the proprietary right was not held sufficient to give protection of Art.	None
31A (1) (a).	Reasoning
We would have given more thought to this matter but for the reenactment of Art.	Reasoning
81A with retrospective effect after Raghubir Singhs case, 1953 SCR 1049 (AIR 1953 SC 373 ).	Reasoning
Raghubir Singhs case, 1953 SCR 1049 (AIR 1953 SC 373 ) did not interpret the article as it is today.	Reasoning
In view of the retrospective amendment of the article it may be said that this Court interpreted an article which never was enacted in that form.	Reasoning
Therefore the less we speak of the matter from the angle of observations in Raghubir Singhs case, 1953 SCR 1049 (AIR 1953 SC 373 ) the better.	Reasoning
But even so the matter is not advanced much further.	None
15.	None
Looking at the matter in the light of Art.	Reasoning
31A as it is today (and it must be deemed to have been so always) management is specially provided in (b) and must be considered under that clause.	Reasoning
The words of that clause are the taking over of the management of any property.	Reasoning
Any property means property of any kind and would embrace land of landholders and nonlandholders alike.	Reasoning
The words by the State indicate that the taking over must be by the State.	Reasoning
The next requirement is that this taking over must be either in the public interest or in order to secure the proper management of the property.	Reasoning
And lastly the taking over must be for a limited period.	Reasoning
The case here is covered by this clause and clause (a) is therefore not attracted.	Reasoning
16.	None
It is, however, objected that the taking over is not limited to any period.	Reasoning
S. 61 which is protected by the Ninth Schedule and cannot be called in question says that the State Government may announce the termination of the management when it is satisfied that it is not necessary.	Reasoning
This does not set any limit leaving the matter at large.	Reasoning
The learned Attorney General however desired us to read the rules to show that there is a limit of time.	Arguments of Respondent
He says that the rules be read in conjunction with the provisions of S. 61 because the section does not give any indication of any limit of time.	Arguments of Respondent
Although S. 61 may not by itself be challengeable, the rules may be, notwithstanding that they were made under powers given by S. 82.A limit of time was deliberately put in by the constitutional amendment to distinguish between cases which fall within management from those of extinguishment and modification.	Reasoning
Without a limit of time the management would be an excuse for deprivation of property without compensation and that is not the intention of Art. 31.	Reasoning
It is hardly to be thought that an antinomy between Art. 31 and 31A (1) (b) was deliberately introduced.	Reasoning
17.	None
We do not express an opinion whether the rules can be read to indicate the limited period of management or that the scheme of the Act and the rules must be viewed together in this connection.	Reasoning
But we are clear that the rules do not improve matters.	Reasoning
Although it may not be possible to attack S. 61 which enables the State to hold the property as long as necessary as the section is protected, the action of the State in making such rules as give no indication of a limit of time may be a circumstance to consider if the claim of protection is made out.	Reasoning
Under clause (b) of Art.	Reasoning
31A (1) protection is to State action in taking over management for a limited period and to laws enabling this to be done, but not to management unlimited in time.	Reasoning
Section 61 read with S. 82 must therefore require that any rule made should accord with the protection given on these terms by Art.	Reasoning
31A otherwise the protection will fail.	Reasoning
Advantage of the words of S. 61 cannot be taken to create a permanent deprivation of the property and yet claim protection of Art.	Reasoning
31A (1) (b).	Reasoning
It is in this context that we must examine the provisions.	Reasoning
18.	None
We must first clear one misapprehension and it is that the provisions of Chapter IV can be said to apply in toto.	Reasoning
It must be remembered that that chapter is primarily concerned with the liquidation of liability of landholders and schemes to effect that purpose.	Reasoning
Section 58 does not give a clean power of sale but only after a liquidation scheme is sanctioned.	Reasoning
That applies to landholders and may not be made applicable to nonlandholders.	Reasoning
19.	None
To see how the management is to work in respect of nonlandholders we have to turn to the rules.	Reasoning
Here the pertinent rule is R. 35.	Reasoning
That rule requires a report from the Manager after about a year to enable the State Government to consider whether it is necessary to continue management.	Reasoning
The State Government may then decide to release the land from management, or continue it.	Reasoning
The management may continue for periods of 5 years at a time on the strength of periodic reports but if management is to continue beyond 10 years a formal inquiry is necessary and then Government may decide to continue the management further.	Reasoning
No limit of time is then indicated.	Reasoning
There is, therefore, no limit set at all.	Reasoning
The protection of Art.	Reasoning
31A (1) (b) is available only when there is a definite limit in the law for the period of management.	Reasoning
Neither S. 61 alone, nor read with the rules indicates any such limit and the condition of protection from Articles 13, 14, 19 and 31 is thus not available.	None
The argument of the learned Attorney General that so long as there is a possibility of a return of the land to the original owner, we must construe the management as of a limited period is not acceptable to us.	None
It is hardly to be expected that a return of property which is on the Greek Kalends can be construed as a return within a limited period.	Reasoning
Therefore the scheme of the Act ought to have shown the limit.	Reasoning
It may not be possible to question the unamended Section 65 because of Art.	Reasoning
31B or the provisions of S. 61 which is also protected but in respect of the addition to S. 65 the protection of Art.	Reasoning
31A (1) (b) can only be invoked if the law can show a real limit for the period of management.	Reasoning
If the management is likely to continue for an indefinite period it is not in any sense limited and, therefore, the amended part cannot claim protection, S. 61 notwithstanding.	Reasoning
20.	None
Once the matter can be gone into the provisions of the additional part will have to be examined for reasonableness.	Issue
Here the difficulties are many for the State.	Reasoning
We mention only a few of them.	Reasoning
There is nothing to show what are the requirements of action.	Reasoning
The deprivation of property is made to depend upon the subjective determination of an officer.	Reasoning
Take for example this case itself.	Reasoning
Action is taken under the impugned part of S. 65.	Reasoning
Agriculture includes growing of grass, and other definitions emphasise the need of growing grass by including the operation in the word cultivation.	Reasoning
Grass is as important for agricultural communities as foodgrains and fruits.	Reasoning
Without the former the cattle must die just as without the latter there would be human starvation.	Reasoning
The Act, therefore, gives importance to both, naming grass along with crops and garden produce and horticulture.	Reasoning
If grass is being grown as an agricultural operation, one cannot just take grass lands and convert them into orchards.	Reasoning
Similarly orchards cannot be taken and turned into pastures.	Reasoning
Before action is taken it must be quite clearly, established that the kind of agriculture which is being carried on is being carried on inefficiently or that there is some distinct advantage in the new management to carry on the new kind of agriculture.	Reasoning
The Deputy Collector merely, thinks that the land can grow grain or fruits.	Reasoning
But so can any grass land or pasture.	Reasoning
There is nothing to show that from an agrarian point of view grass grown in these lands was not necessary at all or was being inefficiently grown.	Reasoning
A person is entitled to hold and enjoy his property as he thinks best.	Reasoning
If regard is to be had for the benefits of society a clear law and a clear determination are required.	Reasoning
Both the elements are missing.	Reasoning
It is not said in what circumstances cultivation can be said to be inefficient.	Reasoning
It is also not said what would be considered efficient cultivation and what inquiries are needed to determine this.	Reasoning
It is also not said under what circumstances different kind of cultivation can be imposed upon the land.	Reasoning
The law does not provide for an opportunity to the cultivator to change his cultivation from one kind to another.	Reasoning
It does not even require that the management should be efficient.	Reasoning
After taking over the lands the Manager can lease them to others but it is not stated what conditions they have to observe.	Reasoning
Merely on the opinion of an officer, land may be taken away because the officer thinks that wheat is to be preferred to fruits and fruits to grass and so on and so forth.	Reasoning
The management is taken over without any clear limit of time.	Reasoning
In these circumstances it is difficult to uphold the declarations made in these cases or to give them the protection of Art.	Reasoning
31A (1) (b).	Reasoning
21.	None
The appeals will, therefore be allowed with costs and the orders of the Deputy Collector quashed.	Decision
There shall be one set of hearing fee in each group, where same counsel appeared for all the appeals.	Decision
22.	None
Appeals allowed.	Decision
