 Dr. Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud, J. This judgment has been divided into sections to facilitate analysis.	None
They are The aftermath of Pulwama The backdrop Petitions before the High Court	None
The judgment of the High Court Submissions in the appeals Determination of the rate under Section 15 of the Customs Act 1962 Precedent Interpreting day and date Notification under Section 8A of the Customs Tariff Act General Clauses Act Information Technology Act, 2000 Effect of notifications issued in egazettes Retrospectivity Summation Leave granted.	None
A The aftermath of Pulwama A terrorist attack took place at Pulwama on 14 February 2019.	Issue
On 16 February 2019, the Union Government issued a notification under Section 8A of the Customs Tariff Act 1975.	Issue
The notification introduced a tariff entry by which all goods originating in or exported from the Islamic Republic of Pakistan were subjected to an enhanced customs duty of 200.	Issue
The precise time at which the notification was uploaded on the eGazette was 204658 hours.	Issue
Customs authorities at the land customs station at Attari sought to enforce the enhanced rate of duty on importers who had already presented bills of entry for home consumption before the enhanced rate was notified in the eGazette.	Issue
Their action led to a challenge before the High Court of Punjab and Haryana.	Issue
The consignments of import covered a diverse range of goods, ranging from dry dates to cement.	Issue
On 26 August 2019, a Division Bench of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana allowed a batch of writ petitions under Article 226 of the Constitution.	Issue
The High Court held that since the importers, who had imported goods from Pakistan, had presented their bills of entry and completed the process of selfassessment before the notification enhancing the rate of duty to 200 per cent was issued and uploaded, the enhanced rate of duty was not attracted.	Issue
The High Court held that the importers were liable to pay the duty applicable at the time when the bills of entry for home consumption were filed under Section 46 of the Customs Act, 1962.(the Customs Act) The Union of India was ordered to release the goods within seven days on the payment of duty as declared and assessed without applying the notification enhancing the rate of duty on goods originating in Pakistan.	Issue
The Union of India is in appeal.	None
The judgment of the High Court is titled as Rasrasna Food Private Limited versus Union of India.	None
Chronologically, the first petition listed before this Court by Special Leave under Article 136 of the Constitution is in the case of G S Chatha Rice Mills.	None
Since the issues of law which have been raised are common to the batch of appeals, they have been heard together.	None
B	None
The backdrop The First respondent is a partnership firm based in Amritsar which is, inter alia, engaged in the import of cement.	Facts
It imported a consignment of fourteen hundred bags of cement from Pakistan under an invoice dated 1 February 2019.	Facts
A truck bearing registration number TLV189 (cargo) crossed the zero line on Saturday, 16 February 2019 under entry number 47195 with a Pakistan Customs Cargo Manifest bearing the time of 431 pm.	Facts
The goods arrived at the Land Customs Station Road Cargo, Attari Road, Amritsar on the same day and IGM number 366870 was filed in respect of the goods.	Facts
The truck unloaded its cargo at the Central Warehousing Corporation, ICP, Attari.	Facts
The arrival of the goods and the filing of the IGM was before 1800 hours on 16 February 2019.	Facts
The First respondent filed bill of entry number 2083178 dated 16 February 2019 seeking clearance of the goods for home consumption.	Facts
The bill of entry was selfassessed at 1808 hours under the provisions of Section 17(1) of the Customs Act 1962(the Customs Act) under Customs Tariff Heading 2523910 by levying nil customs duty in terms of notification 68/2012 dated 31 December 2012 (as amended by notification 50/2017 serial 129 dated 30 June 2017) and IGST at 28 percent rate (in terms of notification 1/2017 schedule III serial No. 3).	Facts
The duty payable was assessed at Rs 73,342/. Notification 50/2017Cus (serial No. 129), prescribed a preferential rate of duty on specified goods originating in the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.	Facts
On 16 February 2019, notification 5/2019 was issued by the Ministry of Finance in the Department of Revenue, in exercise of powers conferred by subsection (1) of Section 8A of the Customs Tariff Act 1975.(the Customs Tariff Act)	Facts
By this notification, a new tariff entry was introduced in Chapter 98 of Section XXI in the following terms table	Facts
The notification contains a reference to the date (16 February 2019) and time (204658) at which it was uploaded and published in the eGazette of the Government of India.	None
Based on the enhancement in the rate of duty brought about by the notification, the customs authorities refused to release the goods which were assessed earlier.	Facts
The bill of entry was recalled and reassessed on 20 February 2019 at 1814 hours by levying customs duty at 200 per cent and IGST at 28 per cent, enhancing the duty from Rs 73,342/ to 8,10,952/. Aggrieved by the action of the customs authorities, the first respondent filed a petition under Article 226 for setting aside (i) the assessment of the bill of entry to a duty of 200 (ii) Notification 5/2019 dated 16 February 2019 and for a direction to CWC to issue a detention memo and the release of the goods.	Facts
C Petitions before the High Court	Facts
The batch of petitions before the High Court involved cases of other similarly situated importers.	Facts
The facts pertaining to the writ petitions, as gleaned from the judgment of the High Court, are summarized below the goods were imported in the ordinary course of trade from Pakistan the goods entered Indian territory through the Attari border at Amritsar before 1800 hours on 16 February 2019 the importers had filed bills of entry under Section 46 of the Customs Act, before the close of working hours, seeking clearance of the goods for home consumption the value and description of the goods were declared the importers had selfassessed the goods in terms of the prevailing notifications and had filed the bills of entry in the EDI system the declarations were subject to verification by the customs department which did not dispute them and generated duty payment TR6 challans since 16 February 2019 was a Saturday, the customs office was closed after 1800 hours and was to open on Monday,18 February 2019 some of the importers paid the duty online through TR6 challans on 16 February 2019 while in the case of others, the payment of duty was in progress Notification 5/2019 was issued at 204658 hours on 16 February 2019 following the Pulwama terrorist attack as a result of which the rate of duty on goods originating in Pakistan was enhanced to 200 per cent irrespective of the fact that some of the products had hitherto been exempt from customs duty and the customs authorities refused to release the goods on the basis of the bills of entry which were selfassessed at the preexisting rate and proceeded to recall them and reassess the goods to the enhanced rate of duty applicable under notification 5/2019.	Facts
Before the High Court, the submission of the importers was that before notification 5/2019 was issued (at 2046 hours on 16 February 2019 in order to discourage the import of goods from Pakistan), (i) they had placed orders (ii) the goods had entered into the territory of India (iii) the goods were fully or partially exempt from basic customs duties, but subject to IGST at the time of the filing of the bills of entry (iv) the exporters from Pakistan received payment of the consideration on the basis of which the goods had been supplied and (v) the object of the notification was to discourage imports from Pakistan and not to penalize Indian importers who had placed orders and had imported goods into India, bona fide relying on the policy which was applicable before the notification was issued in the late hours of the day.	Facts
On the issues of law, it was urged that after the presentation of the bills of entry for home consumption, selfassessment and duty payment challans had been generated, it was not open to the customs authorities to levy the enhanced rate of duty which came into force later, from 2046 hours on 16 February 2019.	Facts
The application of notification 5/2019 would, it was urged, have retrospective effect since the bills of entry for home consumption had been filed electronically on the customs automated platform before the issuance of the notification and they were selfassessed.	Facts
On the other hand, the contention of the Union government before the High Court was that under Section 15 of the Customs Act, 1962 the relevant date for determining the rate of duty is the date of the presentation of the bill of entry.	Facts
The submission was that the amended rate of duty under notification 5/2019 came into force on 16 February 2019 hence, the importers were liable to pay duty on the basis of the amended rate.	Facts
The submission was that the customs authorities were entitled to reassess the bills of entry under Section 17(4).	Facts
D The judgment of the High Court The High Court, after analyzing the provisions of Sections 8A and 11A of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 and Sections 12, 15, 17, 46 and 47 of the Customs Act,1962 held that The relevant date for the determination of duty is the date of the presentation of the bill of entry, which, in the facts of this case, corresponds to the date of the entry of the vehicle carrying the goods into India The bills of entry were presented on 16 February 2019 before the issuance of notification 5/2019	Facts
The dual requirements of Section 15 namely, the filing of the bill of entry and the entry of the vehicle were fulfilled before the publication of notification 5/2019	Facts
The amended rate of duty was not applicable The absence of customs clearance under Section 47 had no bearing on the rate applicable Notification 5/2019 having been released after working hours, it would apply from the next day as held in the decision of this Court in Union of India vs. Param Industries Limited, (2016) 16 SCC 692 and A notification under Section 8A of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 cannot apply retrospectively.	Facts
The Union of India is in appeal.	None
E Submissions in the appeals Besides making oral submissions, Mr K M Natraj, Additional Solicitor General of India has filed written submissions.	None
His submissions are prefaced with a delineation of the issue which is raised in the appeals, which is whether the amendment to the First Schedule of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 takes effect from the time at which it is uploaded notified in the gazette or from the first moment of the day date on which it was issued published in the gazette.	None
The submissions of the ASG are summarized below A (i) Under Section 15 of the Customs Act, the date for the determination of the rate of duty and valuation of imported goods, in the case of goods which are entered for home consumption under Section 46, is the date on which the bill of entry in respect of the goods is presented.	Arguments of Petitioner
The expression on the date comprehends the entire period of 24 hours, in this case beginning at midnight on 16 February 2019 (ii) Section 15 does not make any reference to time and hence, irrespective of the point of time when a notification has been uploaded or published in the eGazette, the rate of duty leviable on imported goods cleared for home consumption is, by a legal fiction, the rate prevalent on the date of the presentation of the bill of entry (iii) Section 15 should be interpreted in light of the rule of literal construction, and the law has to be applied as it is and (iv) This case is not about the prospective or retrospective application of the Notification at issue.	Arguments of Petitioner
Rather, it is the simple intent of Parliament to consciously make the date on which the Notification is issued as the date for determination of the rate of duty (as applicable), which this court must uphold.	Arguments of Petitioner
B (i) Independent of (A) above, a notification under Section 8A(1) of the Customs Tariff Act has the effect of amending the First schedule and is a legislative act which dates back to the commencement of the day (ii) The schedule is a part of the Act, and hence an amendment to it is an amendment to the Act (iii) Subsection (2) of Section 8A of the Customs Tariff Act applies the provisions of subsections (3) and (4) of Section 7 to a notification which is issued under Section 8A(1) (iv) A notification under Section 8A(1) amending the first schedule has to be placed before each House of Parliament and is subject to its approval and modification and (v) An amendment to the schedule, upon the exercise of powers under Section 8A, constitutes an amendment of the Act itself which passes through a process of receiving Parliamentary sanction and is subject to its approval.	Arguments of Petitioner
C (i)	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of (B) above, since the schedule to the Customs Tariff Act is a part of the enactment, the provisions of the General Clauses Act 1897(the General Clauses Act) are attracted to an amendment effected under section 8A(1) (ii) Section 3(7) of the General Clauses Act defines the expression Central Act to mean an Act of Parliament while Section 3(13) defines commencement to mean the day on which an Act or Regulation comes into force (iii) Under Section 5(3) of the General Clauses Act, a Central Act or Regulation, unless the contrary is expressed, comes into force immediately on the expiration of the day preceding its commencement and (iv) Commencement can only be from a day which takes within its fold the entire period of 24 hours from midnight of the day before the issuance of the notification.	Arguments of Petitioner
D	Arguments of Respondent
The twin requirements of Section 15 are fulfilled because (i)	Arguments of Petitioner
The notification was issued and uploaded in the Gazette on 16 February 2019 and (ii) The bills of entry for home consumption under Section 46 were presented on 16 February 2019.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is the substratum of the plea that the rate of duty prescribed by notification 5/2019 is applicable.	Arguments of Petitioner
14.	Arguments of Petitioner
Opposing the above submissions, Mr PS Narasimha, learned Senior Counsel submitted that A (i) The levy of customs duty under Section 12 of the Customs Act is at the rates prescribed under the Customs Tariff Act Under Section 15 of the Customs Act, the rate of duty is the rate prevalent on the date of the presentation of the bill of entry under section 46 of the Customs Act, where goods are cleared for home consumption and The importers fulfilled the twin requirements of the goods having entered on 16 February 2019 and the bill of entry having been filed before 2046 hours when notification 5/2019 was issued.	None
The bills of entry had to be assessed to customs duty at the rate which was in existence prior to the publication of the notification.	Arguments of Respondent
B (i) Notification 5/2019 having been published at 204658 hours on 16 February 2019 it was never updated on the EDI portal Notification 5/2019 would apply only to bills of entry for home consumption presented after 204658 hours on 16 February 2019 or upon amendment in the online EDI portal of ICEGATE A notification issued under the provisions of Section 8A (1) of the Customs Tariff Act cannot have a retrospective character and Subordinate legislation is not retrospective unless the statute under which it has been framed, expressly or by necessary implication, imports retrospectivity.	Arguments of Respondent
Subordinate legislation cannot always be equated as an Act of legislature for the interpretation of Central Act as defined by the General Clauses Act.	Arguments of Respondent
C (i) Digital India is a new vision and idea into which India is evolving, and we are in a phase of governance in which multiple commercial transactions take place every single day.	Arguments of Respondent
Rule 5(1) of the Information Technology (Electronic Service Delivery)	Arguments of Respondent
Rules, 2011 mandates maintenance of timestamps for any governmental electronic records In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 157 read with Sections 46 and 47 of the Customs Act, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs has passed the Bill of Entry (Electronic Integrated Declaration and Paperless Processing) Regulations 2018(the Regulations 2018)	None
Under Regulation 4(2), the bill of entry is deemed to have been filed and selfassessment completed when, after the entry of the electronic integrated declaration on the customs automated system, a bill of entry is generated by the Indian Customs Electronic Data Interchange System and the selfassessed copy of the bill of entry may be electronically transmitted to the authorized person In terms of the provisions of Section 15(1)(a), where goods are entered for home consumption under Section 46, the rate of duty is the rate in force on the date on which a bill of entry in respect of such goods is presented under Section 46.	Arguments of Respondent
The Regulations of 2018 have been made pursuant to Section 46 and contain a deeming fiction which prescribes when the presentation of the bill of entry and selfassessment is complete Once the bills of entry were filed and selfassessment was complete, the subsequent issuance of notification 5/2019 at 204658 hours would have no application to the present batch of cases and Bills of entry, once presented, can be reassessed under Section 17(4) only in instances when the assessment has not been done correctly upon verification, examination or testing of the goods by the proper officer.	Arguments of Respondent
None of these circumstances are applicable to the present case.	Arguments of Respondent
D The purpose of the notification being to discourage the import of goods from Pakistan, it has prospective effect the object and purpose is not to penalize Indian importers who had completed their imports, presented bills of entry for home consumption and had completed selfassessment in terms of the provisions of the Customs Act and the Regulations, prior to the issuance of the notification.	Arguments of Respondent
The submissions which were urged by Mr P S Narasimha have been supported by other learned counsel appearing for the respondents including Mr Devashish Bharuka, Ms Anjana Gusain, Mr Anant Agrawal, Ms Sishti Agarwal, Mr Parmatma Singh and Mr Saurabh Kapoor.	Arguments of Respondent
The rival submissions are considered below.	None
F Determination of the rate under Section 15 of the Customs Act 1962 Chapter V of the Customs Act provides for the levy of and exemption from customs duties.	None
Section 12(1), which is the charging provision, provides for the levy of duties of customs on goods imported into, or exported from India at the rates specified by the Customs Tariff Act or, in any other law for the time being in force.	None
Section 15(1) is extracted below Date for determination of rate of duty and tariff valuation of imported goods.	Reasoning
(1) The rate of duty and tariff valuation, if any, applicable to any imported goods, shall be the rate and valuation in force, (a) in the case of goods entered for home consumption under section 46, on the date on which a bill of entry in respect of such goods is presented under that section (b) in the case of goods cleared from a warehouse under section 68, on the date on which a bill of entry for home consumption in respect of such goods is presented under that section (c) in the case of any other goods, on the date of payment of duty Provided that if a bill of entry has been presented before the date of entry inwards of the vessel or the arrival of the aircraft or the vehicle by which the goods are imported, the bill of entry shall be deemed to have been presented on the date of such entry inwards or the arrival, as the case may be.	Reasoning
The provisions of this section shall not apply to baggage and goods imported by post.	None
(emphasis supplied) Section 12 specifies that the rates of duty on goods imported and exported are those which are provided in the Customs Tariff Act or in any other law.	None
Section 12 does not indicate when the duties under those enactments will come into being or force.	None
Section 15 specifies the date with reference to which the rate of duty and tariff valuation of imported goods is determined.	Reasoning
Clauses (a), (b) and (c) of subsection (1) of section 15 contain distinct provisions which apply to goods entered for home consumption under Section 46 goods cleared from a warehouse under Section 68 and other goods.	Reasoning
Where goods are entered for home consumption under Section 46, the rate of duty and tariff valuation is to be the rate and valuation in force on the date on which a bill of entry in respect of such goods is presented under that Section.	Reasoning
In relation to the rate of duty, the effect of clause (a) of Section 15(1), is that the rate which is in force on the date on which a bill of entry is presented under Section 46 (in the case of goods entered for home consumption) is applicable to the imported goods.	Reasoning
When the duties come into force under the enactments imposing them is dependent on and defined by the terms of the particular enactment.	Reasoning
Chapter IX of the Customs Act contains provisions for warehousing.	None
Section 68 which falls under that Chapter stipulates that goods which have been warehoused may be cleared for home consumption if A bill of entry for home consumption has been presented Import duty, interest, fine and penalties, as applicable, have been paid and An order for clearance for home consumption has been made by the proper officer.	Reasoning
Provided that the order referred to in clause (c) may also be made electronically through the customs automated system on the basis of risk evaluation through appropriate selection criteria.	Reasoning
For goods which are cleared from a warehouse under Section 68, clause (b) of Section 15 (1) provides that the rate of duty and valuation are those in force on the date on which a bill of entry for home consumption is presented under Section 68.	Reasoning
In the case of other goods, it is the date of the payment of duty which determines the rate of duty under clause (c) of Section 15(1).	Reasoning
The proviso to Section 15 (1) contemplates a situation where a bill of entry has been presented before the date of the entry inwards of the vessel or the arrival of the aircraft or vehicle through which the goods are imported.	Reasoning
Under the proviso to Section 46(3), a bill of entry may be presented at any time not exceeding thirty days prior to the expected arrival of the aircraft or vehicle by which the goods have been shipped for importation into India.	Reasoning
Dealing with such a situation, the proviso to Section 15(1) states that if a bill of entry has been presented prior to the date of the entry inwards of the vessel or the arrival of the aircraft or vehicle by which the goods are imported, the bill of entry is deemed to have been presented on the date of the entry inwards or the arrival of the goods.	Reasoning
Hence even where the bill of entry has been presented before the date of the entry inwards or the arrival of the aircraft or vehicle, the rate of duty is determined with reference to the date of entry inwards or the arrival of the aircraft or vehicle.	Reasoning
This is a consequence of the deeming fiction under the proviso, as a result of which the presentation of the bill of entry, when filed prior to the arrival of the goods, is deemed to be on the date of the entry inwards or the arrival of the aircraft or vehicle.	Reasoning
Hence, implicit in the provisions of Section 15(1) are the dual or (as counsel before the court described them) the twin requirements of (i) the presentation of the bill of entry and (ii) the entry inwards of the vessel or, as the case may be, the arrival of the aircraft or vehicle.	Reasoning
Section 17 provides for the assessment of duty.	None
Section 46 provides for the entry of goods on importation.	None
Both the provisions of Section 17 and Section 46 have undergone legislative changes by Act 8 of 2011 and by the Finance Act of 2018.	None
By Act 8 of 2011, Section 17 was substituted and Section 46 was amended to provide for the presentation in the electronic form of a bill of entry for home consumption or warehousing.	None
Section 46 provides as follows Entry of goods on importation.(1)	None
The importer of any goods, other than goods intended for transit or transhipment, shall make entry thereof by presenting electronically on the customs automated system to the proper officer a bill of entry for home consumption or warehousing in such form and manner as may be prescribed Provided that the Principal Commissioner of Customs or Commissioner of Customs may, in cases where it is not feasible to make entry by presenting electronically on the customs automated system, allow an entry to be presented in any other manner Provided further that if the importer makes and subscribes to a declaration before the proper officer, to the effect that he is unable for want of full information to furnish all the particulars of the goods required under this subsection, the proper officer may, pending the production of such information, permit him, previous to the entry thereof (a) to examine the goods in the presence of an officer of customs, or (b) to deposit the goods in a public warehouse appointed under section 57 without warehousing the same.	Reasoning
Save as otherwise permitted by the proper officer, a bill of entry shall include all the goods mentioned in the bill of lading or other receipt given by the carrier to the consignor.	None
The importer shall present the bill of entry under subsection (1) before the end of the next day following the day (excluding holidays) on which the aircraft or vessel or vehicle carrying the goods arrives at a customs station at which such goods are to be cleared for home consumption or warehousing Provided that a bill of entry may be presented at any time not exceeding thirty days prior to the expected arrival of the aircraft or vessel or vehicle by which the goods have been shipped for importation into India Provided further that where the bill of entry is not presented within the time so specified and the proper officer is satisfied that there was no sufficient cause for such delay, the importer shall pay such charges for late presentation of the bill of entry as may be prescribed.	Reasoning
The importer while presenting a bill of entry shall make and subscribe to a declaration as to the truth of the contents of such bill of entry and shall, in support of such declaration, produce to the proper officer the invoice, if any, and such other documents relating to the imported goods as may be prescribed.	None
(4A)	None
The importer who presents a bill of entry shall ensure the following, namely (a) the accuracy and completeness of the information given therein (b) the authenticity and validity of any document supporting it and (c) compliance with the restriction or prohibition, if any, relating to the goods under this Act or under any other law for the time being in force (emphasis supplied) Subsection (1) of Section 46 requires an importer of goods to make an entry by presenting a bill of entry for home consumption or warehousing electronically on the customs automated system to the proper officer in such form and manner as may be prescribed.	Reasoning
The word electronically was introduced by Act8 of 2011 with effect from 8 April 2011.	Reasoning
The provision for the presentation of the bill of entry on the customs automated system and in such form and manner as prescribed was introduced by the Finance Act of 2018.	Reasoning
Under subsection (3) of Section 46, a bill of entry under subsection (1) must be presented before the end of the day following the day on which the aircraft, vessel or vehicle carrying the goods arrives at a customs station at which the goods are to be cleared for home consumption or warehousing (holidays being excluded).	Reasoning
The first proviso to subsection (3) enables the presentation of a bill of entry before arrival, at a time not exceeding thirty days prior to the expected arrival of the aircraft, vessel or vehicle by which the goods have been shipped for importation.	Reasoning
Under the second proviso if the bill of entry is not presented within the specified time without sufficient cause, the importer is required to pay the charges prescribed for late presentation of the bill of entry.	Reasoning
Section 17 makes provisions for the assessment of duty Assessment of duty.	None
Assessment of duty (1) An importer entering any imported goods under section 46, or an exporter entering any export goods under section 50, shall, save as otherwise provided in section 85, selfassess the duty, if any, leviable on such goods.	Reasoning
The proper officer may verify the entries made under section 46 or section 50 and the selfassessment of goods referred to in subsection (1) and for this purpose, examine or test any imported goods or export goods or such part thereof as may be necessary.	Reasoning
Provided that the selection of cases for verification shall primarily be on the basis of risk evaluation through appropriate selection criteria.	None
For the purposes of verification under subsection (2), the proper officer may require the importer, exporter or any other person to produce any document or information, whereby the duty leviable on the imported goods or export goods, as the case may be, can be ascertained and thereupon, the importer, exporter or such other person shall produce such document or furnish such information.	None
Where it is found on verification, examination or testing of the goods or otherwise that the selfassessment is not done correctly, the proper officer may, without prejudice to any other action which may be taken under this Act, reassess the duty leviable on such goods Where any reassessment done under subsection (4) is contrary to the selfassessment done by the importer or exporter and in cases other than those where the importer or exporter, as the case may be, confirms his acceptance of the said reassessment in writing, the proper officer shall pass a speaking order on the reassessment, within fifteen days from the date of reassessment of the bill of entry or the shipping bill, as the case may be.	None
Explanation.	None
For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that in cases where an importer has entered any imported goods under section 46 or an exporter has entered any export goods under section 50 before the date on which the Finance Bill, 2011 receives the assent of the President, such imported goods or export goods shall continue to be governed by the provisions of section 17 as it stood immediately before the date on which such assent is received.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
Prior to its substitution by Amending Act 8 of 2011, Section 17 contained requirements for (i) examination and testing of goods and (ii) assessment.	None
Section 17, as it stood prior to substitution, was in the following terms Assessment of Duty.  	None
After an importer has entered any imported goods under section 46 or an exporter has entered any export goods under, section 50 the imported goods or the export goods, as the case may be, or such part thereof as may be necessary may, without undue delay, be examined and tested by the proper officer.	None
After such examination and testing, the duty, if any, leviable on such goods shall, save as otherwise provided in section 85, be assessed.	None
For the purpose of assessing duty under subsection (2), the proper officer may require the importer, exporter or any other person to produce any contract, brokers note, policy of insurance, catalogue or other document whereby the duty leviable on the imported goods or export goods, as the case may be, can be ascertained, and to furnish any information required for such ascertainment which it is in his power to produce or furnish, and thereupon the importer, exporter or such other person shall produce such document and furnish such information.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, imported goods or export goods may, prior to the examination or testing thereof, be permitted by the proper officer to be assessed to duty on the basis of the statements made in the enter relating thereto and the documents produced and the information furnished under subsection (3) but if it is found subsequently on examination or testing of the goods or otherwise that any statement in such entry or document or any information so furnished is not true in respect of any matter relevant to the assessment, the goods may, without prejudice to any other action which may be taken under this Act, be reassessed to duty.	None
Where any assessment done under subsection (2) is contrary to the claim of the importer or exporter regarding valuation of goods, classification, exemption or concessions of duty availed consequent to any notification therefore under this Act, and in cases other than those where the importer or exporter, as the case may be, confirms his acceptance of the said assessment in writing, the proper officer shall pass a speaking order within fifteen days from the date of assessment of the bill of entry or the shipping bill, as the case may be.	None
The amendment of 2011 has made significant legislative changes in the procedure and modalities for assessment of duty under Section 17.	Reasoning
Under subsection 1 of Section 17, the importer entering imported goods under Section 46, has to selfassess duty (except as otherwise envisaged in the provisions of Section 85).	Reasoning
Under subsection (2), the proper officer may verify the entries made under Section 46 and the selfassessment made under subsection (1) and may examine or test the goods.	Reasoning
The selection of goods for verification has to be primarily on the basis of risk evaluation through appropriate selection criteria.	Reasoning
Under subsection (4), where it is found on verification, examination or testing of goods or otherwise that the selfassessment has not been done properly the proper officer is entrusted with a power of reassessment.	Reasoning
Subsection (5) requires the passing of a speaking order upon reassessment.	Reasoning
Section 47 provides for the clearance of goods for home consumption Clearance of goods for home consumption.	None
Where the proper officer is satisfied that any goods entered for home consumption are not prohibited goods and the importer has paid the import duty, if any, assessed thereon and any charges payable under this Act in respect of the same, the proper officer may make an order permitting clearance of the goods for home consumption Provided that such order may also be made electronically through the customs automated system on the basis or risk evaluation through appropriate selection criteria Provided further that the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, permit certain class of importers to make deferred payment of said duty or any charges in such manner as may be provided by rules.	None
The importer shall pay the import duty (a) on the date of presentation of the bill of entry in the case of self assessment or (b) within one day (excluding holidays) from the date on which the bill of entry is returned to him by the proper officer for payment of duty in the case of assessment, reassessment or provisional assessment or (c) in the case of deferred payment under the proviso to subsection (1), from such due date as may be specified by rules made in this behalf, and if he fails to pay the duty within the time so specified, he shall pay interest on the duty not paid or shortpaid till the date of its payment, at such rate, not less than ten per cent, but not exceeding thirtysix per cent, per annum, as may be fixed by the Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette (emphasis supplied) Subsection (2) of Section 47 requires the importer to pay import duty on the date of presentation of the bill of entry in the case of selfassessment.	None
Alternatively, where the bill of entry is returned to the importer for the payment of duty in the case of assessment, reassessment or provisional assessment, the import duty has to be paid within a day, after excluding holidays.	None
The provisions contained in Section 46 for the entry of goods on importation and those in Section 17 for assessment form part of a composite scheme.	Reasoning
Section 46 requires an importer of goods to make an entry in the electronic form of a bill of entry for home consumption or, as the case may be, for warehousing, on the customs automated system.	Reasoning
An exception is contained in the proviso to Section 46 (1) for cases where it is not feasible to make an entry in the electronic form on the customs automated system.	Reasoning
The bill of entry under subsection (1) has to be presented not later than the day following the arrival of the goods though it can be presented before the arrival of goods, at a time not exceeding thirty days prior to their expected arrival.	Reasoning
In tandem with the provisions of Section 46, Section 17 provides for the selfassessment of duty by the importer.	Reasoning
Section 46(1) stipulates that the bill of entry has to be presented in the form and in the manner prescribed.	Reasoning
The expression prescribed is defined in Section 2(32) to mean prescribed by regulations made under the Act.	Reasoning
The Bill of Entry (Electronic Integrated Declaration and Paperless Processing) Regulations 2018 have been made in pursuance of the enabling power conferred by Sections 46 and 47 and Section 157 which contains a general power to make regulations.	Reasoning
Section 157(2)(a) was amended by the Finance Act 2018 (Act 13 of 2018) to allow for the power to frame regulations on the form and manner of delivering or presenting inter alia a bill of entry.	None
Regulation 2(c) of the 2018 Regulations defines the expression bill of entry in the following terms (c) bill of entry means electronic integrated declaration accepted and a unique number generated and assigned to that particular bill of entry by the Indian Customs Electronic Data Interchange System, and includes its electronic records or printouts Regulation 2(d) defines the expression electronic integrated declaration (d) electronic integrated declaration means particulars relating to the imported goods that are entered in the Indian Customs Electronic Data Interchange System Under Regulation 2(e), ICEGATE is the customs automated system of the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs.	None
Regulation 3 requires the authorized person (defined in Regulation 2(b)), which includes the importer, to enter the electronic integrated declaration and supporting documents by affixing a digital signature.	None
Regulation 3 is as follows The authorised person shall enter the electronic integrated declaration and the supporting documents himself by affixing his digital signature and enter them on the Customs Automated System and he may also get the electronic integrated declaration made on the customs automated system along with the supporting documents by availing the services at the service centre.	None
Regulation 4 provides as follows 4.	None
(1) The authorised person shall file the bill of entry before the end of the next day following the day (excluding holidays) on which the aircraft or vessel or vehicle carrying the goods arrives at a customs station at which such goods are to be cleared for home consumption or warehousing.	Reasoning
The bill of entry shall be deemed to have been filed and selfassessment completed when after entry of the electronic integrated declaration on the customs automated system or by way of data entry through the service centre, a bill of entry number is generated by the Indian Customs Electronic Data Interchange System for the said declaration and the selfassessed copy of the Bill of Entry may be electronically transmitted to the authorised person or printed out at the service centre.	Arguments of Respondent
Where the bill of entry is not filed within the time specified in subregulation (1) and the proper officer of Customs is satisfied that there was no sufficient cause for such delay, the importer shall be liable to pay charges for late presentation of the bill of entry at the rate of (emphasis supplied)	Reasoning
The Regulations of 2018 have made provisions for submission of a declaration and generation of the bill of entry in an electronic form on the automated platform provided by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs.	None
Subregulation (2) of Regulation 4 embodies a legal fiction.	None
Regulation 4(2) stipulates that the bill of entry is deemed to have been filed and selfassessment completed when after the entry of the electronic integrated declaration on the customs automated system (or by data entry through a service centre) a bill of entry number is generated by the Indian Customs Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) System.	Arguments of Respondent
The selfassessed copy of the bill of entry may be electronically transmitted to the authorized person under the deeming fiction which is created by Regulation 4(2).	None
Hence, the bill of entry is deemed to be filed and the selfassessment completed when the requirements of Regulation 4(2) are fulfilled namely by the (i) entry of the declaration on the customs automated system and (ii) generation of a bill of entry number by the EDI system.	Reasoning
Following this, the selfassessed copy of the bill of entry is electronically transmitted to the authorized person.	Reasoning
In terms of the provisions of Section 15(1)(a), in the case of goods which are entered for home consumption under Section 46, the date of presentation of the bill of entry determines the rate of duty and tariff valuation.	Reasoning
Under Section 47(2)(a), the importer is obliged to pay the import duty on the date of the presentation of the bill of entry in the case of selfassessment.	Reasoning
Regulation 4(2) of the Regulations of 2018 categorically stipulates when the presentation of the bill of entry is complete.	Reasoning
Once the bill of entry is deemed to have been presented in terms of Regulation 4(2) the rate and valuation in force stand crystalized under Section 15(1)(a).	Reasoning
Section 17(4) confers a power of reassessment on the proper officer where it is found on verification, examination or testing of the goods or otherwise that the selfassessment has not been done correctly.	Reasoning
In the present case the customs authorities sought to exercise the power of reassessment on the ground of the subsequent notification enhancing the rate of duty.	Reasoning
The fact of the matter is that selfassessment was carried out on the basis of the rate of duty which prevailed at the time of the presentation of the bill of entry.	Reasoning
This is not and cannot be a matter of dispute.	Reasoning
Notification 5/2019, which introduced a new tariff entry  980 60 000  in the First schedule to the Customs Tariff Act covering all goods originating in or exported from the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, was not in force at the time when the selfassessment was carried out.	Reasoning
Under Section 15(1)(a) the rate of duty is the rate in force on the date of the presentation of a bill of entry where the goods are entered for home consumption under Section 46.	Arguments of Respondent
The submission of the learned ASG is that the expression on the date is adopted by the legislature in clauses (a) and (b) and in the proviso to Section 15(1).	Arguments of Petitioner
He urged that Section 15(1) has no reference to time but only to the date of the presentation of the bill of entry and once a notification was issued on 16 February 2019 enhancing the rate of duty, that is the duty in force on the date of presentation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 15(1)(a) uses two expressions (i) the rate and valuation in force and (ii) on the date of the presentation of the bill of entry for home consumption under Section 46.	None
The provisions of Section 15(1)(a) have to be read in conjunction with the provisions of Section 46 which are referred to in the former provision.	Reasoning
Section 46 has incorporated a regime which encompasses the submission of the bill of entry for home consumption or warehousing in an electronic format, on the customs automated system in the manner which is prescribed.	Reasoning
The Regulations of 2018 stipulate the manner in which the bill of entry has to be presented.	Reasoning
The deeming fiction in Regulation 4(2) specifies when presentation of the bill of entry and selfassessment are complete.	Reasoning
The rate of duty stands crystallized under Section 15(1)(a) once the deeming fiction under Regulation 4(2) comes into existence.	Reasoning
The regulations have to be read together with the statutory provisions contained in Section 15(1)(a) and Section 46, while determining the rate of duty.	Reasoning
G Precedent At this stage it is necessary to analyze the precedent on the subject.	None
In Bharat Surfactants (Private) Limited vs. Union of India, (1989) 4 SCC 21 (Bharat Surfactants), customs duty was imposed on the import of edible oil by the petitioners at the rate of 150 per cent on the basis that the import was made on the date of the inward entry, which was 31 July 1981.	None
The vessel arrived and registered in the Port of Bombay on 11 July 1981 but since a berth was not available, the cargo could not be unloaded.	None
The vessel left Bombay and proceeded to Karachi and returned towards the end of July 1981.	None
The rate of customs duty prevailing on 11 July 1981 was 12.5 per cent and the contention of the importer was that but for the fact that the vessel was unable to secure a berth, it would have delivered the cargo.	None
Speaking for a Constitution Bench, Chief Justice R S Pathak rejected the contention of the importer that the import of goods must be deemed to have taken place on 11 July 1981 when the ship originally arrived in Bombay port and registered itself.	None
The Constitution Bench held 14The provisions of Section 15 are clear in themselves.	None
The date on which a Bill of Entry is presented under Section 46 is, in the case of goods entered for home consumption, the date relevant for determining the rate of duty and tariff valuation.	Reasoning
Where the Bill of Entry is presented before the date of Entry Inwards of the vessel, the Bill of Entry is deemed to have been presented on the date of such Entry Inwards.	Reasoning
The Constitution Bench held that the date of entry inwards of the vessel in the Customs register was mentioned as 31 July 1981 and the rate of import duty and tariff valuation would be that which was in force on that day.	None
The decision in Bharat Surfactants was adverted to in the decision of this court in Priyanka Overseas Pvt. Ltd. vs. Union of India, 1991 Supp (1) SCC 102 .	None
Justice N M Kasliwal, speaking for the two judge Bench, observed 34The rate of duty and tariff valuation on the imported goods may be changed from time to time and as such the legislature has clearly expressed its intention under Section 15 as to on what date the rate of duty and tariff valuation is to be determined Many contingencies may happen in between the filing of bill of entry and actual removal of the goods from the warehouse for which sometimes the importer of goods may himself be responsible, in some cases the responsibility may lie on the customs authorities and there may also be contingencies beyond the control of both the parties.	None
In any case the intention of the legislature being clear, rate of duty is to be applied, as may be in force on the date of actual removal of goods from the warehouse under Section 15(l)(b) of the Customs Act.	None
The above observations, referring to the date of the actual removal of goods from the warehouse, were made in the context of the provisions of Section 15(1)(b).	None
In a subsequent decision in Dhiraj Lal H Vohra vs. Union of India, 1993 Supp (3) SCC 453 Justice K Ramaswamy speaking for a three judge Bench observed It is clear from a bare reading of these relevant provisions that the due date to calculate the rate of duty applicable to any imported goods shall be the rate and valuation in force, in the case of the goods entered for home consumption under Section 46, is the date on which the bill of entry in respect of such goods is presented under that section and in the case of goods cleared from a warehouse under Section 68, the date on which the goods are actually removed from the warehouse.	None
By operation of the proviso if a bill of entry has been presented before the date of entry inwards the bill of entry shall be deemed to have been presented on the date of such entry inwards but would be subject to the operation of Sections 46 and 31(1) of the Act.	None
In that case the ship had arrived at the Port of Madras on 20 February 1989 and was ready to discharge her cargo.	None
Though the import manifest was delivered, the cargo could not be handled as a result of a continuous strike.	None
The bill of entry for clearance of goods for home consumption was presented on 27 February 1989.	None
The ship arrived into the port and was berthed on 2 March 1989 on which date the entry inwards was granted.	None
From 1 March 1989, the rate of duty was increased.	None
The court rejected the contention that since the vessel had entered Indian territorial waters on 20 February 1989 when she was ready to discharge the cargo, the rate of duty must be that which prevailed on that date 3The contention, therefore that the ship entered Indian territorial waters on February 20, 1989 and was ready to discharge the cargo is not relevant for the purpose of Section 15(1) read with Sections 46 and 31 of the Act.	None
The prior entries regarding presentation of the bill of entry for clearance of the goods on February 27, 1989 and their receipt in the appraising section on February 28, 1989 also are irrelevant.	None
The relevant date to fix the rate of customs duty, therefore, is March 2, 1989.	None
The rate which prevailed as on that date would be the duty to which the goods imported are liable to the impost and the goods would be cleared on its payment in accordance with the rate of levy of customs prevailing as on March 2, 1989.	None
Another decision of a Bench comprising three learned judges of this Court in D.C.M. vs. Union of India, 1995 Supp (3) SCC 223 held as follows 7A reading of Sections 15, 46 and 68 makes it clear that they provide an option to the importer either to file a bill of entry for home consumption straight away (in which case he has to pay the duty determined with reference to that date) or to file a bill of entry for warehousing.	None
In the latter case, the goods are merely warehoused.	None
The import duty will be levied at the rate and on the basis of the valuation determined in accordance with the provisions prevailing on the date of clearance from the warehouse for which purpose the importer has to file a fresh bill of entry for home consumption.	None
In other words, it is the date of filing the bill of entry for home consumption which determines the rate of duty in clauses (a) and (Jb) of Section 15.	Reasoning
Inasmuch as the matter is left to the option of the importer and also because a uniform principle is adopted by the Act, as explained above, we see no room for any legitimate grievance of discrimination.	None
There is also no presumption that rate of duty always goes up.	None
It may also go down, in which case, the importer stands to gain.	None
The presentation of a bill of entry for home consumption under Section 46 is hence the definitive event with reference to which the customs duty payable for import is determined.	Reasoning
The duty in force on the day when the bill of entry for home consumption is presented is the duty which is applicable under Section 15(1)(a).	Reasoning
It is in view of this principle that the entry of the vessel into territorial waters, before the presentation of the bill of entry, has been held not to fix the rate of duty where the rate of duty has undergone a change.	Reasoning
H Interpreting day and date	None
The expressions day and date have been construed in varying contexts in the precedents of this Court.	None
The underlying feature of the decisions is that the content of those expressions is based on the context.	None
In Raj Kumar Yadav vs. Samir Kumar Mahaseth, (2005) 3 SCC 601 the limitation provided by Section 81 of the Representation of the People Act 1951 expired on the 45th day from the date of the election.	None
Interpreting the provision, Chief Justice R.C. Lahoti while speaking for a three judge Bench of this Court observed 6The word day is not defined in the Act.	None
It shall have to be assigned its ordinary meaning as understood in law.	None
The word day as per English calendar begins at midnight and covers a period of 24 hours thereafter, in the absence of there being anything to the contrary in the context.	None
Hence, in that case the Election Petition could have been presented up to midnight falling between 27 and 28 August 2003.	None
The Court observed that the limitation which was prescribed by the statute could not be curtailed or taken away by the rules of the High Court, governing its procedure.	None
In New India Assurance Co. Ltd. vs. Ram Dayal, (1990) 2 SCC 680 (Ram Dayal), a two judge Bench of this Court noted that the insurance policy in respect of the vehicle was up to 31 August 1984 and could be renewed.	None
Instead of renewing the policy, a fresh insurance policy was taken from 28 September 1984, on which date the accident occurred.	None
This Court upheld the view of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which was supported by earlier decisions of the Madras High Court, Punjab and Haryana High Court and the Allahabad High Court, that the insurance cover commenced from the beginning of the day and concluded that 4 when a policy is taken on a particular date, its effectiveness is from the commencement of the date and, therefore, the High Court, in our opinion, was right in holding that the insurer was liable in terms of the Act to meet the liability of the owner under the award.	None
On the other hand, in National Insurance Company Limited vs. Geeta Devi, (2010) 15 SCC 670 the cover note was issued on 9 June 1989 at 440 pm while the accident took place at 1130 am on the same day.	None
A two judge Bench of this Court distinguished the decision in Ram Dayal (supra) and held that when the cover note mentioned the date of issue of the policy as 9 June 1989 and the time as 440 pm it necessarily means that the effective date of issue and time of issue is as mentioned on the cover note.	None
Since the cover note mentioned both the date and time, the Court held that the principle that the insurance cover would date back to midnight of the preceding day would not cover the factual situation.	None
In Ahmadsahab Abdul Mulla (2) Dead by proposed Lrs. vs. Bibijan, (2009) 5 SCC 462 the issue before this Court was whether the expression date in Article 54 of the Schedule to the Limitation Act (which prescribes the period of limitation for a suit for specific performance) is suggestive of a specific date in the calendar.	None
The court observed The inevitable conclusion is that the expression date fixed for the performance is a crystallised notion.	None
This is clear from the fact that the second part time from which period begins to run refers to a case where no such date is fixed.	None
To put it differently, when date is fixed it means that there is a definite date fixed for doing a particular act.	None
Even in the second part the stress is on when the plaintiff has notice that performance is refused.	None
Here again, there is a definite point of time, when the plaintiff notices the refusal.	None
In that sense both the parts refer to definite dates.	None
So, there is no question of finding out an intention from other circumstances.	None
The expression date in Article 54 was held to be suggestive of a specified date in the calendar.	None
In Pashupati Nath Singh vs. Harihar Prasad Singh, (1968) 2	None
SCR 812 a three judge Bench construed the words on the date fixed for scrutiny in Section 36(2)(a) of the Representation of the People Act 1951.	None
Interpreting those words, the Court held that the qualification of a candidate must exist from the earliest moment of the day of scrutiny It seems to us that the expression on the date fixed for scrutiny in Section 36(2)(a) means on the whole of the day on which the scrutiny of nomination has to take place.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, the qualification must exist from the earliest moment of the day of scrutiny.	Arguments of Petitioner
It will be noticed that on this date the Returning Officer has to decide the objections and the objections have to be made by the other candidates after examining the nomination papers and in the light of Section 36(2) of the Act and other provisions.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the date of the scrutiny the other candidates should be in a position to raise all possible objections before the scrutiny of a particular nomination paper starts.	Arguments of Petitioner
A Special Bench of the Madras High Court in Re Court Fees ILR (1923) 46	Reasoning
Mad 685 dealt with the interesting issue of whether the law disregards fractions of the day.	Reasoning
A notification was published in the Fort St. George Gazette on 5 May 1922 by which the table of fees leviable in respect of the institution of suits under Appendix  II of the old rules on the Original side was amended.	Reasoning
Instead of a fixed fee of Rs 30, it was provided that Rs 150 was to be levied in all suits where the value of the subject matter did not exceed Rs 10,000/ and in respect of suits of a higher value, Rs 20/ was to be levied for every Rs 5,000/ or part thereof in excess of Rs 10,000/.	Reasoning
The notification stated that the amendments do come into force from the date of publication in the Fort St. George Gazette.	Reasoning
The office hours of the High Court were from 11am to 5pm.	Reasoning
The notification reached the High Court at about 5pm, at the close of the office hours.	Reasoning
The issue before the Special Bench was whether the rules imposing increased institution fees on suits on the Original side of the High Court would apply the new scale to suits which had already been instituted on that day.	Reasoning
Chief Justice Schwabe, on behalf of the majority, held that the hour of the day at which the Gazette was actually published is a wholly irrelevant consideration.	Reasoning
The Chief Justice noted that the use of the expression from may have one of two meanings namely on and after, that is including the named date, or merely after, that is excluding the named date.	Reasoning
The Chief Justice took the view that it is necessary to look at the context and the circumstances of each case to arrive at the true construction.	Reasoning
Having said this, the Chief Justice outlined the principles in the following extract on page 688 (1) that, if the named date is the beginning of a defined limited period, that, where there is a terminus ad quern as well as a terminus a quo, then prima facie the first day is excluded (2) that, if the named date is the beginning of an indefinite period then prima facie the first day is included.	Reasoning
I say prima facie because in my view there must be exceptions.	Reasoning
In his view, the expression from a named date meant on and after that day.	Reasoning
Hence the date on which the notification was published in the official Gazette was held to apply to all plaints which were filed on 5 May 1922.	None
Justice Coutts Trotter, arrived at the same conclusion as the Chief Justice, following a different path, which he set out in the following observations, on page 691 What I conceive to emerge from the decided cases is this that as the law in general neglects fractions of a day you must either exclude or include the whole of the day with which a given statute or rule or regulation deals.	None
And the exclusion or inclusion, I think, is clearly provided in two other rules.	Reasoning
If you are fixing the point of time at which a certain state of things is to be called into existence, that state of things comes into existence at midnight of the day preceding the day at which or on which or from which or from and after which the new state of things begins.	Reasoning
In such cases the statue or rule is only concerned in fixing the terminus a quo of a new state of law which is enacted to continue indefinitely, in other words, until repealed by a new enactment of the legislature where, in short, you have a terminus a quo	Reasoning
but no terminus ad quern.	Reasoning
In his view, on page 693 Where a statute fixes only the terminus a quo of a state of things, which is envisaged as to last indefinitely, the common law rule obtains that you ought to neglect fractions of a day and the statute or regulation or order takes effect from the first moment of the day on which it is enacted or passed, that is to say, from midnight of the day preceding the day on which it is promulgated where on the other hand, a statute delimits a period marked both by a terminus a quo and a terminus ad quern, the former is to be excluded and the latter to be included in the reckoning.	Reasoning
The notification, in this view, fell in the former class and was held to have come into force on the first second of the 5 May, that is to say from midnight of 4 May.	Reasoning
Hence all plaints which were filed on 5 May were liable to the enhanced fee.	Reasoning
The tightly reasoned and eloquent dissenting opinion delivered by Justice Kumaraswami Sastri, on the other hand, deserves close attention.	Reasoning
The learned Judge noted that if the case were to be decided on the principle that the law disregards fractions of a day, it could mean any one of two things either that a fraction of a day is to be taken as a whole day or that it is to be excluded altogether from the calculation.	Reasoning
Consequently, it does not help us to determine in any particular case whether the part is to be left out or kept in.	Reasoning
Justice Kumaraswami Sastri observed that there is no invariable rule that the use of the expression from includes the first day.	Reasoning
Nor was there any basis in principle in the submission of the Crown that the exclusion of the first day where the word from is used is only to be in case where there are two termini.	Reasoning
The learned Judge held that rules of equity and good conscience are by the Civil Courts Act to govern cases not governed by the Hindu and Mohammedan Laws.	Reasoning
Voicing a powerful dissent, Justice Kumaraswami Sastri observed, on page 704	None
I do not think that the principles which govern, or the devices which are resorted to, by the Executive for the purpose of raising money by taxation ought to have any weight with us in determining whether the date of publication is to be included or excluded.	None
I do not think the High Court is part of the tax gathering machinery of the Government or has any concern with the consequences to the Government of their decision on the construction of the rule.	Reasoning
The rule, I take it, was passed by the Judges of the High Court in the exercise of the powers entrusted to them to control the administration of justice and the fees were raised because in the opinion of the Judges it was just and proper that litigants ought to pay more for the benefits which they derive by resorting to the jurisdiction of the High Court.	Reasoning
In the view of the learned Judge, the notification having been received in the Registry of the High Court at 5pm at the office closing hour, litigants who had filed plaints before either or they or the office had knowledge of the publication did what was perfectly valid under the old rules and they presented the plaints with Rs 30 stamp irrespective of the value of their claim.	Reasoning
Looking at it from the citizens perspective, the learned Judge observed, on page 704 A person who files a plaint which is properly stamped and which is in order at the time of presentation is entitled to have his plaint admitted on presentation though as a matter of convenience the office receives the plaints and admits them at the end of the day or later on.	Reasoning
There seems to me to be very little justice or equity in directing that persons who have done what was perfectly a legal and valid act at the time should pay a Courtfee which is much higher simply because a notification was received at the close of the day making the higher fees chargeable from the date of the notification.	Reasoning
It may well be that if those persons had notice that instead of Rs. 30 they had to pay at least Rs 150 and a maximum that would range according to the value of their claim, they might rather have compromised with the other side or might have had resort to other proceedings like arbitration for settling their claims.	Reasoning
I can find nothing to justify charging people, who filed their plaints on that day without knowledge of the notification which only reached the High Court at 5 p.m., with the higher fees in respect of plaints filed during the course of the day.	Reasoning
Mr Natraj, on behalf of the Union, submitted that Parliament has employed the phrase on the date without making a reference to time.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, he submitted that irrespective of the time of the publication or uploading of the notification under the Customs Tariff Act in the eGazette, the legislature has by a legal fiction, enacted that the rate of duty on imported goods will be the rate that is prevalent on the date of the presentation of the bill of entry for home consumption.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that two different rates of duty cannot be applicable on the same day.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, according to the submission, once a notification is issued under the Customs Tariff Act, it will be a notification in force on that date and apply with effect from the commencement of that date.	Arguments of Petitioner
34.	Arguments of Petitioner
The decisions to which a reference has been made earlier, have construed the expression day or, as the case may be, date in varying contexts ranging from the law governing elections, insurance and limitation.	Reasoning
A general position in law has not been laid down that is divorced from subject, context and statute.	Reasoning
In interpreting the statute, the court is guided by the terms of its provisions, the purpose underlying their adoption and the scheme which emerges from interrelated provisions and the nature of the provision.	Reasoning
The court in the present case is interpreting the terms of a fiscal levy.	Reasoning
The court here has to construe the scheme and provisions of the Customs Act and their relationship with the provisions of the Customs Tariff Act.	Reasoning
The provision which falls for construction is Section 15(1) of which both clauses (a) and (b) use the expression on the date.	Reasoning
In clause (a), the rate of duty and valuation is the rate and valuation in force on the date on which a bill of entry is presented under Section 46 where goods are entered for home consumption.	Reasoning
Under Clause (b), where goods are cleared from a warehouse under Section 68 it is the date on which a bill of entry for home consumption is presented under that Section which is determinative of the rate and valuation.	Reasoning
Mr Natraj is textually right when he emphasizes that Section 15 (1) contains a reference to date and not time.	Reasoning
But there are two responses to his line of approaching the issue.	Reasoning
First, the legislature does not always say everything on the subject.	Reasoning
When it enacts a law, every conceivable eventuality which may arise in the future may not be present to the mind of the lawmaker.	Reasoning
Legislative silences create spaces for creativity.	Reasoning
Between interstices of legislative spaces and silences, the law is shaped by the robust application of common sense.	Reasoning
Second, regulatory governance is evolving in India as new technology replaces old and outmoded ways of functioning.	Reasoning
The virtual world of electronic filings was not on the horizon when Parliament enacted the Customs Act in 1962.	Reasoning
Yet the Parliament has responded to the rapid changes which have been brought about by the adoption of technology in governance.	Reasoning
In the provisions of Section 17 and Section 46, the impact of ICTbased governance has been recognized by the legislature in providing for the presentation of bills of entry in the electronic form on the customs automated EDI system.	Reasoning
Precision, transparency and seamless administration are key features of a system which adopts technology in pursuit of efficiency.	Reasoning
As we will explore in greater detail later in this judgment, technology has enabled both administrators and citizens to know precisely when an electronic record is uploaded.	Reasoning
The considerations which Parliament had in its view in providing for crucial amendments to the statutory scheme by moving from manual to electronic forms of governance in the assessment of duties must not be ignored.	Reasoning
Tax administration must leave behind the culture of an age in which the assessment of duty was wrought with delays, discretion, doubt and sometimes, the dubious.	Reasoning
The interpretation of the court must aid in establishing a system which ensures certainty for citizens, ease of application and efficiency of administration.	Reasoning
It is with these principles of interpretation in mind that we must evaluate the submission which was urged by Mr Nataraj, on behalf of the Union, that upon the issuance of a notification enhancing the rate of duty under Section 8A of the Customs Tariff Act, the date on which the notification was issued will govern the rate applicable to all bills of entry, including those which were presented before the enhanced rate was notified.	Reasoning
The submission cannot be accepted for several reasons.	Reasoning
For one thing, it misses the significance of the expression in force which has been employed in the prefatory part of Section 15(1).	Reasoning
A notification under Section 8A(1) of the Customs Tariff Act, even though it has the effect of amending the First Schedule, takes effect prespectively.	Reasoning
Section 8A does not confer upon the notification an operation anterior to its making.	Reasoning
In the language of the law, its operation is prospective.	Reasoning
To accept the submission of the ASG would mean that the notification under Section 8A would have effect prior to its making, something which Parliament has not incorporated by language or intent.	Reasoning
If, as we hold, the notification operates for the future beginning with the point of its adoption, it cannot operate to displace the rate of duty which is applicable when a bill of entry is presented for home consumption under Section 46.	Reasoning
The submission of the Union cannot be accepted in view of the provisions contained in Section 46 for the presentation of a bill of entry for home consumption in an electronic form on the customs automated system.	Reasoning
While making that provision, specifically by means of an amendment by Act 8 of 2011 and later by the Finance Act of 2018, Parliament used the expression in such form and manner as may be prescribed.	Reasoning
Regulation 4(2) of the Regulations of 2018 provides when the bill of entry shall be deemed to have been filed and selfassessment completed.	Reasoning
The legal fiction which has been embodied in Regulation 4(2) emanates from the enabling provisions of Section 46.	Reasoning
The provisions of Sections 15(1)(a), 17, 46(1) and 47(2)(a) constitute one composite scheme.	Reasoning
As a result of the modalities prescribed for the electronic presentation of the bill of entry and selfassessment after the entry of the electronic declaration on the customs automated system, a bill of entry number is generated by the EDI system for the declaration.	Reasoning
Regulation 4(2) provides for a deeming fiction in regard to the filing of the bill of entry and the completion of selfassessment.	Reasoning
In the context of these specific provisions, it would do violence to the overall scheme of the statute to interpret the language of Section 15(1)(a) in the manner in which it is sought to be interpreted by the ASG.	Reasoning
The submission of the ASG, simply put, is that because notification 5/2019 was issued on 16 February 2019, the court must regardless of the time at which it was uploaded on the eGazette treat it as being in existence with effect from midnight or 0000 hours on 16 February 2019.	Reasoning
The consequence of this interpretation would be to do violence to the language of Section 8A(1) of the Customs Tariff Act, and to disregard the meaning, intent and purpose underlying the adoption of provisions in the Customs Act in regard to the electronic filing of the bill of entry and the completion of selfassessment.	Reasoning
I Notification under Section 8A of the Customs Tariff Act The second and alternative limb of the submissions of the ASG postulates that a notification under Section 8A(1) of the Customs Tariff Act is a legislative act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The rates of duty applicable to different categories of goods imported into India are set out in the First schedule to the Customs Tariff Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
A notification under Section 8A(1) amends the First schedule.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, the submission is that the schedule being a part of the Act, any amendment made to it by a notification is an amendment to the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The ASG relies upon the decisions of this Court in Video Electronics (P) Ltd vs. State of Punjab, (1990) 3 SCC 87 and TN Electricity Board vs. Status Spinning Mills Limited, (2008) 7 SCC 353 in support of the principle that subordinate legislation validly made in pursuance of a legislative provision is to be read as if it is a part of the enactment.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, for instance, an exemption granted under a notification made in pursuance of a statutory provision must be construed as if it is contained in the legislation.	Arguments of Petitioner
38.	Arguments of Petitioner
In order to consider the submission, it is necessary at the outset to advert to the provisions of the Customs Tariff Act.	None
Under Section 8A, an emergency power is vested in the Central Government to increase the import duties leviable on an article included in the First schedule where it is satisfied that circumstances rendering it necessary to take immediate action exist.	Reasoning
Section 8A is in the following terms 8A Emergency Power of Central Government to increase import duties Where in respect of any article included in the First Schedule, the Central Government is satisfied that the import duty leviable thereon under section 12 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) should be increased and that circumstances exist which render it necessary to take immediate action, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct an amendment of that Schedule to be made so as to provide for an increase in the import duty leviable on such article to such extent as it thinks necessary Provided that the Central Government shall not issue any notification under this subsection for substituting the rate of import duty in respect of any article as specified by an earlier notification issued under this subsection by that Government before such earlier notification has been approved with or without modifications under subsection (2).	Reasoning
The provisions of subsections (3) and (4) of section 7 shall apply to any notification issued under subsection (1) as they apply in relation to any notification increasing duty issued under subsection (2) of section 7.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
While Section 8A is an emergency power, Section 11A empowers the Central government in public interest to amend the First schedule Where the Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary so to do in the public interest, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, amend the First Schedule Provided that such amendment shall not alter or affect in any manner the rates specified in that Schedule in respect of goods at which duties of customs shall be leviable on the goods under the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962).	None
Subsection (2) of Section 8A specifies that the provisions of subsections (3) and (4) of Section 7 shall apply to a notification which has been issued under subsection (1) of Section 8A. Subsections (3) and (4) of Section 7 are in the following terms Every notification under subsection (2), insofar as it relates to increase of such duty, shall be laid before each House of Parliament if it is sitting as soon as may be after the issue of the notification, and if it is not sitting within seven days of its reassembly, and the Central Government shall seek the approval of Parliament to the notification by a resolution moved within a period of fifteen days beginning with the day on which the notification is so laid before the House of the People and if Parliament makes any modification in the notification or directs that the notification should cease to have effect, the notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder.	None
For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that any notification issued under subsection (2), including any such notification approved or modified under subsection (3), may be rescinded by the Central Government at any time by notification in the Official Gazette.	None
(emphasis supplied) Under subsection (3) of Section 7, the Central government is required to seek the approval of Parliament to a notification within a period of fifteen days of its being laid before the House of the People.	None
Where Parliament is in session, the notification has to be laid before the House as soon as may be after it is issued and, if it is not, then within seven days of the legislature reassembling.	Reasoning
The approval of parliament has to be sought within the specified period.	Reasoning
The notification would cease to have effect or take effect with modifications, if Parliament so directs.	Reasoning
In the case of a notification which has been issued under Section 11A, subsection (2) does not require the Central government to seek the approval of Parliament to the notification by a resolution moved within a period of fifteen days from the date on which the notification has been laid before the House of the People.	Reasoning
Subsection (2) of Section 11A merely states that the notification shall either cease to have effect or have effect in a modified form if it is so directed by both the Houses of Parliament.	Reasoning
A notification which is issued in terms of the provisions of Subsection (1) of Section 8A is akin to the exercise of a delegated legislative power.	Reasoning
The Central government is empowered to issue a notification enhancing the rate of duty where it is satisfied that immediate action is necessary to increase the rate of customs duty on an article specified in the First schedule.	Reasoning
The effect of the notification is to amend the First schedule to the Customs Tariff Act in respect of the import duty leviable on an article under Section 12 of the Customs Act.	Reasoning
In issuing a notification under Subsection (1) of Section 8A, the Central government exercises power as a delegate of the legislature.	Reasoning
The issue now to be considered is whether the notification that was issued by the Central government under Section 8A(1) at 204658 hours on 16 February 2019 took effect commencing from 0000 hours on that day.	None
The ASG relied on the provisions of the General Clauses Act in support of his submission that it did.	Arguments of Petitioner
J General Clauses Act Section 5(3) of the General Clauses Act 1897 provides thus Unless the contrary is expressed, a Central Act or Regulation shall be construed as coming into operation immediately on the expiration of the day preceding its commencement.	None
The above provision applies to a Central Act or Regulation.	None
Hence, the above provision makes it abundantly clear that it is only a Central Act or Regulation which comes into operation immediately on the expiration of the day preceding its commencement.	Reasoning
The expressions Central Act and Regulation are defined by the statute.	None
The expression Central Act is defined in Section 3(7) in the following terms Central Act shall means an Act of Parliament, and shall include (a) an Act of the Dominion Legislature or of the Indian Legislature passed before the commencement of the Constitution, and (b) an Act made before such commencement by the Governor General in Council or the Governor General, acting in a legislative capacity The expression Regulation is defined in Section 3(50) as follows Regulation shall mean a Regulation made by the President under article 240 of the Constitution and shall include a Regulation made by the President under article 243 thereof and	Reasoning
a Regulation made by the Central Government under the Government of India Act, 1870, or the Government of India Act, 1915, or the Government of India Act, 1935	None
The expression commencement is defined in Section 3(13) as follows Commencement used with reference to an Act or Regulation, shall mean the day on which the Act or Regulation comes into force.	Reasoning
The definition of the expression commencement is also relatable to a Central Act or Regulation.	Reasoning
A notification issued by the Central government under subsection (1) of Section 8A does not fulfill the description of a Regulation under Section 3(50) of the General Clauses Act.	Reasoning
The expression is confined to specific species of Regulations.	Reasoning
The definition does not extend to all subordinate legislation or to notifications issued by a delegate of the legislature acting in pursuance of a statutory authority.	Reasoning
The expression Central Act is defined by using the expressions shall mean and shall include.	Reasoning
The use of these expressions indicates that the definition is exhaustive.	Reasoning
Insofar as is relevant, the expression Central Act is defined to mean an Act of Parliament.	Reasoning
A notification which has been issued under Subsection (1) of Section 8A of the Customs Tariff Act is not an Act of Parliament.	Reasoning
The notification has the effect of amending the First schedule.	Reasoning
The Central government as a delegate of the legislature has been entrusted with the authority to issue such a notification.	Reasoning
That does not make the notification an Act of Parliament.	Reasoning
The above analysis is based on a textual reading of the two definitions those of a Central Act and Regulation.	Reasoning
The precedent on the subject confirms the analysis.	Reasoning
This Court has held that the mere fact that a piece of delegated legislation has been issued in exercise of a legislatively conferred power does not bring the delegated legislation within the ambit of the phrase Central Act as defined in Section 3(7) of the General Clauses Act.	Reasoning
In Kolhapur Canesugar Works Ltd. vs. Union of India (UOI), AIR 2000 SC 811 .	None
Constitution Bench of this Court had to decide, inter alia, if Rules 10 and 10a of the Central Excise Rules could be considered a Central Act as defined in Section 3(7) of the General Clauses Act.	None
This decision of the Court, albeit subsequently questioned for its interpretation of repeal through omission which does not have a bearing on the issue at hand, was not assailed for its interpretation of Central Act within the General Clauses Act.	None
Speaking through Justice D.P. Mohapatra, this Court answered the question of whether the aforesaid Rules constituted a Central Act in the negative, in the following terms When the term Central Act or Regulation or Rule is used in that Act reference has to be made to the definition of that term in the statute.	None
It is not possible nor permissible to give a meaning to any of the terms different from the definition.	None
It is manifest that each term has a distinct and separate meaning attributed to it for the purpose of the Act.	None
Therefore, when the question to be considered is whether a particular provision of the Act applies in a case then the clear and unambiguous language of that provision has to be given its true meaning and import.	None
The Full Bench has equated a rule with statute.	None
In our considered view this is impermissible in view of the specific provisions in the Act.	None
When the Legislature by clear and unambiguous language has extended the provision of Section 6 to cases of repeal of a Central Act or Regulation, it is not possible to apply the provision to a case of repeal of a Rule.	None
The position will not be different even if the rule has been framed by virtue of the power vested under an enactment it remains a rule and takes its colour from the definition of the term in the Act (General Clauses Act).	None
In Securities and Exchange Board of India vs. Magnum Equity Services Ltd., (2015) 16 SCC 721 a two judge Bench of this Court considered whether the General Clauses Act is applicable to the interpretation of the SEBI (Stock Brokers and SubBrokers) Regulations, 1992.	None
The Court observed that the Regulations were framed by SEBI in exercise of the powers conferred on it by Section 30 of the SEBI Act, 1992.	None
Section 31 requires the rules and regulations to be laid before Parliament.	None
Justice Vikramajit Sen concluded as follows The main contention raised by the learned Senior Counsel for the appellant is based on the application of the General Clauses Act, 1897 which under Section 13(2) states that plural includes singular.	None
However, before we consider Section 13, we shall have to determine whether the General Clauses Act itself is applicable to the SEBI (Stockbrokers and SubBrokers) Regulations, 1992.	None
Section 3 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 states that the said Act is applicable to all Central Acts and Regulations made after the commencement of this Act.	None
Further, the term Central Act has been defined under subsection (7) as an Act of Parliament, which includes (a) an Act of the Dominion Legislature or of the Indian Legislature passed before the commencement of the Constitution, and (b) an Act made before such commencement by the Governor General in Council or the Governor General, acting in a legislative capacity.	Reasoning
The SEBI (Stockbrokers and SubBrokers) Regulations, 1992 are issued by SEBI in exercise of the powers conferred on it under Section 30 of the SEBI Act, 1992.	None
Section 31 of the SEBI Act, reproduced below for the facility of reference, provides that the Rules and Regulations are to be laid before Parliament Rules and regulations to be laid before Parliament.	None
Every rule and every regulation made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or regulation or both Houses agree that the rule or regulation should not be made, the rule or regulation shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule or regulation.	None
Thus in light of the provisions of the SEBI Act, 1992 under which the said Regulations have been issued, the latter do not tantamount to a Central Act as defined Under Subsection (7) of the definition clause of The General Clauses Act, 1897.	None
The Regulations framed under the SEBI Act were held not to fall within the definition of a Central Act contained in Section 3(7) of the General Clauses Act.	None
Notification 05/2019 was issued by the Central Government under the delegated authority to increase emergency tariff duties under Section 8A of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975.	Reasoning
The notification has been issued in pursuance of a statutory power.	Reasoning
The notification has the effect of enhancing the rate of duty prescribed in the First Schedule to the Customs Tariff Act.	Reasoning
That does not, transform the notification which has been issued in pursuance of a statutory authority into a Central Act.	Reasoning
K Information Technology Act, 2000 While enacting the Information Technology Act 2000, Parliament envisioned a regime of electronic governance.	None
The legislation recognizes that information technology is a facilitative instrument for creating an efficient framework for ecommerce.	None
Providing the backdrop for Parliamentary intervention, the Statement of Objects and Reasons underlying the enactment of the legislation provides the rationale for the law New communication systems and digital technology have made dramatic changes in the way we live.	None
A revolution is occurring in the way people transact business.	None
Businesses and consumers are increasingly using computers to create, transmit and store information in the electronic form instead of traditional paper documents.	None
Information stored in electronic form has many advantages.	None
It is cheaper, easier to store, retrieve and speedier to communicate.	None
Although people are aware of these advantages, they are reluctant to conduct business or conclude any transaction in the electronic form due to lack of appropriate legal framework.	None
The two principal hurdles which stand in the way of facilitating electronic commerce and electronic government are the requirements as to writing and signature for legal recognition.	None
At present many legal provisions assume the existence of paper based records and documents and records which should bear signatures.	None
The law of evidence is traditionally based upon paper based records and oral testimony.	None
Since electronic commerce eliminates the need for paperbased transactions, hence to facilitate ecommerce, the need for legal changes have become an urgent necessity.	None
International trade through the medium of ecommerce is growing rapidly in the past few years and many countries have switched over from traditional paper based commerce to ecommerce.	None
48 Parliament recognized the need to bring about suitable amendments to existing legislation to facilitate ecommerce, more so in light of India being a signatory to the United Nations Commission on International Trade Laws Model Law on Electronic Commerce in 1996.	None
It therefore proposed to provide legal recognition of electronic records and digital signatures.	None
This would, as the Statement of Objects and Reasons indicate, enable the conclusion of contracts and the creation of rights and obligations through the electronic medium.	None
Parliament envisaged the use and acceptance of electronic records and digital signatures in governmental offices and agencies, to facilitate electronic governance and to make the citizens interaction with the governmental offices hassle free.	None
Bearing the legislative number of Act 21 of 2000, the law came into force on 17 October 2000.	None
The long title to the legislation provides that it is An Act to provide legal recognition for transactions carried out by means of electronic data interchange and other means of electronic communication, commonly referred to as electronic commerce, which involve the use of alternatives to paperbased methods of communication and storage of information, to facilitate electronic filing of documents with the Government agencies and further to amend the Indian Penal Code, the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 , the Bankers Book Evidence Act, 1891 and the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.	None
Section 2(t) defines the expression electronic record (t) electronic record means data, record or data generated, image or sound stored, received or sent in an electronic form or micro film or computer generated micro fiche Chapter III is devoted specifically to electronic governance.	None
Among its salient provisions are those providing for Legal recognition of electronic records (Section 4) Legal recognition of electronic signatures (Section 5) Use of electronic records and electronic signatures in government and its agencies (Section 6) Authorization by government to service providers to setup, maintain and upgrade computerized facilities (Section 6A) and Retention of electronic records (Section 7).	None
Subsection 1 of Section 6 has a bearing on the issues raised in this case Use of electronic records and electronic signatures in Government and its agencies (1) Where any law provides for  (a) the filing of any form, application or any other document with any office, authority, body or agency owned or controlled by the appropriate Government in a particular manner (b) the issue or grant of any licence, permit, sanction or approval by whatever name called in a particular manner (c) the receipt or payment of money in a particular manner, then, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such filing, issue, grant, receipt or payment, as the case may be, is effected by means of such electronic form as may be prescribed by the appropriate Government.	None
Section 6A contemplates that for the efficient delivery of services to the public through electronic means, government may authorize a service provider to set up, maintain and upgrade computerized facilities and perform other services.	Reasoning
Section 7 provides legal support to the retention of records in the electronic form.	Reasoning
Where a law requires documents, information or records to be preserved, the requirement is satisfied by preserving them in an electronic form, subject to the fulfillment of conditions.	Reasoning
One of the conditions stipulated by Section 7(1)(c) is that the details which facilitate the identification of the origin, destination, date and time of dispatch or the receipt of the electronic record are available in the electronic record.	Reasoning
The date and time of receipt or of the dispatch of an electronic record are crucial from this perspective to the maintenance of an electronic record.	Reasoning
In exercise of its rule making power, the Central Government formulated rules for electronic service delivery.	None
Under these rules, called the Information Technology (Electronic Service Delivery) Rules 2011, governmental authorities must maintain time stamps of the creation of electronic records.	None
Rule 5(1) incorporates such a requirement in the following terms Creation of repository of electronically signed electronic records by Government Authorities.	None
All authorities that issue any license, permit, certificate, sanction or approval electronically, shall create, archive and maintain a repository of electronically signed electronic records of such licenses, permits, certificates, sanctions or approvals, as the case may be, online with due timestamps of creation of these individual electronic records.	None
The Rules provide a procedure for making changes in the repository of electronically signed electronic records, in Rule 6.	None
Rule 6(2) indicates that the person authorized to make a change must also electronically sign the change and the time stamps of the original creation and modification of the electronic record.	None
Rule 6(2) reads thus Procedure for making changes in a repository of electronically signed electronic records.	None
Any change effected to any record in a repository of electronically signed electronic records and any addition or deletion of a record from such repository shall be electronically signed by the person who is authorized to make such changes along with the time stamps of original creation and modification times Digital signatures have contextual information including the date and time built into them.	None
Under the Digital Signature (End entity) Rules 2015, provisions for time stamps for digital signatures are built into the legal regime under Rule 4(4) and, in the context of a long term valid digital signature, in Rule 4(7).	None
Section 13 of the Information Technology Act 2000 contains provisions for the time and place of the dispatch and receipt of electronic records.	None
It reads as follows Time and place of dispatch and receipt of electronic record.	None
Save as otherwise agreed to between the originator and the addressee, the dispatch of an electronic record occurs when it enters a computer resource outside the control of the originator.	None
Save as otherwise agreed between the originator and the addressee, the time of receipt of an electronic record shall be determined as follows, namely (a) if the addressee has designated a computer resource for the purpose of receiving electronic records, receipt occurs at the time when the electronic record enters the designated computer resource or if the electronic record is sent to a computer resource of the addressee that is not the designated computer resource, receipt occurs at the time when the electronic record is retrieved by the addressee (b) if the addressee has not designated a computer resource along with specified timings, if any, receipt occurs when the electronic record enters the computer resource of the addressee (emphasis supplied)	None
The dispatch of a record occurs when it enters a computer resource outside the control of the originator.	Reasoning
The time of receipt of the electronic record is fixed by the provisions of subsection 2 of Section 13.	Reasoning
When the addressee has designated a computer resource, receipt occurs when the record enters the computer resource so designated.	Reasoning
Otherwise, where no computer resource is designated, the receipt of the record is when it is retrieved by the addressee.	Reasoning
These provisions have been incorporated in the law to enable the dispatch and receipt of a record in the electronic form to be defined with precision with reference to both time and place.	Reasoning
In the above context, it is to be noted that the rate of customs duty is determined on the date on which the bill of entry for home consumption is presented (Section 15).	Reasoning
The presentation of the bill of entry has to be made electronically (Section 46 read with the 2018 Regulations).	Reasoning
The presentation is required to be made on the customs automated system.	Reasoning
The provisions in the Customs Act for the electronic presentation of the bill of entry for home consumption and for selfassessment have to be read in the context of Section13 of the Information Technology Act which recognizes the dispatch of an electronic record and the time of receipt of an electronic record.	Reasoning
The legal regime envisaging the electronic presentation of records, such as the presentation of a bill of entry, has been imparted precision as a result of the enabling framework of the Information Technology Act under which these records are maintained.	Reasoning
The presentation of the bill of entry under Section 46 is made electronically and is captured with time stamps in terms of the requirements of the Information Technology Act read with Rule 5(1) of the Information Technology (Electronic Service Delivery) Rules 2011.	Reasoning
L Effect of notifications issued in egazettes Section 8 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 creates a legal basis for the publication of laws through egazettes.	Reasoning
It reads as follows Section 8  Publication of rule, regulation, etc., in Electronic Gazette Where any law provides that any rule, regulation, order, byelaw, notification or any other matter shall be published in the Official Gazette, then, such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, byelaw, notification or any other matter is published in the Official Gazette or Electronic Gazette Provided that where any rule, regulation, order, bylaw, notification or any other matter is published in the Official Gazette or Electronic Gazette, the date of publication shall be deemed to be the date of the Gazette which was first published in any form.	None
On 30 September 2015, the Ministry of Urban Development issued an Office Memorandum numbered No. O17022/1/2015PSPl which discontinued the practice of physical printing and replaced it with the electronic gazette.	Reasoning
The notification, in relevant part, reads as follows In compliance with the provisions of Section 8 of the Information Technology Act, 2000, it has been decided in consultation with Department of Legal Affairs to switch over to exclusive epublishing of the Government of India Gazette Notification on its official website with effect from 01.10.2015 and to do away with the physical printing of Gazette Notification.	None
The date of publishing shall be the date of epublication on official website by way of electronic gazette in respect of Gazette notification.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
Thus far, this Court has not had to confront the question as to whether the shift from the analog to the digital for Gazette notifications has any bearing for ascertaining when they come into force.	None
The judgments which dealt with the starting point for the enforceability of notifications were all concerned with circumstances in which such publication took place in the physical gazette.	Issue
We are now required to determine if the shift to electronic gazettes has brought about a change in this position.	Issue
The High Courts have begun offering guidance on this score.	None
The Delhi High Court in M.D. Overseas Industries vs. Union of India(W.P. (C) 7838/2017 decided on 15 October 2019 (Delhi High Court)), dealt with a situation where the Director General of Foreign Trade issued two notifications dated 25 August 2017 restricting the importation of gold, including gold coins.	None
Gold coins could no longer be imported freely and had to be imported in accordance with a public notice issued in that behalf.	None
The petitioners urged that the restrictive regime created by these notifications was inapplicable to them because the notifications, they contended, came into force only on 28 August, 2017, when they were published in the official gazette.	None
The gold coins imported by the petitioners, however, were dispatched on 25 August, 2017.	None
Since the notifications came into force three days later, they contended that these were inapplicable to them.	None
The notifications were electronically notified in the gazette.	None
The High Court upheld the Petitioners view that the notifications were inapplicable to the petitioners after considering Section 8 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 along with the Office Memorandum dated 30.9.2015.	None
It held The endorsement on the electronic copy of the Gazette, whereby the impugned Notification Nos. 24 and 25, dated 25th August, 2017, were notified, seen in juxtaposition with Section 8 of the IT Act, and of the OM dated 30th September, 2015 supra, of the Ministry of Urban Development, makes it clear that the impugned Notification Nos. 24 and 25, dated 25th August, 2017 were, in fact, electronically published in the Official Gazette only at or after 1047 p.m. on 28th August, 2017.	None
It has been conclusively held, by the Supreme Court, in a catena of decisions  including Harla vs. State of Rajasthan 1952 (1) SCR 110 , B.K. Srinivasan vs. State of Karnataka AIR 1987 SC 1059 and U.O.I, vs. Param Industries (2016) 16 SCC 692 that, notifications would come into force on their publication in the Official Gazette, i.e. in the present case, with effect from the date and time when they were electronically printed in the Gazette, which was at or after 1047 p.m. on 28th August, 2017.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
Thus, the High Court regarded the time of publication as the relevant marker for determining the enforceability of the notifications.	None
The issue of determining the starting point for the enforceability of a notification in the electronic gazette was considered by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Ruchi Soya Industries vs. Union of India.(W.P. No. 4533 and 4534 of 2019 decided on 28 September 2019 (Andhra Pradesh High Court))	None
The petitioner entered into a contract with its foreign supplier on 18 January 2008 for the import of 9,500 Metric Tons of crude oil.	None
The first consignment of 4000 metric tons was shipped by the supplier on 6 February 2018 from Dubai.	None
The petitioner filed two bills of entry for 2000 metric tons of crude oil on 1 March 2018.	None
They were assessed that day and levied with 30 customs duty and 10 social welfare surcharge.	None
On the same date, a notification raised the basic customs duty from 30 to 44.	None
The petitioner filed four bills of entry for the remaining 2000 tons on 2 March 2018 and argued that the revised rate was not applicable to it because the notification was published in the electronic gazette only on 6 March 2018.	None
The High Court agreed with the petitioner and held that the revised notification would come into force only after it was digitally signed by the competent official and uploaded and published in the official gazette.	None
The relevant excerpt from page 41 of the High Courts judgment is quoted below The notification was published electronically on 6.3.2018.	None
In view of the decision taken by the Government of India in terms of Section 8 of theInformation Technology Act, to avoid physical printing of Gazette notification to publish the same exclusively by electronic mode, so as to attribute knowledge to the public at large.	None
The notification was signed by Rakesh Sukul on 6.3.2018 at 191513 0530.	None
When notification needs to be signed digitally and only when the notification was uploaded and published in the Official Gazette, the same is made available for public.	None
The Madras High Court dealt with a similar situation in Ruchi Soya Industries vs. Union of India(W.P.	None
No. 21207 of 2018 decided on 14 July 2020 (Madras High Court).)	None
and held that the decision of the A.P. High Court noted above was applicable to the case before it.	None
As a result, it allowed the writ petition on the same terms and directed the Respondent to refund the enhanced duty collected from the petitioner, along with IGST.	None
With the change in the manner of publishing gazette notifications from analog to digital, the precise time when the gazette is published in the electronic mode assumes significance.	Reasoning
Notification 5/2019, which is akin to the exercise of delegated legislative power, under the emergency power to notify and revise tariff duty under Section 8A of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975, cannot operate retrospectively, unless authorized by statute.	Reasoning
In the era of the electronic publication of gazette notifications and electronic filing of bills of entry, the revised rate of import duty under the Notification 5/2019 applies to bills of entry presented for home consumption after the notification was uploaded in the eGazette at 204658 hours on 16 February 2019.	Reasoning
The impugned High Court judgement has relied on the decision of the Karnataka High Court in Param Industries Ltd. vs. Union of India, 2002 (150) E.L.T. 3 (Kar) which was confirmed by the decision of this Court in Union of India vs. Param Industries Limited, (2016) 16 SCC 692 Param Industries	Reasoning
In that case, the respondents were in the business of importing and exporting edible oil.	Reasoning
The respondents imported RBD Palmolein which was cleared after payment of import duty of 85 per cent of its value.	Reasoning
The import duty was paid pursuant to a notification which was in existence as on that date.	Reasoning
A major quantity of the goods had been removed from the warehouse after the payment of duty.	Reasoning
The importer was, however, informed that by a notification dated 3 August 2001 (incidentally this was also the date the bill of entry was filed and goods were cleared) the tariff value had been raised to USD 372 per metric tonne and that the importer was liable to pay the difference in the tariff which was paid on the basis of the earlier notification.	Reasoning
The respondent contested the demand on the ground that the notification raising the import duty had not come into effect on 3 August 2001.	Reasoning
The Division Bench of the High Court held that the notification was not published on 3 August 2001 and must have been Gazetted only after the following weekend namely on 6 August 2001 or thereafter the Gazette issued containing notification was offered for sale only starting from 6 August 2001 and that the mere publication of the notification on the website and the issuance of a letter to the Assistant Controller, Government of India (Press) was not sufficient for the notification to be operational and enforceable on 3 August 2001.	Reasoning
This Court in appeal observed that according to the High Court two conditions were mandatory for the notification to be brought into force Due publication in the official Gazette and Offering the notification for sale on the date of its issue by the Directorate of Publicity and Public Relations of the Board, New Delhi.	Reasoning
This Court noted that, in their case, the second condition was not satisfied as the notification was offered for sale only on 6 August 2001 as it was published in the late evening hours of 3 August 2001 and the next two days were holidays.	Reasoning
The decision of this Court in Param Industries was on the interpretation of Section 14(2) of the Customs Act.	Reasoning
However, prima facie, this decision appears to be contrary to the principles previously elucidated by this Court in the context of the Customs Act.	Reasoning
In a two judge Bench decision of this Court in Pankaj Jain Agencies vs. Union of India, (1994) 5 SCC 198 Pankaj Jain the Court considered the determination of the date when a notification dealing with an exemption would come into force.	None
The mode of publication for such notifications is prescribed separately under Section 25 of the Customs Act.	None
The Court held In the present case indisputably the mode of publication prescribed by Section 25(1) was complied with.	None
The notification was published in the Official Gazette on the 1321986.	None
As to the effect of the publication in the Official Gazette, this Court held Srinivasan case(1987) 1 SCC 658, 672 AIR 1987 SC 1059 , 1067 AIR at p. 1067	None
SCC pp.	None
67273, para 15 Where the parent statute is silent, but the subordinate legislation itself prescribes the manner of publication, such a mode of publication may be sufficient, if reasonable.	None
If the subordinate legislation does not prescribe the mode of publication or if the subordinate legislation prescribes a plainly unreasonable mode of publication, it will take effect only when it is published through the customarily recognized official channel, namely, the Official Gazette or some other reasonable mode of publication.	None
We, therefore, see no substance in the contention that notwithstanding the publication in the Official Gazette there was yet a failure to make the law known and that, therefore, the notification did not acquire the elements of operativeness and enforceability.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The principles recognized in Pankaj Jain were reiterated and affirmed by a three judge Bench of this Court in Union of India vs. Ganesh Das Bhojraj, (2000) 9 SCC 461.	None
which dealt with the enforceability of a notification under Section 25, prior to its Amendment by Act 21 of 1998 which inserted Section 25(4) and the requirement of offering for sale.	None
The Court separately noted that the newly introduced requirement of offering of sale had prospective application.	None
However, in the factual scenario concerning a notification governed by the preamended act, it upheld the principle that any additional requirement of publication can only be introduced by statute and the Court is bound by the applicable statutory scheme for determining enforceability.	None
It noted In our view, as noted above, in Pankaj Jain Agencies case (1994) 5 SCC 198 the Court directly dealt with a similar contention and after relying upon the decision in the case of	None
Mayer Hans George AIR 1965 SC 722 (1965) 1 Cri LJ 641 (1965) 1	None
SCR 123 rejected the same.	None
That decision is followed in I.T.C. Ltd. (1996) 5 SCC 538 and other matters.	None
Hence, it is difficult to agree that the decision in Pankaj Jain Agencies case (1994) 5 SCC 198 was not helpful in deciding the question dealt with by the Court.	None
Section 25 of the Customs Act empowers the Central Government to exempt either absolutely or subject to such conditions, from the whole or any part of the duty of customs leviable thereon by a notification in the Official Gazette.	None
The said notification can be modified or cancelled.	None
The method and mode provided for grant of exemption or withdrawal of exemption is issuance of notification in the Official Gazette.	None
For bringing the notification into operation, the only requirement of the section is its publication in the Official Gazette and no further publication is contemplated.	None
Additional requirement is that under Section 159 such notification is required to be laid before each House of Parliament for a period of thirty days as prescribed therein.	None
Hence, in our view Mayer Hans George AIR 1965 SC 722 (1965) 1 Cri LJ 641 (1965) 1	None
SCR 123 which is followed in Pankaj Jain Agencies case (1994) 5 SCC 198 represents the correct exposition of law and the notification under Section 25 of the Customs Act would come into operation as soon as it is published in the Gazette of India i.e. the date of publication of the Gazette.	None
Apart from the prescribed requirement under Section 25, the usual mode of bringing into operation such notification followed since years in this country is its publication in the Official Gazette and there is no reason to depart from the same by laying down additional requirement.	None
(emphasis supplied) Param Industries, in as much as it imposed an additional requirement of offering for sale, outside of the prescribed statutory scheme under S.14(2) of the Customs Act, 1962, appears to be contrary to preexisting principles.	Reasoning
Having said this, we do not wish to rule on the validity of Param Industries or its consequent impact on decisions that have relied on it.	Reasoning
In the present judgment it is not necessary to take recourse to the line of reasoning in Param Industries.	Reasoning
The situation at hand, operates on a landscape which is significantly altered by the regulatory regime in the electronic age where, both  uploading of notifications in the egazette and filing of bills of entry are in the electronic form.	Reasoning
As we have previously noted, Notification 5/2019 was uploaded in the egazette at a specific time and date and cannot apply to bills of entry which were presented on the customs automated EDI system prior to it, attracting the legal fiction set out in Regulation 4(2) of the 2018 Regulations.	Reasoning
Therefore, Param Industries does not have any bearing on the case at hand.	Reasoning
M Retrospectivity Section 8A of the Customs Tariff Act confers an emergency power upon the Central government to increase import duties in respect of any article included in the first schedule.	Reasoning
By the notification dated 16 February 2019, the Union Ministry of Finance in the Department of Revenue introduced a distinct tariff item  980 60 000  encompassing all goods originating in or exported from the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for which a rate of duty of 200 per cent has been prescribed.	Reasoning
The exercise of the power under Section 8A is contingent on the satisfaction of the Central government that (i) the duty on any a T c e in the first schedule should be increased and (ii) that circumstances exist which render it necessary to take immediate action.	Reasoning
The Central government in the exercise of this power may by a notification in the official gazette direct an amendment of the schedule to be made so as to provide for an increase in the import duty leviable on such a t c e to such extent as it thinks necessary.	Reasoning
Section 8Adoes not contain language indicative of a legislative intent to authorize the Central government to relate back the exercise of the power to a period prior to its exercise.	Reasoning
The exercise of the power under Section 8A (2) is governed by the prescriptions contained in subsections (3) and (4) of Section 7.	Reasoning
The conferment of the power has not been made retrospective either expressly or by necessary implication.	Reasoning
Section 8A enables the Central government to increase the rate of duty on an article in the first schedule in emergent situations.	Reasoning
The notification dated 16 February 2019 adds a new entry altogether.	Reasoning
Such an exercise may well be regarded as relatable to the provisions of Section 11A. Section 11A confers a power on the Central Government to amend the First schedule in public interest.	Reasoning
Section 8A on the other hand contemplates an increase in duty on an article contained in the First schedule.	Reasoning
Notification 5/2019 introduces a new tariff entry to provide for a duty of 200 on all articles originating in or exported from Pakistan.	Reasoning
However, this aspect of the matter need not be explored further for the reason that neither before the High Court, nor before this Court, was the challenge to the vires of the notification pressed during the course of the submissions.	Reasoning
The legal position which needs emphasis is that the entrustment of the power to issue a notification enhancing the rate of duty under Section 8Ais not accompanied by a statutory entrustment of authority to the Central government to exercise it with retrospective effect.	Reasoning
An enhancement of the rate of duty pursuant to the exercise of power under Section 8Acan only be prospective.	Reasoning
Parliament and the state legislatures are entrusted with the power to enact legislation under Articles 245 and 246 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Parliament and the state legislatures possess the plenary power to enact legislation, with prospective and retrospective effect, subject to due observance of constitutional requirements.	Reasoning
A notification issued by the government pursuant to the conferment of statutory power is distinct from an act of the legislature.	Reasoning
Administrative notifications, even when they are issued in pursuance of an enabling statutory framework, are subject to the statute.	Reasoning
Delegated legislation does not lose its character even when it has the same force and effect as if it is contained in the statute.	Reasoning
This is a settled position of law.	Reasoning
In a decision which was rendered in 1961 by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Chief Inspector of Mines vs. Lala Karam Chand Thapar, AIR 1961 SC 838 the principle of law was formulated in the following terms The true position appears to be that the rules and regulations do not lose their character as rules and regulations, even though they are to be of the same effect as if contained in the Act.	None
They continue to be rules subordinate to the Act, and though for certain purposes, including the purpose of construction, they are to be treated as if contained in the Act, their true nature as subordinate rule is not lost In K I Shepard vs. Union of India, (1987) 4 SCC 431 a two judge Bench of this Court held that the power to frame a scheme under Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act 1949 was not legislative in character but an administrative function.	None
This Court observed 9But is the schememaking process legislative?	None
Power has been conferred on the RBI in certain situations to take steps for applying to the Central Government for an order of moratorium and during the period of moratorium to propose either reconstruction or amalgamation of the banking company.	None
A scheme for the purposes contemplated has to be framed by RBI and placed before the Central Government for sanction.	None
Power has been vested in the Central Government in terms of what is ordinarily known as a Henry VIM clause for making orders for removal of difficulties.	None
Section 45(11) requires that copies of the schemes as also such orders made by the Central Government are to be placed before both Houses of Parliament.	None
We do not think this requirement makes the exercise in regard to schemes a legislative process.	None
The above decision was distinguished in New Bank of India Employees Union vs. Union of India, (1996) 8 SCC 407 New Bank of India where the court held that a scheme framed under Section 9 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act 1980 stands on a distinct footing of being a legislative and not an administrative function.	None
The court held that the question was not of much relevance in view of its conclusions on the main issues presented for decision.	None
Yet, it considered the question and laid emphasis on the authority entrusted to Parliament to consider, within 30 days, to agree modify arrive at any decision with regards to the scheme, only thereafter was the scheme was to have effect.	None
These requirements, qualitatively distinguished from a requirement of mere laying under Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act 1949, were pivotal in the courts view that a scheme under the 1980 Act has a legislative character.	None
Mr Natraj sought to emphasize a similar argument, by placing reliance on the provisions of subsections (3) and (4) of Section 7 which are made applicable by reason of subsection (2) of section 8A.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, in the absence of a sine qua non for parliamentary sanction before the notification is enforceable, the decision of New Bank of India provides little anchor.	Reasoning
For the purpose of the present decision the point which needs emphasis is that in empowering the Central Government to exercise power under Section 8A of the Customs Tariff Act, Parliament has not either expressly or by necessary implication indicated that a notification once issued will have force and effect anterior in time.	Reasoning
The provisions of subsections (3) and (4) of Section 7 of the Customs Tariff Act bring to bear legislative oversight and supervision over the power which is entrusted to the Central Government under Section 8A. That however does not lead to the inference that a notification under Section 8A has retrospective effect.	Reasoning
Plainly, a notification enhancing the rate of duty under Section 8A has prospective effect.	Reasoning
A rule framed by the delegate of the legislature does not have retrospective effect unless the statutory provision under which it is framed allows retrospectivity either by the use of specific words to that effect or by necessary implication.	Reasoning
In Hukum Chand vs. Union of India, (1972) 2 SCC 601 a three judge Bench of this Court held that 8The extent and amplitude of the rulemaking power would depend upon and be governed by the language of the section.	None
If a particular rule were not to fall within the ambit and purview of the section, the Central Government in such an event would have no power to make that rule.	None
Likewise, if there was nothing in the language of Section 40 to empower the Central Government either expressly or by necessary implication, to make a rule retroactively, the Central Government would be acting in excess of its power if it gave retrospective effect to any rule.	None
The underlying principle is that unlike Sovereign Legislature which has power to enact laws with retrospective operation, authority vested with the power of making subordinate legislation has to act within the limits of its power and cannot transgress the same.	None
The initial difference between subordinate legislation and the statute laws lies in the fact that a subordinate lawmaking body is bound by the terms of its delegated or derived authority and that Court of law, as a general rule, will not give effect to the rules, thus made, unless satisfied that all the conditions precedent to the validity of the rules have been fulfilled.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The distinction between the plenary power which is entrusted to Parliament and the state legislatures to enact legislation with both prospective and retrospective effect, and the power entrusted to a delegate of the legislature to frame subordinate legislation has been maintained in a consistent line of precedent of this Court.	Reasoning
In Regional Transport Officer, Chittoor vs. Associated Transport Madras (P), (1980) 4 SCC 597 Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer speaking for a two judge Bench of this Court with his characteristic eloquence observed The legislature has no doubt a plenary power in the matter of enactment of statutes and can itself make retrospective laws subject, of course, to the constitutional limitations.	None
But it is trite law that a delegate cannot exercise the same power unless there is special conferment thereof to be spelled out from the express words of the delegation or by compelling implication.	Reasoning
In the present case the power under Section 4(1) does not indicate either alternative The Court held that the fact that the rules had been framed in pursuance of a resolution passed by the legislature or that they have to be placed on the table of the legislative body would not lead to an inference that the legislature had authorized the framing of subordinate legislation with retrospective effect 4The mere fact that the rules framed had to be placed on the table of the legislature was not enough, in the absence of a wider power in the section, to enable the State Government to make retrospective rules.	Reasoning
The whole purpose of laying on the table of the legislature the rules framed by the State Government is different and the effect of any one of the three alternative modes of so placing the rules has been explained by this Court in Hukam Chand vs. Union of India (1972) 2 SCC 601, 606 (1973)	Reasoning
1	Reasoning
SCR 896 , 902.	None
This precisely is the principle which applies in construing whether the power which is conferred by Section 8A of the Customs Tariff Act is retrospective.	Reasoning
The provisions of subsections (3) and (4) of Section 7, which are made applicable by subsection (2) of Section 8A, are to ensure Parliamentary oversight.	Reasoning
But that does not enable the Central Government to exercise the power under section 8A with retrospective effect.	Reasoning
In Federation of Indian Minerals Industries vs. Union of India, (2017) 16 SCC 186 a three judge Bench of this Court formulated the principles on the subject.	None
Justice Madan B Lokur observed that the power to frame subordinate legislation is not retrospective unless it is authorized expressly or by necessary implication by the parent statute.	None
The Court observed 26The relevant principles are The Central Government or the State Government (or any other authority) cannot make a subordinate legislation having retrospective effect unless the parent statute, expressly or by necessary implication, authorises it to do so.	None
Hukam Chand v. Union of India Hukam Chand vs. Union of India, (1972) 2 SCC 601 and Mahabir Vegetable Oils (P) Ltd. v. State of Haryana Mahabir Vegetable Oils (P) Ltd. vs. State of Haryana, (2006)	None
3 SCC 620 .	None
Delegated legislation is ordinarily prospective in nature and a right or a liability created for the first time cannot be given retrospective effect.	None
(Panchi Devi v. State of Rajasthan Panchi Devi vs. State of Rajasthan, (2009) 2 SCC 589 (2009) 1 SCC (LS) 408)	None
As regards a subordinate legislation concerning a fiscal statute, it would not be proper to hold that in the absence of an express provision a delegated authority can impose a tax or a fee.	None
There is no scope or any room for intendment in respect of a compulsory exaction from a citizen.	None
Ahmedabad Urban Dev.	None
Authority v. Sharadkumar Jayantikumar Pasawalla Ahmedabad Urban Dev.	None
Authority vs. Sharadkumar Jayantikumar Pasawalla, (1992) 3 SCC 285 and State of Rajasthan v. Basant Agrotech (India) Ltd.	None
State of Rajasthan vs. Basant Agrotech (India) Ltd., (2013) 15 SCC 1	None
The judgment of Justice Dipak Misra (as he then was) speaking for a two judge Bench decision in State of Rajasthan vs. Basant Agrotech (India) Ltd., (2013) 15 SCC 1 adopts the same position.	None
N Summation	None
The imposition of a tax encompasses three stages.	Reasoning
The locus classic us on the subject is embodied in the dictum of Lord Dunedin in Whitney vs. Commissioners of Inland Revenue, (1926)	Reasoning
AC 37 at 52. which has been consistently applied in the decisions of this court.	Reasoning
There is, first, the declaration of liability which determines what persons in respect of what property are liable.	Reasoning
The second is the stage of assessment.	Reasoning
Liability, it is well settled, does not depend on assessment since exhypothesi, that has already been fixed.	Reasoning
Assessment particularizes the exact sum which a person is liable to pay.	Reasoning
Third (and the last) are the methods of recovery if a person who is taxed does not voluntarily pay.	Reasoning
(See in this context the decisions of the Federal Court in Chatturam vs. CIT, Bihar, (1947)	Reasoning
FCR 116 at 126 and of this Court in A V Fernandez vs. State of Kerala, 1957	Reasoning
SCR 837 at para 39 and Deputy CTO vs. Sha Sukraj Peerajee, (1967) 3	Reasoning
SCR 661 at para 5 In the present case the twin conditions of Section 15 stood determined prior to the issuance of Notification 5/2019 on 16 February 2019 at 204658 hours.	Reasoning
The rate of duty was determined by the presentation of the bills of entry for home consumption in the electronic form under Section 46.	Reasoning
Selfassessment was on the basis of rate of duty which was in force on the date and at the time of presentation of the bills of entry for home consumption.	Reasoning
This could not have been altered in the purported exercise of the power of reassessment under Section 17 or at the time of the clearance of the goods for home consumption under Section 47.	Reasoning
The rate of duty which was applicable was crystallized at the time and on the date of the presentation of the bills of entry in terms of the provisions of Section 15 read with Regulation 4(2) of the Regulations of 2018.	Reasoning
The power of reassessment under Section 17(4) could not have been exercised since this is not a case where there was an incorrect selfassessment of duty.	Reasoning
The duty was correctly assessed at the time of selfassessment in terms of the duty which was in force on that date and at the time.	Reasoning
The subsequent publication of the notification bearing 5/2019 did not furnish a valid basis for reassessment.	Reasoning
For the above reasons, we have come to the conclusion that there is no merit in the appeals.	Reasoning
The appeals shall stand dismissed.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	None
Pending application(s), if any, stands disposed of.	Decision
Per K.M. Joseph, J. Does a notification under Section 8A of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 increasing the import duty published late in the evening of 16th Feb 2019, date back to the midnight of the previous day?	Issue
Does a day include its fractions?	Issue
While I agree with my esteemed and learned brother in his erudite judgment that the appeals be dismissed, having regard to the questions involved, I have written the following separate opinion Following the terror attack at Pulwama on 14.02.2019, the Government of India published a Notification on 16.02.2019 (hereinafter referred to as the Notification) purporting to be in exercise of powers under Section 8A(1) of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (hereinafter referred to as the Tariff Act, for short).	Facts
By the same, the First Schedule to the Tariff Act, 1975 came to be amended in the following manner In the First Schedule to the Customs Tariff Act, in Section XXI, in Chapter 98, after tariff item 9805 90 00 and the entries relating thereto, the following tariff item and entries shall be inserted, namely (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) 9806 00	Facts
00	None
All goods originating in or exported from the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.  	Facts
200 .	None
It came to be published in the Gazette at 204658 hrs.	Facts
on 16.2.2019.	Facts
On the same day, i.e., on 16.02.2019, the respondents in the Appeals, who were the Writ Petitioners before the High Court, filed Bills of Entry under the Customs Act, 1962 in respect of goods imported from Pakistan.	Facts
In fact, there was an agreement between India and Pakistan, both being SAARC Countries, under which, duty was to be levied on the imports from Pakistan at concessional rates, in those cases where imports were exigible to any duty at all.	Facts
The goods which were subject matter of import, had also arrived in the Customs Station and as noticed, during the course of the working hours on 16.02.2019 and well before the time of the Notification hereinbefore adverted to, the Bills of Entry came to be presented.	Facts
The duty came to be selfassessed by the respondents.	Facts
It is, thereafter, that taking inspiration from the hefty increase in duty effected under the Notification the Writ Petitioners came to be faced with reassessment proceedings.	Facts
It is accordingly that they approached the High Court and filed Writ Petitions wherein the prayer may be noticed in Writ Petition No. 18460 of 2019 as follows Writ in the nature of certiorari mandamus or any other appropriate writ for quashing of the assessment order passed in the bill of entry no. 2083178 dated 16.02.2019 (AnnexureP5) being illegal arbitrary, against the principles of natural justice and in violation to the provisions of article 14 19 of the Constitution of India and against the provisions of Section 128 129 of the Customs Act, 1962 Writ in the nature of certiorari mandamus quashing the notification no. 05/2019cus dated 16.02.2019 (AnnexureP7) being prospective and in contravention to the Notification no.	Facts
50/2017cus.	Facts
dated 30.06.2017 granting benefit of customs duty over and above NIL as well as section 4 11 of the Customs Tariff act, 1975, Writ in the nature of certiorari mandamus directing the Respondent No.3 to issue detention memo in terms of Regulation 6(1)(1) of the Customs Act, 1962 and further directing the Respondent No. 4 to release the goods without demanding any ground rent.	Facts
Writ in the nature of certiorari mandamus restraining the respondent no. 4 for conducting auction of the goods.	Facts
It is these Writ Petitions which have been allowed by the High Court.	Facts
The High Court has found that in the Scheme of the Customs Act read with the Tariff Act, the rate of duty is to be determined with reference to two definite indicia, viz., the date of presentation of the Bills of Entry and the movement of goods across the border and availability of the same within the Customs Station.	Facts
Present these two aspects, the law enables the importer to demand that payment of the duty be with reference to the date of presentation of the Bills of Entry.	Facts
The High Court did not consider the challenge to the Notification on the basis of the stand taken by the respondents and confined its reasoning to the aforesaid aspect which I have indicated.	Facts
The Court took the view that the Notification which came to be published late in the evening on 16.02.2019 could not alter the destiny ofthe Writ Petitioners cases as regards the rate of duty.	Facts
We have heard Shri K.M. Nataraj, learned Additional Solicitor General, appearing on behalf of the appellants, Shri P.S. Narsimha, learned Senior Counsel, appearing on behalf of the Writ Petitioners.	None
CONTENTIONS OF THE APPELLANTS 8.	None
Shri K.M. Nataraj, learned Additional Solicitor General would contend that the Notification issued under Section 8A of the Tariff Act following the extraordinary circumstances surrounding the Pulwama terror attack, the rate of duty came to be increased by Notification dated 16.02.2019.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Notification would have effect in respect of all the Bills of Entry which came to be filed presented on that day.	Arguments of Petitioner
To buttress his submissions, he also sought to draw support from Section 5(3) of the General Clauses Act, 1897.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would point out that the Notification would, therefore, have effect from the expiry of the previous day.	Arguments of Petitioner
That is, it is his contention that though it is issued late in the evening on 16.02.2019, since the previous day, viz., 15.02.2019 expired at midnight, the Notification must be treated as born and alive from the first tick of time past the midnight of 15.02.2019.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also drew our attention to the Scheme of the Customs Act, 1962 otherwise.	Arguments of Petitioner
With the assistance of Sections 12, 15, 46 and 47, he sought to contend that the High Court fell into error in not recognizing that the preferring of the Bills of the Entry by the respondents, could not detract from the applicability of the increased rate of duty under the Notification.	Arguments of Petitioner
9.	Arguments of Petitioner
The principal argument of the Union of India is that these cases must be decided based on the provision of Section 15 of the Customs Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Expatiating the argument of the Union of India Shri K.M. Nataraj, learned counsel for the Union of Indiaappellant would contend that there is no challenge to the validity of Section 15 of the Customs Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said provision must be taken as it is and applied.	Arguments of Petitioner
The result would then be inevitable that the notification in question which no doubt was published late in the evening on 16.02.2019, fixed the increased rate of duty on all goods imported from Pakistan and it was undoubtedly to have effect from that day onwards.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, since Section 15 of the Act contemplates that the rate of duty to be the rate in force during the day, and as the Notification was published on 16.02.2019, the day 16.02.2019 was not to be excluded.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was, in other words, to have operation throughout the day, 16.02.2019.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that there cannot be two rates of duty which are at loggerheads with each other on a single day.	Arguments of Petitioner
The time of the day at which the notification was actually published, would pale into insignificance in answering the question as to whether the said notification which is of the kind involved in this case was to hold sway during the course of the whole day.	Arguments of Petitioner
He urges us to notice that Section 15 of the Customs Act does not allude to the time of the day but only refers to the day.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would further contend that by virtue of the notification, the rate in force within the meaning of Section 15 from the mid night of 15.02.2019 was the rate fixed under the notification in respect of the goods governed by the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
Any other interpretation would involve rewriting of Section 15 and the amendment of the provision which is plainly impermissible.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also no doubt points that the authorities have rightfully embarked upon reassessment under the Act upon noticing that the goods were assessed with duty at a rate which was not in force, namely, the rates which stood supplanted by the notification issued under Section 8A on 16.02.2019.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this regard he drew inspiration from the provisions of Section 17(4) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
In particular, he pointed out that the expression otherwise is capable of encompassing the situation existing in the facts of these cases.	Arguments of Petitioner
He would also point out that the Court may notice that an order has not been passed under Section 47 of the Act permitting clearance of the goods for home consumption.	Arguments of Petitioner
As soon as the factum of the notification having bearing came to light, proceedings for reassessment were resorted to and no case was made out for the High Court to interfere with the action of the authorities in purporting to apply the correct rate of duty within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
10.	None
Per contra, Shri P.S. Narsimha, learned Senior Counsel for the respondentWrit Petitioners, countered the appellants submissions by pointing out as follows Under Section 12 of the Customs Act, imports attract customs duty as is fixed under the Tariff Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 15 of the Customs Act, however, determines the date with reference to which the rate of duty as provided in the Tariff Act is to apply.	Arguments of Respondent
Still further and crucially, this exercise is to be accomplished with reference to the date of presentation of the Bills of Entry as provided in Section 46 of the Customs Act.	Arguments of Respondent
He would, in fact, submit that under the Customs Act, a perusal of Sections 15 and 16, would show that there are four different situations contemplated.	Arguments of Respondent
Under Section 15, which deals with rate of duty payable on imports, in a case where the Bills of Entry is presented for home consumption under Section 46, the rate of duty is to apply with reference to be date of presentation of the Bills of Entry.	Arguments of Respondent
In the case where the goods are cleared for being warehoused under Section 68, again the duty is to be paid at the rate with reference to the presentation of the Bills of Entry for home consumption under Section 68.	Arguments of Respondent
The two other circumstances pertain to exports.	Arguments of Respondent
In the case of goods entered for export from India, the rate of duty is fixed with reference to the date on which the proper officer makes an order permitting clearance and loading of goods for exportation under Section 51.	Arguments of Respondent
In any other case, which is the fourth Category, the duty is fixed with reference to the date of payment of duty.	Arguments of Respondent
He would draw our attention to the Electronic Filing of Bills of Entry Regulations, 2018.	Arguments of Respondent
In particular, he would draw our attention to Regulation 4 of the said Regulations.	Arguments of Respondent
He would point out that Regulation 4, of the said Regulations, makes it clear that once the Bills of Entry is filed electronically and the event takes place, which under law determines the point of time with reference to which the rate of duty is to be imposed, the position is unalterable.	Arguments of Respondent
He would submit that neither is the rate of duty dependent on the date of payment of duty nor is it based on Entry Inward.	Arguments of Respondent
An order is contemplated under Section 47 of the Customs Act for clearing the goods, which contemplates payment of duty as a condition precedent for such an order.	Arguments of Respondent
This is irrelevant.	Arguments of Respondent
He would submit that in the presentday world of international trade, innumerable transactions take place at different points of time during the course of the day.	Arguments of Respondent
The Law Giver has not contemplated the reopening of a transaction, which in the eye of law, is a closed chapter.	Arguments of Respondent
He would point out that the court must bear in mind that it is dealing with a law which visits a person with a tax.	Arguments of Respondent
The point of time is transparent and declared through the Scheme of the Customs Act read with the Tariff Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It would be wholly impermissible to inflict imports which have been visited with the duty in accordance with the law, with the rates of duty, which was not prevalent at the relevant time.	Arguments of Respondent
The Notification could have only prospective operation.	Arguments of Respondent
In fact, Shri Kapoor, the learned Counsel, who appeared in the High Court for the Writ Petitioners, pointed out that after the Notification was issued late in the evening, the system did not accept further electronic declaration of Bills of Entry as it was contemplated that such Bills of Entry would attract the higher duty.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. P.S. Narsimha, learned Senior Counsel, points out that Customs Act contemplates selfassessment.	Arguments of Respondent
He drew our attention to Section 17 in this regard.	Arguments of Respondent
It is the further case of the writ petitioners that based on the selfassessment, the system generated details which approved of the selfassessment.	Arguments of Respondent
After the matter stood concluded in terms of the Act, the transaction could not be revisited on the strength of the Notification issued under Section 8A, runs the argument.	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed out that the Notification, issued under Section 8A, may be akin to delegated legislation.	Arguments of Respondent
Even proceeding on the basis that it is delegated legislation, it can have only prospective operation.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 8A of the Tariff Act, under which the Notification was issued, did not empower the author of the Notification to issue the Notification with retrospective effect.	Arguments of Respondent
In answer to a query by the Court as to what would have been the effect of the notification which was issued at 10.00a.m.	Arguments of Respondent
at 16.02.2019, instead of 204658 hrs., at which time, it was in fact issued and if the Bill of Entry is presented after 10.00 a.m.,	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. P.S.	Arguments of Respondent
Narsimha pointed out that it would be the Notification which was issued on 10.00 a.m., which would be the Notification in force, and therefore, the increased duty may have been payable.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. P.S.	Arguments of Respondent
Narsimha has also, no doubt, a contention that the Notification issued under Section 8A is illegal for the reason that what is contemplated under Section 8A is the increase of the rate of duty in respect of items which are already included in the first schedule of the Tariff Act whereas a perusal of the Notification would show that a new entry has been made and the rate of duty has been provided therein, viz., the rate of duty of all goods emanating from Islamic Republic of Pakistan was increased to 200 per cent.	Arguments of Respondent
But this line of argument was not pursued.	Arguments of Respondent
Both sides referred us exhaustively to case law.	None
ANALYSIS The Customs Act is a consolidating Act.	None
It is intended, inter alia, to deal with the menace of smuggling.	None
It contains various sanctions.	None
It also provides for the levy of Customs duty on import and export.	None
It is a law which provides revenue to the State.	None
It is also an important tool in the hands of the nation to arrange its economic affairs to make it best suited to the welfare of the people otherwise.	None
Indisputably, the charging Section is Section 12.	None
The taxable event is import into or export of goods from India.	None
Ordinarily, the Tariff Act provides the rates at which duty is imposed on imports and exports.	None
There is no dispute that India and Pakistan being S.A.A.R.C. Countries they were parties to an agreement under which the trade between the countries was subjected only to duty on concessional rates.	Facts
It is while so, following the unfortunate incident of Pulwama that the Government of India in exercise of its powers under Section 8A of the Tariff Act decided to increase the rate of import duty on all goods in the manner done.	None
The Notification was issued on 16.02.2019.	None
It was published at about 204658 hrs.	None
In the meantime, during the course of the day, the writ petitioners before us who imported goods had filed Bills of Entry electronically.	None
The goods were present in the Customs Station.	None
To be more correct, the Bills were presented and selfassessment was undertaken.	None
It is thereafter that late in the evening as a bolt from the blue, as it were, the notification came to be issued under Section 8A of the Tariff Act.	None
The questions which arise for the consideration of this Court is articulated as follows What is the nature of the Notification?	None
Is it a species of subordinate legislation?	Issue
If it is subordinate legislation, when did it commence?	Issue
What is the scheme of the Customs Act as regards the rate of duty on imports and the power of assessment?	Issue
Was the Notification in force on 16.02.2019 so that it would cover all the transactions countenanced by the Bills of Entry which were duly presented during the office hours on 16.02.2019?	Issue
What constitutes a day under Section 15 of the Customs Act?	Issue
Whether the Notification is covered by Section 5(3) of the General Clauses Act?	Issue
Whether the appellants were justified in resorting to reassessment in these cases?	None
THE TARIFF ACT AND WHETHER THE NOTIFICATION IS A FORM OF DELEGATED LEGISLATION	None
It is apposite that the working of the Tariff Act is unravelled.	None
The rates of duty under the Customs Act are to be provided as per the entries in the First and Second Schedule.	None
Section 2 of the Tariff Act, reads as follows Duties specified in the Schedules to be levied.  	None
The rates at which duties of customs shall be levied under the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), are specified in the First and Second Schedules.	None
In other words, the rate of duty must be one which is provided by Parliament.	None
It may require an amendment to the Tariff Act to increase or decrease the rate of duty under Section 2. Section 11A contemplates power with the Central Government to amend the First Schedule.	None
It cannot be, in the region of doubt, that the exercise of power under Section 11A would amount to exercise of delegated legislation.	None
Section 11A(2) stipulates the procedure to be adopted after the Notification is issued.	None
It has to be placed before each House of Parliament and the further procedures are as provided therein, which includes the power to modify the Notification.	None
The proviso, however, makes it clear that the exercise of power under Section 11A, to amend the First Schedule, will not involve or amount to an increase in the rates which are specified in the First Schedule in regard to duties of customs leviable under the Customs Act.	None
In other words, barring the rate of customs duty, the contents of the First Schedule can be amended by the Central Government under Section 11A.	None
Resultantly, Section 11A does not confer upon the Central Government, the power to increase the rate of duty under the Customs Act.	None
The rate of duty, in other words, ordinarily falls within the province of Parliament, and it is Parliament alone, which can increase or decrease the rate of duty.	None
However, an exception has been carved out under Section 8A to change the rate of duty under the Schedule to the Tariff Act.	None
It is an emergency power vested with the Central Government.	None
The emergency power vested with the Central Government is to change the import duty and the change is limited to an increase in the rate of import duty.	None
The condition requisite is, no doubt, that circumstances exist which render it necessary to take immediate action for providing for an increase in the import duty.	None
Section 8A, in fact, does not contemplate the power to amend the First Schedule.	None
The power under Section 8A is confined to any article which is already included in the First Schedule.	None
Undoubtedly, it is the same Authority, viz., the Central Government, which stands clothed with the power to amend the First Schedule under Section 11A.	None
The words circumstances exists which render it necessary to take immediate action in Section 8A makes it clear that the power to increase the rate of import duty is ordinarily a power to be exercised by the Parliament by a process of amending the First Schedule to the Tariff Act.	None
It is only in emergent circumstances where the delegate of the Legislature, viz.	None
the Central Government, considers it necessary to take immediate action that is the process of amending the Act or rather the Schedule to the Act bythe Parliament, would take time, the same is sought to be obviated by taking action under Section 8A.	None
Undoubtedly, the provisions of Sections 7(3) and 7(4) will apply in making of the Notification.	None
On a perusal of the provisions, as noted, it is clear that a Notification issued under Section 8A, increasing the import duty, is a species of delegated legislation.	None
It must be remembered that Article 265 of the Constitution of India declares that no tax shall be levied except by the authority of Law.	None
An increase in the rate of duty cannot obviously be affected by an Executive Order.	None
That is not to say that when the Executive is empowered to increase the rate of duty by way of delegated legislation, it would not fulfill the requirement of Article 265 and there can be no hesitation in holding that it is law within the meaning of Article 13 of the Constitution of India and it is a species of delegated legislation.	None
See in this regard AIR 1961 SC 21 para 11 THE SCHEME OF THE CUSTOMS ACT QUA RATE OF DUTY ON IMPORTS AND ASSESSMENT TO DUTY Section 12 is the charging Section.	None
It reads as follows Dutiable goods.	None
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this Act, or any other law for the time being in force, duties of customs shall be levied at such rates as may be specified under the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975), or any other law for the time being in force, on goods imported into, or exported from, India.	None
The provisions of subsection (1) shall apply in respect of all goods belonging to Government as they apply in respect of goods not belonging to Government.	None
Section 15 deals with the date relevant to fix the rate of duty.	Reasoning
It reads as follows Date for determination of rate of duty and tariff valuation of imported qoods.(l)	None
The rate of duty and tariff valuation, if any, applicable to any imported goods, shall be the rate and valuation in force, (a) in the case of goods entered for home consumption under section 46, on the date on which a bill of entry in respect of such goods is presented under that section (b) in the case of goods cleared from a warehouse under section 68, on the date on which a bill of entry for home consumption in respect of such goods is presented under that section (c) in the case of any other goods, on the date of payment of duty Provided that if a bill of entry has been presented before the date of entry inwards of the vessel or the arrival of the aircraft or the vehicle by which the goods are imported, the bill of entry shall be deemed to have been presented on the date of such entry inwards or the arrival, as the case may be.	Reasoning
The provisions of this section shall not apply to baggage and goods imported by post.	None
In the matter of imports, the rate of duty, which is the sole area of controversy, is to be determined on the basis of the rate of duty which is in force on the day of the presentation of the Bill of Entry.	None
It will be further noticed that an importer may, when the goods are physically present within the Customs Station in question, file the Bill of Entry for home consumption.	None
Section 46(1) also contemplates the presentation of the Bill of Entry for the goods being warehoused.	None
This ordinarily would occur when the importer may have difficulty in paying the duty on the goods.	None
He may also warehouse the goods when he has not yet found a buyer for his goods or there are any other obstacles in clearing the goods.	None
Cases of goods imported for the purpose of being taken out of the country by way of transshipment or goods intended for transit, are not covered by Section 46 (1).	None
The Bill of Entry under subSection (1) is to be presented before the expiry of the day following the day (excluding holidays) on which the aircraft, vessel or vehicle carrying the goods arrives at a Customs Station, at which the goods are to be cleared, either for home consumption or warehousing See Section 46(3).	Reasoning
The Second Proviso to Section 46(3) provides that if the Bill of Entry is not presented within the time specified and there are no sufficient reasons for such delay, the importer is topay charges for late presentation.	Reasoning
The importer is also to make a declaration regarding the truth of the contents of the Bill of Entry, and in support of the same, he is to produce the invoice and other documents, as may be prescribed.	None
See Section 46 (4) The next procedure contemplated under the Customs Act in regard to an importer entering any imported goods under Section 46 for home consumption is for the importer to carry out selfassessment except in a situation covered by Section 85 See Section 17(1).	None
The proper Officer is to verify the entries in the Bill of Entry entered under Section 46, inter alia, and the selfassessment of the goods carried out by the importer.	None
He is clothed with the power to examine or test any imported goods, inter alia, for the purpose of such verification.	None
The importer is to furnish any document for verification, as may be necessary towards the carrying out of the verification See Section 17(3).	None
It is thereafter that Section 17(4) empowers the Officer who carries out the verification to reassess the duty leviable on such goods.	None
The perusal of Section 17(4) wouldreveal that such reassessment can be done, when, on verification, examination or testing of the goods, the officer finds that the selfassessment is not done correctly.	Reasoning
Section 17(4) also employs the expression otherwise after the words verification, examination or testing of the goods.	None
It is argued by the learned Additional Solicitor General that the word otherwise is attracted in the facts of this case as it is found that the issuance of the Notification on 16.02.2019 albeit in the late evening determined the rate of duty in respect of all Bills of Entry which may have been presented during the course of the day and reassessment was legally permissible as it fell within the wide embrace of the word otherwise.	Arguments of Petitioner
This question will be answered after examining, considering and answering the question as to when the Notification commenced.	None
It may also be noticed that Section 18(1)(a), which provides that notwithstanding anything contained in the Act but without prejudice to Section 46, that the Officer may carry out provisional assessment.	None
Under Section 18(1)(a) such provisional assessment is permitted when the importer, inter alia, is unable to make the selfassessment under Section 17(1), and what is more, makes a request in writing to the proper Officer for provisional assessment.	None
There are three other circumstances enumerated in clause (b), (c) and (d) of Section 18(1) which entitle the Officer to pass an Order of provisional assessment.	None
In such a case, it is open to the Officer to carry out the final assessment.	None
So also, it is open to the Officer to carry out reassessment.	None
What is the time at which the importer who presents a Bill of Entry under Section 46 for home consumption is to effect payment of the import duty, when he carries out selfassessment?	Issue
This question is answered in Section 47(2)(a) which provides that the importer is to pay the import duty on the very day of presentation of the Bill of Entry when the importer carries out selfassessment as is contemplated under Section 17(1) of the Act.	Reasoning
Section 47(1) contemplates that where the Officer is satisfied about the goods entered for home consumption, being not prohibited goods, and the importer has paid the import duty, if any, assessed thereon, and other charges, under the Act, he is to pass an Order permitting clearing of goods for home consumption.	None
It is again to be noted that under Section 47(2) (b), the importer is to pay the duty within one day from the date on which the Bill of Entry is returned to him when there is assessment, reassessment or provisional assessment.	None
Section 47(1)(c) also contemplates permitting the importer to make deferred payment which is permitted under the Second Proviso to Section 47(1).	None
What is the effect of nonpayment of the duty within the time specified in Section 47(2)?	Issue
The answer to this also is contained in Section 47(2) itself as the law mandates that the importer shall pay interest on the duty not paid or short paid till the date of its payment at the rate as provided therein.	None
It is to be noticed that Section 47 is related to goods entered for home consumption.	None
No doubt without payment, an order for clearance of goods would not be passed.	None
Section 28 of the Customs Act provides for recovery of duties not levied, not paid, short levied, short paid or erroneously refunded.	None
Similar provisions are contained in the Central Excise Act as well.	None
It is also noteworthy that Section 2(25) defines the word imported goods as meaning the goods brought into India from the place outside India but it does not include the goods which have been cleared for home consumption.	None
A perusal of Section 15(1)(a) makes it clear that as far as goods entered for home consumption under Section 46, the rate of duty is to be the rate of duty in force on the date on which the Bill of Entry in respect of such goods is presented under Section 46.	Arguments of Respondent
It is not the date on which the goods are ordered to be cleared under Section 47.	None
In fact, the Scheme of the Act, in regard to goods entered for home consumption, is that the importer is to present the Bill of Entry, as contemplated under Section 46, he is to make self assessment under Section 17(1), he is to make the payment of the duty on the day on which he presents the Bill of Entry under Section47(2) (a).	None
Should he fail to make the payment on the same day in the case of self assessment, he becomes liable to pay interest as provided till the date of payment.	None
What is crucial is, however, that only that date is relevant on which he presents the Bill of Entry for home consumption in the form and in the manner, which is prescribed.	None
The word prescribed has been defined in Section 2(32) to mean prescribed by Regulations made under the Act.	Reasoning
Regulations have been made in regard to presentation of Bill of Entry.	Reasoning
Section 46(1) would reveal that the word electronically came to be inserted by Act 8 of 2011 w.e.f. 08.04.2011.	None
Immediately following the words electronically, the words at the customs automated system, have been inserted by the Finance Act, 2018 w.e.f. 01.04.2018.	None
The words in such form and manner, as may be prescribed came to substitute the words in the prescribed form, by the Finance Act, 2018.	None
No doubt, the First Proviso to Section 46(1) empowers the Principal Commissioner of Customs or the Commissioner of Customs to allow the Bill of Entry to be presented in any other manner, where it is not feasible to make the entry electronically.	None
The Regulations holding the field providing for the form and manner in which the Bill of Entry is to be presented for home consumption under Section 46(1) of the Customs Act are called the Bill of Entry (Electronic Integrated Declaration and paperless Processing) Regulations, 2018 (hereinafter referred to as the 2018 Regulations, for short).	Reasoning
Regulation 4(2), which is the relevant Regulation, reads as follows 4(2)	None
The bill of entry shall be deemed to have been filed and selfassessment completed when after entry of the electronic integrated declaration on the customs automated system or by way of data entry through the service centre, a bill of entry number is generated by the Indian Customs Electronic Data Interchange System for the said declaration and the selfassessed copy of the Bill of Entry may be electronically transmitted to the authorised person or printed out at the service centre.	Arguments of Respondent
A perusal of the aforesaid Regulation makes it clear that there is not only a deemed presentation of the Bill of Entry which the law calls into existence, as provided therein but also completion of selfassessment.	None
This deemed presentation and completed selfassessment takes place when the bill of entry number is generated.	None
Once there is a deemed presentation of the Bill of Entry, then, under Section 15(1)(a), the rate of duty, which is in force on such deemed date of presentation, would be the rate which is applicable.	None
This is, no doubt, subject to the further requirement that the goods are physically present in the Customs Station.	None
This is for the reason that under the First Proviso to Section 46(3), an importer can present a Bill of Entry in anticipation of the arrival of the goods provided that the presentation of such Bill of Entry is limited to a period not exceeding thirty days prior to the expected arrival.	Reasoning
However, in case, where the Bill of Entry is presented under the First Proviso to Section 46(3), the rate of duty will be determined with reference to the act of presentation of the Bill of Entry, but such presentation of the Bill of Entry is by a deeming fiction made only fromthe date of the entry inwards or of the arrival, as the case may be of the goods.	None
In the facts of these cases, there is no dispute that the imported goods were very much in the Customs Station and the Bills of Entry were presented under Section 46(1) on 16.2.2019.	None
It is clear that the rate of duty, for the purpose of the cases before the Court, is to be determined with reference to the presentation of the Bills of Entry.	None
The law does not take into consideration even the time of payment of the duty which is selfassessed by the importer.	None
This is noted for the reason that the importer, who presents a Bill of Entry under Section 46 and who carries out selfassessment, is dutybound to pay such duty on the very same date.	None
The consequence of failure is only the liability to pay interest under Section 47 besides disabling him from clearing the goods.	None
It does not postpone the point of time at which the rate of duty is to be determined.	None
Having dwelt upon the Scheme of the Act in regard to goods which are imported into India and which have been entered under a Bill of India for home consumption, the time is now ripe for ascertaining the impact of the Notification which came to be issued late in the evening on 16.02.2019.	None
The nature of the Notification, which is admittedly issued under Section 8A of the Tariff Act, has been explained earlier.	None
It is a species of delegated legislation.	None
As far as law made by Parliament or the State Legislatures, which are sovereign bodies in their own right, subject, no doubt, to their position, under the Constitution, as expounded by this Court, the law comes into force immediately after the assent is given by the President or the Governor, respectively.	None
A law made by Parliament has effect without any further act on the part of the Executive.	None
This is, no doubt, subject to the intention expressed otherwise in the law so made as to any other date from which it is to have operation.	None
It may also be a case of a conditional legislation where the law is to be brought into force by the Executive.	None
No doubt, there is a distinction between conditional legislation and delegated legislation(See in this regard, judgment of this court in I.T.C. Bhadrachalam Paperboards and another vs. Mandal Revenue Officer and others, (1996) 6 SCC 634 where the earlier case law has been exhaustively dealt with).	None
A Notification, which is made by the Executive, must indeed be made known.	None
Ordinarily this is made known by being published in the Gazette.	None
In this regard, it is profitable to refer to what this Court laid down in the decision reported in B.K. Srinivasan vs. State of Karnataka, (1987) 1 SCC 658. 15.	None
It is, therefore, necessary that subordinate legislation, in order to take effect, must be published or promulgated in some suitable manner, whether such publication or promulgation is prescribed by the parent statute or not.	None
It will then take effect from the date of such publication or promulgation.	None
Where the parent statute prescribes the mode of publication or promulgation that mode must be followed.	None
Where the parent statute is silent, but the subordinate legislation itself prescribes the manner of publication, such a mode of publication may be sufficient, if reasonable.	None
If the subordinate legislation does not prescribe the mode of publication or if the subordinate legislation prescribes a plainly unreasonable mode of publication, it will take effect only when it is published through the customarily recognised official channel, namely, the Official Gazette or some other reasonable mode of publication.	None
There may be subordinate legislation which is concerned with a few individuals or is confined to small local areas.	None
In such cases publication or promulgation by other means may be sufficient Narayana Reddy vs. State of A.P., (1969) 1	None
Andh WR 77.	None
This view came to be endorsed in a case under the Customs Act, which is reported in M s. Pankaj Jain Agencies vs. Union of India and others, (1994) 5 SCC 198.	None
Therefore, it is only with the publication effected at 204658 hrs.	None
on 16.02.2019, the Notification issued under Section 8A, increasing the rate of import duty, came into force.	None
While on publication required in law, to make a Notification effective, the decision of this Court, rendered under the Central Excise Act in Collector of Central Excise vs. New Tobacco Company and others, (1998)144 CTR(SC) 618 is noticed.	None
The question, which was considered, was whether a Notification under the Central Excise Act became effective from the date on which it was printed in the Government Gazette or from the date it was made available to the public.	None
This Court, elaborately referred to the judgment of the Madras High Court in Asia Tobacco Company Limited vs. Union of India and others, (1985) 155 ITR 568 (Mad).	None
Therein, the High Court, inter alia, held as follows 8	None
The mere printing of the official Gazette containing the relevant notification and without making the same available for circulation and putting it on sale to the public will not amount to the notification within the meaning of r. 8(1) of the Rules It would be a mockery of the rule to state that it would suffice the purpose of the notification if the notification is merely printed in the Official Gazette, without making the same available for circulation to the public or putting it on sale to the public Neither the date of the notification nor the date of printing, nor the date of Gazette counts for notification within the meaning of the rule, but only the date when the public gets notified in the sense, the concerned Gazette is made available to the public.	None
The date of release of the publication is the decisive date to make the notification effective.	None
Printing of the official Gazette and stacking them without releasing to the public would not amount to notification at all Thereafter, this Court went on to hold as follows We hold that a Central Excise Notification can be said to have been published, except when it is provided otherwise, when it is so issued as to make it known to the public.	None
It would be a proper publication if it is published in such a manner that persons can, if they are so interested, acquaint themselves with its contents.	None
If publication is through a Gazette then mere printing of it in the Gazette would not be enough.	None
Unless the Gazette containing the notification is made available to the public, the notification cannot be said to have been duly published.	None
It may be noticed that a Bench of three learned Judges came to, however, overrule the Judgment in New Tobacco Company (supra) in the decision reported in Union of India and others vs. Ganesh Das Bhojraj, 2000 (9) SCC 461.	None
Therein a Notification was issued under Section 25 of the Customs Act on 04.02.1987, amending an earlier Notification of the year 1976 by which exemption had been granted and limiting the exemption to the duty in excess of 25 per cent.	None
The Bill of Entry was filed on 05.02.1987.	None
This Court took the view that under Section 25 of the Customs Act, since the Notification dated 04.02.1987 has been published in the Gazette, it had come into force and constituted the rates prevalent on 05.02.1987, when the respondent had filed the Bill of Entry.	None
In fact, the Court noticed the subsequent development in Section 25 of the Customs Act by which subSections (4) and (5) were added to Section 25, which reads as follows Power to grant exemption from duty.	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
Every notification issued under subsection (1) or subsection (2A) shall,  (a) unless otherwise provided, come into force on the date of its issue by the Central Government for publication in the Official Gazette (b) also be published and offered for sale on the date of its issue by the Directorate of Publicity and Public Relations of the Board, New Delhi.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (4), where a notification comes into force on a date later than the date of its issue, the same shall be published and offered for sale by the said Directorate of Publicity and Public Relations on a date on or before the date on which the said notification comes into force.	None
The view in New Tobacco Company (supra) was held to be not good law.	None
It is to be noticed that it is in regard to a Notification issued under Section 25 of the Customs Act that the principles contained in subSection (4) and (5) will have effect from the date on which these provisions were brought into force.	None
As far a Notification issued under Section 8A, with which this Court is concerned, it is the principle which has been laid down in Ganesh Das Bhojraj (supra), which will apply.	None
In other words, as far as the Notification issued under Section 8A of the Tariff Act is concerned, the Notification would come into force on the date on which it is published in the Gazette.	None
The question, however, which arises in this case is, as far as this Court is concerned, res Integra, viz., whether having regard to the time at which it was published, whether Notification would come into force on 16.02.2019, by including the whole of the day or will it operate from the time of its publication, or whether the Notification is to be enforced only after excluding 16.02.2019.	None
The question would pointedly arise whether it was to have effect for the whole of the day, viz., 16.02.2019, which means, since the day 16.02.2019 was born, immediately after the midnight on 15.02.2019, does a day mean the first moment after the midnight?	Issue
If that were the effect, what would be its impact on the Bills of Entry which were electronically presented under Section 46(1) of the Customs Act read with Rule 4(2) of the 2018 Regulations, which have already been referred to above.	Issue
It is here that it becomes necessary to notice the provisions of Section 9 of the General Clauses Act, 1897.	None
SECTION 9 OF THE GENERAL CLAUSES ACT, 1897 Section 9 of The General Clauses Act, 1897, reads as follows 9 Commencement and termination of time.	None
In any Central Act or Regulation made after the commencement of this Act, it shall be sufficient, for the purpose of excluding the first in a series of days or any other period of time, to use the word from, and, for the purpose of including the last in a series of days or any other period of time, to use the word to.	None
This section applies also to all Central Acts made after the third day of January, 1868, and to all Regulations made on or after the fourteenth day of January, 1887.	None
In this case, there is no dispute that Notification under Section 8A was published in the Gazette.	None
It was published at 204658 hrs.	None
on 16.02.2019.	Facts
It is to be noticed that we are not dealing with a case, where a period of time, limited by two different termini, is present.	None
A Statute may fix a terminus aquo.	None
The Statute may be made to last without indicating when the period is to end, which is the terminus ad quem.	None
Section 9 of the General Clauses Act enunciates the principle, that for, excluding the first in a series of days or any other period of time, it suffices to use the word from.	None
It also provides, likewise, for the devise of using the word to, for the purpose of including the last in the series of days or other period of time.	None
It is clear from Section 9 that it contemplates a period, or a series of days which is marked by both terminus aquo and terminus ad quem.	None
Section 9 is expressly intended to apply to a Central Act or Regulation.	None
In this case, we are concerned with the Notification issued under the Statute, and which is a piece of delegated legislation, under which, the rate of import duty has been increased.	None
The increase in the rate of duty is not for any period.	None
In other words, it is not a case where the terminus ad quem or a period of time, is fixed for the operation of the increased import duty of goods imported from Pakistan.	None
In other words, the increased rate of import duty under the Notification is to last indefinitely.	None
The word indefinite is intended to mean that it is to bear life till it is increased, reduced or completely done away with, in exercise of powers available under the Customs Act or the Customs Tariff Act (See in this regard Section 25 of the Customs Act and Section 2 of the Tariff Act).	None
A DAY A PERIOD OF TIME FRACTION OF TIME It now becomes necessary to refer to principles enunciated by Courts in diverse situations under different branches of law.	None
I would begin by referring to an offquoted Judgment rendered by the Master of the Rolls, Sir William Grant in the decision reported in Lester vs. Garland, 1808 15 Ves. 248.	None
In the said case, there was a bequest of residual interest in favour of A if she gave security not to marry B, inter alia, within six calendar months, after the death of the Testator.	None
There was a proviso to go over if A refused to give such security.	None
The Testator died on the 12th of January.	None
Security was given by A on the 12th of July.	None
The Testator died on 12th of January between 8 and 9 in the evening.	None
Security was given by A about 9 in the evening on 12th of July.	None
The question, which was considered was whether the date of the death of the Testator was to be included within the six months, within which, A had to give the security, or to be excluded.	None
If the day of the death of the Testator was included, the security given by A would be beyond the period of six months and she would stand divested of the bequest, whereas, if the date of the death of the Testator was excluded, then, A would be entitled to the bequest as the security given by her would be within the period of six months.	None
It would be profitable to notice the relevant part of the discussion by the learned Judge It is not necessary to lay down any general rule upon this subject but upon technical reasoning I rather think, it would be more easy to maintain, that the day of an act done, or an event happening, ought in all cases to be excluded, than that it should in all cases be included.	None
Our law rejects fractions of a day more generally than the civil law does.	None
(See the note, 14 Ves. 554, where it is admitted in bankrupty.)	None
The effect is to render the day a sort of indivisible point so that any act, done in the compass of it, is no more referrible to any one, than to any other, portion of it but the act and the day are coextensive and therefore the act cannot properly be said to be passed, until the day is passed.	None
This reasoning was adopted by Lord Rosslyn and Lord Thurlow in the case before mentioned of Mercer v. Ogilvie.	None
The ground, on which the judgment of the Court of Session was affirmed by the House of Lords, is correctly stated in the fourth volume of the Dictionary of the Decisions of the Court of Session.	None
In the present case the technical rule forbids us to consider the hour of the testators death at the time of his death for that would be making a fraction of a day.	None
The day of the death must therefore be the time of the death and that time must be past, before the six months can begin to run.	None
The rule, contended for on behalf of the Plaintiffs, has the effect of throwing back the event into a day, upon which it did not happen considering the testator as dead upon the 11th, instead of the 12th, of January for it is said, the whole of the 12th is to be computed as one of the days subsequent to his death.	None
There seems to be no alternative but either to take, the actual instant, or the entire day, as the time of his death and not to begin the computation from the preceding day.	None
But it is not necessary to lay down any general rule.	None
Whichever way it should be laid down, cases would occur, the reason of which would require exceptions to be made.	None
Here the reason of the thing requires the exclusion of the day from the period of six months, given to Mrs. Pointer to deliberate upon the choice she would make and upon the whole my opinion is, that she has entered into the security before the expiration of the six months in sufficient time therefore to fulfil the condition, on which her children were to take.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In Re.	None
Railways Sleepers Supply Co., (1885) 29 Ch.d.	None
204 an Extraordinary General Meeting of the company passed a Special Resolution on 25.02.1885, for the reduction of the capital of the company.	None
On 11.03.1885, the Resolution passed on the 25.02.1885, was confirmed.	None
On a petition filed, seeking sanction of the Court for the proposed reduction of capital, the question arose whether there was compliance with Section 51 of the Companies Act, 1862.	None
The said provision, inter alia, required confirmation of the Resolution at a subsequent General Body Meeting which was held at an interval of not less that fourteen days and not more than one month from the date of the meeting at which the Resolution was first passed.	None
Chitty J., in his opinion, referred to Lester v. Garland (supra) and held, inter alia, as follows Lord Mansfield in his wellknown judgment in Pugh v. Duke of Leeds says, Date does not mean the hour or the minute, but the day of delivery, and in law there is no fraction of a day.	None
The day of the death of the testator, which is equivalent here to the day of the first meeting, was not reckoned by Sir William Grant in his wellknown decision in Lester v. Garland, where a bond had to be given within six months after the testators decease.	None
The 51st section states that the subsequent or second meeting is to be held at an interval of not less than fourteen days or more than a month.	None
The word at means after the interval, or at some time after the interval, prescribed by the other part of the section.	None
The word at refers grammatically rather to a point of time than a period The interval of not less than fourteen days was allowed to give reasonable time for deliberation, and to prevent undue haste or surprise, and to afford to the shareholders who might be present at the first meeting, and also to those who might not think fit or might not be able to attend it, time for reflection and consideration, and to make arrangements to enable them to attend the second An interval of not less than fourteen days is equivalent to saying that fourteen days must intervene or elapse between the two dates That means fourteen clear days and as Littledale , J., said in Reg. v. Justices of Shropshire, I do not see any distinction between fourteen days and at least fourteen days.	None
I must come therefore to the conclusion that the resolution is bad.	None
Probably no question has more exercised the minds of Judges in former times than the question as to the proper mode of computing time.	None
Lord Mansfields judgment in Pugh v. Duke of Leeds and Lord Wensleydales judgment in the case of Chambers v. Smith, to which I have already referred, are excellent illustrations of what I have said In 1895, a case, viz.,	None
In Re.	None
North, (1895) 2 Q.B. 264 arose under the Bankruptcy Act, 1890.	None
The question was whether an act of bankruptcy had been committed by reason of the fact that on an action taken by an execution creditor, and after the seizure of goods of the debtor and subsequent private sale, as permitted by the Court, the Sheriff had held the goods for a period of twentyone days.	None
Lord Esher M.R., after referring to Lester v. Garland (supra), holds as follows , after a learned examination of the whole subject, laid down what I conceive to be the wholesome view that no general rule exists The statute which we have to construe for the purpose of deciding how the period of time mentioned in it is to be computed is a Bankruptcy Act, and enacts a new act of bankruptcy, the commission of which is to be determined by a computation of time. .	None
If we construe s. 1 of the Act of 1890 according to the ordinary English meaning of the words, it enacts that certain consequences are to happen if the sheriff holds for twentyone days goods seized by him under an execution an act of bankruptcy is committed if he holds them for that time.	None
The ordinary meaning of the words is that he must hold them for twentyone days but we are told that under a technical rule of construction the section is satisfied if he holds them for twenty days and a part of a day.	None
Which is right?	None
Here the result may be to make a man a bankrupt, which is not a benefit to him, nor necessarily to the whole of his creditors.	None
The bankruptcy law is a law of public social policy, and affects in a very detrimental manner the status of those who are brought under its operation in old times, indeed, to make a man a bankrupt was to make him a criminal Bankruptcy is the creature of statute, and under a long series of bankruptcy statutes the same practice as to computing time has been followed, though for different purposes or results the practice is a perfectly wellknown one, the rule in bankruptcy being to exclude the first day or part of a day, and to begin the computation of time on the first whole day.	None
Again, there is the rule of construction that if a statute, which so affects a mans status as to be in effect a penal enactment, is capable of two constructions, that one should be adopted which is most favourable to the person affected.	None
Applying this rule, the mode of calculating the twentyone days ought to be in favour of the debtor doing something which would prevent his becoming a bankrupt at all, and we ought to construe this section as meaning that the first day, or part of a day, is to be excluded from the computation, which should begin on the day after the date of the seizure. .	None
(Emphasis supplied) A.L. Smith L.J. agreed with Lord Esher M.R. and held, inter alia, as follows But it has been shewn from subsequent cases that there is no such universal rule, and that in the reckoning of time each case must depend on its own circumstances and subjectmatter, and for this I need only refer to the judgment of Sir William Grant in Lester v. Garland , to that of Kelly C.B. in Isaacs v. Royal Insurance Co., and of Chitty J. in In re	None
Railway Sleepers Supply Co.	None
To say, therefore, that a rule of law compels us to say that to hold goods for twenty days and a fraction of a day is the same as to hold them for twentyone days is to say that which is not a fact.	None
Rigby L.J. also concurred with Lord Esher M.R, and, in his judgment, held as follows, inter alia It was contended before us, and it seems at one time to have been thought to be law, that where a fact or event was mentioned from which a given period of time was to be reckoned, the Court was bound to reckon the portion of the day on which the act was done as though it were a whole day, and to reckon it as the first day of the period.	None
That doctrine underwent a thorough examination in Lester v. Garland, at the hands of Sir W. Grant, who considered the cases in which the first day had been included or excluded, and came to the conclusion (which I think was inevitable) that there was no general rule on the subject.	None
His classification of the cases shews that where the calculation is in favour of a person, the construction should be adopted which is more favourable to him.	None
In the case of a sheriff, for instance, it is more in his favour to include the day on which the act is done than to exclude it, and on that ground it is included but where, to take another example, something has to be done which is necessary to complete a title, the first day is excluded, otherwise there would be a cutting down of the time allowed for doing the act.	None
In my opinion, although Sir W. Grant did not put the proposition in so many words, his judgment leads us to the conclusion that the question of whether the day on which the act is done is to be included or excluded must depend on whether it is to the benefit or disadvantage of the person primarily interested.	None
But whether or no the proposition is to be put so high, we have here a statute which does not say twentyone days from taking possession and it is only to cases where a terminus is mentioned that any such general rule was ever held to apply.	None
The present is an a fortiori case no terminus is mentioned, and the only question is whether the sheriff held for twentyone days.	None
(Emphasis supplied) On 05.05.1922, by a Notification in the Fort St. George Gazette Extraordinary, published on a Friday, the Table of Fees under AppendixII, the old Rules on the Original Side of the Madras High Court, was amended and instead of a fixed fee of Rs.30/levied under Serial No.1, it was provided that Rs.150/ was to be levied in all the suits where the value of the subject matter does not exceed Rs.10,000/, inter alia.	None
The Notification further recited that the amendments were to come into force from the date of publication in the Fort St. George Gazette.	Reasoning
The Gazette Extraordinary reached the High Court at about 05.00 p.m. on 05.05.1922.	None
A Special Bench was constituted to resolve the controversy as to whether the amended Scale of Fees was to apply from the 5th day of May or after excluding the 5th May.	None
The three learned Judges, In Re Court Fees AIR 1924 Madras 257 proceeded to author three separate Judgments.	None
The majority view is contained in the judgments of the Chief Justice and Justice V.M. Coutts Trotter.	None
In their Judgments, they took the view that the amended Scale of Fees, though as already noted, represented an increase from an earlier Scale of Fees, was to apply even in regard to the suits which came to be instituted before the time of the Notification on 05.05.1922.	None
In the Judgment of the learned Chief Justice, the following discussion is noted 2.	None
I approach this matter conscious of the salutary rule that, in all statutes imposing taxation, any real ambiguity must be decided in favour of the subject and against the Grown.	None
I consider that the hour of the day at which the Gazette was actually published is a wholly irrelevant consideration, because on neither view does it make any difference.	None
If the Gazette had been published early in the morning, according to the view of Kumaraswami Sastri, J., the tax will come into operation only the next day.	None
If it had been published late in the night, according to the view of CouttsTrotter, J., the tax would still be operative from the time the office opened for the receipt of plaints on that day.	None
I agree that we have nothing to do with the English Common Law except in so far as it may afford some guide as to the proper meaning to be attached to words in the English language.	None
3.	None
Applying the general rules stated above to this case, the named date must be included unless there is some valid reason why it should not be, and I can find none.	None
It is true that it may have the effect of making persons pay more than they understood they had to pay when they filed their suits but this seems to me a ground for criticising the method of imposing this tax rather than a ground for interpreting the notice in any particular way and I think that this argument is more than counterbalanced by the fact that this was a sudden imposition of a tax which in many cases could be avoided if notice was given of it in time for suits to be filed between the time of the publication and of its actually coming into operation.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In the Judgment of V.M. Coutts Trotter J., the learned Judge observes as follows 6.	None
What I conceive to emerge from the decided cases is this that as the law in general neglects fractions of a day you must either exclude or include the whole of the day with which a given statute or rule or regulation deals.	Reasoning
And the exclusion or inclusion, I think, is clearly provided in two other rules.	Reasoning
If you are fixing the point of time at which a certain state of things is to be called into existence, that state of things comes into existence at midnight of the day preceding the day at which or on which or from which or from and after which the new state of things begins.	Reasoning
In such cases the statute or rule is only concerned in fixing the terminus o quo of a new state of law which is enacted to continue indefinitely, in other words, until repealed by a new enactment of the legislature where, in short, you have a terminus a quo	Reasoning
but no terminus ad quern.	Reasoning
Where a statute fixes only the terminus a quo of a state of things which is envisaged as to last indefinitely, the common law rule obtains that you ought to neglect fractions of a day and the statute or regulation or order takes effect from the first moment of the day on which it is enacted or passed, that is to say, from midnight of the day preceding the day on which it is promulgated where, on the other hand, a statute delimits a period marked both by a terminus a quo and a terminus ad quern, the former is to be excluded and the latter to be included in the reckoning.	Reasoning
This notification clearly falls within the former class and must be taken to have come into force on the first second of the 5th May, that is to say, from midnight of the 4th May.	Reasoning
It follows that the plaints filed on the 5th May are liable to the enhanced fees laid down by the Regulation.	Reasoning
A very large part of the argument addressed to us on behalf of those who filed plaints on the 5th May was based on what was called a hardship suffered by them if our decision should be favourable to the Crown.	None
Increased taxation is always in a sense a hardship to the subject but I cannot see any special hardship imposed upon these particular litigants.	None
If the suits which they filed are not in their opinion worth the expenditure entailed by the increased rate of institution fees, they would doubtless be permitted to ?	None
withdraw thema suit evaluated at that rate by the person who institutes it, is not likely to be based on a very solid cause of action (Emphasis supplied)	None
However, C.V. Kumaraswami Sastri, J., dissented.	None
The learned Judge also referred to Lester v. Garland (supra) and In Re.	None
North (supra) and held as follows Applying the law as laid down in the previous cases to the facts of the present case, we have to see whether the 5th of May, 1922, is to be included or excluded.	None
I might, in this connection, state that I do not think that the principles which govern, or the devices which are resorted to, by the Executive for the purpose of raising money by taxation ought to have any weight with us in determining whether the date of publication is to be included or excluded.	None
I do not think the High Court is part of the tax gathering machinery of the Government or has any concern with the consequences to the Government of their decision on the construction of the rule.	Reasoning
The rule, I take it, was passed by the Judges of the High Court in the exercise of the powers entrusted to them to control the administration of justice and the fees were raised because in the opinion of the Judges it was just and proper that litigants ought to pay more for the benefits which they derive by resorting to the jurisdiction of the High Court.	Reasoning
The notification expressly states that it is to have effect from the date of publication, the object of the publication being that the public ought to have notice that the fees were being raised so that they might know exactly what they were in for when they resorted to the High Court for justice.	None
The notification, as I have already said, was (as appears from a note of the Deputy Registrar) received in the High Court at 5 p.m., the office closing at 5 p.m.	Reasoning
It seems to me that the litigants who filed plaints before they or even the office had knowledge of the publication of the rule did what was perfectly valid under the old rules and they presented the plaints with Rs. 30 stamp irrespective of the value of their claim.	Reasoning
A person who files a plaint which is properly stamped and which is in order at the time of presentation is entitled to have his plaint admitted on presentation though as a matter of convenience the office receives the plaints and admits them at the end of the day or later on.	Reasoning
There seems to me to be very little justice or equity in directing that persons who have done what was perfectly a legal and valid act at the time should pay a Courtfee which is much higher simply because a notification was received at the close of the day making the higher fees chargeable from the date of the notification.	Reasoning
It may well be that if those persons had notice that instead of Rs.	None
30they had to pay at least Ra. 150 and a maximum that would range according to the value of their claim, they might rather have compromised with the other side or might have had resort to other proceedings like arbitration for settling their claims.	None
I can find nothing to justify charging people, who filed their plaints on that day without knowledge of the notification which only reached the High Court at 5 p.m., with the higher fees in respect of plaints filed during the course of the day.	Reasoning
Having regard to all the facts and circumstances of the present case, I think that, if the law is that there is no hard and fast rule in deciding whether the word from is inclusive or exclusive of the date of notification and that each case must depend upon its own circumstances subjectmatter, justice and equity demand that the date of the notification ought to be excluded.	None
I would, therefore direct that all the plaints received on the 5th of May, 1922, be stamped with Rs. 30.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
THE POSITION UNDER THE LAW RELATING TO PREVENTIVE DETENTION	None
A Division Bench of High Court of Delhi had occasion to consider the question again of time of operation in the following circumstances in the decision reported in Jasbir Singh vs. Union of India, (1995) ILR 2 Delhi 399.	None
The contentions urged by the detenu included the contention that the detention orders stood vitiated as in contravention of Section 3(3) of the COFEPOSA Act, the grounds of detention was served on the 6th day of the day of Order of detention being served.	None
Section 3(3), inter alia, provides for communication to a person of the grounds of detention as soon as may be after detention but ordinarily not later than five days and in an exceptional case and for reasons to be recorded in writing not later than 15 days from the date of detention.	None
The Division Bench, which included Chief Justice M. Jagannadha Rao (as His Lordship then was), took note of judgment of the Madras High Court reported in In Re Court Fees AIR 1924	None
Madras 257 under the Court Fee Act	None
and took the view that the word from is similar to the word after, and therefore, the date on which the detention order was served, has to be excluded.	None
In this regard, the Court took the view that the legislature has given clear 5 days to the Government to complete many other formalities before serving the grounds of detention.	None
This is besides being guided by the use of words as soon as may be.	None
THE CASES UNDER CONTRACTS OF INSURANCE In the decision reported in New India Assurance Company Limited vs. Ram Dayal and Others, (1990) 2 SCC 680 the vehicle was insured earlier upto 31st August, 1984.	None
Instead of obtaining renewal, a fresh insurance was taken from 28th September, 1984.	None
The accident took place on the very same day, namely, 28th September, 1984.	None
The insurer repudiated its liability as the policy was taken after the accident.	None
The High Court took the view that the policy of insurance became operative from the commencement of the date of insurance, namely, the previous midnight.	None
This Court agreed with the view of the High Court that once a policy is taken on a particular day, its effectiveness is from the commencement of the day.	None
It found the insurer liable.	None
It is necessary only to notice paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 As pointed out in Strouds judicial Dictionary Date means day, so that where a cover not providing for temporary insurance of a motor car expires 15 days after date of commencement, it runs for the full 15 days after the day on which it was to commence.	None
Similarly it has been stated in Stroud that a bill of exchange, or note, is of the date expressed on its face, not the time when it is actually issued.	None
The view taken by this Court in regard to the issue of the liability of insurer with reference to the time at which the policy of insurance is taken, may be noticed from the recent judgment which adverted to, not only Ram Dayal (supra) but the Judgment rendered by threeJudge Bench, reported in Oriental Insurance Company Limited vs. Porselvi and Another, 1997 (1) SCC 66 and another judgment reported in Oriental Insurance Company Limited vs. Sunita Rathi and Others, 1998(1) SCC 365.	None
The recent judgment is reported in National Insurance Company Limited vs. Geeta Devi and Others, 2010(15) SCC 670.	None
I may refer to paragraphs 3 and 4 which adverts to the decisions of this Court distinguishing Ram Dayal (supra).	None
Finally, this Court took the view, there is a cover note mentioning the time as 0440 p.m.	None
and it was issued after the accident and therefore, the insurer was not liable The question again came up for consideration in National Insurance Co. Ltd. vs. Jikubhai Nathuji Dabhi (1997) 1 SCC 66.	None
Reliance was placed on the abovementioned judgments.	None
However, a threeJudge Bench of this Court noted that the Tribunal had recorded, as a fact, that the policy had come into force at 400 P.M. whereas the accident had taken place at 1140 a.m.	None
This Court held that in view of the special contract and in view of the fact that the accident had occurred earlier, the insurance coverage would not enable the claimant to seek recovery from the Insurance Company.	None
The question again arose in Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. vs. Sunita Rathi (1998) 1 SCC 365 , was relied upon.	None
This court distinguished Ram Dayal case (1990) 2 SCC 680 , was relied upon.	None
This Court distinguished effective date and time of the policy was after the accident, the Insurance Company would not be liable.	None
After having made a reference to some of the decisions covering different branches of law, the question to be resolved comes into focus.	None
It is clear that the situation which is presented before us, is not covered by the principle which is embedded in Section 9 of General Clauses Act, 1897.	None
In other words, having regard to the terms of the Notification, which is a form of delegated legislation, by which the Central Government has increased the rate of import duties of goods imported from Pakistan, though the notification is gazetted on 16.02.2018 at 204658 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
, there is no period for which it is to last as already noticed, and in that sense, it can be argued that there would be no occasion for exclusion of the date on which it was issued.	None
WHETHER SECTION 5(3) OF THE GENERAL CLAUSES ACT APPLIES TO THE NOTIFICATION?	Issue
Section 5 (3) reads as follows 5(3)	None
Unless the contrary is expressed, a Central Act or Regulation shall be construed as coming into operation immediately on the expiration of the day preceding its commencement.	Reasoning
The argument of learned Additional Solicitor General is that in terms of Section 5 (3), the notification issued under the Customs Tariff Act will have effect from the expiry of the previous day.	Arguments of Petitioner
That is to say, it will operate from the first tick of time past the mid night of 15.2.2019.	None
In order to appreciate this argument, we must consider definition of the word Central Act and Regulation in the General Clauses Act.	None
Section 3 (7) defines Central Act.	None
It reads as follows Central Act shall means an Act of Parliament and shall include (a) an Act of the Dominion legislature or of the Indian Legislature passed before the commencement of the Constitution, and (b) an Act made before such commencement by the Governor General in Council or the Governor General, acting in a legislative capacity Section 3 (50) defines Regulation.	Reasoning
It reads as follows 3(50) Regulation shall mean a Regulation made by the President under article 240 of the Constitution and shall include a Regulation made by the President under article 243 thereof and a Regulation made by the Central Government under the Government of India Act, 1870, or the Government of India Act, 1915, or the Government of India Act, 1935	None
It is quite clear that the notification which is issued is one which is issued under Section 8A of the Tariff Act.	None
The notification is not one which is made by Central Legislature, namely, the Parliament.	None
It therefore is not a Central Law as defined in the Act.	None
We have also noticed the definition of the word Regulation.	None
The notification is not a regulation as defined in General Clauses Act.	None
There is no merit in the contention of the Union of India that by virtue of Section of 5(3) of the General Clauses Act, the notification must be treated as effective from the point of time immediately after mid night on 15/16 February, 2019.	None
THREE POSSBILE VIEWS	None
There are three possible answers to the questions as to what is to be the meaning of the word day, in the context of the provisions of Section 15 the Customs Act and the Notification.	None
The first way to look at the day, would be to take it as a fraction of day, viz., 16.02.2019, having its beginning at 204658 hrs.	None
and ending with the midnight on 16.02.2019.	None
The second way to look at it is, it would operate only after the midnight of 16.02.2019, and would impact Bills of Entries presented on 17.02.2019 onwards.	None
In other words, it would be an interpretation which would exclude 16th February, 2019.	None
The third day to look at it would be as follows 16.02.2019, would mean the day commencing immediately after the midnight on 15.02.2019, and therefore, it would be the whole of the 24 hours commencing at midnight of 15.02.2019 and would include the period of time during the day during which the respondents had presented the bill of entry.	None
The question is certainly not free from difficulty.	None
The solution must, however, be found.	None
On one hand, we are dealing with a Notification by which the appellant has purported to increase the rate of duty to a hefty quantum of 200 per cent, following the incident which took place at Pulwama.	None
Would it be a fair and reasonable to include the whole, the day 16.02.2019, having regard to the effect on the importer of the goods who would have struck the bargain on the basis of rate of duty being what it was prior to the Notification?	Issue
Could it not be said that based on the contracts for import, the importer would have entered into contracts for sale of goods in India where the price would be fixed with reference to the position obtaining as on the date of contract for import.	None
On the other hand, what we are called upon to decide, is the question of time at which the delegated legislation will take effect.	Issue
It is true that there is no equity about tax.	None
The fact that there is a sudden increase in the rate of tax, may not render it vulnerable on the score that it violates Fundamental Rights.	None
See in this regard, the Judgment of this Court in Pankaj Jain vs. UOI (supra).	None
If analogy is to be drawn from the majority view of Madras High Court in the matter relating to Court Fees (supra), it can, indeed, be urged that the impact of the increased duty of import cannot by itself decide the question as to the point of time at which the delegated legislation must operate from.	None
Yet another aspect which could not be overlooked is while it is true that in Section 15 of the Customs Act, what is referred to is the rate of duty enforced on the date, the law itself entitles importer to have the goods cleared upon payment of the duty which is accepted as correct in the selfassessment proceedings, following the due presentation of the bill of entry under Section 46 read with Rule 4(2) of the 2018 Regulations.	None
In conjunction with the mandate of charging section contained in Section 12 and Section 15 of the Customs Act which fixes the date according to the rate of duty as the date of presentation of the bill of entries, could it certainly not be said that the law would abhor the reopening of transactions which have culminated in proceedings which are otherwise impeccably correct and regular.	None
By way of reassessment can matters concluded in the eye of law be revisited on the basis of a notification which comes much later in the day?	None
There is yet another aspect which must also be borne in mind.	None
The question before us, arises on the basis of notification which is, indeed, a form of delegated legislation which is issued under Section 8A of the Tariff Act.	None
Section 8A of the Tariff Act empowers the Central Government to increase the rate of import duty but the power to issue a notification under Section 8A, is not conferred to increase the rate of import duty with retrospective effect.	None
We may at once notice the counter argument.	None
By ensuring full play for the notification for the whole of the day on which it was issued, the provisions of Section 15 of the Customs Act in the view of Additional Solicitor General, are duly honoured.	None
It is his argument that any other view would involve rewriting of Section 15, as Section 15 contemplates the rate of duty to be the rate of duty for the day.	Arguments of Petitioner
There cannot be two rates of duty at a given point of time.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the rate of duty, on a proper interpretation of the Notification would hold the field at all points of time during the whole of 16.02.2019 at which the respondents may have presented the Bills of Entry in tune with the prevailing rates of duty which would have been applicable otherwise, it would not detract from the power of authority to reassess on the strength of an instrument like the Notification.	Arguments of Petitioner
What would logically and inexorably follow, in other words, is that the rate of duty applicable during the whole of the day on 16.02.2019 was only the increased rate of duty.	Arguments of Petitioner
This was, therefore, the correct rate of duty at which the importers were to pay the duty.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no illegality involved in resorting to power enabling reassessment and recovery of the correct duty from the respondents.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, there is no retrospectivity involved, runs the argument.	Arguments of Petitioner
68.	None
There can be no doubt that the principle which appears to have evolved over a period of time is that generally, the law frowns upon determining a day with reference to its fractions.	None
Undoubtedly, in the case of Central Act or a Regulation, the principle is statutorily incorporated in Section 5(3), that unless a contrary intention appears, it begins its journey in the Statute Book from the first point of time past the stroke of the previous midnight.	None
Section 5(3) does not apply to the notification which is a form of delegated legislation, as found hereinbefore.	None
If the contention of the Union of India is accepted, though the notification is issued late in the evening, the day referred in Section 15 of the Customs Act would commence from the first moment past the midnight of 15.02.2019.	None
The diametrically opposite option would be to exclude the whole of the day on which the notification was issued and the third option is that the day would consist of the hours remaining of the day 16.02.2019 after the time at which the Notification was issued.	None
In other words, under the third option, the time of operation of the notification was 204658 hrs.	None
and continued till midnight of 16.02.2019.	None
It would indeed constitute a fraction or part of an ordinary day consisting of twentyfour hours.	None
If the argument of Mr. P.S. Narsimha, learned Senior Counsel, is accepted, then, it would have operation from the time at which the Notification is issued.	None
This is because in answer to a query as to what would be the position if the Notification had been issued at 10.00 a.m. on 16.02.2019 and the Bills of Entry were presented after 10.00 a.m., his response was, the importers would have to pay the higher rate of duty under the Notification.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, his argument appears to be that a Notification must come into operation with reference to the point of time of the day when the Notification was issued.	Arguments of Respondent
The principle that fractions of the day are eschewed from consideration, is not a universal principle which knows no exceptions.	None
Section 48 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, reads as follows Priority of rights created by transfer.	None
Where a person purports to create by transfer at different times rights in or over the same immoveable property, and such rights cannot all exist or be exercised to their full extent together, each later created right shall, in the absence of a special contract or reservation binding the earlier transferees, be subject to the rights previously created.	None
In an enquiry, as to the priority of title, the fractions of the day, undoubtedly, will assume relevance.	None
In fact, the exact time at which a document is registered, will determine the question of priority, and consequently, of title itself, to the property concerned and it is open to parties to adduce evidence in this regard.	None
Section 47 of the Registration Act, 1908, reads as follows Time from which registered document operates.	None
A registered document shall operate from the time which it would have commenced to operate if no registration thereof had been required or made, and not from the time of its registration.	None
Here again, the time of the day may become decisive.	None
The recent decisions of this Court in regard to insurance contracts appear to accept the significance of the time of the day.	None
(See para 56 of this judgment).	None
Section 5(1) of General Clauses Act, 1897 reads as follows Coming into operation of enactments.(1) Where any Central Act is not expressed to come into operation on a particular day, then it shall come into operation on the day on which it receives the assent, (a) in the case of a Central Act made before the commencement of the Constitution, of the GovernorGeneral, and (b) in the case of an Act of Parliament, of the President.	None
It must be noticed that law which is made by the legislature is to be treated differently from delegated legislation.	None
A law if made by Parliament including a change in the rate of duty in the CustomsTariff Act would involve a process which is attended by a certain level of publicity.	None
In this regard, the words of Bailhache, J. in Johnson vs. Sargant Sons, 1917 1 K.B. 101 1917 1 K.B. 101, come to mind While I agree that the rule is that a statute takes effect on the earliest moment of the day on which it is passed or on which it is declared to come into operation, there is about statutes a publicity even before they come into operation which is absent in the case of many Orders such as that with which we are now dealing indeed, if certain Orders are to be effective at all, it is essential that they should not be known until they are actually published.	None
There is a process and time involved in Parliament which is unlike what happens in the case of a delegated legislation of the sort in particular, projected in these cases, namely, a notification issued by the executive under Section 8A.	None
It is on this basis that the law made by the legislature is taken as known to the public and mere assent of the President would suffice and the need to make any delegated legislation known by publication before it becomes effective is insisted upon.	None
Publication in the case of delegated legislation is based on a rationale.	None
On this rationale even the principle embedded in Section 5 in regard to the law made by the legislature cannot be applied to a notification issued under Section 8A of the Tariff Act.	None
The view taken by Justice Kumaraswami Sastri, in Re Court Fees (supra), in the context of the increase in the Court Fee, effected under a Notification, which came to the High Court only at about 05.00 p.m., which was around the time when Court closed down, was to exclude the operation of the increased Court Fee qua the suits which were filed during the course of the day.	None
At the time, when the Madras High Court considered the question, it may be noticed that the Constitution of India was not in force.	None
The matter has not been approached on an analysis as to the nature of subordinate legislation and the point of time when a subordinate legislation comes into force.	None
The concept of State action, satisfying the requirement of it being fair, as is the mandate of Article 14, could not have been possibly considered by the learned Judges of the Madras High Court.	None
Under the Customs Act read with the Tariff Act, as noticed, the Scheme provides for an importer, wishing to enter goods for home consumption, to file Bills of Entry, do selfassessment and pay the duty on the same day.	None
If all goes well, which means that the selfassessment is in accordance with the existing law, and the rate of tax is calculated with reference to the rate of duty as stipulated and the amount of duty is paid, and if there is any other amount to be paid, the same is also paid, Section 47 of the Act would oblige the Officer, unless, of course, the goods are prohibited goods, to issue an Order permitting clearing the goods.	None
Though, there is no Order for clearing the goods in these cases under Section 47, the said Order is the culmination of the steps to be undergone by an importer for clearing the goods.	None
Once the selfassessment is correct and the other conditions in Section 47 do not militate against the importer, the goods can be physically cleared, and having regard to the definition of the imported goods, they cease to be imported goods.	None
In the context of the Customs Act, and having regard to the Scheme, which, in the case of import duty, consists of filing of Bill of Entry for home consumption, selfassessment and payment of duty on the basis of the same and the rate being clearly fixed with reference to the particular point of time when the Bill of Entry is presented and there is a deemed presentation and even a deemed assessment, which is otherwise in order, and bearing in mind the principle that Section 8A does not provide power for increase of rate of duty with retrospective effect, the Notification must be treated as having coming into force not before its publication which is at 204658 hrs.	None
on 16.02.2019.	Facts
This would necessarily mean that the Notification cannot be used to alter the rate of duty on the basis of which, in fact, there was presentation of Bill of Entry several hours ago, the selfassessment was done and what is more, the selfassessment was completed under Regulation 4(2) of the 2018 Regulations.	None
There cannot be reassessment.	None
The interpretation based on time of publication is in harmony with a view that accords respect for vested rights.	None
TWO INCONSISTENT RATES AT THE SAME POINT OF TIME There is no merit in the submission of the appellants in this regard.	None
Once it is found that the notification upon publication would take effect from the time of its publication then in regard to the bills of entries which stand presented within the meaning of Section 46 of the Customs Act read with 4(2) of the 2018 Regulations, earlier to such publication, the rate of duty in regard to the same would be only the rate of duty which prevailed at the time of the deemed presentation under Regulation 4(2) of the 2018 Regulations.	None
EFFECT OF THE WORD OTHERWISE IN SECTION 17(4) OF THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962	Issue
The expression otherwise in Section 17(4), will not come to the rescue of the appellants, in the facts of the instant case.	None
While the word otherwise may be capable of taking care of situations which are not covered by the preceding expressions, viz., verification, examination, attesting of the goods, it cannot mean that it will empower the Officer to alter the rate of duty which is prevalent at the time of the selfassessment following the due presentation of the Bill of Entry.	None
If it is otherwise, it will be open to the Department to reopen cases of concluded assessments by virtue of the deemed completion of assessment under Regulation 4(2) without any legal justification.	None
That would be plainly impermissible being illegal.	None
This is not a case where the assessment is assailed on any other ground except by insisting on a rate of duty which is in applicable.	None
WHETHER THE CASE LAW RELIED UPON	Issue
BY THE APPELLANTS MILITATE AGAINST THE AFORESAID VIEW	Issue
The question which arose before the Constitution Bench of this court in M s. Bharat Surfactnts (P) Ltd. vs. Union of India, 1989 (4) SCC 21 may not assist the appellants.	None
The case involved a challenge to Section 15(1)(a) of the customs Act.	None
This court repelled the challenge.	None
More importantly, that was a case where the vessel in which the goods were carried belonging to the petitioners arrived on 11th July 1981.	None
Berth was not available.	None
By reason of the same it could not discharge its cargo at Bombay.	None
This court took the view that what is relevant is the date on which the Bill of Entry is presented.	None
Therefore, it cannot be treated as authority for the proposition canvassed by the appellants.	None
The decision of this Court in Priyanka Overseas (P) Ltd. vs. Union of India, 1991 Suppl.(1) SCC 102 also will not assist the appellant in persuading this Court to answer the question in favour of the appellant.	None
No doubt, the court has reiterated the principle in Section 15 of the Customs Act and the question actually fell for decision under Section 15 (1)(b) of the Act as it stood prior to its amendment.	None
Section 15 (1)(b) as it stood then contemplated the rate of duty applicable in the case of goods cleared from a warehouse under Section 68 to be rate on the date on which the goods were actually removed from the warehouse.	Reasoning
Quite apart from the fact that the said provision has been amended, we are in this case concerned with Section 15(1) (a) and what is more important, the actual question is the impact of the notification issued under Section 8A and what is the significance of the word the date.	None
In the decision of this Court in Dhiraj Lal H. Vohra vs. Union of India, 1993 Supl.	None
(3) SCC 453 the ship arrived at the port on 2.3.1989 and inward entry was also given on the same day.	None
The contention taken by the appellant that the ship had entered the Indian territorial waters on 20.2.1989 and was ready to discharge the cargo was found irrelevant for purposes of Section 15(1) read with Sections 46 and 31 of the Customs Act.	None
This decision also does not assist the Court in deciding the question which squarely falls for decision.	None
The decision of this Court in D. CM.	None
Ltd. and Another vs. Union of India, 1995 suppl.	None
(3)SCC 223 involved a challenge to the validity of Section 15(1)(b) of the Customs Act.	None
Following the filing of Bill of Entry for warehousing on 24.2.1982, the imported goods were warehoused.	None
The goods were cleared from the warehouse on 3.3.1982 and 15.4.1982.	None
On the basis of Section 15(1)(b) taking note of the dates of clearance from the warehouse, the duty was levied.	None
The Court noted that Section 12, the charging section was subject to Section 15 among other sections.	None
An option was given to the importer to either file a Bill of entry for home consumption straight away in which case he has to pay the duty based on the filing of the bill of entry.	None
In the case of bill of entry for warehousing, the date of clearance of the goods determined the rate under section 15(1)(b) as it stood.	None
It does not have any effect qua the facts of the case before this Court except that what determines the date of the rate will be found from Section 15 of the Customs Act.	None
Coming to the decision of this Court in Rai Kumar Yadav vs. Samir Kumar Mahaseth, 2005 (3) SCC 601 the facts of the case was that an election petition was presented on 27.8.2003 after the designated judge had retired to his chamber at 4.15 p.m The last date of limitation was 27.8.2003.	None
The court inter alia held as follows The limitation provided by Section 81 of the Act expires on the 45th day from the date of election.	None
The word day is not defined in the Act.	None
It shall have to be assigned its ordinary meaning as understood in law.	None
The word day as per English calendar begins at midnight and covers a period of 24 hours thereafter, in the absence of there being anything to the contrary in the context.	None
(See Ramkisan Onkarmal Agrawal vs. State of Maharashtra AIR 1994	None
Bom 87 1994 Man LJ 369 , AIR at p. 94, Municipal Council of Cuddalore vs. S. Subrahmania Aiyar 16 MLJ 101 ILR (1906) 29 Mad 326 and P. Ramanatha Aiyar, The Law Lexicon, pp. 470, 471.)	None
Thus, the election petition could have been presented up to the midnight falling between 2782003 and 2882003.	None
This Court also found that the High Court should not have allowed the period of limitation to be abridged by the rules.	None
This is besides also finding that the rules were not properly appreciated.	None
It is to be noted that question involved was the period of limitation to file the election petition.	None
The last day was therefore understood in the manner done.	None
The decision of this Court in Ahmadsahab Abdul Mulla(2) (Dead) By Proposed LRs.	None
vs. Bibijan and others, 2009 (5) SCC 462 dealt with the effect of the use of the expression date in Article 54 of the schedule to the Limitation Act, 1963.	None
This Court inter alia held as follows According to Advanced Law Lexicon by P. Ramanatha Aiyar, 3rd Edn., 2005, the word date means as follows Date.	None
As a noun)	None
The point of time at which a transaction or event takes place time given or specified time in some way ascertained and fixed in a deed, that part of the deed or writing which expresses the day of the month and year in which it was made, (2 Bl. Commn. 304 Tomlin).	None
In Bement Dougherty vs. Trenton Locomotive, etc., Co. 32 NJ Law 513 (NJ Law at p. 515)	None
it is said The primary signification of the word date, is not time in the abstract, nor time taken absolutely but, as its derivation plainly indicates, time given or specified time in some way ascertained and fixed this is the sense in which the word is commonly used.	None
When we speak of the date of a deed, we do not mean the time when it was actually executed but the time of its execution, as given or stated in the deed itself.	None
Where a deed bears no date, or an impossible date, and in the deed reference is made to the date, that word must be construed delivery but if the deed bears a sensible date, the word date, occurring in the deed, means the day of the date, and not that of the delivery (Elph. 123, citing Styles vs. Wardle (1825) 4 B C 908 107 ER 1297 ) .	None
Date, though sometimes used as the shortened form of day of the date, is not its synonym but means the particular time on which an instrument is given, executed, or delivered Howard case 2 Salkeld 625 91 ER 528 1 Ld Raym 480 91 ER 1219	None
Armitt vs. Breame (1704) 2 Ld Raym 1076 92 ER 213 and Pewtress vs. Annan (1841) 9 Dowl 828 , Dowl at pp. 83435).	None
The word date is much more commonly descriptive of a day than of any smaller division of time (per Stormonth Darling, L.O., Simpson vs. Marshall 37	None
Sc LR 316 Date means day, so that where a cover note providing for temporary insurance of a motor car expires 15 days after date of commencement it runs for the full 15 days after the day on which it was to commence Cartwright vs. MacCormack (1963) 1 WLR 18 (1963) 1	None
All ER 11 (CA) ).	None
XXX XXX XXX XXX	None
The inevitable conclusion is that the expression date fixed for the performance is a crystallised notion.	None
This is clear from the fact that the second part time from which period begins to run refers to a case where no such date is fixed.	None
To put it differently, when date is fixed it means that there is a definite date fixed for doing a particular act.	None
Even in the second part the stress is on when the plaintiff has notice that performance is refused.	None
Here again, there is a definite point of time, whenthe plaintiff notices the refusal.	None
In that sense both the parts refer to definite dates.	None
So, there is no question of finding out an intention from other circumstances.	None
Whether the date was fixed or not the plaintiff had notice that performance is refused and the date thereof are to be established with reference to materials and evidence to be brought on record.	None
The expression date used in Article 54 of the Schedule to the Act definitely is suggestive of a specified date in the calendar.	None
We answer the reference accordingly.	None
The matter shall now be placed before the Division Bench for deciding the issue on merits.	None
The decision may not assist the appellants in the nature of the question which falls for decision in the appeals before this Court.	None
83.	Arguments of Petitioner
The decision of this Court reported in Pashupati Nath Singh vs. Harihar Prasad Singh, AIR 1968 SC 1064 relied upon by the appellant arose under the Representation of People Act, 1951.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioner therein was a candidate for the election to the Bihar Legislative Assembly.	Arguments of Petitioner
He filed his nomination paper on 16.1.1967.	Arguments of Petitioner
His nomination paper was rejected.	Arguments of Petitioner
Petitioner challenged the election of the returned candidate, on the ground of illegal rejection of his nomination paper.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 36 of the Act provides for scrutiny of nomination paper.	Arguments of Petitioner
The objection taken which resulted in the nomination of the petitioner being rejected was that he had not made and subscribed the requisite oath or affirmation in the form which is prescribed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 36 uses the words the date fixed for scrutiny It is interpreting the said words in Section 36 (2) (a) that the Court held as follows It seems to us that the expression on the date fixed for scrutiny in Section 36(2)(a) means on the whole of the day on which the scrutiny of nomination has to take place.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, the qualification must exist from the earliest moment of the day of scrutiny.	Arguments of Petitioner
It will be noticed that on this date the Returning Officer has to decide the objections and the objections have to be made by the other candidates after examining the nomination papers and in the light of Section 36(2) of the Act and other provisions.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the date of the scrutiny the other candidates should be in a position to raise all possible objections before the scrutiny of a particular nomination paper starts.	Arguments of Petitioner
In a particular case, an objection may be taken to the form of the oath the form of the oath may have been modified or the oath may not have been sworn before the person authorised in this behalf by the Election Commission.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not necessary under Article 173 that the person authorised by the Election Commission should be the Returning Officer.	Arguments of Petitioner
14.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Paynter vs. James (186667)	Arguments of Petitioner
LR 2 CP 348 , Bovil, C.J., quoted, with approval, the passage from the judgment of Tindal, C.J., in Regy vs. Humphery 10 Ad E 335 , in which the following occurs we hold it therefore to be unnecessary to refer to instances of the legal meaning of the word upon which, in different cases, may undoubtedly either mean before the act done to which it relates, or simultaneously with the act done, or after the act done, according as reason and good sense require the interpretation, with reference to the context and the subjectmatter of the enactment.	Arguments of Petitioner
15.	Arguments of Petitioner
Bovill, C.J., observed that that is a very clear statement of the various meaning of the word on or upon.	Arguments of Petitioner
16.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection it must also be borne in mind that law disregards, as far as possible, fractions of the day.	Arguments of Petitioner
It would lead to great confusion if it were held that a candidate would be entitled to qualify for being chosen to fill a seat till the very end of the date fixed for scrutiny of nominations.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the learned Counsel for the petitioner is right, the candidate could ask the Returning Officer to wait till 11.55p.m.	Arguments of Petitioner
on the date fixed for the scrutiny to enable him to take the oath.	Arguments of Petitioner
Clearly the context and the purpose of the statute guided the court in holding that the law disregards fractions and it must be noted that even then in the said case it was laid down that the fractions of the day are to be disregarded as far as possible.	Arguments of Petitioner
84.	Arguments of Petitioner
The decision of this Court on Vikram Singh alias Vicky and Another vs. Union of India and Others, 2015 (9) SCC 502 is relied upon to contend that the presumption runs that the legislature is well aware of the circumstances and the effect of the words that have been employed by it.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, the contention appears to be that since the word the date is used in Section 15, it must be given full effect.	Arguments of Petitioner
As far as the judgment of this Court in The Government of Andhra Pradesh and Another vs. Hindustan Machine Tools Ltd., 1975 (2) SCC 274 is concerned, and the purpose for which it is relied upon, the decision appears to be inapposite in the facts.	Arguments of Petitioner
The contention taken is that it is competent for the legislature to make law retrospectively and as the rate of duty is to be determined as the rate in force on the day Section 15 is determinative.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is one thing to say that the legislature may have the power to make a law with retrospective effect subject to limitations imposed by the Constitution and quite another to contend that delegated legislation would carry retrospective effect irrespective of power to make such a law conferred by the parent enactment on the delegate.	None
More importantly the scheme of the Customs Act and the Tariff Act and the Regulation 4(2) of the 2018 Regulations rule out the tenability of applying the notification in the manner sought by the appellants.	None
Reliance placed on the judgments Video Electronics Pvt.	None
Ltds and Another vs. State of Punjab and Another, 1990(3)SCC 87, Tamil Nadu Electricity Board and Another vs. Status Spinning Mills Limited and Another, 2008(7)	None
SCC 353 of this Court, taking the view that the Schedule to an act is a part of the act and therefore an amendment to the Schedule by virtue of such a notification is an amendment to the Act itself and therefore, the notification issued under Section 8A of the Tariff Act partakes the character of legislation, is clearly untenable, if it is intended to convey that the notification issued under Section 8A of the Tariff Act is made by the legislature itself.	None
By its very nature, delegated legislation is legislative in character but if it is to be a Central Act within the meaning of Section 5 of General Clauses Act, it must be made by the legislature.	None
Delegated legislation which is called administrative legislation in England, is exercise of legislative power by the executive.	None
It is to be further noticed the fact that the notification issued under Section 8A is in the exercise of its legislative power or that it may have to be read in the same manner as if it is a part of the Act, will not detract the Court from ascertaining as to who is the author of the exercise of the legislative power, namely, whether it is an exercise of power by the legislature or by its delegate.	None
Upon answer to the question, namely, that the author of the legislative effort is the executive, the question would necessarily arise as to whether there is publication.	None
In the scheme of the Customs Act, the Tariff Act and the 2018 Regulations, the time at which the notification under Section 8A is published would indeed have relevance as already found.	None
In this view of the matter, the Appeals are found to be without merit and the same will stand dismissed.	Decision
