 K. Sikri, J. Leave granted.	None
Matter finally heard as the case was fixed for final hearing.	None
Chapter XIIG of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) contains special provisions for assessments relating to income of shipping companies.	None
Under this Chapter, shipping companies are given a choice to either get income from the shipping business computed in accordance with the provisions contained in the Act meant for computation of income in respect of business or profession or opt for methodology of computing income as per the special formula provided in that Chapter which accords a different treatment and different manner of computation of income for the shipping business.	None
Chapter IV of the Act deals with Computation of Total Income and as per the scheme of the Act, such a computation of total income is governed by five heads which are provided in Section 14 of the Act.	None
These are (i) Salaries (ii) Income from House Property (iii) Profits and Gains of Business or Profession (iv) Capital Gains and (v) Income from Other Sources.	None
Thereafter, manner of computation of the income under the aforesaid heads is stipulated in various sections falling under Chapter IV.	None
As far as Income from Profits and Gains of Business or Profession is concerned, Sections 28 to 44DB of the Act contain the procedure for computation of income under this head.	None
Therefore, any person, natural or juristic, who earns income from business in India is supposed to get the income from the said business computed in the manner provided in those sections.	None
However, Chapter XIIG makes an exception thereto by carving out special provisions relating to income of shipping companies.	None
It would mean that those companies which are shipping companies are permissible to get their income computed under the said Chapter.	None
Section 115VA of the Act gives this option and reads as under 115VA.	None
Computation of profits and gains from the business of operating qualifying ships.	None
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in sections 28 to 43C, in the case of a company, the income from the business of operating qualifying ships, may, at its option, be computed in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter and such income shall be deemed to be the profits and gains of such business chargeable to tax under the head Profits and gains of business or profession.	None
As is clear from the bare reading of this Section, option is given to the shipping company, which is operating qualifying ships, to get its income computed in accordance with the provisions of Chapter XIIG, irrespective of those stipulations otherwise contained in Sections 28 to 43C for computation of business income.	None
Once such an option is exercised and income is computed in accordance with the provisions of the said Chapter, a fiction is created by deeming the said income to be the profits and gains of such business chargeable to tax under the head Profits and Gains of Business or Profession.	None
To put it otherwise, though the income of such shipping company would be computed in the manner provided under Chapter XIIG, the same would be treated as income from business which is chargeable to tax as provided under the head Profits and Gains of Business or Profession and would be treated as chargeable to tax under that head.	None
For a shipping company to be eligible to exercise such an option, there are certain conditions to be fulfilled, which are as under In the first place, the assessee has to be a company.	None
The word company is defined in Section 2(17) of the Act.	None
Such a company may have various businesses and one such business may be the business of operating qualifying ships.	None
However, it is only that income which is generated from The Business of Operating Qualifying Ships that will be computed as per the special provisions in Chapter XIIG.	None
Income from other businesses will be computed in the same manner as provided in Sections 28 to 43C.	None
In case the business of the company is to operate qualifying ships only, then the income from that sole business will be under this Chapter.(ii) Income from the business of operating qualifying ships shall be computed under Chapter XIIG only if such an option is specifically exercised by the assessee company.	None
This requirement is particularly mentioned in Section 115VP of the Act.	None
Such an option, when given, is to remain in force for a period of ten years from the date on which the said option is exercised, and this period is prescribed in Section 115VQ of the Act.	None
However, it can be renewed within one year from the end of the previous year in which the option ceases to have effect (Section 115VR).	None
In certain circumstances stipulated in Section 115VS of the Act, there is a prohibition to opt for the scheme.	None
The scheme that is to be opted for computation of income under this Chapter is known as Tonnage Tax Scheme (for short TTS) as defined in subsection (m) of Section 115V of the Act.(iii)	None
Though, these special provisions relate to income of shipping companies, it is only that income which is received from business of operating qualifying ships that is eligible for computation under this Chapter.115VD.	None
Qualifying ship.	None
For the purposes of this Chapter, a ship is a qualifying ship if(a) it is a sea going ship or vessel of fifteen net tonnage or more(b) it is a ship registered under the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958), or a ship registered outside India in respect of which a licence has been issued by the DirectorGeneral of Shipping under section 406 or section 407 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958) and(c) a valid certificate in respect of such ship indicating its net tonnage is in force, but does not include(i) a sea going ship or vessel if the main purpose for which it is used is the provision of goods or services of a kind normally provided on land(ii) fishing vessels(iii) factory ships(iv) pleasure crafts(v) harbour and river ferries(vi) offshore installations(vii) (Clause (vii) omitted by the Finance Act, 2005 (18 of 2005), sec.	None
36 (w.e.f. 142006).	None
Clause (vii), before omission, stood as under(vii) dredgers.(viii) a qualifying ship which is used as a fishing vessel for a period of more than thirty days during a previous year.	None
Which ship should be treated as operating ship, is to be understood from the prescription thereof as mentioned in Section 115VB which reads as under115VB.	None
Operating ships.	None
For the purposes of this Chapter, a company shall be regarded as operating a ship if it operates any ship whether owned or chartered by it and includes a case where even a part of the ship has been chartered in by it in an arrangement such as slot charter, space charter or joint charter Provided that a company shall not be regarded as the operator of a ship which has been chartered out by it on bareboat chartercumdemise terms or on bareboat charter terms for a period exceeding three years.	None
As per this, a ship would be treated as operating ship if a company(a) operates any ship, whether owned or chartered by it(b) where even a part of the ship has been chartered by that company in an arrangement such as slot charter, space charter or joint charter.	None
The only exception is that if a ship has been chartered out by the company on bareboat chartercumdemise terms or on bareboat charter terms for a period exceeding three years, then that company shall not be regarded as the operator of that particular ship.(iv)	None
The company operating such ships has to be a qualifying company as defined in clause (g) of Section 115V of the Act which says qualifying company means a company referred to in Section 115VC of the Act.	None
Section 115VC lays down certain conditions to be fulfilled for a company to be qualifying company.	None
It reads as under115VC.	None
Qualifying company.	None
For the purposes of this Chapter, a company is a qualifying company if(a)	None
it is an Indian company(b) the place of effective management of the company is in India(c)	None
it owns at least one qualifying ship and(d) the main object of the company is to carry on the business of operating ships.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this section, place of effective management of the company means(A) the place where the board of directors of the company or its executive directors, as the case may be, make their decisions or(B) in a case where the board of directors routinely approve the commercial and strategic decisions made by the executive directors or officers of the company, the place where such executive directors or officers of the company perform their functions.	None
As may be seen from the reading of the aforesaid provision, apart from the conditions that a company has to be an Indian company with effective management of the company in India and main objective of the company is to carry on business of operating ships, the other significant condition is that the company itself should own at least one qualifying ship.	None
The description of qualifying ship is contained in Section 115VD, as already noted above, and owning at least one qualifying ship is one of the eligibility conditions for getting the income computed under these special provisions.	None
Once aforesaid conditions are fulfilled, the income from the business of operating qualifying ships is to be computed under Chapter XIIG.	None
The manner of computation of such income, as provided under this Act, is under TTS.	None
Clause (m) of Section	None
115V defines TTS as under (m) tonnage tax scheme means a scheme for computation of profits and gains of business of operating qualifying ships under the provisions of this Chapter.	None
The provisions for TTS are contained in Section 115VE onwards.	None
For our purposes, it is not necessary to take stock of all these provisions.	None
As we are primarily concerned with Section 115VE and Section 115VG of the Act, we shall discuss the schemes with reference to these provisions.	None
The TTS talks of Tonnage Income which is to be computed under Section 115VG of a Tonnage Tax Company.	None
This Tonnage Income, as per Section 115VG of the Act, is the income of each qualifying ship.	None
The formula of calculating this Tonnage Income of each qualifying ship is stipulated in subsections (2) and (3) of Section 115VG.	None
Subsection (4) of Section 115VG defines Tonnage to mean tonnage of a ship indicated in the certificate referred to in Section 115VX and includes the deemed tonnage computed in the prescribed manner.	None
Explanation to subsection (4) of Section 115VG clarifies that deemed tonnage shall be the tonnage in respect of an arrangement of purchase of slots, slot charter and an arrangement of sharing of breakbulk vessel.	None
Section 115VE deals with the manner of computation of income under TTS.	None
In nutshell, such company which has exercised option under this Chapter is known as a Tonnage Tax Company and its income from the business of operating qualifying ships shall be considered as a separate business distinct from all other activities of the business carried on by the company.	None
The income from this particular business only is to be computed separately from the profits and gains from any other business.	None
The income for this activity under TTS is known as tonnage income (Section 115VF).	None
The computation of tonnage income is to be done in the manner prescribed in Section 115VG.	None
As this is an important provision for the purposes of deciding the instant appeal, same is reproduced below 115VG.	None
Computation of tonnage income.	None
(1) The tonnage income of a tonnage tax company for a previous year shall be the aggregate of the tonnage income of each qualifying ship computed in accordance with the provisions of subsections (2) and (3).2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the tonnage income of each qualifying ship shall be the daily tonnage income of each such ship multiplied by(a) the number of days in the previous year or(b) the number of days in part of the previous year in case the ship is operated by the company as a qualifying ship for only part of the previous year, as the case may be.(3) For the purposes of subsection (2), the daily tonnage income of a qualifying ship having tonnage referred to in column (1) of the Table below shall be the amount specified in the corresponding entry in column (2) of the TableQualifying ship having net tonnageAmount of daily tonnage income(1)(2)up to 1,000Rs.	None
70 for each 100 tonsexceeding 1,000 but not more than 10,000Rs 700 plus Rs. 53 for each 100 tons exceeding 1,000 tonsexceeding 10,000 but not more than 25,000Rs.	None
5,470 plus Rs. 42 for each 100 tons exceeding 10,000 tonsexceeding 25,000Rs. 11,770 plus Rs. 29 for each 100 tons exceeding 25,000 tons.(4)	None
For the purposes of this Chapter, the tonnage shall mean the tonnage of a ship indicated in the certificate referred to in section 115VX and includes the deemed tonnage computed in the prescribed manner.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this subsection, deemed tonnage shall be the tonnage in respect of an arrangement of purchase of slots, slot charter and an arrangement of sharing of breakbulk vessel.(5)	None
The tonnage shall be rounded off to the nearest multiple of hundred tons and for this purpose any tonnage consisting of kilograms shall be ignored and thereafter if such tonnage is not a multiple of hundred, then, if the last figure in that amount is fifty tons or more, the tonnage shall be increased to the next higher tonnage which is a multiple of hundred and if the last figure is less than fifty tons, the tonnage shall be reduced to the next lower tonnage which is a multiple of hundred and the tonnage so rounded off shall be the tonnage of the ship for the purposes of this section.(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act, no deduction or set off shall be allowed in computing the tonnage income under this Chapter.	None
We would also like to point out at this stage that Section 115VI deals with relevant shipping income and as per Section 115VF, such relevant shipping income shall not be chargeable to tax.	None
After narrating the scheme of Chapter XIIG containing special provisions for computation of profits and gains from the business of operating qualifying ships by a company, we advert to the precise nature of dispute that has arisen in the instant appeal.	None
As mentioned above, it is only income from the business of operating qualifying ship that has to be computed in accordance with the provisions of Chapter XIIG.	None
As per Section 115VB of the Act, a company is regarded as operating a ship if it operates any ship which is owned by it or a ship which is chartered by it and it also includes a case where even a part of the ship has been chartered by it in an arrangement such as slot charter, space charter or joint charter etc.	None
The question that has arisen for consideration pertains to slot charter i.e. should the slot charter operations of a Tonnage Tax Company be carried on only in qualifying ships to include the income from such operations to determine the tonnage income under TTS in terms of the provisions of Chapter XIIG of the Act?	Issue
In other words, is the income derived from slot charter operations of a Tonnage Tax Company liable to be excluded while determining the Tonnage Income under the TTS if such operations are carried on in ships which are not qualifying ships in terms of the provisions of that Chapter of the Act and the relevant provisions of the Income Tax Rules, 1962?	Issue
As a matter of fact, the respondentassessee owns a qualifying ship and fulfills all other conditions as well to make it a qualifying company under Section 115VC.	Facts
The income that is generated from the said qualifying ship is exigible to tax as per the special provisions contained in Chapter XIIG, as assessee has exercised the requisite option in this behalf.	Facts
However, in addition to operating its qualifying ship, in the relevant Assessment Years i.e. 20052006 and 20082009 it had also slot charter arrangements in other ships.	Facts
In the relevant income tax returns filed by the assessee, the assessee had also included the income earned from such slot charter arrangements for the purpose of computation thereof under Chapter XIIG.	Facts
It is in this context the question has arisen as to whether the assessee was eligible to include the income derived from activities through slot charter arrangements as relevant shipping income to determine the deemed tonnage in terms of Rule 11Q of the Income Tax Rules.12.	Facts
The Assessing Officer was of the view that the income earned under slot charter arrangement did not qualify for coverage to be given special treatment in Chapter XIIG as this income was not generated by the assessee from its own ship, i.e., it is neither from the ship owned by the assessee nor from the entire ship chartered by the assessee.	Facts
He took the view that in order to avail the benefit of Chapter XIIG, the assessee was supposed to show that the ship operated by it was qualifying ship and for this purpose it was incumbent upon the assessee to produce a valid certificate indicating its net tonnage as provided in Section 115VX(1)(b) of the Act.	Facts
However, the assessee had submitted such valid certificate only in respect of its own ship and did not submit the same in respect of ship chartered by the assessee under the slot charter arrangement.	Facts
The contention of the assessee was that the requirement of producing valid certificate is to be insisted only for assessees own ships and for the ships hired fully.	Facts
This contention was not accepted by the Assessing Officer.	Facts
The assessee had also argued that as per the method of computation provided under Section 115VG of the Act read with Rule 11Q of the Rules income for full ship is to be computed on the basis of net tonnage shown in the valid certificate, whereas income of part of the ship is computed as deemed tonnage.	Facts
This argument was also rejected by the Assessing Officer on the ground that there was a requirement of producing valid certificate even for part of the ship and in the absence thereof income from slot charter arrangement could not be included for the purpose of computation of tonnage income under the TTS.13.	Facts
The order of the Assessing Officer was upheld by the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) resulting into dismissal of appeal filed by the assessee.	Facts
Even the ITAT accepted the view taken by the Assessing Officer and dismissed the appeal filed before it by the assessee thereby upholding the order of the Assessing Officer.	Facts
However, in further appeal that was preferred by the assessee to the High Court under Section 260A of the Act, the assessee has succeeded in getting its way through as the High Court has found merit in its contention.	Facts
Thus, the High Court, vide impugned judgment and order dated 23.01.2015, has allowed the appeal of the assessee holding that the income earned by the assessee under slot charter arrangement comes under the definition of deemed tonnage tax as per explanation to subsection (4) of Section 115 VG of the Act and, therefore, exclusion of this income while assessing the same under the said special provisions was not appropriate.	Facts
In other words, the High Court has held that the assessee is eligible for tonnage on slot charter related income also.	Facts
This view taken by the High Court is under examination in the present proceedings.14.	Facts
Mr. Rohatgi, learned Attorney General who appeared for the Income Tax Department Revenue, at the outset referred to the reasoning which was adopted by the ITAT and submitted that the ITAT had rightly interpreted the provisions even in respect to deemed tonnage and came to the correct conclusion that even slot charter arrangement has to be in respect of a qualifying ship.	Arguments of Petitioner
He read out the relevant portions of the discussion contained in the order of ITAT in this behalf and submitted that in order to get a particular income covered under these special provisions, it was necessary to fulfill all the conditions which are stipulated in various provisions of this Chapter.	Arguments of Petitioner
His argument was that it is only the business of operation of qualifying ships that was covered by the Chapter.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, even the slot charter arrangement had to necessarily be in respect of qualifying ship.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that unless this threshold is crossed and the test of eligibility as per the conditions stipulated under Section 115VA to Section 115VE of the Act are fulfilled, the question of crossing over to the second stage of computation of income as per the method of determination of tonnage would not arise.	Arguments of Petitioner
On that basis, he argued that the entire approach of the High Court by solely relying upon explanation to subsection (4) of Section 115VG was erroneous.15.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, Shri Porus Kaka, senior advocate appearing for the assessee, made an endeavour to justify the view taken by the High Court by adopting the reasons which are given in the impugned judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
In the process, the learned senior counsel went into the background as to how TTS was introduced in the scheme on the basis of the recommendations contained in the Report given in January, 2002 by the Rakesh Mohan Committee, which was appointed by the Government.	Arguments of Respondent
He emphasised that the main purpose of introducing TTS was to ameliorate the hardships suffered by the Indian shipping companies visavis foreign shipping lines because of the stiff competition faced by the Indian companies and also to ensure an easily acceptable fixed rate low tax regime for shipping companies.	Arguments of Respondent
His submission was that Chapter XIIG incorporating this TTS which was introduced by the Finance Act, 2004, had to be interpreted keeping in view the aforesaid objective.	Arguments of Respondent
He also argued that the legal fiction created by subsection (4) of Section 115VG along with Rule 11Q of the Rules had to be given its proper and sensible meaning and read in this manner and the insistence of the Income Tax Authorities requiring production of valid certificates even in respect of slot charter was a totally inappropriate demand and that would render redundant and otiose many provisions of this Chapter.16.	Arguments of Respondent
Dilating the aforesaid submissions, he argued that explanation to Section 115VG(4) which clarifies deemed tonnage to include slot charter had to be read along with Circular No. 05/2005 which was a contemporaneous expositio circular issued after inserting the said Chapter and clarifies that the tonnage income shall be further increased by the deemed tonnage which is to be computed in the manner prescribed in Rule 11Q. Deemed tonnage means the tonnage in respect of an arrangement of purchase of slots, slot charter, and an arrangement of sharing of breakbulk vessels.	Arguments of Respondent
He, thus, argued that arrangements of slot charter even on nonqualifying ship are statutorily included within the ambit of the term income from the business of operating qualifying ship.	Arguments of Respondent
We have given our earnest consideration to the respective submissions.	None
To recapitulate briefly, the assessee is a company as defined under Section 2(17) of the Act and is also in the business of operating qualifying ship(s).	None
It is also not in dispute that it owns a qualifying ship and fulfillment of this condition permits the assessee to exercise its option for computation of income from the business of operating qualifying ships under Chapter XIIG of the Act.	None
The assessee exercised the option in this behalf, as per Section 115VP of the Act in respect of Assessment Years in question.	None
Therefore, the assessee is a qualifying company under Section 115VC of the Act.	None
In fact, the income that is generated from the qualifying ship owned by the assessee is also assessed under the special provisions contained in Chapter XIIG of the Act.	Facts
The dispute, however, pertains to the income from the slot charter arrangements which the assessee has made in other ships during the concerned Assessment Years.	None
The ships where slot charter are arranged are obviously not owned by the assessee.	None
Further, as only some slots are chartered, full ships are not chartered.	None
In this context, the first question would be as to whether such a slot charter can be treated as operating ships within the meaning of Section 115VB of the Act?	None
This provision specifically provides that for the purpose of Chapter XIIG, a company would be regarded as operating a ship if it operates any ship whether owned or chartered by it and includes a case where even a part of the ship has been chartered by it in an arrangement such as slot charter, space charter or joint charter.	None
It is clear from the above that slot charter is specifically included as an instance of a ship chartered by the company.	None
Next comes the issue as to whether it would be treated as a qualifying ship as defined under Section 115VD of the Act.	None
A perusal of the provisions of Section 115VD of the Act would indicate that all the conditions laid down therein are fulfilled by the assessee, except the conditions stipulated in clause (c) which impose an obligation on the assessee to produce a valid certificate in respect of such a ship where slot is chartered, indicating its net tonnage in force.	None
The entire controversy revolves around the production of this certificate.	None
As per the Revenue, this is an essential requirement contained in Section 115VD of the Act which cannot be done away with because of the formula that is contained in Section 115VG of the Act for the computation of Tonnage Income.	None
It is argued that computation of Tonnage Income under TTS has to be as for the provisions of Section 115VG and subsection (4) thereof defines Tonnage to mean tonnage of a ship indicated in the certificate referred to in Section 115VX.	None
This Section makes the following reading 115VX.	None
(1) For the purposes of this Chapter,(a) the tonnage of a ship shall be determined in accordance with the valid certificate indicating its tonnage(b) valid certificate means,(i) in case of ships registered in India(a) having a length of less than twentyfour metres, a certificate issued under the Merchant Shipping (Tonnage Measurement of Ship) Rules, 1987 made under the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958)(b) having a length of twentyfour metres or more, an international tonnage certificate issued under the provisions of the Convention on Tonnage Measurement of Ships, 1969, as specified in the Merchant Shipping (Tonnage Measurement of Ship) Rules, 1987 made under the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958)(ii) in case of ships registered outside India, a licence issued by the DirectorGeneral of Shipping under section 406 or section 407 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958) specifying the net tonnage on the basis of Tonnage Certificate issued by the Flag State Administration where the ship is registered or any other evidence acceptable	None
o	None
the DirectorGeneral of Shipping produced by the ship owner while seeking permission for chartering in the ship.	None
This argument seems to be convincing in the first blush as requirement of producing a valid certificate is specified in Section 115VD as well as in subsection (4) of Section 115VG.	None
However, a little closer scrutiny of the aforesaid provisions would take away the sheen of this submission and negate the contention of the Revenue, thereby persuading us to accept the reasoning given by the High Court as well as the manner in which aforesaid statutory provisions are interpreted by it.	None
In this behalf, we reproduce subsection (4) of Section 115VG of the Act which is a provision regarding computation of tonnage income For the purposes of this Chapter, the tonnage shall mean the tonnage of a ship indicated in the certificate referred to in section 115VX and includes the deemed tonnage computed in the prescribed manner.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this subsection, deemed tonnage shall be the tonnage in respect of an arrangement of purchase of slots, slot charter and an arrangement of sharing of breakbulk vessel.	None
Aforesaid provision is in two parts insofar as computation of tonnage is concerned.	None
When it comes to tonnage of a ship, a certificate as mentioned in Section 115VX is to be produced.	None
Second part of this provision talks about deemed tonnage in contradistinction to the actual tonnage mentioned in the certificate.	None
Thus, it is not only the actual tonnage that is mentioned in the certificate referred to in Section 115VX of the Act which this provision deals with.	None
In addition, deemed tonnage is also to be included if there is such a deemed tonnage, and that deemed tonnage is to be added to the actual tonnage which is indicated in the certificate.	None
Explanation to subsection (4), inter alia, mentions that insofar as slot charter arrangements are concerned, purchase of such slot charter shall be treated as deemed tonnage.	None
The Legislature has, thus, clearly visualised that insofar as deemed tonnage is concerned, there would not be any possibility of producing a certificate referred to in Section 115VX of the Act.	None
When we read the provision in this manner, it becomes amply clear that Section 115VD of the Act which talks of a qualifying ship, contemplates the situation in which entire ship is either owned or chartered.	None
Similar is the position which inheres in Section 115VX of the Act as it refers to the tonnage of a ship.	None
Therefore, whenever the question of a tonnage of a ship crops up and the said tonnage is to be determined, it has to be in accordance with the valid certificate indicating its tonnage and it is a compulsory obligation of the assessee to produce such a certificate.	None
However, this requirement of producing a certificate would not apply when entire ship is not chartered and the arrangement pertains only to purchase of slots, slot charter and an arrangement of sharing of breakbulk vessel.	None
The contention of the senior counsel for the assessee is right that the legal fiction created by subsection (4) of Section 115VG is to be given its proper and sensible meaning.	None
This position becomes abundantly clear by reading Rule 11Q of the Rules which specifies the basis formula of computing deemed tonnage in respect of arrangement of slot charter and reads as under 11Q. (1) For the purpose of the Explanation to subsection (4) of section 115VG, deemed tonnage in respect of an arrangement of purchase of slots and slot charter shall be computed (illustrative formula given in Note 3 appearing after the corresponding Form No. 66) on the following basis 2.5 TEU 1 Net Tonnage (1 NT)where TEU is Twenty foot Equivalent Unit (Container of this size)(2)	None
Computation of deemed tonnage (illustrative formula given in Note 4 appearing after the corresponding Form No. 66) in respect of an arrangement of sharing of breakbulk vessel shall be made on the following basis (i) in case where cargo is restricted by volume 19 cubic meter (cbm) 1 net tonnage (1 NT) and(ii) in case where cargo is restricted by weight 14 metric tons 1 net tonnage (1 NT)	None
In Karimtharuvi Tea Estates Ltd. v. State of Kerala and Ors., (1968) 48 ITR (SC) 28 a Constitution Bench of this Court, while interpreting conflicting tax provisions held that the Rules made under the Act, must be taken to be prescribed by the Act and the definitions contained therein must apply to other provisions.	None
In the same judgment, it was held that if two provisions are in conflict, they must be interpreted in a harmonious manner.	None
The calculation of income arising from carriage of goods on slot basis has, in the wisdom of the Legislature, been disconnected from the capacity of a ship, on account of impossibility of getting such information in relation to ships on which slot charter is undertaken.	None
This aspect has due recognition in Note 3 of the said Form 66.	None
Thus, the Act and the Rules for computation on tonnage tax specifically and categorically differentiate the requirement of the Certificate with regards to owned ship and slot charter.	None
In law, the said Rule also recognizes that identification of the vessel for slot charter cannot be done.	None
It would also be pertinent to mention that Note 3 below Form No. 66, in terms of Rule 11D, recognizes the reason for prescribing a separate formula for slot charter by mentioning Formula for conversion of TEUs into NT (Slot Charter)(i)	None
In addition to loading containers on their own container vessels, shipping companies also hire slots on container ships (not owned by them) plying on various routes.	Reasoning
These slots could be hired for a sector voyage or on long term basis, all round the year, in various vessels and in varying numbers and thus cannot be converted to net tonnage identifying the particular vessel on which the slot is hired.	Reasoning
Thus, a formula has been worked out to convert the slots hired into net tonnage.	None
The position is taken beyond any pale of doubt with the following Note in Form No. 66	None
There is no need to mention the name of the ship, income from which is computed on deemed tonnage basis.	None
We may also point out that in terms of Section 115VI(2), relevant shipping income of a Tonnage Tax Company means its profits from core activities and its profits from incidental activities.	Reasoning
Core activities of a Tonnage Tax Company have been specified in subsection (2) of the said section.	Reasoning
These include its activities from operating qualifying ships and other ship related activities including slot charter.	None
When the scheme of the aforesaid special provision for computation of income under TTS is exempted, we find the balance tilted in favour of the assessee as that was the precise purpose in introducing TTS in India.	None
It may be stated in brief that in view of the stiff competition faced by the Indian shipping companies visavis foreign shipping lines, and in order to ensure an easily accessible, fixed rate, low tax regime for shipping companies, the Rakesh Mohan Committee in its report (of January, 2002) recommended the introduction of the TTS in India, which was similar to, and adopted some of the best global practices prevalent.	Reasoning
The whole purpose of introduction of the Scheme was to make the Indian shipping industry more competitive in the global space by rationalising its tax cost.	Reasoning
For the reason that it is impossible to cater to all shipping routes on owned ships, it is an accepted and widely prevalent practice globally and in India that shipping companies engage in slot charter operations.	Reasoning
If such slot charter arrangements are not entered into, then Indian shipping companies will not be able to take up contract of affreightments and these contracts would have fallen to only foreign shipping lines thereby making Indian shipping industry uncompetitive.	Reasoning
Such slot charter arrangements being with a shipping company but not in relation to or for a particular ship, it is impossible for the Indian shipping company to identify the cargo ship, which carried the goods.	Reasoning
This peculiarity has been duly recognized at Note 3 of Form 66 and reproduced as under In addition to loading containers on their own container vessels, shipping companies also hire slots on container ships (not owned by them) plying on various routes.	Reasoning
These slots could be hired for a sector voyage or on long term basis, all round the year, in various vessels and in varying numbers and thus cannot be converted to net tonnage identifying the particular vessel on which the slot is hired.	Reasoning
Thus, a formula has been worked out to convert the slots hired into net tonnage.	None
Similarly, for space charter also, this business aspect has been recognized at Note 4(b) to Form 66 as under Since the entire vessel is not chartered and only a small space is booked in the vessel, conversion of chartered space into net tonnage is not available.	Reasoning
Hence, a conversion formula of cargo carried on a ship to its net tonnage has been worked out.	None
Accordingly, there is no requirement of the certificate under the Scheme in relation to the vessel on which slot charter operations are carried out.27.	None
We would also like to refer to Circular No. 05/2005	Reasoning
dated 15.07.2005 explaining the need and essence of the introduction of these provisions which was issued contemporaneously by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT).	Reasoning
The Circular clarifies that the Scheme is a preferential regime of taxation.	Reasoning
It also clarifies that charging provision is under Section 115VA read with Section 115VF and Section 115VG.	Reasoning
Circulars of CBDT explaining the Scheme of the Act have been held to be binding on the Department repeatedly by this Court in a series of judgments including Azadi Bachao Andolan v. Union of India, 263 ITR 706 Navnit Lal Jhaveri v. K.K. Sen, IAC 56 ITR 198 SC and UCO Bank v. CIT, 237 ITR 889 SC.	Reasoning
We, thus, agree with the decision of the High Court and find no merit in the instant appeals.	Decision
The same are hereby dismissed.	Decision
There shall, however, be no order as to cost.	Decision
