 K. SIKRI, J. 1 In all these appeals, legal issue that needs determination is almost identical, though there may be little variation on facts.	None
This difference pertains to the nature of services provided by the respondents assessees who are all covered by the service tax.	None
The fringe diferences in the nature of services, however, nature of differences, however, has no impact on the final outcome.	None
2.	None
All the assessees are paying service tax.	Facts
The services which these assessees are rendering broadly fall in the following four categories (a) Consulting engineering services.	Facts
(b) Share transfer agency services.	Facts
(c) Custom house agent services covered by the head clearing and forwarding agent?.	Facts
(d)	None
The site formation and clearances, excavation and earth moving and demolition services.	None
3.	None
While rendering the aforesaid services, the assessees are also getting reimbursement in respect of certain activities undertaken by them which according to them is not includable to arrive at gross value?	Facts
charged from their clients.	Facts
As per Rule 5 of the Service Tax (Determination of Value) Rules, 2006 (hereinafter referred to as the Rules?), the value of the said reimbursable activities is also to be included as part of services provided by these respondents.	Facts
Writ petitions were filed by the assessees challenging the vires of Rule 5 of the Rules as unconstitutional as well as ultra vires the provisions of Sections 66 and 67 of Chapter V of the Finance Act, 1994 (hereinafter referred to as the Act?).	Facts
The High Court of Delhi has, by the judgment dated November 30, 2012, accepted the said challenge and declared Rule 5 to be ultra vires these provisions.	Facts
Other cases have met similar results by riding on the judgment dated November 30, 2012.	Facts
This necessitates examining the the correctness of the judgment of the Delhi High Court and outocme thereof would determine the fate of all these appeals transfer petitions.	Facts
4. This judgment was rendered by the High court in the writ petition filed by M s. Intercontinental Consultants and Technocrats Pvt.	None
Ltd. out of which Civil Appeal No. 2013 of 2014 arises.	Facts
Therefore, for our purpose, it would suffice to advert to the facts of this appeal and take note of the reasons which have prevailed with the High Court in arriving at this conclusion.	None
5.	None
The assessee M s. Intercontinental Consultants and Technocrats Pvt. Ltd. is a provider of consulting engineering services.	None
It specialises in highways, structures, airports, urban and rural infrastructural projects and is engaged in various road projects outside and inside India.	Facts
In the course of the carrying on of its business, the petitioner rendered consultancy services in respect of highway projects to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI).	Facts
The petitioner receives payments not only for its service but is also reimbursed expenses incurred by it such as air travel, hotel stay, etc.	Facts
It was paying service tax in respect of amounts received by it for services rendered to its clients.	Facts
It was not paying any service tax in respect of the expenses incurred by it, which was reimbursed by the clients.	Facts
On 19.10.2007, the Superintendent (Audit) Group II (Service Tax), New Delhi issued a letter to the petitioner on the subjec ?service tax audit for the financial year 200203 to 200607.	Facts
In this letter, it was mentioned by the appellant that service tax was liable to be charged on the gross value including reimbursable and out of pocket expenses like travelling, lodging and boarding etc.	Facts
and the respondent was directed to deposit the due service tax along with interest 13 under Sections 73 and 75 respectively of the Act.	Facts
In response, the respondent provided monthwise detail of the professional income as well as reimbursable out of pocket expenses for the period mentioned in the aforesaid letter.	Facts
Thereafter, a show cause notice dated March 17, 2008 was issued by the Commissioner, Service Tax, Commissionerate vide which the respondent was asked to show cause as to why the service tax should not be recovered by including the amounts of reimbursable which were received by the respondent, pointing out these were to be included while arriving at the gross value as per provisions of Rule 5(1) of the Rules.6.	Facts
Rule 5 was brought into existence w.e.f.	None
June 01, 2007.	Facts
The demand which was made in the show cause notice was covered by the period from October, 2002 to March, 2007.	Facts
Against this show cause notice, the respondent preferred Writ Petition No. 6370 of 2008 in the High Court of Delhi challenging the vires thereof with three prayers, namely(i) for quashing Rule 5 in its entirety of the Service Tax (Determination of Value) Rules, 2006 to the extent it includes the reimbursement of expenses in the value of taxable service for the purpose of charging service tax and (ii) for declaring the rule to be unconstitutional and ultra vires Sections 66 and 67 of the Finance Act, 1994 and (iii) for quashing the impugned showcause noticecumdemand dated 17.03.2008 holding that it is illegal, arbitrary, without jurisdiction and unconstitutional.7.	Facts
Rule 5, which provides for inclusion in or exclusion from the value of certain expenditure or costs?, is reproduced below in order to understand its full implication?5.	None
Inclusion in or exclusion from value of certain expenditure or costs.	None
(1) Where any expenditure or costs are incurred by the service provider in the course of providing taxable service, all such expenditure or costs shall be treated as consideration for the taxable service provided or to be provided and shall be included in the value for the purpose of charging service tax on the said service.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) Subject to the provisions of sub rule (1), the expenditure or costs incurred by the service provider as a pure agent of the recipient of service, shall be excluded from the value of the taxable service if all the following conditions are satisfied, namely the service provider acts as a pure agent of the recipient of service when he makes payment to third party for the goods or services procured the recipient of service receives and uses the goods or services so procured by the service provider in his capacity as pure agent of the recipient of service the recipient of service is liable to make payment to the third party the recipient of service authorities the service provider to make payment on his behalf the recipient of service knows that the goods and services for which payment has been made by the service provider shall be provided by the third party the payment made by the service provider on behalf of the recipient of service has been separately indicated in the invoice issued by the service provider to the recipient of service the service provider recovers from the recipient of service only such amount as has been paid by him to the third party and the goods or services procured by the service provider from the third party as a pure agent of the recipient of service are in addition to the services he provides on his own account.	None
Explanation 1 For the purposes of sub rule (2),?pure agent? means a person who enters into a contractual agreement with the recipient of service to act as his pure agent to incur expenditure or costs in the course of providing taxable service neither intends to hold nor holds any title to the goods or services so procured or provided as pure agent of the recipient of service ?	None
does not use such goods or services so procured and receives only the actual amount incurred to procure such goods or services.	None
Explanation 2 For the removal of doubts it is clarified that the value of the taxable service is the total amount of consideration consisting of all components of the taxable service and it is immaterial that the details of individual components of the total consideration is indicated separately in the invoice.	None
Illustration 1 X contracts with Y, a real estate agent to sell his house and thereupon Y gives an advertisement in television.	None
Y billed X including charges for Television advertisement and paid service tax on the total consideration billed.	None
In such a case, consideration for the service provided is what X pays to Y. Y does not act as an agent behalf of X when obtaining the television advertisement even if the cost of television advertisement is mentioned separately in the invoice issued by X. Advertising service is an input service for the estate agent in order to enable or facilitate him to perform his services as an estate agent.	None
Illustration 2 In the course of providing a taxable service, a service provider incurs costs such as traveling expenses, postage, telephone, etc., and may indicate these items separately on the invoice issued to the recipient of service.	None
In such a case, the service provider is not acting as an agent of the recipient of service but procures such inputs or input service on his own account for providing the taxable service.	None
Such expenses do not become reimbursable expenditure merely because they are indicated separately in the invoice issued by the service provider to the recipient of service.	None
Illustration 3 A contracts with B, an architect for building a house.	None
During the course of providing the taxable service, B incurs expenses such as telephone charges, air travel tickets, hotel accommodation, etc., to enable him to effectively perform the provision of services to A. In such a case, in whatever form B recovers such expenditure from A, whether as a separately itemised expense or as part of an inclusive overall fee, service tax is payable on the total amount charged by B. Value of the taxable service for charging service tax is what A pays to B. Illustration 4 Company X provides a taxable service of rent cab by providing chauffeur driven cars for overseas visitors.	None
The chauffeur is given a lump sum amount to cover his food and overnight accommodation and any other incidental expenses such as parking fees by the Company X during the tour.	None
At the end of the tour, the chauffeur returns the balance of the amount with a statement of his expenses and the relevant bills.	None
Company X charges these amounts from the recipients of service.	None
The cost incurred by the chauffeur and billed to the recipient of service constitutes part of gross amount charged for the provision of services by the company X.? 8.	None
The case set up by the respondent in the writ petition was that Rule 5(1) of the Rules, which provides that all expenditure or cost incurred by the service provider in the course of providing the taxable services shall be treated as consideration for the taxable services and shall be included in the value for the purpose of charging service tax, goes beyond the mandate of Section 67.	None
It was argued that Section 67 which deals with valuation of taxable services for charging service tax does not provide for inclusion of the aforesaid expenditure or cost incurred while providing the services as they cannot be treated as element components of service.	None
Section 67 was amended by Finance Act, 2006 w.e.f.	None
May 01, 2006.	Facts
Since the cases before us involve period prior to the aforesaid amendment as well as post amendment period, it would apt to take note of both unamended and amended provisions.	None
Unamended Section 67 was in the following form?67.	None
Valuation of taxable services for charging service tax.	Reasoning
For the purposes of this Chapter, the value of any taxable service shall be the gross amount charged by the service provider for such provided or to be provided by him.	None
Explanation 1.	None
For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the value of a taxable service, as the case may be, includes, (a) the aggregate of commission or brokerage charges by a broker on the sale or purchase of securities including the commission or brokerage paid by the stock broker to any sub broker.	None
(b) the adjustments made by the telegraph authority from any deposits made by the subscriber at the time of application for telephone connection or pager or facsimile or telegraph or telex or for leased circuit (c)the amount of premium charged by the insurer from the policy holder (d) the commission received by the air travel agent from the airline (e) the commission, fee or any other sum received by an actuary, or intermediary or insurance intermediary or insurance agent from the insurer (f) the reimbursement received by the authorized service station from manufacturer for carrying out any service of nay motor car, light motor vehicle or two wheeled motor vehicle manufactured by such manufacturer and g) the commission or any amount received by the rail travel agent from the Railways or the customer.	None
But does not include (i) initial deposit made by the subscriber at the time of application for telephone connection or pager or facsimile (FAX) or telephone or telex or for leased circuit (ii) the cost of unexposed photography film, unrecorded magnetic tape or such other storage devices, if any, sold to the client during the course of providing the service (iii) the cost of parts or accessories, or consumable such as lubricants and coolants, if any, sold to the customer during the course of service or repair of motor cars, light motor vehicle or two wheeled motor vehicles (iv) the airfare collected by air travel agent in respect of service provided by him (v) the rail fare collected by rail travel agent in respect of service provided by him (vi) the cost of parts or other material, if any, sold to the customer during the course of providing maintenance or repair service (vii) the cost of parts or other material, if any, sold to the customer during the course of providing erection, commissioning or installation service and (viii) interest on loan.	None
Explanation 2 Where the gross amount charged by a service provider is inclusive of service tax payable, the value of taxable service shall be such amount as with the addition of tax payable, is equal to the gross amount charged.	None
Explanation 3.	None
For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the gross amount charged for the taxable service shall include any amount received towards the taxable service before, during or after provision of such service.?9.	Arguments of Respondent
After its amendment w.e.f.	None
May 01, 2006, a much shorter version was introduced which reads as under?67.	None
Valuation of taxable services for charging service tax.	Reasoning
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Chapter, where service tax is chargeable on any taxable service with reference to its value, then such value shall, (i) in a case where the provision of service is for a consideration in money, be the gross amount charged by the service provider for such service provided or to be provided by him (ii) in a case where the provision of service is for a consideration not wholly or partly consisting of money, be such amount in money as, with the addition of service tax charged, is equivalent to the consideration (iii) in a case where the provision of service is for a consideration which is not ascertainable, be the amount as ay be determined in the prescribed manner.	None
(2) Where the gross amount charged by a service provider, for the service provided or to be provided is inclusive of service tax payable, the value of such taxable service shall be such amount as, with the addition of tax payable, is equal to the gross amount charged.	None
(3) The gross amount charged for the taxable service shall include any amount received towards the taxable service before, during or after provision of such service.	None
(4) Subject to the provisions of sub sections (1), (2) and (3), the value shall be determined in such manner as may be prescribed.	None
Explanation For the purpose of this section, (a)?consideration?includes any amount that is payable for the taxable services provided or to be provided (b)?money?includes any currency, cheque, promissory note, letter of credit, draft, pay order, travelers cheque, money order, postal remittance and other similar instruments but does not include currency that is held for its numismatic value (c)?gross amount charged?payment by cheque, credit card, deduction from account and any form of payment by issue of credit notes or debit notes and book adjustment, and any amount credited or debited, as the case may be, to any account, whether called?Suspense account?	None
or by any other name, in the books of accounts of a person liable to pay service tax, where the transaction of taxable service is with any associated enterprise.?	None
10.	None
The High Court, after taking note of the aforesaid provisions, noted that the provisions both amended and unamended Section 67 authorised the determination of value of taxable services for the purpose of charging service tax under Section 66 (which is a charging section) as the gross amount charged by the service provider for such services provided or to be provided by him, in a case where the consideration for the service is money.	None
Emphasising on the words for such service?, the High Court took the view that the charge of service tax under Section 66 has to be on the value of taxable service i.e. the value of service rendered by the assessee to the NHAI, which is that of a consulting engineer, that can be brought to charge and nothing more.	None
The quantification of the value of the service can, therefore, never exceed the gross amount charged by the service provider for the service provided by him.	None
On that analogy, the High Court has opined that scope of Rule 5 goes beyond the Section which was impermissible as the Rules which have been made under Section 94 of the Act can only be made for carrying out the provisions of this Chapter?	None
(Chapter V of the Act) which provides for levy quantification and collection of the service tax.	None
In the process, the High Court observed that the expenditure or cost incurred by the service provider in the course of providing the taxable service can never be considered as the gross amount charged by the service provider for such service?	Reasoning
provided by him, and illustration 3 given below the Rule which included the value of such services was a clear example of breaching the boundaries of Section 67.	None
The High Court even went on to hold further pointed out that it may even result in double taxation inasmuch as expenses on air ravel tickets are already subject to service tax and are included in the bill.	None
No doubt, double taxation was permissible in law but it could only be done if it was categorically provided for and intended and could not be enforced by implication as held in Jain Brothers v. Union of India 1 .	None
The High Court has also referred to many judgments of this Court for the proposition that Rules cannot be override or overreach the provisions of the main enactment 2 .	None
The High Court also referred to the judgment of Queens Bench of England in the case of Commissioner of Customs and Excise v. Cure and Deeley Ltd. 3 .	None
11.	None
Mr. K. Radhakrishnan, learned senior counsel argued for the appellant, ably assisted by Ms. Nisha Bagchi, advocate who also made significant contribution by arguing some of the nuances of the issue involved.	Arguments of Petitioner
Submission of the learned counsel appearing for the appellant Department was that prior to April 19, 2006 i.e. in the absence of Rule 5 of the Rules, the value of taxable services was covered by Section 67 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
As per this Section, the value of taxable services in relation to consulting engineering services provided or to be provided by a consulting engineer to 1the client shall be the gross amount charged for a consideration or in money from the client in respect of engineering services.	Arguments of Petitioner
The expression gross amount charged?	Arguments of Petitioner
would clearly include all the amounts which were charged by the service provider and would not be limited to the remuneration received from the customer.	Arguments of Petitioner
The very connotation gross amount charged?	Arguments of Petitioner
denotes the total amount which is received in rendering those services and would include the other amounts like transportation, office rent, office appliances, furniture and equipments etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that this expenditure or cost would be part of consideration for taxable services.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was, thus, argued that essential input cost had to be included in arriving at gross amount charged by a service provider. 12.	None
It was further submitted that Section 67 of the Act was amended w.e.f.	None
May 01, 2006 and this also retained the concept of the gross amount charged?	Arguments of Petitioner
for the purpose of arriving at valuation on which the service tax is to be paid.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel pointed out that subsection (4) of amended Section 67 categorically provides that the value has to be determined in such a manner as may be prescribed and in pursuant thereto, Rule 5 of the Rules which came into effect from June 01, 2007, provided for inclusion in or exclusion from value of certain expenditure or costs?.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that there was no dispute that as per this Rule, all such expenditure or costs which are incurred by the service provider in the course of providing taxable services are to be treated as consideration for the taxable services provided or to be provided for arriving at valuation for the purpose of charging service tax, except those costs which were specifically excluded under sub rule (2) of Rule 5.	Arguments of Petitioner
Submission was that since Section 67 specifically lays down the principle of gross amount charged by a service provider for the services provided or to be provided, Rule 5 did not go contrary to Section 67 as it only mentions what would be the meaning of gross amount charged.	Arguments of Petitioner
13.	None
In the aid of this submission, the learned counsel sought to take help from principle laid down in excise law and submitted that it is held by this Court in Union of India Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Bengal Shrachi Housing Development Limited Anr.	None
4 that same principles as applicable in excise law are applicable while examining service tax matters.	None
Reliance was placed on paragraph 22 of the said judgment to support this proposition.	None
However, we may point out at this stage itself that the context in which the observations were made were entirely different.	None
The issue was as to whether service tax, which is an indirect tax, can be passed on by the service provider to the recepient of the service and, in this hue, the matter was discussed, as can be seen from the combined reading of paragraphs 21 and 22 which are to the following effect?21.	None
It is thus clear that the judgments of this Court which referred to service tax being an indirect tax have reference only to service tax being an indirect tax in economic theory and not constitutional law.	None
The fact that service tax may not, in given circumstances, be passed on by the service provider to the recipient of the service would not, therefore, make such tax any the less a service tax.	None
It is important to bear this in mind, as the main prop of Shri Jaideep Guptas argument is that service tax being an indirect tax which must be passed on by virtue of the judgments of this Court, would make the recipient of the service the person on whom the tax is primarily leviable.	None
22.	None
Let us now examine some of the judgments relating to another indirect tax, namely, excise duty.	None
Like service tax, excise duty is also in the economic sense, an indirect tax.	None
The levy is on manufacture of goods and the taxable person is usually the manufacturer of those goods.	None
InCentral Provinces and Berar Sales of Motor Spirit and Lubricants Taxation Act, 1938, In re, the Federal Court decided, through Maurice Gwyer, C.J., that excise duty under the Government of India Act, 1935 is a power to impose duty of excise upon the manufacturer of excisable articles at the stage of or in connection with manufacture or production.	None
In a separate judgment, Jayakar, J. held that all duties of excise are levied on manufacture of excisable goods and can be levied and collected at any subsequent stage up to consumption.?14.	None
It was also submitted that while dealing with the valuation of a taxable service, the provision which deals with valuation has to be taken into consideration and no assistance can be taken from charging section, as held in Union of India Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Bombay Tyre International Limited Ors. 5 ?8.	None
Mr N.A. Palkhivala, learned counsel for the assessees, has propounded three principles which, he contends, form the essential characteristics of a duty of excise.	None
Firstly, he says, excise is a tax on manufacture or production and not on anything else.	None
Secondly, uniformity of incidence is a basic characteristic of excise.	None
And thirdly, the exclusion of postmanufacturing expenses and postmanufacturing profits is necessarily involved in the first principle and helps to achieve the second.	None
Learned counsel urges that where excise duty is levied on an ad valorem basis the value on which such duty is levied is a?conceptual value?, and that the conceptual nature is borne out by the circumstance that the identity of the manufacturer and the identity of the goods as well as the actual wholesale price charged by the manufacturer are not the determining factors.	None
It is urged that the old Section 4(a) clearly indicates that a conceptual value forms the basis of the levy, and that the actual wholesale price charged by the particular assessee cannot be the basis of the excise levy.	None
It is said that the criterion adopted in clause (a) succeeds in producing uniform taxation, whether the assessees are manufacturers who sell their goods in wholesale, semiwholesale or in retail, whether they have a vast selling and marketing network or have none, whether they sell at depots and branches or sell at the factory gate, and whether they load the exfactory price with postmanufacturing expenses and profits or do not do so.	None
Because the value of the article rests on a conceptual base, it is urged, the result of the assessment under Section 4(a) cannot be different from the result of an assessment under Section 4(b).	None
The contention is that the principle of uniformity of taxation requires the exclusion of postmanufacturing expenses and profits, a factor which would vary from one manufacturer to another.	None
It is pointed out that such exclusion is necessary to create a direct and immediate nexus between the levy and the manufacturing activity, and to bring about a uniformity in the incidence of the levy.	None
Learned counsel contends that the position is the same under the new Section 4 which, he says, must need be so because of the fundamental nature of the principles propounded earlier.	None
Referring to the actual language of the new Section 4(1)(a), it is pointed out that the expression?normal price?therein means?normal for the purposes of excise?, that is to say, that the price must exclude postmanufacturing expenses and postmanufacturing profit and must not be loaded with any extraneous element.	None
It is conceded, however, that under the new Section 4(1)(a) there is no attempt to preserve uniformity as regards the amount of duty between one manufacturer and another, but it is urged that the basis on which the value is determined is constituted by the same conceptual criterion, that post manufacturing expenses and postmanufacturing profit must be excluded.	None
Considerable emphasis has been laid on the submission that as excise duty is a tax on the manufacture or production of goods it must be a tax intimately linked with the manufacture or production of the excisable article and, therefore, it can be imposed only on the assessable value determined with reference to the excisable article at the stage of completed manufacture and to no point beyond.	None
To preserve this intimate link or nexus between the nature of the tax and the assessment of the tax, it is urged that all extraneous elements included in the?value?	None
min the nature of post manufacturing expenses and postmanufacturing profits have to be offloaded.	None
It is pointed out that factors such as volume, quantity and weight, which enter into the measure of the tax, are intimately linked with the manufacturing activity, and that the power of Parliament under Entry 84 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution to legislate in respect of?value?is restricted by the conceptual need to link the basis for determining the measure of the tax with the very nature of the tax.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx 10.	None
Besides this fundamental issue, there are other points of dispute, principally in respect of the connotation of the expression?related person?in the new Section 4 as well as the nature of the deductions which can be claimed by the assessee as post manufacturing expenses and postmanufacturing profit from the price for the purpose of determining the?value?.11.	None
The submissions made by learned counsel for the parties in support of their respective contentions cover a wide area, and several questions of a fundamental nature have been raised.	None
We consider it necessary to deal with them because they enter into and determine the conclusions reached by us.	None
12.	None
We think it appropriate that at the very beginning we should briefly indicate the concept of a duty of excise.	None
Both Entry 45 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Government of India Act, 1935, under which the original Central Excises and Salt Act was enacted, and Entry 84 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution under which the Amendment Act of 1973 was enacted, refer to?Duties of excise on goods manufactured or produced in India?.	None
A duty of excise, according to the Federal Court in The Central Provinces and Berar Sales of Motor Spirit and Lubricants Taxation Act, 1938 AIR 1939 FC 1, 6 1939 FCR 18 is a duty ordinarily levied on the manufacturer or producer in respect of the manufacture or production of the commodity taxed.	None
A distinction was drawn between the nature of the tax and the point at which it was collected, and Gwyer, C.J. observed that theoretically ?. .	None
.there can be no reason in theory why an excise duty should not be imposed even on the retail sale of an article, if the taxing Act so provides.	None
Subject always to the legislative competence of the taxing authority, a duty on homeproduced goods will obviously be imposed at the stage which the authority finds to be the most convenient and the most lucrative, wherever it may be but that is a matter of the machinery of collection, and does not affect the essential nature of the tax.	None
The ultimate incidence of an excise duty, a typical indirect tax, must always be on the consumer, who pays as he consumes or expends and it continues to be an excise duty, that is, a duty on homeproduced or homemanufactured goods, no matter at what stage it is collected.?	None
(emphasis supplied).	None
The position was explained further in Province of Madras v. Boddu Paidanna and Sons 1942 FCR 90, 101 AIR 1942 FC 33 where the Federal Court observed ?	None
There is in theory nothing to prevent the Central Legislature from imposing a duty of excise on a commodity as soon as it comes into existence, no matter what happens to it afterwards, whether it be sold, consumed, destroyed, or given away.	None
A taxing authority will not ordinarily impose such a duty, because it is much more convenient administratively to collect the duty (as in the case of most of the Indian Excise Acts) when the commodity leaves the factory for the first time, and also because the duty is intended to be an indirect duty which the manufacturer or producer is to pass on to the ultimate consumer, which he could not do if the commodity had, for example, been destroyed in the factory itself.	None
It is the fact of manufacture which attracts the duty, even though it may be collected later.?	None
The observations show that while the nature of an excise is indicated by the fact that it is imposed in respect of the manufacture or production of an article, the point at which it is collected is not determined by the point of time when its manufacture is completed but will rest on considerations of administrative convenience, and that generally it is collected when the article leaves the factory for the first time.	None
In other words, the circumstance that the article becomes the object of assessment when it is sold by the manufacturer does not detract from its true nature, that it is a levy on the fact of manufacture.	None
In a subsequent case, GovernorGeneralin Council v. Province of Madras 1945 FCR 179 AIR 1945 FC 98 , the Privy Council referred to both Central Provinces and Berar Sales of Motor Spirit and Lubricants Taxation Act, 1938 AIR 1939 FC 1, 6 1939 FCR 18 and Province of Madras v. Boddu Paidanna and Sons 1942 FCR 90, 101 AIR 1942 FC 33 and affirmed that when excise was levied on a manufacturer at the point of the first sale by him?that may be because the taxation authority imposing a duty of excise finds it convenient to impose that duty at the moment when the excisable article leaves the factory or workshop for the first time on the occasion of its sale.	None
But that method of collecting the tax is an accident of administration it is not of the essence of the duty of excise, which is attracted by the manufacture itself.	None
This Court had occasion to consider a similar question in R.C. Jall v. Union of India AIR 1962 SC 1281 1962 Supp (3) SCR 436, 451 .	None
In that case, the Central Government was authorised by an Ordinance to levy and collect as a cess on coal and coke despatched from collieries in British India a duty of excise at a specified rate.	None
Rule 3 made under the Ordinance empowered the Government to impose a duty of excise on coal and coke when such coal and coke was despatched by rail from the collieries of the coke plants, and the duty was to be collected by the Railway Administration by means of a surcharge on freight either from the consignor or consignee.	None
It was contended by the assessee that the excise duty could not legally be levied on the consignee who had nothing to do with the manufacture or production of coal.	None
The Court remarked?The argument confuses the incidence of taxation with the machinery provided for the collection thereof,?and reference was made to In re the Central Provinces and Berar Act 14 of 1938AIR 1939 FC 1, 6 1939 FCR 18 , Province of Madras v. Boddu Paidanna and Sons 1942 FCR 90, 101 AIR 1942 FC 33 and GovernorGeneral in Council v. Province of Madras 1945 FCR 179 AIR 1945 FC 98 .	None
This Court then summarised the law as follows?	None
Excise duty is primarily a duty on the production or manufacture of goods produced or manufactured within the country.	None
It is an indirect duty which the manufacturer or producer passes on to the ultimate consumer, that is, its ultimate incidence will always be on the consumer.	None
Therefore, subject always to the legislative competence of the taxing authority, the said tax can be levied at a convenient stage so long as the character of the impost, that is, it is a duty on the manufacture or production, is not lost.	None
The method of collection does not affect the essence of the duty, but only relates to the machinery of collection for administrative convenience.?Other cases followed where the nature of excise duty was reaffirmed in the terms set out earlier, and eference may be made to In re Bill to Amend Section 20 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 and Section 3 of the Central Excises And Salt Act, 1944 AIR 1963 SC 1760 (1964)	None
3	None
SCR 787 Union of India v. Delhi Cloth General Mills AIR 1963 SC 791 1963 Supp (1) SCR 586 Guruswamy Co. v. State of Mysore AIR 1967 SC 1512 (1967) 1	None
SCR 548 and South Bihar Sugar Mills Ltd. v. Union of India AIR 1968 SC 922 (1968) 3	None
SCR 21 .	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx 17.	None
A contention was raised for some of the assessees, that the measure was to be found by reading Section 3 with Section 4, thus drawing the ingredients of Section 3 into the exercise.	None
We are unable to agree.	None
We are concerned with Section 3(1), and we find nothing there which clothes the provision with a dual character, a charging provision as well as a provision defining the measure of the charge.	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx 35.	None
We have examined the principles of an excise levy and have considered the statutory construction of the Act, before and after its amendment, in view of the three propositions formulated, on behalf of the assessees, as principles constituting the essential characteristics of a duty of excise.	None
It is apparent that the first proposition, that excise is a tax on the manufacture or production of goods, and not on anything else, is indisputable and is supported by a catena of cases beginning with The Central Provinces and Berar Sales of Motor Spirit and Lubricants Taxation Act, 1938 AIR 1939 FC 1, 6 1939 FCR 18 .	None
As regards the second proposition.	None
that uniformity of incidence is a basic characteristic of excise, we are inclined to think that the accuracy of the proposition depends on the level at which the statute rests it.	None
We shall discuss that presently.	None
As to the third proposition, that the exclusion of postmanufacturing expenses and postmanufacturing profit is necessarily involved in the first principle does not inevitably follow.	None
The exclusion of postmanufacturing expenses and post manufacturing profits is a matter pertaining to the ascertainment of the?value?	None
the excisable article, and not to the nature of the excise duty, and as we have explained, the standard adopted by the Legislature for determining thevalue?may possess a broader base than that on which the charging provision proceeds.	None
The acceptance of the further statement contained in the formulation of the third proposition, that the exclusion of postmanufacturing expenses and postmanufacturing profits helps to achieve uniformity of incidence in the levy of excise duty, depends on what is the point at which such uniformity of incidence is contemplated.	None
It is not necessarily involved at the stage of sale of the article by the manufacturer because we find, for example, that under the amended Section 3(3) of the Central Excises and Salt Act, different tariff values may be fixed not only (a) for different classes or descriptions of the same excisable goods, but also (b) for excisable goods of the same class or description (i) produced or manufactured by different classes of producers or manufacturers, or (ii) sold to different classes of buyers.	None
That the?value?of excisable goods determined under the new Section 4(1)(a) may also vary according to certain circumstances is evident from the three clauses of the proviso to that clause.	None
Clause (i) recognises that in the normal practice of wholesale trade the same class of goods may be sold by the assessee at different prices to different classes of buyers in that event, each such price shall, subject to the other conditions of clause (a), be deemed to be the normal price of such goods in relation to each class of buyers.	None
Clause (ii) provides that where the goods are sold in wholesale at a price fixed under any law or at a price being the maximum, fixed under any such law, then the price or the maximum price, as the case may be, so fixed, shall in relation to the goods be deemed to be the normal price thereof.	None
Under clause (iii), where the goods are sold in the course of wholesale trade by the assessee to or through a related person, the normal price shall be the price at which the goods are sold by the related person in the course of wholesale trade at the time of removal to dealers (not being related persons) or where such goods are not sold to such dealers, to dealers (being related persons) who sell such goods in retail.	None
The verity of the three principles propounded by learned counsel for the assessees has been, as indeed it had to be, examined in the context of the Act before and after its amendment.	None
For the case of the assessees is that the amendment has made no material change in the basic scheme of the levy and the provisions for determining the value of the excisable article.?	None
15.	None
It was, thus, argued that the High Court had committed serious error in relying upon Section 66 of the Act (which is a charging section) while interpreting Section 67 of the Act, or for that matter, while examining the validity of Rule 5 of the Rules.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel also relied upon the dictionary meaning that is given to the word gross amount?.	Arguments of Petitioner
At the end, it was submitted that Section 67 which uses the term any amount?	Arguments of Petitioner
would include quantum as well as the nature of the amount and, therefore, cost for providing services was rightly included in Rule 5, which was not ultra vires Section 67 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
16.	None
Mr. J.K. Mittal, Advocate, appeared for M s. Intercontinental Consultants and Technocrats Pvt	Arguments of Respondent
. Ltd.	Arguments of Respondent
He argued with emphasis that the impugned judgment of the High Court was perfectly in tune with legal position and did not call for any interference.	Arguments of Respondent
At the outset, he pointed out that the Parliament has again amended Section 67 of the Act by the Finance Act, 2015 w.e.f.	Arguments of Respondent
May 14, 2016.	Arguments of Respondent
By this amendment, explanation has been added which now lays down that consideration includes the reimbursement of expenditure or cost incurred by the service provider.	Arguments of Respondent
Taking clue therefrom, he developed the argument that for the first time, w.e.f.	Arguments of Respondent
May 14, 2015, reimbursement of expenditure or cost incurred by the service provider gets included under the expression consideration?, which legal regime did not prevail prior to May 14, 2015.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, for the period in question, the consideration? was having limited sphere, viz.	Arguments of Respondent
It was only in respect of taxable services provided or to be provided.	Arguments of Respondent
On that basis, submission was that for the period in question that is covered by these appeals, there could not be any service tax on reimbursed expenses as Section 67 of the Act did not provide for such an inclusion.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Mittal also referred to para 2.4 of Circular Instructions F. No. B43/5/97TRU dated June 6, 1997 wherein it is clarified that various other reimbursable expenses incurred are not to be included for computing the service tax?.	Arguments of Respondent
17.	None
Coming to the main arguments revolving around Sections 66 and 67, he submitted that the High Court was right in holding that as per Section 66 which was a charging section, service tax is to be charged only on the value of taxable services?.	Arguments of Respondent
Likewise, Section 67 which deals with valuation of taxable service categorically mentions that it was only on the gross amount charged for providing such?	Arguments of Respondent
a taxable service.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, any amount collected which is not for providing such taxable service could not be brought within the tax net.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, w.e.f.	Arguments of Respondent
April 18, 2006, as per Explanation (c) to Section 67,?gross amount charged?includes payment by cheque, credit card, deduction from account and any form of payment by issue of credit notes or debit notes and book adjustment, and any amount credited or debited, as the case may be, to any account, whether called?Suspense account?or by any other name, in the books of accounts of a person liable to pay service tax, where the transaction of taxable service is with any associated enterprise.?	Arguments of Respondent
Whereas prior to April 18, 2006, as per Explanation 3 to Section 67, ?	Arguments of Respondent
For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the gross amount charged for the taxable service shall include any amount received towards the taxable service before, during or after provision of such service.?Thus, levy on taxable services were not levied at once, but tax was levied at different point of time, tax was levied on difference person and also values in many taxable services was substantially exempted.	Arguments of Respondent
He demonstrated it from the following table Chart 18.	None
Following judgments were referred to and relied upon by Mr. Mittal for placating the aforesaid submissions(a)	None
In the first instance, reference was made to the Constitution Bench judgment in the case of Mathuram Agrawal v. State of Madhya Pradesh 6 wherein this Court held ?	None
12.	None
The statute should clearly and unambiguously convey the three components of the tax law i.e. the subject of the tax, the person who is liable to pay the tax and the rate at which the tax is to be paid.	None
If there is any ambiguity regarding any of these ingredients in a taxation statute then there is no tax in law.	None
Then it is for the legislature to do the needful in the matter.?	None
(b) The learned counsel also relied upon the following observations in case of Govind Saran Ganga Saran v. Commissioner of Sales Tax Ors. 7	None
?6.	None
The components which enter into the concept of a tax are well known.	None
The first is the character of the imposition known by its nature which prescribes the taxable event attracting the levy, the second is a clear indication of the person on whom the levy is imposed and who is obliged to pay the tax, the third is the rate at which the tax is imposed, and the fourth is the measure or value to which the rate will be applied for computing the tax liability.	None
If those components are not clearly and definitely ascertainable, it is difficult to say that the levy exists in point of law.	None
Any uncertainty or vagueness in the legislative scheme defining any of those components of the levy will be fatal to its validity.?19.	None
The learned counsel reiterated that such an ambiguity in law is now cured by amendment to Section 67 only w.e.f.	Arguments of Respondent
May 14, 2015.	Arguments of Respondent
20.	None
We have duly considered the aforesaid submissions made by the learned counsel for the Department as well as the counsel for the assessees.	None
As can be seen, these submissions are noted in respect of Civil Appeal No. 2013 of 2014 where the assessee is providing consulting engineering services?.	None
In other appeals,though the nature of services is somewhat different, it doesn?t alter the colour of legal issue, in any manner.	None
In the course of providing those services, the assessees had incurred certain expenses which were reimbursed by the service recepient.	None
These expenses were not included for the purpose of valuation, while paying the service tax.	None
Thus, the question for determination which is posed in Civil Appeal No. 2013 of 2014, answer to that would govern the outcome of the other appeals as well.	None
Still, for the sake of completeness, we may give a brief resume of all these cases.	None
Chart 21.	None
Undoubtedly, Rule 5 of the Rules, 2006 brings within its sweep the expenses which are incurred while rendering the service and are reimbursed, that is, for which the service receiver has made the payments to the assessees.	None
As per these Rules, these reimbursable expenses also form part of gross amount charged?.	None
Therefore, the core issue is as to whether Section 67 of the Act permits the subordinate legislation to be enacted in the said manner, as done by Rule 5.	None
As noted above, prior to April 19, 2006, i.e., in the absence of any such Rule, the valuation was to be done as per the provisions of Section 67 of the Act.	None
22.	None
Section 66 of the Act is the charging Section which reads as under?there shall be levy of tax (hereinafter referred to as the service tax) 12 of the value of taxable services referred to in subclauses of Section 65 and collected in such manner as may be prescribed.?23.	None
Obviously, this Section refers to service tax, i.e., in respect of those services which are taxable and specifically referred to in various subclauses of Section 65.	Reasoning
Further, it also specifically mentions that the service tax will be 12 of the value of taxable services?.	Reasoning
Thus, service tax is reference to the value of service.	None
As a necessary corollary, it is the value of the services which are actually rendered, the value whereof is to be ascertained for the purpose of calculating the service tax payable thereupon.	Reasoning
24.	None
In this hue, the expression such?	Reasoning
occurring in Section 67 of the Act assumes importance.	None
In other words, valuation of taxable services for charging service tax, the authorities are to find what is the gross amount charged for providing such? taxable services.	Reasoning
As a fortiori, any other amount which is calculated not for providing such taxable service cannot a part of that valuation as that amount is not calculated for providing such taxable service?.	Reasoning
That according to us is the plain meaning which is to be attached to Section 67 (unamended, i.e., prior to May 01, 2006) or after its amendment, with effect from, May 01, 2006.	Reasoning
Once this interpretation is to be given to Section 67, it hardly needs to be emphasised that Rule 5 of the Rules went much beyond the mandate of Section 67.	Reasoning
We, therefore, find that High Court was right in interpreting Sections 66 and 67 to say that in the valuation of taxable service, the value of taxable service shall be the gross amount charged by the service provider for such service?	Reasoning
and the valuation of tax service cannot be anything more or less than the consideration paid as quid pro qua for rendering such a service.	None
25.	None
This position did not change even in the amended Section 67 which was inserted on May 01, 2006.	None
Subsection (4) of Section 67 empowers the rule making authority to lay down the manner in which value of taxable service is to be determined.	Reasoning
However, Section 67(4) is expressly made subject to the provisions of sub section (1).	Reasoning
Mandate of subsection (1) of Section 67 is manifest, as noted above, viz., the service tax is to be paid only on the services actually provided by the service provider.	Reasoning
26.	None
It is trite that rules cannot go beyond the statute.	None
In Babaji Kondaji Garad, this rule was enunciated in the following manner?Now if there is any conflict between a statute and the subordinate legislation, it does not require elaborate reasoning to firmly state that the statute prevails over subordinate legislation and the bye law, if not in conformity with the statute in order to give effect to the statutory provision the Rule or byelaw has to be ignored.	None
The statutory provision ahs precedence and must be complied with.?27.	None
The aforesaid principle is reiterated in Chenniappa Mudaliar holding that a rule which comes in conflict with the main enactment has to give way to the provisions of the Act.	None
28.	None
It is also well established principle that Rules are framed for achieving the purpose behind the provisions of the Act, as held in Taj Mahal Hotel the Rules were meant only for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the Act and they could not take away what was conferred by the Act or whittle down its effect.?	None
29.	None
In the present case, the aforesaid view gets strengthened from the manner in which the Legislature itself acted.	Reasoning
Realising that Section 67, dealing with valuation of taxable services, does not include reimbursable expenses for providing such service, the Legislature amended by Finance Act, 2015 with effect from May 14, 2015, whereby Clause (a) which deals with consideration?	Reasoning
is suitably amended to include reimbursable expenditure or cost incurred by the service provider and charged, in the course of providing or agreeing to provide a taxable service.	Reasoning
Thus, only with effect from May 14, 2015, by virtue of provisions of Section 67 itself, such reimbursable expenditure or cost would also form part of valuation of taxable services for charging service tax.	Reasoning
Though, it was not argued by the learned counsel for the Department that Section 67 is a declaratory provision, nor could it be argued so, as we find that this is a substantive change brought about with the amendment to Section 67 and, therefore, has to be prospective in nature.	Reasoning
On this aspect of the matter, we may usefully refer to the Constitution Bench judgment in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax (Central)I, New Delhi v. Vatika Township Private Limited 8 wherein it was observed as under?27.	None
A legislation, be it a statutory Act or a statutory rule or a statutory notification, may physically consists of words printed on papers.	None
However, conceptually it is a great deal more than an ordinary prose.	None
There is a special peculiarity in the mode of verbal communication by a legislation.	None
A legislation is not just a series of statements, such as one finds in a work of fiction nonfiction or even in a judgment of a court of law.	None
There is a technique required to draft a legislation as well as to understand a legislation.	None
Former technique is known as legislative drafting and latter one is to be found in the various principles of?interpretation of statutes?.	None
Visvis ordinary prose, a legislation differs in its provenance, layout and features as also in the implication as to its meaning that arise by presumptions as to the intent of the maker thereof.	None
28.	None
Of the various rules guiding how a legislation has to be interpreted, one established rule is that unless a contrary intention appears, a legislation is presumed not to be intended to have a retrospective operation.	None
The idea behind the rule is that a current law should govern current activities.	None
Law passed today cannot apply to the events of the past.	None
If we do something today, we do it keeping in view the law of today and in force and not tomorrows backward adjustment of it.	None
Our belief in the nature of the law is founded on the bedrock that every human being is entitled to arrange his affairs by relying on the existing law and should not find that his plans have been retrospectively upset.	None
This principle of law is known as lex prospicit non respicit law looks forward not backward.	None
As was observed in Phillips v. Eyre (1870)	None
LR 6 QB 1 , a retrospective legislation is contrary to the general principle that legislation by which the conduct of mankind is to be regulated when introduced for the first time to deal with future acts ought not to change the character of past transactions carried on upon the faith of the then existing law.	None
29.	None
The obvious basis of the principle against retrospectivity is the principle of?fairness?	None
, which must be the basis of every legal rule as was observed in LOffice Cherifien des Phosphates v.	None
YamashitaShinnihon Steamship Co. Ltd.	None
Thus, legislations which modified accrued rights or which impose obligations or impose new duties or attach a new disability have to be treated as prospective unless the legislative intent is clearly to give the enactment a retrospective effect unless the legislation is for purpose of supplying an obvious omission in a former legislation or to explain a former legislation.	None
We need not note the cornucopia of case law available on the subject because aforesaid legal position clearly emerges from the various decisions and this legal position was conceded by the counsel for the parties.	None
In any case, we shall refer to few judgments containing this dicta, a little later.?	None
30.	None
As a result, we do not find any merit in any of those appeals which are accordingly dismissed.	Decision
CIVIL APPEAL NO. 6865 OF 2014, CIVIL APPEAL NO. 6864 OF 2014,	None
CIVIL APPEAL NO. 4975 OF 2016, CIVIL APPEAL NO.	None
5130 OF 2016 AND CIVIL APPEAL NOS.	None
45364537 OF 2016 31.	None
In the aforesaid appeals, the issue is as to whether the value of free supplies of diesel and explosives in respect of the service of Site Formation and Clearance Service?	None
can be included for the purpose of assessment to service tax under Section 67 of the Act.	Issue
These assessees had not availed the benefit of aforesaid Notifications Nos. 15/2004 and 4/2005.	None
Therefore, the issue has to be adjudged simply by referring to Section 67 of the Act.	None
We have already held above that the value of such material which is supplied free by the service recipient cannot be treated as gross amount charged?	Reasoning
and that is not the consideration?	Reasoning
for rendering the services.	Reasoning
Therefore, value of free supplies of diesel and explosives would not warrant inclusion while arriving at the gross amount charged on its service tax is to be paid.	Reasoning
Therefore, all these appeals are also dismissed.	None
TRANSFER PETITION (CIVIL) NOS.	None
10431045 OF 2017 TRANSFER PETITION (CIVIL) NOS.	None
19321934 OF 2017 32.	None
These transfer petitions are allowed and the writ petitions mentioned in the prayer clause, which are pending before the High Court of Madras, are transferred to this Court.	Decision
33.	None
The transferred writs are also disposed of in terms of the judgment rendered above in Civil Appeal No. 2013 of 2014 and other connected matters.	Decision
