 ORDER DATED 7.07.2015 HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE T.S. THAKUR HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE ANIL R. DAVE HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE A.K. SIKRI) (2017) 4 SCC 599 A. Nos.6870, 7173 and 7476 of 2015 Learned counsel for the nonapplicants given two days time to file their response to this application.	None
Mr. Pardeep Kant, learned senior counsel for the applicant may take instructions whether the applicants are ready and willing to deposit a sum of Rs. 64,00,00,000/ (Rupees Sixty Four crores only) as the first instalment and the balance offered by him either in one or more instalments over a period of time.	Decision
Mr. A.S.Chandiok, learned senior counsel who appears for the proposed buyer of the property situate at Gorakhpur has shown to us a Demand draft for Rs. 12,80,00,000/ (Rupees Twelve Crores and Eighty Lakhs only) and a cheque for a sum of Rs.	Reasoning
50,56,00,000/ (Rupees Fifty Crores and Fifty six lakhs only) drawn in favour of the SEBI.	Reasoning
While there is no doubt that the demand draft shall be payable at par, the availability of funds in the account of drawer 3 insofar as the cheque is concerned needs to be verified.	Reasoning
Mr. Chandiok may, therefore file a certificate from the Bank concerned stating that the cheque in question is good for payment as that the drawer has the requisite funds in his account.	Decision
Mr. Chandiok may also file reply to these application.	Decision
Mr. Pardeep Kant on instructions submits that in order to show their bonafides the applicant is ready to deposit a sum of Rs. 11,00,00,000/ (Rupees Eleven Crores only) in this Court in terms of a bank draft drawn in the name of Registrar of this Court.	Decision
He is permitted to do so.	Decision
Post on 13.07.2015 at 2.00 P.M. ORDER DATED 28.09.2016 HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE T.S. THAKUR HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE ANIL R. DAVE HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE A.K. SIKRI) (2017) 4 SCC 600	None
We have heard Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondentscontemnors, M s Shekhar Naphade, learned Amicus Curiae and Arvind Datar, learned senior counsel appearing for SEBI.	None
Mr. Arvind Datar submits that out of eight properties offered for sale, six were already attached by the Incometax Department.	Arguments of Petitioner
The result was that only two properties could be sold by SEBI for a total amount of Rs. 61.44/ crores which amount has been credited to the SEBI Sahara Refund Account.	Arguments of Petitioner
Regarding the remaining six properties, although certain amounts were received by SEBI from the prospective purchasers, SEBI is going to refund the amount back to the prospective purchasers.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that 13 other items of property which are unencumbered have been advertised for sale on E auction and the progress made on that front shall be reported to this Court by the next date of hearing.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sibal seeks some time to verify whether Saharas were aware of the attachment orders passed qua 47 properties out of a list of 60 furnished by them for sale through SEBI and, if so, the reason why the fact of such properties being already attached may not disclosed to this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
He further submits that instead of depositing the balance amount in small instalments, Saharas propose to liquidate the liability in lump in which connection they are prepared to file a roadmap scheme within a period of one month.	Arguments of Respondent
He submits that Saharas will support the scheme so filed by an undertaking that the balance amount recoverable from them shall be deposited in terms of the said scheme without fail.	Arguments of Respondent
He prays for time till 24th October, 2016 to furnish the scheme roadmap proposed by him and submits that the interim arrangement already made could be continued till that date in modification of our Order dated 23.09.2016.	Arguments of Respondent
3.	Arguments of Respondent
There is some confusion about the total amount payable by Saharas and the amount actually deposited by them so far.	Reasoning
The figures being cited at the Bar need reconciliation.	Reasoning
We direct that Saharas shall reconcile the figures with SEBI and file a joint statement as to the amount already deposited.	Decision
SEBI may also after giving credit of the amount so deposited indicate the balance amount towards principal and interest due on the same before the next date of hearing.	Decision
We have in the past while extending the interim arrangement directed deposit of a certain amount towards the liquidation of the outstanding liability.	Reasoning
Saharas have complied with the said direction regarding deposit.	Reasoning
In the circumstances and keeping in view the fact that even SEBI and Amicus agree to a road map being examined by this Court for liquidation of the balance liability, we extend the interim arrangement already made till 26th October, 2016 on the condition that the Saharas contemnors shall deposit with SEBI a further sum of Rs.	Decision
200/ crores (Rupees Two hundred Crores only) during the intervening period.	Decision
We make it clear that in case the deposit is not made, the Saharas shall stand committed to jail on 26th October, 2016, the date fixed for the next hearing.	Decision
I.As.	Decision
No. 221223 of 2016 are disposed of accordingly.	Decision
Post I.As No. 8385 of 2015, 104105 of 2015 etc. again on 24th October, 2016 at 2 P.M. ORDER DATED 28.11.2016 (HONBLE CHIEF JUSTICE MR.	None
T.S. THAKUR HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE RANJAN GOGOI HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE A.K. SIKRI) (2017) 4 SCC 601 Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior appearing for Saharas has today filed in the Court an I.A. offering to pay the amount recoverable from Saharas in terms of our previous orders as per a Payment Plan enclosed with I.A. as Annexure1.	Arguments of Respondent
2.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Arvind Datar, learned senior counsel appearing for SEBI and Mr. Shekhar Naphade, learned Amicus Curiae seek time to respond to the same.	Decision
They are free to file their objections to this I.A. within four weeks from today with an advance copy to the counsel opposite.	Decision
Post I.A.	Decision
No of 2016 on Monday i.e. 06.02.2017 at 2 P.M. Mr. Kapil Sibal, in the meantime, prays for continuance of the interim arrangement made by us by our Order dated 11.05.2016.	Issue
He submits that he has on all previous occasions, when the said arrangement was extended, complied with the directions of this Court regarding deposit of the stipulated amount.	Arguments of Respondent
In the circumstances, we direct that the interim arrangement made by our Orders dated 06.05.016 and 11.05.2016 shall continue till 06.02.2017 subject to the Saharas depositing in the Sahara SEBI Refund Account a further amount of Rs.	Decision
600,00,00,000/ (Rupees Six hundred crores only).	Decision
Needless to say, in case the deposit is not made, the contemnors shall be committed to prison as before.	Decision
At this stage Mr. Sibal argues that since the money which the Saharas have to deposit has to be raised by selling immoveable assets and since this Court has imposed a restriction as to the consideration for which the properties can be sold namely 90 of the circle rate prescribed for such properties, the Saharas may not find purchasers if that condition remains operative.	Arguments of Respondent
He submits that this Court could relax the condition to enable the Saharas to sell the properties at a price less than the circle rates.	Arguments of Respondent
We are not for the present inclined to modify the direction already issued by us as to the rate at which the Saharas shall sell their properties.	Reasoning
We, however, make it clear that in any given case, if there is a proposal to sell any item at a price less than 90 of the circle rate, the Saharas shall be free to apply for permission of the Court in which event this Court would pass appropriate orders after hearing learned counsel for SEBI.	Decision
Mr. Arvind Datar, learned counsel for SEBI submits that the Saharas are permitted to sell the property situate at Bahriach.	Arguments of Petitioner
Applicant in I.A. Nos. 212214 who happened to be the purchaser of the said property, according to Mr. Datar, had offered to deposit the balance amount of Rs. 20,25,00,000/ towards the sale consideration with SEBI on or before 20.11.2016.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that the needful has not been done by the purchaser and that the Saharas ought to deposit the balance amount, if they have received the same or refrain from executing the sale deed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sibal seeks time to verify the facts and to take necessary steps for ensuring deposit of the balance sale consideration in the SEBI account.	Decision
He is given four weeks time for the purpose.	Decision
In case the sale deed has not been executed by the Saharas in favour of the purchaser of the Bahriach property, no sale deed shall be executed unless the deposit of the amount is ensured.	Decision
A. No. 239 of 2016 Issue notice to the learned counsel for SEBI and to Mr. Shekhar Naphade, learned Amicus who may file their objections within four weeks.	Decision
A. No. 188189 of 2016 Learned counsel for the applicant seeks leave to withdraw I.A. Nos. 188189.	Decision
I.As.	Decision
No.188189 of 2016 are dismissed as withdrawn accordingly.	Decision
As No. 240243 of 2016 Issue notice.	None
Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel appearing for Saharas seeks time to file objections to I.As No. 240243.	Decision
Applicants shall also file a copy of the consumer complaint filed before the State Consumer Commission at Nagpur in the meantime.	Decision
A. No. 131 of 2016 A report has been received from Honble Mr. Justice B.N. Agrawal in terms of our Order dated 27.04.2016.	Decision
Learned counsel for the parties shall be given a copy of the same who may respond before the next date of hearing.	Decision
A. No. 215 of 2016 Mr. K.V. Viswanathan, learned senior counsel for the applicant seeks leave to withdraw I.A.No.	Issue
215 of 2016 reserving liberty for the applicant to seek such other redress in appropriate proceedings as is permissible in accordance with law.	Issue
A. No. 227 of 2016 Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel for applicant prays for and is granted four weeks time to file objections to I.A. No. 227 of 2016.	Decision
Post on Monday i.e. 06.02.2017 at 2 P.M. ORDER DATED 12.01.2017 (HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE DIPAK MISRA HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE RANJAN GOGOI HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE A.K. SIKRI) (2017) 4 SCC 603	None
This is an application seeking modification of the order dated 28th November, 2016, to the extent that it relates to the direction to deposit Rs.600 crores (Rupees six hundred crores only) by 6th February, 2017.	Issue
It is apt to note here that on 28th November, 2016, with regard to the order which is sought to be modified, this Court had directed as follows In the circumstances, we direct that the interim arrangement made by our orders dated 06.05.2016 and 11.05.2016 shall continue till 06.02.2017 subject to the Saharas depositing in the Sahara SEBI Refund Account a further amount of Rs.600,00,00,000/ (Rupees six hundred crores only).	Facts
Needless to say, in case the deposit is not made, the contemnors shall be committed to prison as before.	Decision
Having heard Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel appearing for the applicantrespondent and Mr. Arvind P. Datar, learned senior counsel along with Mr. Pratap Venugopal, learned counsel for the petitioner, Securities and Exchange Board of India (S.E.B.I.) and Mr. Shekhar Naphade, learned Amicus Curiae, we are not inclined to extend the time.	None
Needless to say, what has been mentioned in the earlier order, that if the Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Ltd., does not deposit the amount, the contemnors shall be committed to prison as before, is reiterated.	Decision
At this juncture, Mr. Sibal, learned senior counsel has submitted that permission was granted vide order dated 11th July, 2016, to transfer twentyfour million pounds equivalent to Rs.200 crores lying in Saharas account in a London bank, which the Sahara wishes to transfer to SEBI in discharge of its liability and the said prayer was accepted as it was not contested by Mr. Datar, learned senior counsel for the SEBI.	Arguments of Respondent
4.	None
Referring to the said order, it is urged by Mr. Sibal that the contemnors may be permitted to transfer thirtyfive million pounds equivalent to Rs.285 crores (Rupees two hundred eightyfive crores only) lying in Saharas account in London bank.	Arguments of Respondent
On a query being made, Mr. Datar, learned senior counsel appearing for SEBI and Mr. Rana Mukherjee, learned senior counsel appearing for the Union of India respectively, have stated that they have no objection for transfer of the money in SEBI Sahara Refund Account.	Arguments of Petitioner
The permission is granted accordingly.	Decision
The other directions remain undisturbed.	Decision
The interlocutory application seeking modification of the order dated 28th November, 2016, stands dismissed.	Decision
Let other interlocutory applications forming the subject matter of I.A. Nos.247, 251 and 252 of 2017 be listed at 3.00 p.m. on 7th February, 2017.	Decision
ORDER DATED 06.02. 2017 (HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE DIPAK MISRA HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE RANJAN GOGOI HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE A.K. SIKRI) (2017) 4 SCC 604 On 12th January, 2017, this Court, after referring to the earlier order dated 28th November, 2016, dismissed the application for extension of time to deposit Rs. 600 crores.	Facts
Be it noted, on that day, it was submitted by Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel appearing for the contemnors that they may be permitted to transfer thirtyfive million pounds equivalent to Rs. 285 crores (Rupees two hundred eightyfive crores only) lying in Saharas account in London bank.	Facts
After hearing Mr. Arvind P. Datar, learned senior counsel for the SEBI and Mr. Rana Mukherjee, learned senior counsel appearing for the Union of India, this Court granted the permission.	Facts
In pursuance of the aforesaid order, Rs. 295 crores (Rupees two hundred ninetyfive crores only) has been transferred which is equivalent to thirtyfive million pounds.	Facts
Today, Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel being assisted by Mr. Gautam Awasthi, learned counsel for the contemnors, has handed over ten bank drafts amounting to Rs. 2,862,750,000/ to Mr. Pratap Venugopal, learned counsel appearing for the SEBI.	Reasoning
That apart, two deposit slips have also been handed over to the learned counsel for the SEBI.	Reasoning
In essence, the order passed on 28th November, 2016, stands complied with.	Reasoning
The question that emerges for consideration is with regard to payment of entire principal sum.	None
The issue of amount of interest shall be adverted to after deposit of the principal amount.	Reasoning
Mr. Sibal, learned senior counsel has given a road map stating, inter alia, that the principal amount shall be cleared by end of July, 2019.	Arguments of Respondent
It is apt to note here that the learned counsel appearing for the SEBI has filed an application for attachment of properties of the contemnors.	Arguments of Petitioner
Having heard learned counsel for the parties, as advised at present, we direct that the contemnors shall file a list of properties that can be put to public auction.	Decision
Needless to emphasize that the properties suggested for public auction shall be free from any encumbrance.	Decision
Needless to say, any encumbrance means it shall not be encumbered in any manner whatsoever.	Decision
The said list be positively filed on or before 27th February, 2017, after giving a copy to the learned counsel for SEBI and Mr. Shekhar Naphade, learned Amicus Curiae.	Decision
A copy of the same shall also be handed over to Mr. Maninder Singh, learned Additional Solicitor General and Mr. Rana Mukherjee, learned senior counsel appearing for the Union of India.	Decision
At this stage, it is obligatory to note, as submitted by Mr. Pratap Venugopal, learned counsel appearing for SEBI, which has been echoed in similar voice by Mr. Naphade, learned Amicus Curiae, that the contemnors who own a property situate at Aamby Valley City, Pune, Maharashtra, would be sufficient for realization of the whole amount.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Venugopal, insisted that the property should be attached so that the contemnors shall make all endeavour to deposit the amount with SEBI.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said submission is seriously opposed by Mr. Sibal, learned senior counsel for the contemnors.	None
7.	None
Having heard learned counsel for the parties, we are of the convinced opinion that the property situated at Aamby Valley City, Pune, should be attached and, accordingly, it is so ordered.	Decision
The interim arrangement shall remain in force till the next date of hearing.	Decision
Let the matter be listed at 2.00 p.m. on 27th February, 2017.	Decision
All the interlocutory applications shall be considered after the said date.	Decision
ORDER DATED 28.02.	None
2017 (HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE DIPAK MISRA HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE RANJAN GOGOI HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE A.K. SIKRI) (2017) 4 SCC 605 This Court on 6th February, 2017, had directed the contemnor to file a list of properties that can be put to public auction.	Facts
At that time, it was categorically mentioned that the properties should be free from any encumbrance.	Facts
In pursuance of the said order, a list of properties has been filed which has been categorized as Part A and	Facts
Part B. Part A contains list of fifteen properties which are stated to be free from encumbrances and Part B, as is admitted, includes some of the properties which have been encumbered.	Facts
As we had thought of putting the properties to auction, we think it appropriate to mention the list of properties contained in Part A.	Facts
It is as follows Sahara Hospital, Lucknow Sahara India Sadan Shakespear Sarani, Kolkatta Land at Sohna Road, Gurgaon Land at Najafgarh, Delhi Sahara City Homes at Indore Sahara City Homes at Lucknow Sahara City Homes at Coimbatore Sahara States, Bhopal Sahara City Homes at Guna Sahara City Homes, Land at Katni, M.P. Sahara City Homes, Land at Haridwar, Uttaranchal Sahara City Homes, Land at Pune, Maharashtra Land Building at Whiltefield, Bangalore Stake in Orange India Holdings Sarl, Silverstone, London Land at Ghaziabad As far as Item No.14 is concerned, it is actually a property having stake in a particular holding and, therefore, Mr. Arvind P. Datar, learned senior counsel appearing for the S.E.B.I. has submitted that being an immovable property it can never be put to auction and, therefore, that should be excluded.	None
As far as Item No.15 is concerned, as the remarks column would reflect, it is a property in which compensation has been awarded in favour of the contemnor and the same has to be computed in accordance with the directions given in the award as per the order passed in S.L.P.(C) No.16609 of 2010.	None
At this stage, we enquired from Mr. Datar, learned senior counsel, who is being assisted by Mr. Pratap Venugopal, learned counsel appearing for the S.E.B.I. as to how long will it take to conduct auction in respect of the rest of the properties.	None
Mr. Datar has submitted that earlier on two agencies, namely, SBI Capses, a subsidiary of the State Bank of India and the HDFC Bank, were appointed by this Court to conduct the eauction, but they could not really sell the properties by way of eauction as far as some of the properties are concerned, that is, Item Nos.5 to 11.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is his further submission that it is difficult to conduct auction and fetch money and, therefore, the contemnor may be directed to sell the properties and deposit the money with S.E.B.I.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Arvind P. Datar, learned senior counsel has submitted that the contemnor is at liberty to sell any property situate in Part B or anywhere else, subject to that the consideration should not be less than 90 of the guideline value circle rate.	Arguments of Petitioner
At this juncture, Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel appearing for the contemnors submitted that if the contemnor is allowed to sell the properties, as mentioned in Part A, he will be able to do it and for that purpose, he needs six months.	None
Having deliberated at length, we are not inclined to grant six months time.	Reasoning
Be it stated, the learned senior counsel appearing for the contemnor has stated that the properties in Part A are likely to fetch Rs. 6715.34 crores.	Reasoning
From the aforesaid amount, the compensation amount in respect of the land situate at Ghaziabad, U.P., that is, Rs. 1112.70 crores and Rs. 510.00 crores, the stake holding amount, have to be deducted.	Reasoning
After deducting the same, the amount comes to Rs. 5092.64 crores.	Reasoning
Be it noted, we have been apprised By Mr. Ramesh Babu, learned counsel appearing for the Reserve Bank of India that it has filed a winding up petition against Sahara India Financial Corporation Limited and, therefore, the contemnor should not sell any property belonging to the said company.	Reasoning
Having instructed by Mr. Narendra Hooda, learned senior counsel, Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel appearing for the contemnor has submitted that that they will not alienate any property belonging to that company.	Arguments of Respondent
If any property that is encumbered by any statutory authority is sold, it will be the duty and obligation of the contemnor to make the public aware about it.	Arguments of Respondent
9.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of the aforesaid, we permit the contemnor to sell the properties mentioned in Part A barring the property at Item No.15, and any other properties mentioned in Part B and other properties which are not encumbered and deposit Rs. 5092.64 crores on or before 13th April, 2017.	Decision
The amount shall be deposited in SEBI Sahara Refund Account.	Decision
In case, the substantial amount is deposited, this Court may think of extending the time, otherwise appropriate direction shall be issued.	Decision
At this stage, one aspect is required to be dealt with.	None
As is evident from Part A, item No.15, the land at Ghaziabad admeasures 91.65 acres.	Reasoning
We have been apprised at the Bar that the same has been acquired by the Ghaziabad Development Authority and the price, as stated in the Annexure, is Rs. 1112.70 crores.	Reasoning
It is submitted by the learned senior counsel for the contemnor that the same is payable to him along with interest.	Reasoning
To appreciate the said submission, it is obligatory on the part of the Court to offer an opportunity of hearing to the Ghaziabad Development Authority.	Decision
Let notice be issued to the said authority within a week hence.	Decision
The requisites in that regard be filed by the petitioner, S.E.B.I., within three days from today.	Decision
The competent authority of the Ghaziabad Development Authority shall bring the computation in regard to the compensation awarded and remain personally present on 17th April, 2017 before this Court.	Decision
The Registry is directed to send a copy of this order to the competent authority of the Ghaziabad Development Authority.	Decision
In a case of this nature, surprises are bound to spring up.	None
Mr. Sriram P., learned counsel has submitted that he has instructions from an International Real Estate Company, namely, MG Capital Holdings LLC, which is prepared to purchase the Plaza Hotel at New York,	Reasoning
U.S.A. The company intends to offer 550 million US dollars for the stake of Sahara in that hotel.	Reasoning
However, he wanted that he may be permitted to do due diligence and that should be granted by the contemnor.	Reasoning
Though the submission advanced by Mr. Sriram appears quite innocuous, it cannot be so perceived.	Reasoning
Once he intends to get into the fray, a fiscal one, he must be financially prepared.	Reasoning
The permission can only be granted if he deposits a sum of Rs. 750 crores before the Registry of this Court on or before 17th April, 2017.	Decision
In addition, he may supply the details of the company to Mr. Narendra Hooda, learned senior counsel assisting Mr. Kapil Sibal so that the credentials of the company can be verified.	Facts
The interim order passed on the earlier occasion to continue till the next date of hearing.	Decision
ORDER DATED 21.03.	None
2017 (HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE DIPAK MISRA HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE RANJAN GOGOI HONBLE MR.	None
JUSTICE A.K. SIKRI) (2017) 4 SCC 608	None
This Court vide order dated 28th February, 2017, taking note of the submissions of Mr. Sriram Parakkat, learned counsel appearing for the applicant in I.A. No.247 of 2017, had directed as follows In a case of this nature, surprises are bound to spring up.	Facts
Mr. Sriram P., learned counsel has submitted that he has instructions from an International Real Estate Company, namely, MG Capital Holdings LLC, which is prepared to purchase the Plaza Hotel at New York,	Reasoning
U.S.A. The company intends to offer 550 million US dollars for the stake of Sahara in that hotel.	Reasoning
However, he wanted that he may be permitted to do due diligence and that should be granted by the contemnor.	Reasoning
Though the submission advanced by Mr. Sriram appears quite innocuous, it cannot be so perceived.	Reasoning
Once he intends to get into the fray, a fiscal one, he must be financially prepared.	Reasoning
The permission can only be granted if he deposits a sum of Rs. 750 crores before the Registry of this Court on or before 17th April, 2017.	Decision
In addition, he may supply the details of the company to Mr. Narendra Hooda, learned senior counsel assisting Mr. Kapil Sibal so that the credentials of the company can be verified.	Facts
It is submitted by Mr. Sriram Parakkat, learned counsel that without the account number, the applicant is not in a position to transmit the amount.	Arguments of Respondent
At this juncture, it is submitted by Mr. Pratap Venugopal, learned counsel assisting Mr. Arvind P. Datar, learned senior counsel appearing for the S.E.B.I. that the amount can be transmitted to the SEBI Sahara Refund Account, the particulars of which are as under SEBI Sahara Refund Account No.012210110003740 Bank of India Bandra  Kurla Complex Branch, Mumbai.	Arguments of Petitioner
By virtue of the order passed today, the earlier order stands modified to the extent that the amount of Rs. 750 crores (Rupees seven hundred fifty crores only) shall be deposited in the SEBI Sahara Refund Account, but the time fixed in the previous order i.e. 17th April, 2017, remains undisturbed.	Decision
Let the matter be listed at 2.00 p.m. at 17th April, 2017, as directed on the previous occasion.	Decision
