 This appeal, by certificate, is directed against the judgment of the Madras High Court dated 2211982 in Tax Case No. 407 of 1977.	Issue
The Kotagiri Industrial Cooperative Tea Factory Ltd., the respondent (hereinafter referred to as the assessee) is a cooperative society.	Facts
It carries on business in the manufacture and sale of tea from bought tea leaves and the purchase and supply of agricultural manure to the members.	Facts
It is also deriving income from dividends from investments with other cooperative societies.	Facts
In the previous year relevant to the Assessment Year 197273 the assessee earned a total income of Rs. 85, 150.	Facts
The losses of the earlier year which had been carried forward to the said assessment year were Rs. 1, 82, 744.	Facts
The assessee claimed a deduction of Rs. 53, 386 under Section 80P(2) from the income of Rs. 85, 150.	Facts
The Income Tax Officer first set off the losses of the previous years that had been carried forward against the income and since the losses were in excess of the income, he held that no deduction was permissible under Section 80P of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Facts
The said view of the Income Tax Officer was not accepted by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner who held that deduction under Section 80P should first be made out of the income and thereafter the losses of the previous year were to be set off.	Facts
The said decision of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner was affirmed in appeal by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as the Tribunal).	Facts
The Tribunal referred the following question for the opinion of the High Court Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Appellate Tribunal was right in law in holding that the deduction under Section 80P of the Income Tax Act should be allowed before setoff of unabsorbed losses of earlier year ?	Facts
The said question has been answered by the High Court against the Revenue.	Facts
In the impugned judgment the High Court has followed its earlier decision in CIT v. Katpadi Coop.	Facts
Timber Works Ltd.(Mad))	Facts
wherein the High Court had held that so long as the gross total income of a cooperative society includes income referable to the activities mentioned in Section 80P(2)	Facts
the assessee would be eligible for the deduction and it is only if there is any amount left thereafter that could be the subject of consideration of setoff of carriedforward losses.	Facts
The High Court followed the decision of this Court in Cloth Traders (P) Ltd. v. CIT as well as its own decision in CIT v. Venkatachalam (Mad))	Facts
Dr. V. Gauri Shankar, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Revenue, has submitted that the High Court was in error in proceeding on the basis that the deduction under Section 80P must be made before the adjustment of the losses of the previous year under Section 72 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel has placed reliance on the definition of the expression gross total income contained in Section 80B(5) and has contended that the decision in Cloth Traders (P) Ltd. has since been reversed by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Distributors (Baroda) (P) Ltd. v. Union of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dr. Gauri Shankar has also invited our attention to the recent decision in H. H. Sir Rama Varma v. CIT Ms Janaki Ramachandran, the learned counsel appearing for the assessee, has also placed reliance on certain observations in Distributors (Baroda) (P) Ltd. and has submitted that since the matter relates to a cooperative society and it is the policy of the legislature to encourage the cooperative movement the provisions of Section 80P, which have been enacted in furtherance of this policy to encourage and promote the growth of cooperative societies, must be liberally construed in favour of the assessee.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel has placed reliance on the decision of this Court in Broach Distt.	Arguments of Respondent
Coop.	Arguments of Respondent
Cotton Sales Ginning and Pressing Society Ltd. v. CIT Reference may be made at this stage to the provisions of Section 80P which falls in Chapter VIA of the Act.	None
Subsection (1) of Section 80P, which is relevant for the purpose of the case, provides as follows 80P. (1) Where in the case of an assessee being a cooperative society, the gross total income includes any income referred to in subsection (2), there shall be deducted, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of this section, the sums specified in subsection (2), in computing the total income of the assessee.	None
For the purpose of Chapter VIA the expression gross total income is defined in clause (5) of Section 80B in the following terms gross total income means the total income computed in accordance with the provisions of this Act, before making any deduction under this Chapter.	None
If Section 80P(1) is read with the definition of the expression gross total income contained in Section 80B(5), it has to be held that for the purpose of making deduction under Section 80P it is necessary to first determine the gross total income in accordance with the other provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
This means that for the purposes of the present case the gross total income must be determined by setting off against the income the business losses of the earlier years as required under Section 72 of the Act In Distributors (Baroda)	Reasoning
(P) Ltd.	None
this Court has dealt with the question whether deduction of income by way of dividends under Section 80M has to be made from the income computed in accordance with the provisions of the Act, i.e., after deducting interest on monies borrowed for earning such income or from total income of dividends without so deducting the interest amount.	None
In the earlier decision in Cloth Traders (P) Ltd. a three Judge Bench of this Court had held that the deduction required to be allowed under Section 80M must be calculated with reference to the full amount of dividends received from a domestic company and not with reference to the dividend income as computed in accordance with the provisions of the Act, i.e., after making deduction as provided under the Act.	None
In the said decision in Cloth Traders (P) Ltd. the Court did not notice the earlier decision of a twoJudge Bench of the Court in Cambay Electric Supply Industrial Co. Ltd. v. CIT wherein in the context of Section 80E it was held that for the purpose of allowing deduction under the said provision it was necessary to first compute the total income of the assessee in accordance with the other provisions of the Act, i.e., in accordance with all the provisions except Section 80E.	None
The decision in Cloth Traders (P) Ltd. has been overruled by the Constitution Bench in Distributors (Baroda) (P) Ltd. wherein it has been observed (ITR p. 135	None
SCC p. 56, para 15)	None
The opening words describe the condition which must be fulfilled in order to attract the applicability of the provision contained in subsection (1) of Section 80M.	None
The condition is that the gross total income of the assessee must include income by way of dividends from a domestic company.	None
Gross total income is defined in Section 80B, clause (5) to mean total income computed in accordance with the provisions of the Act before making any deduction under Chapter VIA or under Section 280D. Income by way of dividends from a domestic company included in the gross total income would therefore obviously be income computed in accordance with the provisions of the Act, that is, after deducting interest on monies borrowed for earning such income.	None
If income by way of dividends from a domestic company computed in accordance with the provisions of the Act is included in the gross total income, or in other words forms part of the gross total income, the condition specified in the opening part of subsection (1) of Section 80M would be fulfilled and the provision enacted in that subsection would be attracted.	None
We are unable to hold that the observations made in the judgment while construing the words such income by way of dividends in any way detract from the abovequoted observations inasmuch as this Court has clearly said (ITR p. 136 SCC p. 57, para 16)	None
It is obvious, as a matter of plain grammar, that the words such income by way of dividends must have reference to the income by way of dividends mentioned earlier and that would be income by way of dividends from a domestic company which is included in the gross total income.	None
Consequently, in order to determine which is such income by way of dividends, we have to ask the question what is the income by way of dividends from a domestic company included in the gross total income and that would obviously be the income by way of dividends computed in accordance with the provisions of the Act.	None
It may also be pointed out that while considering the provisions of Section 80T of the Act this Court has followed the decision in Distributors (Baroda) (P) Ltd. in H. H. Sir Rama Varma v. CIT.	None
In that case it has been held that a longterm capital loss brought forward from earlier assessment years had to be first set off against the longterm capital gains of the current assessment year before deduction contemplated by Section 80T of the Act is allowed and the relief under Section 80T is to be given only for the amount of longterm capital gains of the current assessment year after the longterm capital loss of the earlier years brought forward is set off11.	Reasoning
It is no doubt true that the decision of the Madras High Court in CIT v. Venkatachalam (Mad)) has been affirmed in appeal by this Court in CIT v. Venkatachalam.	Reasoning
That decision was also given in the context of Section 80T of the Act.	Reasoning
It has been taken note of by this Court in H. H. Sir Ramu Varma v. CIT.	Reasoning
B. P. Jeevan Reddy, J. was a party in both these decisions.	Reasoning
In Venkatachalam this Court has emphasised that the deduction under Section 80T had to be made from out of capital gains and no question would arise of the business loss being set off against the amount of capital gains12.	Reasoning
Having regard to the law as laid down by this Court in Distributors (Baroda) (P) Ltd. and H. H. Sir Rama Varma, it must be held that before considering the matter of deduction under Section 80P(2)	Reasoning
the Income Tax Officer had rightly set off the carriedforward losses of the earlier years in accordance with Section 72 of the Act and on finding that the said losses exceeded the income, he rightly did not allow any deduction under Section 80P(2) and the Appellate Assistant Commissioner as well as the Tribunal and the High Court were in error in taking a contrary view13.	Reasoning
The principle of statutory construction invoked by Ms Ramachandran has no application in construing the expression gross total income in subsection (1) of Section 80P.	Reasoning
In view of the express provision defining the said expression in Section 80B(5) for the purpose of Chapter VIA, there is no scope for construing the said expression differently in Section 80P	Reasoning
The appeal is, therefore, allowed, the impugned judgment of the High Court is set aside and the question referred for the opinion is answered in the negative, i.e. in favour of the Revenue and against the assessee.	Decision
In the circumstances, there will be no order as to cost.	Decision
