 Ramaswamy, J. Leave granted.	None
This appeal by special leave arising from the judgment of the Division Bench of the Gujarat High Court, dated March 20, 1991 in First Appeal No. 259 of 1980, gives rise to an important question of law of liability for negligence in causing the death of one Jayantilal, the husband of the respondent No. 1 and father of the respondents Nos. 2 to 4 due to sudden fall of a tree while he was passing on the road in Kothi compound of Collectorate on his way to attend to his duties as a Clerk in the office of the Director of Industries, Rajkot.2.	Facts
The admitted facts are that the deceased Jayantilal was residing in Padadhri.	Facts
He used to come daily on a railway season ticket to Rajkot to attend to his office work.	Facts
On March 25, 1975, while he was walking .on footpath on way to his office, a roadside tree suddenly fell on him as a result of which he sustained injuries on his head and other parts of body and later died in the hospital.	Facts
The respondents filed the suit for damages in a sum of Rs. 1 lakh from the appellantCorporation.	Facts
The Trial Court decreed the suit for a sum of Rs. 45,000 finding that the appellant had failed in its statutory duty to check the healthy condition of trees and to protect the deceased from the tree falling on him resulting in his death.	Facts
On appeal, the Division Bench has held that the appellant has statutory duty to plant trees on the roadsides as also the corresponding duty to maintain trees in proper condition.	Facts
While the tree was in still condition, it had suddenly fallen on the deceased Jayantilal who was passing on the footpath.	Facts
The statutory duty gives rise to tortious liability on the State and as its agent, the appellantCorporation being a statutory authority was guilty of negligence on its part in not taking care to protect the life of the deceased.	Facts
The respondents cannot be called upon to prove that the tree had fallen due to appellants negligence.	None
Statutory obligation to maintain trees being absolute, and since the tree had fallen due to its decay, the appellant has failed to prove that the occurrence had taken place without negligence on its part.	Facts
The appellant failed to make periodical inspection whether the trees were in good and healthy condition subjecting them to seasonal and periodical treatment and examination.	Facts
Therefore, the appellant had not taken care to foresee the risk of the trees falling and causing damage to the passers by.	Facts
Thus the appellant is liable to pay damages for the death of Jayantilal.	Facts
The Division Bench accordingly, confirmed the decree of the Trial Court.	Facts
Thus this appeal by special leave.	Facts
Mr. T.U. Mehta, learned Counsel for the Corporation, contended that the High Court is not right in its conclusion that the appellant is having unqualified and absolute duty to maintain the trees and was guilty to take reasonable care in maintaining the trees in healthy condition.	Arguments of Petitioner
The burden of proof is on the respondents to prove that there was breach of duty on its part that the occurrence had taken place for not taking reasonable care.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the nature of the things, it is difficult for the Corporation to inspect every tree to find out whether it is in a healthy or decaying condition.	Arguments of Petitioner
The standard of care is not as high as in the case of breach of a statutory duty as the case where by positive act, the Corporation created a thing which is dangerous and failed to prevent such danger which caused damage to others.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not enough for the respondents to establish that the appellant was remiss in its periodical treatment to the plants but was careless in the breach of specific legal duty of care towards the deceased Jayantilal.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Corporation could not foresee that a tree would fall all of a sudden when Jayantilal was passing on the footpath.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no reasonable proximity between the duty of care and the doctrine of neighbourhood laid by the House of Lords in Donoghuev.	Arguments of Petitioner
Stevenson, (1932)	Arguments of Petitioner
AC 562.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Common Law liability on the part of a statutory Corporation is now authoritatively settled in Murphyv.	Arguments of Petitioner
Brentwood District Council, (1991) 1 AC 398, overruling the twotier test laid down inAnns.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Merton London Bourough Council,(1978)	Arguments of Petitioner
AC 728.	Arguments of Petitioner
A breach of statutory duty, therefore, does not ipso facto entail Corporations liability for its failure or of its staff to comply with the statutory duty to protect Jayantilal or class of persons to which the deceased is a member.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no liability for negligence unless a legal duty to take care exists towards the deceased Jayantilal or class of persons, i.e. pedestrians and that duty should be one which the Corporation owed to the plaintiff himself.	Arguments of Petitioner
This should be pleaded and proved which is lacking in the present case.	Arguments of Petitioner
Knowledge of harm likely to occur to the deceased is a prerequisite of liability which must in some sense be foreseeable.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further contended that though Corporation has a statutory duty to plant trees, no action will lie against it for damages since the indemnity extends not merely to act itself but also to its necessary consequences.	None
The High Court, it was, argued, has also committed serious error in its conclusion that the statutory duty of the Corporation to maintain trees carries with it the duty to take care by regular examination of the health of the trees and felling of decaying trees it lost sight of the fact that it is only a discretionary duty.	None
The Legislature did not intend to confer, any cause of action for breach of the statutory duty and none was provided for its breach.	None
The conclusion of the High Court that because of the breach of absolute statutory duty the Corporation was negligent, is not correct proposition of law.	None
In determining the legislative intent, the Court is required to consider three factors, viz., the context and the object of the statute, the nature and precise scope of the relevant provisions and the damage suffered not of the kind to be guarded against.	None
The object of the Act is to promote facilities of general benefit to the public as a whole in getting the trees planted on roadsides, the discharge of which is towards the public at large and not towards an individual, even though the individual may suffer some harm.	None
The Act does not provide for any sanctions for omission to take action i.e., planting trees or their periodical checkup when planted.	None
By process of interpretation, the Court would not readily infer creation of individual liability to a named person or cause of action to an individual, unless the Act expressly says so.	None
While considering the question whether or not civil liability is imposed by a statute, the Court is required to examine all the provisions to find out the precise purpose of the Act, scope and content of the duty and the consequential cause of action for omission thereof.	None
Action for damages will not lie in the suit by an injured person if the damage suffered by him is not of the kind intended to be protected by the Act.	None
Before issuing notice, this Court directed the appellant to deposit Rs. 5,000 towards the cost of the respondents to defend the action in this Court, since an important question of law of general importance arises in the case.	None
Accordingly, the said sum came to be deposited.	None
When notice was issued, the respondents sent a letter to the Registry stating that apart from the said sum of Rs. 5,000, additional amount that was decreed by the lower Court, should also be directed to be deposited as a condition to defend the case and further costs.	None
Under those circumstances, by order dated August 24, 1995 we observed that the stand taken by the respondents was unreasonable and not correct.	None
Mr. P.S. Narasimha, who was present on that day in this Court, was requested to assist the Court as amicus curiac and to receive the above sum of Rs. 5,000 towards his fee.	None
We directed the Counsel to submit their written arguments.	None
Accordingly, the Counsel have submitted their written arguments.	None
Mr. Narasimha, learned amicus curiae made thorough study on the subject and has given valuable assistance.	None
We place on record our deep appreciation of the pains taken by him.	None
According to the learned Counsel, the liability in tort which arose in Common Law has been evolved by the Courts in England but law has not been well developed in our jurisdiction.	None
In Common Law, there existed duty of foreseeability, proximity, just and reasonable cause and policy.	None
Attempts have been made to identify general theory of liability in tort consistent with causation, fairness, reciprocity and justice, balancing conflicting interests as well as economic efficiency.	None
The tortious liability falls into one of the three categories, viz., (a) intentional wrongdoing (b) negligence and (c) strict liability.	None
In this case, we are concerned with negligence on the part of the appellantCorporation in maintaining the trees on the roadsides.	None
The principle evolved by the Courts in England is that a reasonable foresight of harm to persons whom it is foreseeable or is likely to harm by ones carelessness is essential.	None
For the plaintiff to succeed in an action for negligence the plaintiff requires to prove that (i) the defendant is under a duty to take care (ii) the burden of proof owed by the plaintiff has been discharged by the proof of breach of duty and (iii) the breach of the duty of care is the cause for damage suffered by the plaintiff.	None
Breach of duty raises factual question whether the required standard of conduct has been reached.	None
It is only relevant if a duty of care has been held to exist in law.	None
Damage similarly is also confined to the enquiry of facts.	None
Duty of care, on the other hand, is far more crucial concept as it fixes the boundaries of tort of negligence.	None
The regulation of duty of care envisaged in Donoghues principle, in its widest terms, has a reasonable foresight of harm to persons whom it is foreseeable or is likely to be harmed by ones carelessness and has in turn made it easy to hold in subsequent cases that there should be liability for negligently inflicting damage in new situations not covered by previous case law because damage was foreseeable.	None
If. want of duty of care is established there comes to exist foreseeability of the damage and sufficient proximate relationship between the parties and it must be just and reasonable to impose such a duty.	None
The legal duty to prove proximity is not physical proximity.	None
Proximity is used to describe a relationship between the parties by virtue of which the defendant can reasonably foresee that his action or omission is likely to cause damage to the plaintiff of the relevant type.	None
The relationship refers to no more than the relevant situations of the parties as a consequence of which such foreseeability of damage may exist.	None
The English principles of common law are approved and adopted by the Courts in India on the principles of justice, equity and good conscience.	None
In support thereof, he relied upon Gujarat State Road Transport Corporationv.	None
Ramabhai Prabhatbhai, (1987) 3 SCC 234 at 238.	None
AppellantCorporation owes a duty of care in common law.	Arguments of Respondent
The trees and streets vest in the Corporation.	Arguments of Respondent
It was its responsibility, therefore, to maintain the trees.	Arguments of Respondent
The Corporation should have the foresight that trees, if neglected to be maintained properly, could cause injury to passersby.	Arguments of Respondent
The findings recorded by the Courts below that the appellant has committed breach of duty of care is a finding of fact.	Arguments of Respondent
From the breach of the duty of care, the entitlement to damages arises to the respondents due to the death of Jayantilal.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel also relied uponK. Ramadas Shenoyv.	Arguments of Respondent
The Chief Officer, Town Municipal Council, Udipi Ors., AIR 1974 SC 2177 , and contended that answer to the question whether an individual who is one of the class for whose benefit an obligation has been imposed, whether or not enforced in action for omission to perform the duty, depends upon the language used in the statute.	Arguments of Respondent
The injury may be caused either by fulfilment of the duty or omission to carry it out or by negligence in its performance.	Arguments of Respondent
In the light of the above principles, he submitted that though the duty of the appellant to plant trees is discretionary nonetheless it has a statutory duty to plant the trees and to maintain them under Section 66 of the Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporation Act, 1949 (for short, the Act) and the discretion must be construed to be mandatory duty.	Arguments of Respondent
By the omission to perform the duty to maintain the trees in healthy condition or to cut off the trees in decaying condition, the Corporation entails with liability to make good the loss damages caused to the respondents.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court, therefore, has not committed any error of law warranting interference.	Arguments of Respondent
The diverse contentions give rise to the questions whether the appellantCorporation owes a duty of care to maintain the trees as a statutory duty and whether the cause of death of Jayantilal has proximate relationship with the negligence giving rise to tortious liability, entailing payment of compensation to the respondents?	Issue
The marginal note of Section 66 of the Act indicates Matters which may be provided for by the Corporation at its discretion.	None
It envisages that the Corporation may in its discretion, provide from time to time, wholly or partly for all or any of the following matters, viz., (viii) the planting and maintenance of trees of roadsides and elsewhere.	None
Under Section 202 of the Act, all streets within the city vest in the Corporation and are under the control of the Corporation.	None
The Act does not provide machinery for enforcement of obligations cast under Section 66, nor in the event of failure to discharge those obligations any remedy is provided.	None
By operation of Section 202 read with Section 66, since the trees vest in the Corporation, the Corporation is statutorily obligated to plant and maintain trees on the roadsides and elsewhere as a public amenity to ensure ecofriendly environment.	None
An attempt had been made in 1965 to codify the law of tort in a statutory form.	None
The Bill in that behalf, reintroduced in the Parliament in 1967, died as still born.	None
Therefore, there is no statutory law in India, unlike in England, regulating damages for tortious liability.	None
In the absence of statutory law or established principles of law laid by this Court or High Courts consistent with Indian conditions and circumstances, this Court selectedly applied the common law principles evolved by the Courts in England on grounds of justice, equity and good conscience (vide Ramanbhai Prabhatbhais case.	None
Common law principles of tort evolved by the Courts in England may be applied in India to the extent of suitability and applicability to the Indian conditions.	None
Let us consider and evolve our principles in tune with the march of law in their jurisprudence of liability on tort.	None
It is necessary to recapitulate the development of the principles and law of tort developed by evolutionary process by applying them from case to case and in some cases the statement of law laid by House of Lords, as guiding principles of law on tortious liability.	None
In the formative stage of the development of tortious liability, the Corporation being a Corporation aggregate of persons, could not be held liable where liability involved some specific state of mind as was held in Stevensv.	None
Midland Counties Railway, 1854 (10) Ex. 352.	None
However, it is now well settled that a Corporation can be held liable and accordingly it may be sued for wrongs involving fraud, malice, as well as for wrong in which intention is immaterial as was held in Barwick v. English Joint Stock Bank, (1867)	None
LR 2 Ex. 259	None
Cornford v. Carlton Bank, (1990) 1	None
Queens Bench 22 and Glasgow Corporation v. Loremer, (1991)	None
AC 209.	None
In Sir Percy Winfields in his Province of the Law of Tort page 32 referred in Clerk and Lindsell on Torts (Common Law Library Series No. 3 (12th Edn.)	None
Chapter 1, page 1, para 1 it is stated that tortious liability arises from the breach of a duty primarily fixed by the law such duty is towards persons generally and its breach is redressable by an action for unliquidated damages.	None
Duty primarily is fixed by law which on violation, fastens liability to pay damages.	None
It is personal to the injured.	None
Tort and contract are distinguishable.	None
In tort, liability is primarily fixed by law while in contract they are fixed by the parties themselves.	None
In tort, the duty is towards the persons generally while in contract it is towards specific person or persons.	None
If the claim depends upon proof or proof of the contract, action does not lie in tort.	None
If the claim arises, from the relationship between the parties, independent of the contract, an action would lie in tort at the election of the plaintiff, although he might alternatively have pleaded in contract.	None
The law of tort prevents hurting one another.	None
All torts consist of violation of a right in the plaintiff.	None
Tort law, therefore, is primarily evolved to compensate the injured by compelling the wrongdoer to pay for the damage done.	None
Since, distributive losses are an inevitable byproduct of modern living in allocating the risk, the law of tort makes less and less allowance to punishment, admonition and deterrence found in criminal law.	None
The purpose of the law of tort is to adjust these losses and offer compensation for injuries by one person as a result of the conduct of another.	None
The law could not attempt to compensate all losses.	None
Such an aim would not only be overambitious but might conflict with basic notions of social policy.	None
Society has no interest in mere shifting of loss between individuals for its own sake.	None
The loss, by hypothesis, may have already occurred, and whatever benefit might be derived from repairing, the fortunes of one person is exactly offset by the harm caused through taking that amount away from another.	None
The economic assets of the community do not increase and expense is incurred in the process of realisation, as stated by Oliver Lindel Holmes in his Common Law at page 96 (1881 Edn.).	None
The security and stability are generally accepted as worthwhile social objects but there is no inherent reason for preferring the security and stability of plaintiffs to those of defendants.	None
Hence, shifting of loss is justified only when there exists special reason for requiring the defendant to bear it rather than the plaintiff on whom it happens to have fallen, (vide Common Law of Holmes).	None
In Blacks Law Dictionary (6th Edn.)	None
at page 1489, tort is defined as violation of duty imposed by general law or otherwise upon all persons occupying the relation to each other involved in a given transaction.	None
There must always be a violation of some duty owed to plaintiff and generally such a duty must arise by operation of law and not by mere agreement of the parties.	None
A legal wrong is committed upon the person or property by, independent of contract.	None
It may be either (1) a direct invasion of some legal right of the individual (2) the infraction of some public duty by which special damage accrues to the individual (3) the violation of some private obligation by which like damage accrues to the individual.	None
Negligence is failure to use such care as a reasonable prudent and careful person would use, under similar circumstances.	None
It is the doing of some act which a person of ordinary prudence would not have done under similar circumstances or failure to do what a person of ordinary prudence would have done under similar circumstances.	None
Negligence also is an omission to do something which a reasonable man, guided by those ordinary considerations which ordinarily regulate human affairs, would do, or the doing of something which a reasonable and prudent man would not do.	None
Negligence and tort have been viewed without elaborately embarking upon the definition of tort applicable to varied circumstances and the scope of negligence in its wider perspective.	None
Let us proceed to consider the meaning of negligence in the context of tort liability arising in this case.	None
In every case giving rise to tortious liability, tort consists of injury and damage due to negligence.	None
Claim for injury and damage may be founded on breach of contract or tort.	None
We are concerned in this case with tort.	None
The liability in tort may be strict liability, absolute liability or special liability.	None
The degree of liability depends on degree of mental element.	None
The elements of tort of negligence consist in(a) duty of care (b)duty is owed to the plaintiff (c) the duty has been carelessly breached.	None
Negligence does not entail liability unless the law exacts a duty in the given circumstances to observe care.	None
Duty is an obligation recognised by law to avoid conduct fraught with unreasonable risk of damage to others.	None
The question whether duty exists in a particular situation involves determination of law.	None
Negligence would in such acts and omissions involve an unreasonable risk of harm to others.	None
The breach of duty causes damage and how much is the damage should be comprehended by the defendant.	None
Remoteness is relevant and compensation on proof thereof requires consideration.	None
The element of carelessness in the breach of the duty and those duties towards the plaintiff are important components in the tort of negligence.	None
Negligence would mean careless conduct in commission or omission of an act connoting duty, breach and the damage thereby suffered by the person to whom the plaintiff owes.	None
Duty of care is, therefore, crucial to understand the nature and scope of the tort of negligence.	None
The question in each case is whether the defendant has been negligent.	None
In determining duty of care, public policy involved in the statute requires detailed examination.	None
Upon examination, they are required to further consider whether its. extension elongates the public policy or retards its effectuation or frustrates its object and the inevitable effect thereof on the affected plaintiff as well as general public.	None
No general or abstract principle is desirable to be laid.	None
The careless breach of duty will vary from case to case and it should not be unduly extended or confined or limited to all situations.	None
The attending circumstances require evaluation and application to particular set of facts of a given case.	None
The standard of care also varies in a particular factual situation.	None
Defendant must be under a duty of care not to create latent source of physical danger to the person or property of third party whom he ought to reasonably foresee as likely to be effected thereby.	None
Thus the latent defect causing actual physical damage to the person or property gives the cause of action and then only the defendant is liable to pay the damages for tortious liability.	None
It must, therefore, be an essential element to establish that there is a positive act or a duty and the defendant is under duty of care not to create direct latent source of physical danger to the person or property of third party whom he ought to reasonably foresee as likely to be affected thereby.	None
Negligence has been viewed in three ways.	None
Firstly involving a careless state of mind secondly, a careless conduct and thirdly, a tort in itself.	None
Every case giving rise to tortious liability, consists of injury and damage done due to negligence.	None
Injury and damage may be found due to breach of contract or tort.	None
We are concerned in this case with the injury and damage in tort.	None
Therefore, it is necessary to dwell, in depth, on strict liability, absolute liability or special liability.	None
In the present case, the omission alleged is to take care of periodical checkup of the condition of the trees.	None
The degree of liability depends upon the degree of mental element.	None
The elements of tort of negligence, therefore, consist in, (a) duty of care (b) duty owed to the plaintiff and (c) it has been carelessly breached.	None
Negligence does not give rise to liability unless the law fastens the duty of care in given circumstances.	None
Duty is an obligation recognised by law to avoid conduct brought with unreasonable risk of damage to another.	None
The question whether duty consists in a particular situation involves determination as a question of law.	None
Negligence would include both acts and omissions involving unreasonable risk of having done harm to another.	None
The breach of duty must cause damage.	None
How much of the damage to be compensated by the defendant should be attributed to his wilful conduct and how much to his wilful negligence or careless conduct or remissness in performance of duty, are all relevant facts to be considered in a given act or omission in adjudging duty of care.	None
The element of carelessness or the breach of duty and whether that duty is towards plaintiff or class of persons to which the plaintiff belongs are important components in tort of negligence.	None
Negligence would, therefore, mean careless conduct in commission or omission of an act, whereby another to whom the plaintiff owed duty of care has suffered damage.	None
The duty of care is crucial in understanding the nature and scope of tort of negligence.	None
The question in each case is whether the defendant has been negligent in the performance of duty or omission thereof.	None
Determination of duty of care also involves statutory action which requires detailed examination.	None
Local authority, when it exercises its public law function, generally owes no private law duty of care.	None
Duty of care must be owed to a person or class of persons to which the plaintiff belongs and must be to avoid causing particular type of injury or damage to his person or property.	None
The Court requires to examine the scope of duty of care which the local authority owes to the plaintiff.	None
The Court is required to consider the object, scope and breach of the Act.	None
Though the statute is of general character, since the Government or local authority is entrusted with the duty to implement the law, though at its discretion, and if damage is done in execution thereof, what requires to be examined is whether the aforestated elements of tort of negligence stand attracted.	None
The Court is further required to consider whether extension of duty of care by the process of interpretation would elongate the public policy or retard its object or frustrate public policy behind the statute and the inevitable effect thereof on the affected plaintiff as well as the general public.	None
No general principle of law is desirable to be laid down as an acid test.	None
While considering whether an action would lie for breach of statutory duty, what requires to be established, among other things, is that the harm complained of is of the kind contemplated by the statute, as was held in Gorrisv.	None
Scott, (1874)	None
LR 9 Ex. 125, and Kinlgollonv.	None
W. Cooke Co, Ltd., (1956)	None
WLR 527.	None
The degree of carelessness in breach of duty would, therefore, vary from case to case and it should not unduly be extended or confined or limited or circumscribed to all situations.	None
The attending circumstances require evaluation and application to given set of facts in a case on hand.	None
Defendant must be under duty of care not to create latent source of physical danger damage to the person or property of third party whom he ought to have reasonably foreseen as likely to be affected thereby.	None
Those latent defects cause physical danger to the person or the property giving cause of action and the defendant then is liable to pay damage for tortious liability.	None
It must, therefore, be the essential element to establish that there is positive act or duty and the defendant is under that duty.	None
The Court is not to create, by process of interpretation, latent source of physical danger to the person or property of third party when the Act does not envisage that the defendant ought to have reasonably foreseen him as likely to be affected thereby.	None
Negligence connotes inadvertence to the consequences of his conduct which can be a measure of behaviour where one person had been careless in that he did not behave as prudent man would have done whether by advertence or otherwise.	None
The tort of negligence always requires some form of careless conduct which is usually, although not necessarily, the product of inadvertence.	None
Not every careless conduct which causes damage, however, will give rise to an action in tort.	None
The negligence lies in failure to take such steps as a reasonable prudent man would have taken in the given circumstances.	None
What constitutes carelessness is the conduct and not the result of inadvertence.	None
Thus negligence in this sense is a ground for liability in tort.	None
The question emerges as to when would the breach of statutory duty under a particular enactment give rise to tortious liability?	None
The statutory duty gives rise to civil action.	None
The statutory negligence is sui generis and independent of any other form of tortious liability.	None
It would, therefore, be of necessity to find out from the construction of each statutory duty whether the particular duty is general duty in public law or private law duty towards the plaintiff.	None
The plaintiff must show that, (a) the injury suffered is within the ambit of statute (b) statutory duty imposes a liability for civil action (c) the statutory duty was not fulfilled and (d) the breach of duty has caused him injury.	None
These essentials are required to be considered in each case.	None
The action for breach of statutory duty may belong to the category of either strict or absolute liability which is required, therefore, to be considered in the nature of statutory duty the defendant owes to the plaintiff whether or not the duty is absolute and the public policy underlying the duty.	None
In most cases, the statute may not give rise to cause of action unless it is breached and it has caused damage to the plaintiff, though occasionally the statute may make breach of duty actionable per se.	None
The burden, therefore, is on the plaintiff to prove on balance of probabilities that the defendant owes that duty of care to the plaintiff or class of persons to whom he belongs, that defendant was negligent in the performance or omission of that duty and breach of duty caused or materially contributed to his injury and that duty of care is owed on the defendant.	None
If the statute requires certain protection on the principle of volenti non fit injuria, the liability stands excluded.	None
The breach of duty created by a statute, if it results in damage to an individual prima facie, is tort for which the action for damages will lie in the suit.	None
One would often take the Act, as a whole, to find out the object of the law and to find out whether one has right and remedy provided for breach of duty.	None
It would, therefore, be of necessity in every case to find the intention of legislature in creating duty and the resultant consequences suffered from the action or omission thereof, which are required to be considered.	None
No action for damages lies if on proper construction of statute, the intention is that some other remedy is available.	None
One of the tests in determining the intention of the statute is to ascertain whether the duty is owed primarily to the general public or community and only incidentally to an individual or primarily to the individual or class of individuals and only incidentally to the general public or the community.	None
If the statute aims at duty to protection a particular citizen or particular class of citizens to which the plaintiff belongs, it prima facie creates at the same time corelative right vested in those citizens of which plaintiff is one he has remedy for enforcement, namely, the action for damages for any loss occasioned due to negligence or for failure of it.	None
But this test is not always conclusive.	None
Duty maybe of such paramount importance that it is owed to all the public.	None
It would be wrong to think that on an action, the duty could be enforced by way of damages when duty is owed to a section of public and cannot be enforced if an individual sustains damages to whom the Corporation owes no duty and no private interest is infringed.	None
Breach of statutory duty, therefore, requires to be examined in the context in which the duty is created not towards the individual, but has its effect on the right of individual visavis the society.	None
Statutory duty generally is towards public at large and not towards an individual or individuals and the corelative right is vested in the public and not in private person, even though they may suffer damages.	None
The duty in such a case is to be enforced by way of criminal prosecution or by way of injunction at the suit under Section 192 of CPC or with leave of Court under Order 1, Rule 8, CPC by public spirited person or in any appropriate manner to enforce the right and not by way of private action for damages.	None
In that situation, the legislature, while recognising the private right vested in injured individual, may intend that it shall be maintained solely by some special remedy provided for a particular case and not by ordinary method of an action for damages as penalty or compensation.	None
If the statute creates right and remedy, damages are recoverable by establishing the breach of statute as the sole remedy available under the statute.	None
But where statute merely creates a duty without expressly providing any remedy for breach of it, appropriate remedy, prima facie, is punishment for misdemeanour in respect of the injury to the public and the action for damages in respect of any special damage suffered by an individual.	None
Where special remedy is expressly provided prima facie that was intended to be the only remedy and by implication it excludes the resort to common law.	None
But this is also by no means conclusive.	None
The consideration would be whether the statute intends to award damages for breach of statutory duty.	None
Though general rule is that where a statute creates an obligation and enforces performance in a specified manner, performance cannot be enforced in any other manner.	None
It depends on the scope of the Act which creates the obligation and on consideration of the underlying policy of the statute, effect on the individuals is to be carefully examined and analysed as to what the statute has expressly laid down or probably what the statute aims to achieve.	None
The action for damages will not lie if the damage suffered by him is not of the type intended to be guarded against.	None
If statute provides that a certain thing must be done, it is a question of interpretation whether the statute aims the thing to be done in all events or merely that person upon whom the duty is imposed is to use due care and diligence in the performance of duty or that if he fails to perform it, though for no fault of his, he should be free from liability.	None
When a duty is created by the statute, breach of which is an actionable tort, the question would be whether the liability is absolute or dependent on wrongful intent or negligence.	None
It seems to be contrary to statutory intentment to impose liability upon public body for a thing for which no reasonable care in the performance of the concerned act could be inferred from the language used in the statute it ought not to be so construed as to inflict the liability on the public authority unless the purpose sought to be achieved has been wanting due to want of exercise of duty and reasonable care in the performance of duty imposed by the statute.	None
It is now well settled legal position by Court pronouncements in England that a public authority may be subject to common law duty of care when it exercises a statutory power or when there exists a statutory duty.	Reasoning
The principle is that when a statutory power is conferred, it must be exercised with reasonable care so that if those who exercise their power could, by reasonable precaution, prevent any injury which has been occasioned and was likely to be occasioned by their exercise and the damage for negligence may be recovered.	Reasoning
The above principle has been applied mainly to private acts.	Reasoning
To establish negligence, it is necessary to show that duty to take care existed and such duty was owed to the plaintiff in Bourhill v. Young,1943 Appeal Cases 92.	Reasoning
The House of Lords laid the test to ascertain whether a duty was owed to the plaintiff to see whether an injury to the plaintiff was the foreseeable result of the defendants conduct in given circumstances.	Reasoning
In Bolton Ors.	None
v.Stone,1951 Appeal Cases 850, the House of Lords held that the foreseeability must be of reasonable possibilities.	None
It is not necessary to show that the person who suffered damage should have been within the tortfeasors contemplation as an identified individual as was held in Farruguia v.Great Western Railway, (1947) 2 ELR 565.	None
As long as harm to any person was reasonably foreseeable, it may not matter whether the precise chain of events leading to it was not foreseen as was held in In re Polemis furness Withy Co., 1921 Kings Bench 560.	None
However, it has been extended to statutory duties by public authorities and notably for public utilities, exercising the powers under public statutes.	None
Cause of action in negligence arises under the principle of breach of duty of care existing in common law.	None
Unless the statute mainfests a contrary intention, public authority which enters upon in exercise of statutory power may place itself in a relationship to the members of the public which imposes a common law duty to take care.	None
A breach of statutory duty may itself give rise to civil cause of action.	None
Existence of a statutory cause of action is generally based on strict liability but it does not exclude liability for breach of common law duty of care unless a statute provides otherwise.	None
Statutory duty and its breach itself may give rise to a separate causation or it may be evidence of negligence of common law.	None
Therefore, a public authority is not liable at the suit of an individual for damages for breach of a statutory duty, unless the statute on its true construction mainfests a contrary intention or confers a civil cause of action.	None
Generally, a public authority entrusted with no statutory obligation to exercise a power, does hot come under common law duty of care to do so but by conduct the public authority may place itself in such a situation that it attracts the duty of care which calls for exercise of the power.	None
Common illustration is provided by an action in which an authority in the exercise of its functions, if it had created a danger, thereby subjecting itself to a duty of care for the safety of others which must be discharged by an exercise of its statutory power or by giving necessary warnings.	None
It is the conduct of the authority in creating the danger that attracts the duty of care as envisaged in Sheppardv.	None
Glossop Corp., (1921) 3 KB 132.	None
The statute does not by itself give rise to a civil action but it forms the formulation on.	None
which the common law can build a cause of action.	None
If the public authority under a statutory duty places itself in such a position that others may rely on it to take care for their safety so that the authority comes under a duty of care calling for positive action, then such a relationship would arise where a person by present or pas t conduct, upon which other persons come to rely, creates a selfimposed duty to take positive action to protect the safety or interest of another or at least to warn him that he or his interest is at risk 01 in danger.	None
Reliance by others, therefore, has been an important element in establishing the existence of duty of care.	None
The liability in negligence is based on the plaintiffs reliance on the defendants taking care in circumstances where the defendant is aware or ought to be aware of that reliance.	None
Reliance by the plaintiff, therefore, is an essential element in the action for failure to exercise the power especially when it is a power coupled with duty.	None
There is a distinction between failure to exercise a statutory power giving causation for damage by positive act of negligence by another and some accidental occurrence or by omission.	None
When there is a duty to take precaution against damage occurring to others through the acts of third parties or through accident omission of the duty, it may be regarded as materially causing or materially contributing to the damage should it occur, subject, of course, to the question whether performance of the duty would have averted the harm.	None
Duty of care may also exist in relation to discretionary considerations which stand outside the policy of the statute and operational factors.	None
In the operational factors, though the statute creates discretionary function, its omission or action may also give rise to causation to claim damages.	None
The distinction between policy and operational factors is not easy to formulate but the dividing line between them has been recognised as a distinctive determining factor.	None
Public authority is under a duty of care in relation to decisions which involve or are directed by financial, economic, social or political factors or constraints.	None
In that behalf, the duty of care stands excluded or any action that is merely the product of administrative direction etc. may not provide causation for damages but when the performance of the duty, though couched with discretion, is enjoined on the statutory authority, the question whether the power, if exercised with due care, would have minimised, rather prevented or avoided the damage sustained by the plaintiff, requires to be examined.	None
The general rule is that the public authorities are liable for positive action (misfeasance) but not for omission (nonfeasance).	None
In considering the duty of public authority to avoid harm to those likely to be affected by the exercise of power or duty, the Courts have evolved the relationship of proximity or neighbourhood nexus which are existing between the person who suffered damages and wrongdoer where there is allegation of wrong doing it has to be seen whether the latter ought reasonable to have foreseen that the carelessness on his part, is be likely to cause damage to the other.	None
In other words, if it is a reasonable foreseeability that carelessness on the defendants part will cause damage to the plaintiff, then the defendant is plaintiffs neighbour and prima facie owes towards the plaintiff a duty of care which, may, however, be negatived on the ground of public policy or reasonable care taken at the operational stage.	None
The distinction between area of public policy and operational area is a logical and convenient one as has already been elaborated.	None
Undoubtedly, a public authority is liable for the negligent acts of its servants or agents in carrying out their duties, or exercising their powers, within the operational area, although if the performance of their duties or the exercise of their power involves the exercise of discretion.	None
An Act will not be negligent, if it is done in good faith in the exercise of, and within the limits of, the discretion.	None
At the cost of repetition, we may reiterate that negligence is the omission to do something which a reasonable man, guided upon those considerations which ordinarily regulate the conduct of human affairs, would do, or doing something which a prudent and reasonable man would not do.	None
The defendants might have been liable for negligence, if, unintentionally, they omitted to do that which a reasonable person would have done, or did that which a person taking reasonable precautions would not have done.	None
However, as a general rule, a failure to act is not negligent unless there is a duty to act.	None
The duty may arise because of the conduct of the defendant himself or it may be created by statute.	None
Therefore, ordinary principles of law of negligence apply to public authorities.	None
They are liable for damage caused by a negligent failure to act when they are under a duty to act, or for a negligent failure to consider whether to exercise a power conferred on them with the intention that it should be exercised and if and when the public interest requires it.	None
If a public authority has decided to exercise the power, and has done so negligently, a person who has acted by relying on what the public authority has done, may have no difficulty in proving that the damage which resulted from a negligent failure to act there may not be greater difficulty in proving causation.	None
But if the public authority omitted to exercise its discretionary power, there is greater difficulty to prove that causation has arisen.	None
The basic difference, therefore, between causing something and failure to prevent it from happening must always be kept in view in deciding the liability for damages resulting from the failure to perform the statutory or common law duty.	None
The common law would not impose a duty of care on a public authority in relation to failure to exercise its power when those powers are exercisable for the benefit of the public rather than for the benefit of individuals or a class of individuals.	None
Statutory power is not something like a statutory duty.	None
Before the repository of a statutory power can be made liable for negligence for a failure to exercise it, the statute must (either expressly or by implication) impose a duty to exercise the power and confer a private right of action in damages for a breach of the duty so imposed.	None
The question whether the Act confers a private right of action depends upon the interpretation of the provisions of the Act.	None
But by process of statutory interpretation, the Courts may not superimpose a general Common Law duty on a statutory authority in order to give effect to its presumed idea of policy or duty.	None
Common Law does not superimpose such a duty on a mere statutory authority.	None
The nature and scope of the Common Law duty of care owed by a public authority exercising statutory powers must be discerned carefully by reading the provisions of the Act, the object it seeks to achieve and other relevant considerations.	None
The public authority is under a duty to take some action whether or not in exercise of its statutory power or not to prevent injury only if its antecedent acts, have created or increased a risk of injury of that kind.	None
The normal duty of care cannot be a duty to exercise the statutory power to prevent injury to another or otherwise to act in such a way as to prevent injury to him unless the Act has imposed such a duty or unless the authority has itself created or increased the risk of injury of that kind.	None
In the absence of such a statutory duty, a normal duty of exercise of care cannot arise unless the act actually done in exercise of a statutory power, creates or increases the risk of foreseeable injury to another	None
and then the duty is to do those acts with reasonable care and to take reasonable precautions to prevent that injury from occurring.	None
The duty of care, therefore, must have corelationship to the kind of damage that the plaintiff has suffered and not to the plaintiff or a class of which the plaintiff is a member.	None
In The Modern Law of Tort, London, Sweet Maxwell (1994 Edn.)	None
K.M. Stanton has discussed the breach of statutory duty, express or inferential.	None
He has stated at page 42 that the statutory tort takes a number of different forms.	None
A number of modern statutes expressly create a detailed scheme of tortious liability.	None
The conditions for the existence of a duty the standard of conduct required and the available defences are all defined.	None
The law created is part of the mainstream of tort liability.	None
On inferential breach of statutory duty, he has stated that breach of statutory duty denotes a common law tortious liability created by Courts to allow an individual to claim compensation for damages suffered as a result of another breaking the provisions of a statute which does not, on its face, provide a remedy in tort.	None
A tortious remedy is obviously available if a statute says that remedy may or may not be implied if it is implied, it is said that the defendant is liable under the tort for breach of statutory duty.	None
The most familiar example of this arises in relation to those areas of industrial safety legislation which have traditionally imposed criminal penalties upon an employer for breach of safety provisions, but have given no express tortious remedy to an employee injured by such a breach Groves v. Lord Wilborne,(1884) 2 Q.B. 402, is a leading authority in support of that liability.	None
At page 45, he has stated on Inferring the tort of breach of statutory duty presumptions and principles of construction that breach of duty is of considerable practical importance in view of the volume of legislation made by Parliament and there are obvious advantages to be gained from any technique which assists in the prediction of results.	None
The criticism of the presumptions must be set against the fact that they are of considerable antiquity and were approved in Lord Diplocks seminal speech inLonrho Ltd.v.	None
Shell Petroleum Co. Ltd., (1982 AC 173.	None
That the words in the judgment cannot be construed as in the statute and the presumptions play only limited role.	None
They will yield to competing evidence for the contrary result which is found in the statute.	None
The use of presumption in relation to issues of breach of duty should not be surprising.	None
The problem is not the normal one faced by those who have to construe statutes of attributing the particular meaning of form of words.	None
It is the more difficult one of discerning the intention of the Legislature on a matter which has not been dealt with expressly.	None
The use of presumptions is ideal in such a case.	None
A presumption is, in effect, a judicial pronouncement that a particular result is to be assumed unless the contrary is stated with precision.	None
At page 50, it is stated on the Obligations imposed to protect a particular class of persons that if a statutory obligation or prohibition was imposed for the benefit of protection of a particular class of persons, a presumption will arise that the tort of breach of statutory duty is to be inferred.	None
This presumption is an exception to the presumption of a nonaction ability derived from positive act.	None
It, therefore, only applies to a statute which provides its own enforcement machinery.	None
This presumption requires the statute to be interpreted to see whether it was intended to benefit the interests of the public as a whole or a defined group of members of the public.	None
At page 51, he has stated that presumptions are not decisive.	None
When it has been decided which presumption applies to the case, it will still be necessary for the Court to review the statute in question in order to determine whether the prima facie result is to be upheld.	None
The answer must depend upon a consideration of the whole Act and the circumstances including the preexisting law in which it was enacted.	None
In the conclusion, it is stated at page 54 that the most significant problems stem from the difficulty of deciding whether a sufficient alternative remedy exists to invoke the presumption of nonactionability and in determining whether a defined class which is intended to have enforceable rights vested in it can be identified.	None
Existing presumption allows sufficient freedom of manoeuvre for Courts to ensure that sensible decisions are reached.	None
If the Courts were to regard statutes containing no enforcement machinery and all other duties over which they had any doubt as being passed in the public interest, rather than as intended to vest rights in a defined class of private individuals were to regard the existence of standard common law and administrative law remedies and raising the presumption of nonactionability and were to keep Lord Diplocks concept of rights vested in the public for highly exceptional cases, the results would not be very different from those reached by the existing cases.	None
However, the chance of a new area of breach of statutory duty appearing would be effectively eliminated.	None
There are, of course, great practical problems in ensuring that the judiciary adopts a common approach of this kind.	None
It could probably only be achieved as a result of an authoritative statement given by the House of Lords.	None
Michael A. Jones on Torts (Fourth Edition) 1995 Lawman (India) Private Limited in Chapter II states under the heading Negligence duty of care, that as a tort, negligence consists of a legal duty to take care and breach of that duty by the defendant causing damage to the plaintiff.	None
Duty determines whether the type of loss suffered by the plaintiff in the particular way in which it occurred can ever be actionable.	None
Breach of duty is concerned with the standard of care that ought to have been adopted in the circumstances, and whether the defendants conduct fell below that standard, i.e., whether he was careless.	None
The division of negligence into duty, breach and consequent damage is convenient for the purpose of exposition but it can be confusing because the issues will often overlap.	None
He has elaborated the general principles, viz., the neighbourhood principle as laid down in Donoghue v. Stevension, (1932)	None
AC 562, and has stated at page 27 that the result would seem to be that factors which formerly might have been considered at the second stage of Lord Wilberforces test, policy considerations which ought to negative, or to reduce or to limited the scope of the duty, should be taken into account at an earlier point when deciding whether a relationship of proximity between plaintiff and defendant exists.	None
The second stage of the test will apply only rarely, i.e., in a limited category of cases where, notwithstanding that a case of negligence is made out on the proximity basis, public policy requires that there should be no liability.	None
This new approach represents a shift of emphasise rather than a new substantive test for the existence of a duty of care.	None
In future, rather than starting from a prima facie assumption that where a defendants carelessness causes foreseeable damage, a duty of care will exist, subject to policy considerations which may negative such a duty.	None
The Courts will determine the duty issue on a case by case basis, looking in particular at the nature of the relationship between parties to determine whether it is sufficiently proximate.	None
That question is of an intensely pragmatic character, well suited for gradual development but requiring most careful analysis.	None
The following requirements must be satisfied before a duty of care is held to exist forseeability of the damage a sufficiently proximate relationship between the parties and even where (i) and (ii) are satisfied it must be just and reasonable to impose such a duty.	None
At page 30, he has stated relationship of Foreseeability and proximity thus The concept of foreseeability, i.e., what a hypothetical reasonable man would have foreseen in the circumstances, is ubiquitous in the tort of negligence.	None
It is the foundation of the neighbour principle, but it is also used as a test of breach of duty and remoteness of damage.	None
The fact that particular consequences were unforeseeable may lead to the conclusion that the defendants behaviour was not careless and even where negligence is patent, damage of an unforeseeable kind will be regarded as too remote and therefore not actionable.	None
This is partly related to the notion of fault liability.	None
It can hardly be said that someone is blameworthy if harm to others could not reasonably have been anticipated.	None
(The other standard to fault liability is whether the conduct was reasonable in the face of foreseeable damage).	None
It is important to realise, however, that a foreseeability is a very flexible concept.	None
One mans reasonable foresight is another mans flight of fancy, and so the bounds of what is foreseeable can be stretched or narrowed as the case may be.	None
The likelihood that a particular event may occur in a given set of circumstances may range from almost certainty to virtual impossibility, and in deciding whether it was foreseeably involves a choice.	None
There is no fixed point on the graph at which the law requires people to take account of a possibility.	None
It is not a totally unprincipled choice since the degree of foreseeability required may be varied with the kind and extent of the damage, and the nature of the relationship between the parties.	None
The loss must be reasonably foreseeable, which may mean that it must be foreseeable as a possibility or probable or more probable than not or likely or very likely.	None
This scope for ambiguity allows the concept of foreseeability to be used as a control mechanism to admit or deny recovery of damages in certain types of cases.	None
This becomes most apparent when the Courts feel constrained, either by authority or reasons of policy, to deny liability and do so by relying on an absence of reasonable foreseeability which attributes to the reasonable man an abnormal degree of myopia.	None
The proximity is usually used as shorthand for Lord Atkins neighbour principle.	None
This refers to legal not physical proximity.	None
Physical proximity may be relevant in deciding whether the parties should be treated as neighbours in law, but it is not an essential requirement.	None
On the principle of duty and unforeseeable plaintiff, the word duty is used in, at least, three different senses.	None
First, duty of care may signify the recognition of liability for careless conduct in the abstractis this type of harm occurring in this kind of situation ever actionable?	None
Where the Courts deny liability by holding that there is no duty of care even though the neighbour principle appears to be satisfied they are setting the limits of actionability in negligence as a matter of policy.	None
Foreseeability may be necessary but it is not a sufficient criterion of liability.	None
Secondly, even where it is accepted that a particular type of loss is capable of giving rise to liability in negligence, the Court may conclude that the defendant did not owe a duty of care to the particular plaintiff if the plaintiff was unforeseeable.	None
The plaintiff cannot rely on a duty that the defendant may have owed to others.	None
The third sense in which the word duty is sometimes used is in the context of breach of duty.	None
Where the question is whether the precautions against a particular risk taken by the defendant fall below the standard that a reasonable man would have undertaken, the Court may ask whether the defendant who under a duty was to take further precautions?	None
Here duty is superfluous, it merely signifies the obligation to be careful by adopting the standard of care of a reasonable man.	None
On the principle of Policy and the function of duty, it is to remember that the concept of duty adds nothing to the tort of negligence.	None
In some circumstances, a person is held liable for the negligent infliction of damage, and in other circumstances he is not.	None
In the first set of circumstances it is said that a person owes a duty of care, and in the second set that there is no duty.	None
Duty is merely the logical equivalent of actual legal liability for damage caused by negligence.	None
Thus to say that a duty of care exists is to state as a conclusion that (not as a reason why)	None
this damage ought to be actionable.	None
It is circle to argue that there is no liability because there is no duty.	None
Law has always drawn a distinction between the infliction of harm through some positive action and merely allowing harm to occur by failing to prevent it.	None
This is the distinction between misfeasance and nonfeasance, but it is not always easy to make.	None
In many cases an omission may simply be part and parcel of a course of conduct that constitutes a negligent way of acting.	None
In Clerk and Lindsell on Torts (The Common Law Library No. 3) (Sixteenth Edition)London, Sweet Maxwell, 1989 it is stated in Chapter 4, Para 2 Duty of Care Situation at page 429 that no action lies in negligence unless there is damage.	None
In cases of personal injuries damage used to be understood to have been inflicted when injury was sustained by the plaintiff, whether he was aware of it or not.	None
At page 430, he has stated that the tort of negligence is committed when the damage is sustained, however the date of damage is determined.	None
There duty in negligence, therefore, is not simply a duty not to act carelessly it is a duty not to inflict damage carelessly.	None
Since damage is the gist of the action, what is meant by duty of care situation is that it has to be shown that the Courts recognise as actionable the careless infliction of the kind of damage of which the plaintiff complains, on the type of person to which he belongs, and by the type of person to which the defendant belongs.	None
It is essential in English law that the duty should be established the mere fact that a man is injured by anothers act gives in itself no cause of action if the act is deliberate, the party injured will have no claim in law even though the injury is intentional so long as the other party is merely exercising a legal right if the act involves a lack of due care, again no case of actionable negligence will arise unless the duty to be careful exists.	None
In most situations it is better to be careful than careless, but it is quite another thing to elevate all carelessness into a tort.	None
Whether there is liability in the given situation depends on there being careless behaviour by the defendant, causation of damage and foreseeability of that kind of damage to the particular plaintiff.	None
At page 436, on the doctrine of Damage to the person, it is stated that there is an obvious form of recognised damage and requires no elaboration.	None
Even while the law remained reluctant to recognise economic loss caused by careless false statements, it saw no difficulty in recognising liability for injury to the person caused by them.	None
There is a distinction between misfeasance (positive action) and nonfeasance (omission).	None
Misfeasance is wilful, reckless or heedless conduct in commission of a positive act lawfully done but with improper conduct.	None
Nonfeasance means nonperformance of some act which ought to be performed or omission to perform required duty or total neglect of duty.	None
In the case of misfeasance, the defendant is the author of the source of danger to cause damage due to careless conduct, to the person property of plaintiff.	None
He has knowledge that the act may give rise to tort but in the case of nonfeasance several factors require consideration for giving rise to actionable negligence.	None
In The Law of Torts by John G. Fleming (8th Edn.) 1992, at page 435 on the Chapter of Public Authorities, the author has stated that although public authorities enjoy no immunity as such from ordinary tort liability, a protective screen has long remained in the vestigial nonfeasance role that mere failure to provide a service or benefit pursuant to statutory authority would ordinarily confer no private cause of action on persons who thereby suffer loss.	None
In an article Affirmative Action in the Law of Tort The case of the Duty to Warn published in 1989 (48) Camb.	None
Law Journal at pages 115116 it is stated that the distinction between acts misfeasance and omissions nonfeasance sometimes referred to as pure omissions, though a fundamental one, is not one which is easy to make.	None
F.H. Bohlen suggested that misfeasance differs from nonfeasance in two respects in the character of the conduct complained of, and second, in the nature of the detriment suffered in consequence thereof.	None
The first aspect relates to the distinction between active misfeasance and passive inactivity the second to the distinction between causing loss and simply failing to confer a benefit.	None
A defendant who has inflicted a loss on the plaintiff by his negligent action will be liable for the misfeasance.	None
On the other hand, if he has simply allowed harm to occur without preventing it, or failed to confer a benefit on the plaintiff, he will not be liable, as this is considered to be an omission or nonfeasance.	None
The conferment of such benefits lies in the province of contract, not tort.	None
At page 117, he states that Tort law has developed in such a way as to allow the imposition .of	None
liability for injuries that are not easily described as damageor loss.	None
At page 119, it is further stated that there are, however, more practical arguments why misfeasance and nonfeasance should be treated differently.	None
Imposing liability in cases of nonfeasance, it is argued, would be to create liability for an indeterminate class of persons.	None
In situations where a warning could have been given or a rescue effected, there are often a number of people who could have taken the action but did not.	None
There are difficulties in determining which of them should be liable.	None
Moreover, it is unfair to pick out one person from a group of equally culpable wrongdoers.	None
When harm is inflicted by a positive act, the wrongdoer is readily identifiable in most cases and there is no group of wrongdoers from which one person has been arbitrarily selected.	None
At page 120, it is stated that in all tort actions, one of the crucial tasks which a Court has to perform is to determine whether the injury which was suffered by the plaintiff was or was not reasonably foreseeable by the defendant.	None
While such assessment of risk may be more difficult in some cases of nonfeasance than it is in cases of misfeasance, it would be no difference in substance.	None
At page 131, it is stated that the circumstances in which liability can arise for an omission are, therefore, somewhat uncertain and open to widely differing interpretations, both broad and narrow.	None
In addition, the outcome of cases in which an omission is at issue may well be the same whether one deals with under general principles or under special rules.	None
It may be that by confining liability for what are conceived of as omissions to specified circumstances, the Courts have attempted to emphasise that such liability will only arise in a limited number of situations.	None
But the decisions reached by the application of these special rules often seem artificial and unduly restrictive and the application of general principles does not necessarily mean that liability will arise in unlimited circumstances.	None
It would still be necessary to show that there was sufficient proximity between the parties and a reasonably foreseeable danger before a duty of care could arise.	None
In determining this question, the Court could take into account a broad range of facts which were relevant and even if the facts suggested that such a duty did exist, it would still be permissible to consider whether considerations of policy dictate that the duty should not arise.	None
Thus Court would proceed with caution in areas of doubt or difficulty.	None
In the conclusion, it is stated at page 137 that if cases dealing with a negligent failure to warn were dealt with by the principles applied in ordinary negligence actions rather than by special rules which depend on whether the failure was considered to be an act or an omission.	None
At page 137, he concluded that the distinction between acts or omissions was developed at a time when the law of negligence was in a relatively primitive state and it was feared that the Courts would be overwhelmed with actions alleging omissions.	None
However, the law of negligence is now considerably more sophisticated and floodgates arguments are given much less credence then they used to be.	None
It could be seen that ordinarily principle of the law of negligence applies to public authorities also.	None
They are liable to damages because by a negligent act or failure to act when they are under a duty to act or for a failure to consider whether to exercise a power conferred on them with the intention that it would be exercised if and when public interest requires it.	None
Where the public authority has decided to exercise a power and has done it negligently a person who has acted in reliance on what the public authority has done, may have no difficulty in proving that the damages which he has suffered have been caused by the negligence.	None
Where the damage has resulted from a negligent failure to act there maybe greater difficulty in proving causation and requires examination in greater detail.	None
The liability in tort is for the damage done, not for damage merely foreseeable or threatened or imminent.	None
In Donoghues case, the defendants were manufacturers of gingerbeer which they bottled.	None
The pursuer had been given one of their bottles by a friend who had purchased it from a retailer who in turn had purchased it from the defendants.	None
There was no relationship between pursuer and defendants except that arising from the fact that she consumed the gingerbeer they had made and bottled.	None
The bottle was opaque, so that it was impossible to see that it contained the decomposed remains of a snail.	None
It was sealed and stoppered so that it could not be tampered with until it was opened in order that the contents should be drunk.	None
The House of Lords had held that these facts established in law a duty to take care as between the defendants and the pursuer.	None
The principle laid is thus a manufacturer of products, which he sells in such a form as to show that he intends them to reach the ultimate consumer in the form in which they left him with no reasonable possibility of intermediate examination, and with the knowledge that the absence of reasonable care in the preparation or putting up of the products will result in an injury to the consumers life or property, owes a duty to the consumer to take that reasonable care.	None
There must be and in some general conception of relations giving rise to a duty of care, of which the particular care found in that case is but an instance.	None
The rule that you are to live with your neighbour becomes in law a duty that you must not injure your neighbour.	None
You must take reasonable care to avoid by acts or omissions which you can reasonably foresee would be likely to injure your neighbour.	None
Who, then, in law, is my neighbour?	None
The answer seems to be persons who are so closely and directly affected by my act that I ought reasonably to have them in contemplation as being so affected when I am directing my mind to the acts or omissions which are called in question.	None
The defendant must be the author of the source of danger damage to the person property.	None
He must be of exnecessitations having knowledge of hidden defect.	None
In OverseasTankship (U.K.) Ltd.v.	None
Marts Docks and Engineering Co. Ltd., (1961)	None
AC 388, Viscount Simonds, speaking for the judicial Committee, had laid thus at page 425 It is, no doubt, proper when considering tortious liability for negligence to analyse its elements and to say that the plaintiff must prove a duty owed to him by the defendant, a breach of that duty by the defendant, and consequent damage.	None
But there could be no liability until the damage has been done.	None
It is not the act but the consequences on which tortious liability is founded for tort.	None
It is vain to isolate the liability from its context and to say that B is or is not liable and then to ask for what damages he is liable.	None
For his liability is in respect of that damage and no other.	None
If, as admittedly it is, Bs liability (culpability) depends on the reasonable foreseeability of the consequent damage, how is that to be determined except by the foreseeability of the damage which in fact happenedthe damage in suit?	None
The duty of care must, therefore, be with reference to the kind of damage that the plaintiff has suffered and in deference to the plaintiff or class to which the plaintiff is a member.	None
These cases relate to private law tort.	None
The proper approach, therefore, is to consider whether a duty of care situation exists in public law tort which the law ought to recognise and whether in that situation the defendants conduct was such that he should have foreseen the damage that would be inflicted on the plaintiff.	None
As a general rule of law, one man is under no duty to control another so as to prevent the latter from doing damage to a third.	None
The first question to be considered is whether the plaintiff has established necessary relationship giving rise to the duty of care?	None
The next question is whether there is any negligence at the time when the act in question was committed?	None
The act complained of must have rational relationship to the damage caused.	None
The tort of negligence does not depend simply on the question of foreseeability.	None
Foreseeability is not the sole criteria nor does the fact that the damage is foreseeable creates any onus.	None
What the Court would ask or look at is the operational structure of the Act.	None
Is this a situation where a duty does exist towards the plaintiff or class of persons to which he belongs keeping in mind the nature of the functions and the interest of the community.	None
The further question would be whether the damage to the plaintiff is so foreseeable?	None
In that behalf it must be further seen whether there was sufficiently proximate relationship between the plaintiff and the defendant.	None
In Hedleyv.	None
Baxendale, (1854) 9 Ex. 341, the celebrated judgment, the accident can be said to have been the natural and probable result of the breach of duty.	None
That principle was accepted in Haynes v.Harwood, (1935) 1 K.B. 146, wherein Greer, L.J. had laid thus If what is relied upon as novus actus interveniens is the very kind of thing which is likely to happen if the want of care which is alleged takes place, the principle embodied in the maxim is no defence.	None
The whole question is whether or not, to use the words of the leading case,Hadleyv.	None
Baxendale, (1854) 9 Ex. 341, the accident can be said to be the natural and probable result of the breach of duty.	None
This principle was further approved by House of Lords in Dorset Yacht Co.v. Home Office, (1970) AC 1004 at 1028.	None
The facts there were that seven Borstal boys were taken by the officers, in charge of the hostel to an island under the control and supervision of three officers.	None
The boys left the island at night and boarded, cast adrift and damaged the plaintiffs yacht which was moored offshore.	None
The respondents brought action for damages against the Home Office alleging negligence on the part of the officers incharge.	None
The defence was that the officers had no control over the boys.	None
There was no carelessness on their part and that the damage was too remote.	None
Lord Reid while negativing the defence had held that where negligence is involved the Donoghuis principle laid down by Lord Atkin generally applied.	None
Therein the question was of remoteness of causation between the three agencies involved, viz., the controlling officers, the boys who caused the damage and the plaintiff who suffered the damage.	None
The argument of the Attorney General on behalf of the Home Office was that the officers had no control over the boys.	None
In dealing with that question, Lord Reid in his speech had held at page 1027 that there is an obvious difference between a case where all the links between the carelessness and the damage are inanimate so that, looking back after the event, it can be seen that the damage was in fact the inevitable result of the careless act or omission and a case where one of the links is some human action.	None
In the former case, the damage was in fact caused by the careless conduct, however unforeseeable it might have been at the time that anything like that would happen.	None
At one time the law was that unforeseeability was no defence But the law now is that there is no liability unless the damage was of a kind which was foreseeable.	None
On the other hand, if human action (other than an instinctive reaction) is one of the links in the chain, it cannot be said that, looking back, the damage was the inevitable result of the careless conduct.	None
No one in practice accepts the possible philosophic view that everything that happens was predetermined.	None
Yet it has never been the law that the intervention of human action always prevents the ultimate damage from being regarded as having been caused by the original carelessness.	None
The convenient phrase novus actus interveniens denotes those cases where such action is regarded as breaking the chain and preventing the damage from being held to be caused by the careless conduct.	None
But every day there are many cases where, although one of the connecting links is deliberate human action, the law has no difficulty in holding that the defendants conduct caused the plaintiff loss.	None
At page 1030, Lord Reid held that I would agree, but there is very good authority for the proposition that if a person performs a statutory duty carelessly so that he causes damage to a member of the public which would not have happened, if he had performed his duty properly he may be liable.	None
Accordingly it was held that Home office was liable for damages on account of negligence of the officers.	None
In Geddisv.	None
Proprietors of Bann Reservoir, (1978) 3 App.	None
Cas. 430, Lord Blackburn said, at pp. 455456.	None
For I take it, without citing cases, that it is now thoroughly well established that no action will lie for doing that which the Legislature has authorised, if it be done without negligence, although it does occasion damage to anyone but an action does lie for doing that which the Legislature has authorised, if it be done negligently.	None
The reason for this, we think, is that Legislature deems it to be in the public interest that things, otherwise justifiable should be done, and that those who do such things with due care should be immune from liability to persons who may suffer thereby.	Reasoning
But Legislature cannot reasonably be supposed to have licensed those who do such things to act negligently in disregard of the interests of others so as to cause them needless damage.	Reasoning
Where Legislature confers a discretion the position is not the same.	Reasoning
Then there may, and almost certainly will, be errors of judgment in exercising such a discretion and legislature cannot be imputed to have intended that members of the public should be entitled to sue in respect of such errors.	Reasoning
But there may be case when the discretion is exercised so carelessly or unreasonably that there has been no real exercise of the discretion which legislature has conferred, the person purporting to exercise his discretion has acted in abuse or excess of his power.	Reasoning
Legislature cannot be supposed to have granted immunity to persons who do that.	Reasoning
In Bourhill v. Young, (1943) AC 92 at 98 Lord Wright had laid that the obligee in such duty must be a person or a class definitely ascertained, and so related by the circumstances to the obliger that the obliger is bound, in the exercise of ordinary sense, to regard his interest and his safety.	None
Only the relation must be not too remote, for remoteness must be held as a general limitation of the doctrine.	None
The learned law Lord further elaborated that I doubt whether in view of the variations of circumstances which may exist it is possible for profitable to lay down any hard and fast principle beyond the test of remoteness as applied to the particular case.	None
In Geddiss case (supra), Lord Hatherley had stated at page 449 that We are not bound, nor entitled, to suppose that they will wilfully do injury by the exercise of the ligistative powers which have been given to them but it appears to me clearly and plainly that they should use every precaution, by the exercise either of their powers created by the Act of Parliament itself, or of their common law powers, to prevent damage and injury being done to others through whose property the works or operations are carried on On the law of negligence of economic laws in Annsv.	None
Merton London Borough,(1978) AC 728, Lord Wilberforces dictum of twotest theory which had contributed for the development of law of negligence was elaborated and held at page 751	None
thus Through the trilogy of cases in this House, Donoghue v.Stevenson, (1932)	None
AC 562,HedleyByrne .	None
Co. Ltd. v.Heller Partners Ltd., (1964)	None
AC 465, and Dorset Yacht Co.v. Home Office, (1970)	None
AC 1004, the position has now been reached that in order to establish that a duty of care arises in a particular situation, it is not necessary to bring the facts of that situation within those of previous situations in which duty of care has been held to exist.	None
Rather the question has to be approached in two stages.	None
First, one has to ask whether, as between the alleged wrongdoer and the person who has suffered damage, is there a sufficient relationship of proximity or neighbourhood such that, in the reasonable contemplation of the former, carelessness on his part may be likely to cause damage to the latterin which .case a prima facie duty of care arises.	None
Secondly, if the first question is answered affirmatively, it is necessary to consider whether there are any considerations which ought to negative, or to reduce or limit the scope of the duty or the class of person to whom it is owed or the damages to which a breach of it may give rise.	None
That twostage test theories now stand overruled by a sevenmember House inMurphy v. Brentwood District Council, (1991) 1 AC 396.	None
Lord Keith of Kinkel held at page 461 stated thus I observe at this point that the twostage test has not been accepted as stating a universal applicable principle.	None
Reservations about it were expressed by myself in Governors of the Peabody Donation Fundv.	None
Sir Lindsay Parkinson Co. Ltd., (1985)	None
AC 210,240, by Lord Brandon of Oakbrook in Leight and Sillavan Ltd. v. Aliakmon Shipping Co. Ltd.,(1986)	None
AC 786, 815 and by Lord Bridge of Harwich in Curranv.	None
Northern Ireland Coownership Housing Association Ltd., (1987)	None
AC 718.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Council of the Shire of Sutherland v. Heymand, (1985) 157 CLR 424, where the High Court of Australia declined to follow Anns and Yuen Kun Yeu v. Attorney General of Hong Kong, (1988)	None
AC 175, 191.	None
Accordingly, it was overruled by separate speeches of the learned Law Lords.	None
Lord Bridge of Harwich at page 480 held that a second difficulty will arise where the latent defect is not discovered until it causes the sudden and total collapse of the building, which occurs when the building is temporarily unoccupied and causes no damage to property except to the building itself.	None
The building is now no longer capable of occupation and hence cannot be a danger to health or safety.	None
It seems a very strange result that the building owner should be without remedy in this situation if he would have been able to recover from the local authority the full cost of repairing the building if only the defect had been discovered before the building fell down.	None
In Coparo Industries Plc. v.Dickman Ors., (1990) 2 AC 605 at 632, where the facts were that plaintiff which was a public Limited Company and had accomplished the takeover of FPCC.	None
It brought an action against its Directors alleging fraudulent misrepresentation against its auditors claiming that they were negligent in carrying out audit and in making the report which they were required to do within the terms of Sections 236 and 237 of the Companies Act.	None
The plaintiff company relied upon the audit report and suffered loss.	None
In that behalf, it was held by Lord Oliver of Aylmerton that The question is, I think, one of some importance when one comes to consider the existence of that essential relationship between the appellants and the respondent to which, in any discussion of the ingredients of the tort of negligent, there is accorded the description proximity, for it is now clear from a series of decisions in this House that, at least so far as concerns the law of the United Kingdom, the duty of care in tort depends not solely upon the existence of the essential ingredient of the foreseeability of damage to the plaintiff but upon its coincidence with a further ingredient to which has been attached the label proximity and which was described by Lord Atkin in the course of his speech in Donoghue v. Stevenson, (1932)	None
AC 562,581, as such close and direct relations that the act complained of directly affects a person whom the person alleged to be bound to take care would know would be directly affected by his careless act.	None
At page 633, it was further stated that the postulate of a simple duty to avoid any harm that is, with hindsight, reasonably capable of being foreseen becomes untenable without the imposition of some intelligible limits to keep the law of negligence within the bounds of common sense and practicality.	None
Those limits have been found by the requirement of what has been called a relationship of proximity between plaintiff and defendant and by the imposition of a further requirement that the attachment of liability for harm which has occurred be just and reasonable.	None
But although the cases in which the Courts have imposed or withheld liability are capable of an approximate categorisation, one looks in vain for some common denominator by which the existence of the essential relationship can be tested.	None
Indeed it is difficult to resist a conclusion that what have been treated as three separate requirements are, at least in most cases, in fact merely facets of the same thing, for in some cases the degree of foreseeability is such that it is from that alone that the requisite proximity can be deduced, whilst in others the absence of that essential relationship can most rationally be attributed simply to the Courts view that it would not be fair and reasonable to hold the defendant responsible.	None
Proximity is, no doubt, a convenient expression so long as it is realised that it is no more than a label which embraces not a definable concept but merely a description of circumstances from which, pragmatically, the Courts conclude that a duty of care exists.	None
InHill v. Chief Constable of West Yorkshire, (1989)1 AC 191,the plaintiffs 20 years old daughter was attacked at night in a city street of the police area of which the defendants was chief constable and died from her injuries.	None
Her attacker who was convicted of her murder was alleged to have committed serious of offences of murder and attempted murder against young women in the area.	None
Action was laid by the appellantmother claiming damages for the negligence in apprehending the accused and for the faulty investigation.	None
The Trial Court quashed the action on the ground of lack of cause of action and in appeal it was confirmed.	None
Lord Keith of Kinkel speaking for the House, had held that where an individual member of the police force in the course of carrying out their functions of controlling and keeping down the incidence of crime owed a duty of care to individual members of the public who may suffer injury of person or property through the activities of criminals such as to result in liability for damages on the ground of negligence to anyone who suffers such injury by reason of the breach of that duty.	None
Having posed that question, the House held that the general sense of public duty which motivates police forces is unlikely to be appreciably reinforced by the imposition of such liability so far as concerns their function in the investigation and suppression of crime.	None
From time to time they make mistakes in the exercise of that function, but it is not to be doubted that they apply their best endeavours to the performance of it.	None
In some instances, the imposition of liability may lead to the exercise of a function being carried on in a detrimentally defensive frame of mind.	None
The possibility of this happening in relation to the investigative operations of the police cannot be excluded.	None
Further it would be reasonable to expect that if potential liability were to be imposed it would be not uncommon for actions to be raised against police forces on the ground that they had failed to catch some criminal as soon as they might have done, with the result that he went on to commit further crimes.	None
While some such actions might involve allegations of a simple and straightforward type of failurefor example that a police officer negligently tripped and fell while pursuing a burglarothers would be likely to enter deeply into the general nature of a police investigation, as indeed the present action would seek to do.	None
Smith Ors.	None
v. Littlewoods Organisation Ltd., (1987)	None
AC 241, is a case of omission in a private law tort relating to economic laws.	None
The defendants purchased a cinema building with the intention of demolishing it and replacing by a supermarket.	None
The cinema after doing some work remained omitted and unattended.	None
Security of the building was from time to time overcome by children and young persons and vandalism took place in and around it including an attempt to set fire to some old films in an adjoining close and an attempt to light a fire in the cinema itself.	None
On July 5,1976, a fire was deliberately started in the cinema by children or teenagers, as a result of which the cinema burned down and an adjacent cafe and billiard saloon and a nearby Church belonging to the users were seriously damaged.	None
An action was brought against the defendants for damages claiming that the damages to the property were caused due to defendants negligence in not driving off the children causing the damage.	None
The House rejecting the claim, speaking through Lord Brandon of Oakbrook had held that there should be careless breach of duty and that I am of opinion that the occurrence of the behaviour in question was not reasonably foreseeable by Littlewoods.	None
I conclude, therefore, that the general duty of care owed by Littlewoods to the appellants did not encompass the specific duty referred to above.	None
Lord Griffiths, while concurring at page 251 in his speech held that commonsense view should be taken.	None
Lord Mackay of Cashfern, approving Lord Macmillans speech in Bourhill v. Young, (1943)	None
AC 92, 104, quoted at page 260 that the duty to take care is the duty to avoid doing or omitting to do anything the doing or omitting to do which may have as its reasonable and probable injury to others, and the duty is owed to those to whom injury may reasonably and probably be anticipated if the duty is not observed.	None
As to the negligence, approving Lord Romer, the learned lawLord held that In my opinion, the appellants can only be fixed with liability if it can be shown that there materialised a risk that ought to have been within the appellants reasonable contemplation.	None
At page 272 it was further stated that We are therefore thrown back to the duty of care.	None
But one thing is clear, and that is that liability in negligent for harm caused by the deliberate wrongdoing of others cannot be founded simply upon foreseeability that the pursuer will suffer loss or damage by reason of such wrongdoing.	None
There is no such general principle.	None
We have, therefore, to identify the circumstances in which such liability may be imposed.	None
There was no evidence that Littlewoods (the defenders) knew of these matters (i.e. of the various intrusions by vandals preceding the one when the fire was started).	None
Unless they had a duty to inspect there is no basis on which it can be alleged that they ought to have known of them.	None
It was further observed that the question whether, in all the circumstances described in the evidence, a reasonable person in the position of Littlewoods was bound to anticipate as probable, if he took no action to keep these premises lock fast, that, in a comparatively short time before the premises were demolished, they would be set on fire with consequent risk to the neighbouring properties is a matter for the judge of fact to determine.	None
At page 279, it was concluded thus I wish to emphasise that I do not think that the problem in these cases can be solved simply through the mechanism of foreseeability.	None
When a duty is cast upon a person to take precautions against the wrongdoing of third parties, the ordinary standard of foreseeability applies and so the possibility of such wrongdoing does not have to be very great before liability is imposed.	None
I do not myself subscribe to the opinion that liability for the wrongdoing of others is limited because of the unpredictability of human conduct.	None
The standard of scrutiny by Courts and applications of the negligence, proximity and remoteness would be much more rigorously examined in public law tortious liability.	None
In London Passenger Transport Boardv.	None
Upson Anr.,(1949)	None
AC 155 at 168, Lord Wright in his speech had stated that a claim for damages for breach of statutory duty intended to protect a person in the position of a particular plaintiff is a specific common law right which is not to be confused in essence with a claim for negligence.	None
The statutory right has its origin in the statute, but the particular remedy of an action for damages is given by a common law in order to make effective, for the benefit of insured plaintiff, his right to the performance by the defendant of the defendants statutory duty.	None
It is an effective sanction.	None
It is not a claim in negligence in the strict or ordinary sense.	None
It is a common law action based on the purpose of the statute.	None
In Stovin v. Wise (Norfolk County Council, Third Party, (1990) 3	None
All ER 467, the Court of Appeal was to consider the duty of highway authority to remove the obstruction of visibility and to cut the trees.	None
The plaintiff was injured when his motorcycle collided with a car driven by the defendant who was turning out of aside road.	None
The defendants visibility was limited at about 100 feet because a bank on adjacent railway land obstructed her view of the corner.	None
The highway authority had been issued notice on earlier occasion to have it removed but it failed to effect it.	None
Under the Highways Act, 1980, action was laid for damages against the Highway Authority.	None
It was held by Court of Appeal that the statutory duty under Section 41 of 1980 Act did not extend to carry out work on land not forming part of the highway and Highway Authority was not held liable for the damages.	None
It was held that the plaintiff was not depending upon the exercise of the power that had caused damage.	None
The existence of that power is merely one of the circumstances which enabled the defendant to claim that the Highway Authority came under the duty of care.	None
In Burtonv.	None
West Suffolk County Council, (1960) 2 WLR 745, a highway authority carried out certain drainage work on a road to improve its conditions since it was inadequate to prevent flooding when the road was subjected to heavy rain.	None
It was the practice of the roadman to put red flags by day and put off red lights by night whenever there was flooding which could be dangerous to vehicles.	None
In December, 1954, after heavy rain and flooding, after the water had subsided, a patch of ice formed on that part of the road which tended to keep damp because of inadequate drainage.	None
The red flags and red lights were put off by the roadman when the water had subsided.	None
The plaintiff was driving his car along the road when it ran on to the patch of ice causing it to skid and crash into a tree.	None
The plaintiff was injured and the car was damaged.	None
In an action for damages though the Trial Court granted the decree, on appeal, it was held that failure to provide adequate drainage by not doing sufficient work was an act of nonfeasance for which the highway authority was not liable, but if the work was done negligently performed and created a new danger, the Corporation was liable.	None
It was held that there was no duty on the defendant to warn the plaintiff of the danger of ice being on the road, and, therefore, the claim of the plaintiff for damages failed.	None
The principle laid down in Sheppard v. Mayor, Aldermen and Burgesses of the Borough of Glossop, (1921) 3 Kings Bench 132, was approved and applied.	None
In Sheppards case (supra), a street was vested in an urban authority under the Public Authorities Act, 1975.	None
On December 25,1918 at 11.30 p.m., the plaintiff was going home by the street missed his way, without negligence strayed on to the private land, and fell over the retaining wall into the street and was injured.	None
In an action against the authority for negligence in the performance of an alleged duty to light the street sufficiently under Section 161 of the Public Health Act, 1875, it was held that the authority have a discretion and the Act imposes them no obligation to light the streets in their districts.	None
Consequently, the defendant who had begun were not bound to continue to light the street and that having done upto 9 p.m., they have done nothing to make the street dangerous.	None
They were under no obligation whether by lighting or otherwise to give warning of the danger.	None
It was, therefore, held that the defendants were not liable, for damages.	None
In Boltons case (supra), a cricket ground was enclosed on the side by a seven feet fence.	None
When the play was on in the cricket ground abutting the highway, a person being on a side road of residential house was passing that way.	None
The ball hit by a player of the cricket ground went upto 70 yards from the fence and 100 yards from the pace where injury occurred.	None
In a suit for damages, the House of Lords held that the club was not liable in damages, to the injured person, whether on the ground of negligence or nuisance.	None
Lord Porter at page 858 had held that undoubtedly, one would know that hitting of a cricket ball out of the ground was an event which might occur and, therefore, there was a conceivable possibility that some one would be hit by it.	None
But so extreme an obligation of care cannot be imposed in all cases.	None
If it were no one could safely drive a motor car since the possibility of an accident could not be overlooked and if it occurred some stranger might well be injured, however careful the driver might be.	None
Dictum of Lord Thankerton in Bourhills case, namely, such reasonable care a will avoid the risk of injury to such person as he can reasonably foresee might be injured by failure to exercise such reasonable care was applied and held that in the circumstances it would not possible to foresee the injury to the person passing on the highway.	None
Lord Porter had held that it is not enough that the event should be such as can reasonably be foreseen.	None
The further result that injury is likely to follow must also be such as a reasonable man would contemplate, before he can be convicted of actionable negligence.	None
Nor is the remote possibility of injury occurring enough there must be sufficient probability to lead a reasonable man to anticipate it.	None
The existence of some risk is an ordinary incident of life, even when all due care has been, as it must be, taken.	None
Lord Normand held at page 860 that it is not the law that precautions must be taken against every peril that can be foreseen by the timorous.	None
The standard of care is that a person is bound to foresee only the reasonable and probable consequences of the failure to take care judged by the standard of the ordinary reasonable man.	None
It is, therefore, not enough for the plaintiff to say that the occupiers of the cricket ground could have foreseen the possibility that a ball might be hit out of the ground by a batsman and might injure people on the road, she must go further and say that they ought, as reasonable men, to have foreseen the probability of such an occurrence.	None
Lord Reid at page 865 has held that the definition of negligence laid by Alderson B. Blythv.	None
Birmingham Waterworks Co., (1856) 11 Ex. 781 at 784, that Negligence is the omission to do something which a reasonable man, guided upon those considerations which ordinarily regulate the conduct of human affairs, would do, or doing something which a prudent and reasonable man would not do.	None
I think that reasonable men do in fact take into account the degree of risk and do not act on a bare possibility as they would if the risk were more substantial.	None
Lord Macmillans dictum in Bourhills case (supra) that The duty to take care is the duty to avoid doing or omitting to do anything the doing or omitting to do which may have as its reasonable and probable consequence injury to others, and the duty is owed to those to whom injury may reasonably and probably be anticipated, if the duty is not observed.	None
It was held that the Court must be careful to place itself in the position of the person charged with the duty and to consider what he or she should have reasonably anticipated as a natural and probable consequence of neglect, and not to give undue weight to the fact that a distressing accident has happened.	None
The learned law Lord also approved the dictum of Lord Dunedin in Fardon v.HarcourtRevington, (1932) 146 L.T. 391 at 392, that there is such an extremely unlikely extent that I do not think any reasonable man could be convicted of negligence if he did not take into account the possibility of such an occurrence and provide against it.	None
At page 867, it was further held that what a man must not do and what, I think, a careful man tries not to do is to create a risk which is substantial.	None
Of course, there are numerous cases where special circumstances require that a higher standard shall be observed and where that is recognised by the law.	None
But I do not think that his case comes within any such special category.	None
It was argued that this case comes within the principle in Rylandsv.	None
Fletcher, (1869)	None
LR 3 HL 330, but I agree with your Lordships that there is no substance in this argument.	None
In my judgment, the test to be applied here is whether the risk of damage to a person on the road was so small that a reasonable man in the position of the appellant, considering the matter from the point of view of safety, would have thought it right to refrain from taking steps to prevent the danger.	None
It was accordingly held that the Cricket Board was not liable for damages.	None
In Baxterv.	None
Stocktonontees Corporation, 1959 1 Queens Bench Division 441, the plaintiffs husband was killed when a motorcycle which he was riding at night on a highway collided with the kerb of an approach island adjacent to a roundabout.	None
In a suit for damages for the death of her husband against the statutory highway authority for its failure to provide lighting at the approach road, Court of Appeal held that the defendants were in consisting exclusively of nonfeasance and that accordingly if the defendants were to be held liable it could only be by virtue of some express words in the Act under which the road became vested in them.	None
But nothing was found in Section 32 of the Local Government Act, 1929 to impose on an urban authority taking over a county road any special obligation as to the maintenance of the road so as to exclude the ordinary immunity from civil action in respect of mere nonfeasance.	None
Therefore, the action of the plaintiff must necessarily fail.	None
In Wilson v. KingstonUponThames Corporation, (1949) 1 ELR 679, a hole in an asphalt roadway was temporarily repaired by the highway authority by filling it with tarmacadam.	None
The road again became in need of repair, but it was not done.	None
A cyclist riding over the hole was thrown from his cycle and injured.	None
He laid the suit for damages.	None
It was held by the Court of Appeal that the condition of the road was due to nonfeasance and not due to misfeasance in repairing the road negligently and, therefore, the highway Authority was not liable for damages.	None
Let us consider the cases relating to duty of care in planting and maintenance of the trees.	None
In England, every owner of a house or the Corporation, has statutory duty to plant trees and of their upkeep.	None
In that behalf the case law is as under InNoble v.Harrison, (1926) 2 Kings Bench Division 332, a branch of a beech tree growing on the defendants land overhung a highway at a height of 30 feet above the ground.	None
In fine weather the branch suddenly broke, fell upon the plaintiffs vehicle, and damaged it.	None
In an action by the plaintiff claiming in respect of damage to his vehicle, the county Court found that neither the defendant nor his servants knew that the branch was dangerous on that the fracture was due to a latent defect not discoverable by any reasonably careful inspection.	None
Reversing the judgment of the county Court, it was held that the Raylands case, principle had no application inasmuch as a tree was not in itself a dangerous thing and to grow trees was one of the natural uses of the soil.	None
Mere fact that the branch overhung the tree passage of the highway and although the branch proved to be a danger the defendant was not liable, inasmuch as he had not created the danger and had no knowledge, actual or imputed, of its existence.	None
The principle laid down in Barket v. Herbert, (1911) 2 K.B. 633, was applied.	None
At page 338, Rowlatt J. held that I see no ground for holding that the owner is to become an insurer of nature, or that default is to be imputed to him until it appears, or would appear upon proper inspection, that nature can no longer be relied upon.	None
In Cunliffev.	None
Bankes, (1945) 1 All.	None
E.L.R. 459, a tree growing on the defendants estate fell, owing to its diseased condition, across a highway running besides the estate.	None
The plaintiffs husband was riding a motorcycle along the highway when without any negligence on his part, he collided with the tree and died of his injuries.	None
The plaintiffs action based on negligence was brought under the Fatal Accidents Act, 1846 and the Law Reform (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1934.	None
The trial Judge found the defendant liable.	None
On appeal, reversing the judgment, the Court of Appeal, House of Lords held that a person is not liable for nuisance constituted by the state of his property unless (a) he caused it or by the neglect of some duty he allows it to arise or when it has arisen without his own act or default, he omits to remedy it within a reasonable time after he became or ought to have become aware of it.	None
Therefore, the defendant was not liable.	None
In Gaminer Anr.	None
v. Northern London Investment Trust Ltd., (1950) 2 All.	None
ELR486, the respondents were lessees of a block of flats in London street which were occupied by the tenants.	None
In the forecourt of the flats, there was a row of elm trees.	None
On April 7,1947, the appellants were driving past the flats when one of the trees fell on their car, wrecking it and injuring the appellants.	None
The tree that was fallen was proved to have been due to a disease of the roots, which was of long standing but the disease had not taken a normal course and there was no indication from the condition of the tree above ground that it was affected by the disease.	None
The tree was about 130 years old and according to the evidence it was of the middle age.	None
It was never lopped, topped or pollarded.	None
The action was laid for damages for omission to take proper care of the trees.	None
The House of Lords, after a detailed examination of the evidence, held that when there was no evidence that the tree was affected with a disease mere possibility of the taking protection was not sufficient as spoken by the expert witnesses.	None
It was, therefore, held that the respondents were not liable for damages.	None
Lord Normand at page 494 held that what would a reasonable and prudent landlord have done about the tree?	None
There is more than enough evidence of what scientific experts would have thought or done, but there is a paucity of evidence about what a reasonable and prudent landlord would have done.	None
It was held that there was no evidence to conclude that a reasonable prudent landlord would inspect or cause to be inspected any good sized tree growing in a place where unsuspecting person may lawfully approach it and to take any protection since there is no external evidence of any injury.	None
Lord Radcliffe at page 501 had held that the accepted test that liability only begins when there is apparent in the tree a sign of danger has the advantage that it seems to ignore, or to a large extent to ignore, the distinction between the spot that is much and the spot that is little frequented but, on the other hand, I think that it does end by making the standard of the expert the test of liability.	None
Even anyone can own a tree, there is no qualifying examination, but to how many people in this country can be credited as much as general knowledge as will warn them that a trees top is unusually large, or that it is, in fact, diseased, dangerously or otherwise?	None
It would thus be seen that each case requires to be examined in the light of the special circumstances, viz., whether the defendant owed a duty of care to the plaintiff, whether the plaintiff is a person or a class of persons to which the defendant owed a duty of care, whether the defendant was negligent in performing that duty or omitted to take such reasonable care in the performance of the duty, whether damage must have resulted from that particular duty of care which the defendant owed to the particular plaintiff or class of persons.	None
Public authorities discharge public obligations to the public at large.	None
Therefore, it owes duty of care at common law to avoid causing present or imminent danger to the safety of the plaintiff or a class of persons to which the plaintiff belongs.	None
It is a statutory duty of care under common law which could give rise to actionable claim in the suit of the individual and it is capable of coexistence alongside a statutory duty.	None
The duty of care imposed on a local authority by law may not be put beyond what the statute expects of the local authority or Corporation to perform the duty.	None
The tort of insuperable negligence would emerge from imminent danger created by positive act.	None
But the duty of care imposed on local authority by law may be gauged from the circumstances in which and the conditions subject to which the duty of care has been imposed on the statutory authority.	None
The imminent danger theory must be viewed keeping at the back of mind the act or conduct creating the danger to the plaintiff or the class of persons to which he belongs and that by negligent conduct the defendant causes damage to the property or person of the plaintiff, though the defendant is not in know of the danger.	None
The defendant also in given circumstances, must owe special responsibility or proximity imposing foreseeable duty to care, to safeguard the plaintiff from the danger or to prevent it from happening.	None
But when the defendant was not in know of the discoverable defect or danger and it caused the damage by accident like sudden fall of the tree, it would be difficult to visualise that the defendant had knowledge of the danger and he omitted to perform the duty of care to prevent its fault.	None
There would be no special relationship between the statutory authority and the plaintiff who is a remote user of the footpath or the street by the side of which the trees were planted, unless the defendant is aware of the condition of the tree that it is likely to fall on the footpath on which the plaintiff class of persons to which he belongs frequents it.	None
The defendant by his nonfeasance is not responsible for the accident or cause of the death since admittedly there was no visible sign that the tree was affected by decease.	None
It had fallen in a still condition of weather.	None
Therefore, there must exist some proximity of relationship, foreseeability of danger and duty of care to be performed by the defendant to avoid the accident or to prevent danger to person of the deceased Jayantilal.	None
The requisite degree of proximity requires to be established by the plaintiff in the circumstances in which the plaintiff was injured.	None
The plaintiff would not succeed by establishing that the accident had occurred due to negligence, i.e., the defendants failure to take reasonable care as ordinary prudent man, under the circumstances, would have taken and the liability in tort to pay damages had arisen.	None
If the defendant had become aware of the decayed condition or that the tree was affected by decease and taken no action to prevent the accident, it would be actionable, though for nonfeasance.	None
Here appearance of danger gives rise to no liability.	None
Actual damage had occurred before tortious liability for negligence arose.	None
When the defendant is under statutory duty to take care not to create latent source of physical danger to the property or the person who in the circumstances is considered to be reasonably foreseeable as likely to be affected thereby, the defendant would be liable for tort of negligence.	None
If the latent defect causes actual physical damages to the person, the defendant isliable to damages for tortious liability.	None
The negligent act or omission of the statutory authority must be examined with reference to the statutory provisions, creating the duty and the resultant consequences.	None
The negligent act or omission must be specifically directed to safeguard the public or some sections of the public to which the plaintiff was a member, from the particular danger which has resulted.	None
The exercise of power omission must have been such that duty of care had arisen to avoid danger.	None
Foreseeability of the danger or injury alone is not sufficient to conclude that duty of care exists.	None
The fact that one could foresee that a failure of the authority to exercise a reasonable care would cause loss to the passersby itself does not mean that such a duty of care should be imposed on the statutory authority.	None
The statutory authority exercises its public law duty or function.	None
It would be wrong to think that the local authority always owes responsibility and continues to have the same state of affairs.	None
It would be an intolerable burden of duty of care on the authority otherwise it would detract the authority from performing its normal duties.	None
If he were to gauge the risk of litigation, he would avoid doing public duty of planting and nurturing the trees thinking that it would be a heavy burden on the local authority.	None
It would always cause heavy financial burden on the statutory authority.	None
If the duty of maintaining constant vigil or verifying or testing the healthy condition of trees at public places with so many other functions to be performed, is cast on it, the effect would be that the authority would omit to perform statutory duty.	None
Duty of care, therefore, must be carefully examined and the foreseeability of damage or danger to the person or property must be corelated to the public duty of care to infer that the omission nonfeasance gives rise to actionable claim for damages against the defendant.	None
It is seen that when a person uses a road or highway, under common law one has a right to passage over the public way.	None
When the defendant creates by positive action any danger and no signal or warnings are given and consequently damage is done, the proximate relationship gets established between the plaintiff and the defendant and the causation is not too remote.	None
Equally, when the defendant omits to perform a particular duty enjoined by the statute or does that duty carelessly, there is proximity between the plaintiffinjured person and the defendant in performance of the duty and when injury occurs or damage is suffered to person or property, cause of action arises to enable the plaintiff to claim damages from the defendant.	None
But when the causation is too remote, it is difficult to anticipate with any reasonable certainty as ordinary reasonable prudent man, to foresee damage or injury to the plaintiff due to causation or omission on the part of the defendant in the performance or negligence in the performance of the duty.	None
The question, therefore, is whether the respondents in the present case have established the three essential ingredients?	None
Statute enjoins a power to plant tree on the roadsides or in public places.	None
There is no statutory sanction for negligence in that behalf.	None
But the question is whether the statutory function to plant trees gives rise to duty of maintaining the trees?	None
In a developing society it is but obligatory on every householder, when he constructs house and equally for a public authority to plant trees and properly nurture them up in a healthy condition so as to protect and maintain the ecofriendly environment.	None
But the question is whether the public authority owes a statutory duty towards that class of persons who frequent it and pass and repass on the public highway or road or the public places?	None
If the local authority statutory body has neglected to perform the duty of maintaining trees in a healthy condition and when damage, due to fall of the tree, occurs the question emerges whether the neighbour relationship and proximity of the causation and negligence and the duty of care towards the plaintiff have been satisfactorily proved to have existed so as to fasten the defendant with the liability due to tort of negligence.	None
It depends on a variety of facts and circumstances.	None
It is difficult to lay down any set standards for proof thereof.	None
Take for instance, where a hanging branch of a tree tree is gradually falling on the ground.	None
The statutory local authority fails to take timely action to have it cut and removed and one of the passersby dies when the branch tree falls on him.	None
Though the injured or the deceased has contributed to the negligence for the injury or death, the local authority etc. is equally liable for its negligence omission in the performance of the duty because the proximity is anticipated.	None
Suppose a boy not suspecting the danger climbs or reaches the falling tree and gets hurt, the defendant would be liable for tort of negligent.	None
The defect is apparent.	None
Negligence is obvious, proximity and neighbourhood anticipated and lack of duty of care stands established.	None
The plaintiff, in common law action, is entitled to sue for tort of negligence.	None
The authority will be liable to pay the damages for omission or negligence in the performance of the duty.	None
Take another instance, where while A is passing on the road, there is sudden lightning and thunder and A takes shelter under a tree and the lightning falls on the tree and consequently A dies.	None
In this illustration, there is no corresponding obligation or a duty of care on the part of the Corporation or the statutory authority to warn that A should not take shelter under the tree to avoid harm to him.	None
Take yet another instance, where road is being laid and there is no warning or signal and a cyclist or a motor cyclist during night falls in the ditch, i.e., place of repair due to negligence on the part of the defendant.	None
The injury is caused to the victim vehicle.	None
The plaintiff is entitled to lay suit for tort of negligence.	None
But in a situation like the present one where the victim being not aware of the disease decay, the tree suddenly falls in a still weather condition, no one can anticipate and it is difficult to foresee that a tree would fall suddenly and thereby a person who would be passing by on the roadside, would suffer injury or would die in consequence.	None
The Corporation or the authority is not liable to be sued for tort of negligence since the causation is too remote.	None
Novus actus inconveniens snaps the link and, therefore, it is difficult to establish lack of care resulting in damage and foreseeability of the damage.	None
The case in hand falls in this category.	None
Jayantilal was admittedly passing on the roadside to attend to his office duty.	None
The tree suddenly fell and he sustained injury and consequently died.	None
It was difficult to foresee that a tree would fall on him.	None
The conditions in India have not developed to such an extent that a Corporation can keep constant vigil by testing the healthy condition of the trees in the public places, roadside, highway frequented by passersby.	None
There is no duty to maintain regular supervision thereof, though the local authority other authority owner of a property is under a duty to plant and maintain the tree.	None
The causation for accident is too remote.	None
Consequently, there would be no Common Law right to file suit for tort of negligence.	None
It would not be just and proper to fasten duty of care and liability for omission thereof.	None
It would be difficult for the local authority etc. to foresee such an occurrence.	None
Under these circumstances, it would be difficult to conclude that the appellant has been negligent in the maintenance of the trees planted by it on the roadsides.	None
The appeal, therefore, succeeds and is allowed accordingly.	Decision
Judgment and decree of the Trial Court, as affirmed by the High Court, stands set aside.	Decision
In the facts of the case, we direct that the amount of Rs. 45,000 may be recovered from the respondents though they are not entitled in law to the same, since they are too poor and the amount must have already been spent out.	Decision
In view of the trouble taken by Mr. Narasimha as amicus curiae, we direct the Corporation to pay him a further sum of Rs. 5,000 Rupees five thousand only within a period of two months from the receipt of this order.	Decision
