 PATTANAIK, J. Leave granted Both these appeals arise out of the same judgment of the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Valsad dated 751982 in Criminal Case No. 60 of 1980 and therefore heard together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.	Issue
On the basis of a complaint filed by the Customs authorities both these appellants stood charged with having committed the offences under Section 135(1)(a) of the Customs Act, 1962 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) on the allegation that on the date of occurrence they were found to be carrying silver without any transport voucher within the specified area which is duly notified under Section 11K of the Act.	Facts
The appellants denied their complicity and pleaded not guilty.	Facts
The learned Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate convicted the appellants under Section 135 of the Act and sentenced them to undergo six months rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs. 4000, in default, to undergo further rigorous imprisonment of three months.	Facts
Against the aforesaid conviction and sentence of the learned Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate the appellants preferred appeals to the Court of Session and the State also preferred appeal for enhancement of sentence in the High Court.	Facts
The Customs authorities who were the complainant also invoked the revisional jurisdiction of the High Court being aggrieved by the inadequacy of the sentence.	Facts
After admission of the States appeal in the High Court, the appeals preferred by the accusedappellants were ordered to be transferred and accordingly all the appeals and revision were heard together and were disposed of by a common judgment.	Facts
The High Court dismissed the appeals filed by the accusedappellants and allowed the States appeal and enhanced the sentence of rigorous imprisonment to two years and fine of Rs. 4000 so far as Accused 2 is concerned and enhanced the sentence of rigorous imprisonment for two years and fine of Rs. 40, 000 and in default further rigorous imprisonment for three months so far as Accused 3 is concerned.	Facts
Thus the present appeals by special leave.	Facts
The prosecution case in a nutshell is that the Customs authorities had received secret information that certain contraband goods were likely to pass through National Highway No. 8.	Facts
The authorities, therefore, kept watch during the early hours of 581973 around the Bhilad Customs CheckPost.	None
At about 8.30 a.m. a Fiat car bearing R.T.O. Registration No.	Facts
GJN 5953 came from Vapi side and proceeded towards Bombay side.	Facts
The car was intercepted by the vigilance squad of the Customs Department but nothing objectionable was found therefrom.	Facts
The vehicle was allowed to pass.	Facts
The appellantDevchand Kalyan Tandel, who was Accused 2, was one of the occupants in the said Fiat car.	Facts
The Customs authorities thereafter suspected some foul play and then divided themselves in two groups, one group was sent on the way to Umbergaon and the other group was sent on the way to Sarigam.	Facts
The further prosecution case is that while the second group was on its vigil, an Ambassador car was found coming from Sanjan.	Facts
When the vehicle was signalled to stop, it ignored the signal and proceeded straight towards Bhilad Railway Station and from there it took a turn towards the underground bridge.	Facts
The vigilance party chased the said car and when they found that the car was about to reach the National Highway, they took resort to firing and on hearing the sound of firing, the car stopped.	Facts
The said Ambassador car bore R.T.O. Registration No. MRH 5042.	Facts
The car was brought to the Customs Office at Bulsar and in presence of two witnesses a search was conducted.	Facts
On search, ten silver ingots worth more than Rs. 1, 90, 000, weighing 293.300 kilograms were recovered from a secret cabinet in the hind portion of the car.	None
AppellantDevchand and the other accused who is not an appellant namely Ishwarbhai Gopalbhai Tandel were found to be in the car and made their statements under Section 108 of the Act.	None
After completion of investigation a complaint was filed in the Court of the learned Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Valsad which was registered as Criminal Case No. 60 of 1980.	Facts
The accusedappellants stood charged under Section 135(1) of the Act.	Facts
The accused persons pleaded not guilty to the charge and were accordingly tried.	Facts
After the prosecution led evidence to establish the charge against the accusedappellants, the witnesses were crossexamined by the accused persons.	None
The statements of the accused persons were also recorded under Section 313 of the CrPC and Accused 2 appellantDevchand also examined witnesses in defence.	Facts
The plea of appellantDevchand is that while he was proceeding in the Fiat car after crossing the Customs checkpost, the car had a breakdown and he was therefore looking for a lift, so that he could get a mechanic and at that point of time an Ambassador car was found coming.	Facts
He, therefore, raised his hand requesting the car to stop and Accused 1 who was driving the Ambassador car stopped the same and gave lift and accordingly he did not know about the alleged transportation of silver ingots in that secret chamber of the Ambassador car.	Facts
Accused 3 though admitted to have purchased the silver ingots from one Pratapsingh Dhorda of Pratap and Company but he took the plea that he had sold the same to his brothers and therefore he has no role in the transportation of the silver ingots by the offending Ambassador car.	Facts
The learned trying Magistrate on consideration of oral and documentary evidence led before him discarded the plea of the accused persons and came to hold that the prosecution has been able to establish the charge beyond reasonable doubt.	Facts
Accordingly he convicted the accusedappellants and sentenced them as already stated.	Facts
The High Court reconsidered the entire evidence and by the impugned judgment affirmed the conviction passed by the learned trying Magistrate and enhanced the sentence as already stated.	Facts
Both the trying Magistrate as well as the High Court not only relied upon the evidence led by the prosecution but also relied upon the statutory presumption under Section 138A of the Act and held that the accused failed to discharge the burden which lay on them.	Facts
Mr K. Madhava Reddy, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellants, raised the following contentions in assailing the conviction and sentence.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the facts and circumstances of the case the learned trying Magistrate as well as the High Court committed serious error in disbelieving the plea of appellantDevchand that his Fiat car had a breakdown and he had taken a lift in the Ambassador car and he had no knowledge of silver ingots being transported in the Ambassador car (2) The two courts below committed gross error of law in raising the presumption available under Section 138A of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
No presumption can be raised unless the prosecution establishes minimum ingredients of offence under Section 135(1), consequently the judgments of the courts below are wholly unsustainable in law (3) In any view of the matter, appellantDevchand having already been in custody for about 15 months and appellantJayantilal being in custody for about 18 months and the occurrence in question being of the year 1980, it will not be just and proper to order for surrender to serve the balance period of sentence and therefore the courts should sentence to the period already undergone Mr. K. T. S. Tulsi, learned Additional Solicitor General on the other hand contended that finding it difficult to check the largescale smuggling as well as violation of the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973, Parliament introduced Section 138A of the Customs Act by Act 36 of 1973.	None
While construing the provisions of the Act the court should bear in mind the legislative intent of the provision and in cases of economic offences the provisions should be construed strictly.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further contended that the facts and circumstances as found by the High Court irresistibly point towards the guilt of the accused and this Court should not interfere with the conviction and sentences passed by the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further urged that in any view of the matter it would not be appropriate for this Court to reappreciate the evidence on record.	Arguments of Respondent
Before examining the rival contentions at the Bar it would be appropriate to notice certain undisputed facts as well as the findings arrived at by the High Court.	None
The undisputed facts are that the Central Government had issued the notification under Section 11K of the Act prohibiting transport of silver within the specified area unless accompanied by a transport voucher and the place where the Ambassador car was stopped and silver ingots recovered from the said Ambassador car was within the specified area.	None
AppellantDevchand was one of the occupants of the said car.	None
The said appellantDevchand earlier had passed through the Customs checkpost in the Fiat car and shortly thereafter when the Ambassador car was intercepted he was found accompanying therein.	None
Apart from the aforesaid undisputed facts the High Court on appreciation of evidence further found that the version of accusedDevchand that the Fiat car had a breakdown near Sanjan looks more fictitious than real and this version had rightly been rejected by learned trying Magistrate.	None
The High Court also did not accept the defence of accusedDevchand that he took a lift in the Ambassador car which was being driven by Accused 1 in view of the inherent contradiction in the version given by both the accused persons.	None
So far as appellantJayantilal is concerned the High Court recorded the finding that the evidence on record has clearly established his link with the 10 silver ingots recovered from the Ambassador car as he was the last purchaser therefor and the prohibited goods recovered from the Ambassador car on 581973 belonged to Accused 3 which has been established at the trial.	None
We would now examine the contentions raised by Mr K. Madhava Reddy, the learned Senior Counsel for the appellants.	None
So far as the first contention of Mr Reddy, the learned Senior Counsel for the appellants is concerned, the same is in the realm of appreciation of evidence and the two courts below have already appreciated the evidence on record and have rejected the defence plea of Devchand that his Fiat car broke down and so he was taking a lift in the Ambassador car and as such was not aware of the transportation of silver ingots therein.	None
We have scrutinised the judgments of the learned trying Magistrate as well as the High Court and we find no infirmity in either of them in the matter of appreciation of evidence.	None
We are of the considered opinion that the said plea of appellantDevchand has rightly been rejected.	Reasoning
In our view there has neither been any perversity in the matter of appreciation of evidence nor any important piece of evidence has been ignored by the courts below.	Reasoning
It is well settled that this Court usually does not reappreciate the evidence and no justifiable reasons have been advanced for taking a different path.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the first contention of Mr K. Madhava Reddy must be rejected.	None
So far as second contention of Mr. K. Madhava Reddy is concerned it depends upon an interpretation of the provisions of Section 138A of the Act.	None
For better appreciation of the point in issue Section 138A is extracted herein below in extenso.	None
138A. Presumption of culpable mental state.  	None
(1) In any prosecution for an offence under this Act which requires a culpable mental state on the part of the accused, the court shall presume the existence of such mental state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had no such mental state with respect to the act charged as an offence in that prosecution Explanation.  	Reasoning
In this section, culpable mental state includes intention, motive, knowledge of a fact and belief in, or reason to believe, a fact For the purposes of this section, a fact is said to be proved only when the court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt and not merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of probability.	None
Mr K. Madhava Reddy urged that before the presumption under Section 138A(1) is attracted the prosecution must establish the basic ingredients of the offence for which charge has been framed and in the case in hand, the necessary ingredients of Section 135(1)(a) must be proved and then only the presumption under Section 138A can be attracted.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr Reddy this is apparent from subsection (2) of Section 138A of the Act.	None
On a scrutiny of the provisions of the Act particularly Section 138A thereof and the object for which the aforesaid provision was inserted into the statute by Act No. 36 of 1973 it is difficult for us to accept the contention of Mr K. Madhava Reddy.	Reasoning
It is no doubt true that in a charge for violation of the provisions of Section 135(1)(a)	Reasoning
it is required for the prosecution to establish that the accused have fraudulently evaded or attempted to evade any duty chargeable on the goods or have violated the prohibition imposed under the Act in respect of the goods.	Reasoning
But if the prosecution establishes the aforesaid facts then there is no necessity of attracting the statutory presumption under Section 138A and without such presumption an accused can be convicted under Section 135(1)(a).	Reasoning
But the legislature having found it difficult to establish the necessary ingredients of such evasion of duty or prohibitions and the economic offences having grown in proportion beyond the control, came forward with the presumption available under Section 138A of the Act.	Reasoning
The main object of Section 138A is to raise a presumption as to the culpable mental state on the part of the accused when he is prosecuted in a court of law.	None
In other words, if a recovery is made from the accused of any prohibited goods within the notified area then the statutory presumption would arise that he was knowingly concerned in the fraudulent evasion or attempted evasion of any duty chargeable on the goods in question.	Reasoning
In the case of Bhanabhai Khalpabhai v. Collector of Customs this Court has held that in view of Section 138A a presumption has to be drawn in respect of the existence of the alleged mental state.	Reasoning
An option has been given to the accused to prove by way of defence the fact, that he did not have any such mental state with respect to the act charged which is an offence.	Reasoning
The question, therefore, arises as to whether in the proved facts and circumstances the courts below were justified in taking recourse to the statutory presumption under Section 138A of the Act.	Reasoning
The answer must be in the affirmative.	Reasoning
The fact that the accused was found to be inside the vehicle from which the silver ingots were recovered the fact that the vehicle did not stop even though Customs authorities signalled for stopping the fact that the two courts below disbelieved the plea of accusedDevchand about the breakdown of his Fiat car and his taking an innocent lift by the Ambassador car from the secret pocket of which the silver ingots were recovered and that the place from where the recovery was made is undoubtedly a place within the notified area under Section 11K of the Act and further that there was no transport voucher as required under Section 11K of the Act, unhesitatingly point towards the complicity of the accusedDevchand in the commission of offence under Section 135(1) and the presumption under Section 138A having been rightly attracted.	Reasoning
The burden lay on the accusedappellant to establish that either he did not know about the fact of silver ingots being transported in the vehicle or that he was in no way connected with the same.	Reasoning
But accusedDevchand has utterly failed to discharge the said burden.	None
In our considered opinion the conviction must be held to be well founded and the sentence passed thereunder is wholly justified.	Reasoning
So far as the third submission of Mr K. Madhava Reddy is concerned it is no doubt true that sufficient time has elapsed between the date of occurrence and the date of judgment and further the accused persons have served their sentences for a major part	Reasoning
but yet we do not think that in such economic offences the courts should take any lenient view in the matter.	Reasoning
Smuggling has become a threat to the effective fulfilment of the objectives of foreign trade control.	Reasoning
The extent of the leakage of revenue that takes place through the process of tax evasion cannot be estimated.	Reasoning
It has got serious deleterious effect on legitimate trade.	Reasoning
Taxation Enquiry Commission had suggested that stringent measures both legal and administrative should be adopted to minimise the scope of the evil.	Reasoning
For the purpose of achieving the desired objective Parliament came forward with insertion of Section 138A into the statutebook.	None
Question of taking a lenient view of the matter, therefore, does not arise.	Reasoning
In view of largescale smuggling activities in the border area and largescale evasion of duty the country has faced severe economic imbalance.	Reasoning
Notwithstanding stringent legislation having been made it has not been possible to eradicate the evil.	Reasoning
Any leniency therefore in economic offences will send a wrong signal.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter, we are unable to accept the last contention of Mr K. Madhava Reddy, the learned Senior Counsel for the appellants.	Reasoning
So far as Jayantilal is concerned the prosecution has been able to establish that the ten silver ingots hold the mark of Narandas Manordas and accusedJayantilal had purchased the said silver ingots from the refinery of Narandas Manordas.	Reasoning
The accused admitted the aforesaid fact and it was proved beyond reasonable doubt that he was the last purchaser of the said silver ingots.	Reasoning
His plea that he converted the ingots into pieces and sold the same to his brothers under Exhibits 18 to 72 has not been accepted either by the trying Magistrate or by the High Court.	Reasoning
On elaborate discussion of the evidence on record the two courts below have affirmed that Accused 3 was the owner of the seized silver ingots which was meant for transportation and illegal export and he was involved in committing the offence in question.	Reasoning
No convincing argument has been advanced on his behalf to interfere with the findings and conclusions arrived at by the courts below and consequently no case warranting interference by this Court has been made out.	Reasoning
In the net result, therefore, both the appeals are dismissed.	Decision
The bail bonds stand cancelled.	Decision
The appellants are directed to surrender forthwith to serve the balance period of sentence.	Decision
