 Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud J. The question before this Court is whether Section 37 of the Architects Act 1972 (Architects Act) merely prohibits the use of the title Architect by individuals not registered with the Council of Architecture (Council) under Chapter 3 of the enactment or alternatively whether Section 37 actually prohibits unregistered individuals from carrying out the practice of architecture and its cognate activities.	Issue
In other words, does Section 37 permit individuals not registered with the Council to continue practicing the profession of architecture in India?	Issue
As a corollary to this question, this Court is also called upon to determine whether a government post titled or styled using the term Architect can be held by individuals not registered with the Council of Architecture.	Issue
The present appeals arise out of three writ petitions filed by the first respondent before the High Court of Allahabad.	Facts
The first respondent has been working as an Architectural cum Planning Assistant in the service of the third respondent, the New Okhla Industrial Development Authority (NOIDA) since January 1988 and claims to possess a degree in architecture from the Indian Institute of Architects.	Facts
NOIDA is an authority created under Section 3 of the Uttar Pradesh Industrial Area Development Act 1976 (U.P. Industrial Area Development Act) to supervise and manage the development of various geographical zones of the state of Uttar Pradesh.	Facts
Exercising its powers under Section 19 of the U.P. Industrial Area Development Act and with the approval of the state government, NOIDA framed the Service Regulations of 1981 for the recruitment and promotion of employees in its various departments.	Facts
One of the departments under NOIDAs purview is the Department of Planning and Architecture where the first respondent is employed.	Facts
Regulation 16 of the Service Regulations 1981 sets out the Sources of Recruitment.	Facts
Under subclause (iv) of clause (2) of Regulation 16, NOIDA has been conferred with the power to modify the sources of recruitment or the percentage of candidates appointed through promotion and direct recruitment.	Facts
Thus, under the Service Regulations 1981, NOIDA has the power to lay down the conditions and qualifications for promotion from the feeder cadre to various posts in the Department of Planning and Architecture.	Facts
NOIDA spelt out the qualifications and conditions required for the promotion to various posts in the Recruitment and Promotion Policy 2005 (Promotion Policy 2005).	Facts
The Department of Planning and Architecture consists of two cadre streams, the Planning cadre stream and the Architecture cadre stream.	Facts
The Planning cadre stream consists of the following posts (in ascending order of seniority) (i) Planning Assistant (ii) Associate Town Planner (iii) Town Planner and (iv) Senior Town Planner.	Facts
The Architecture cadre stream consists of the following posts (in ascending order of seniority) (i) Architecture Assistant (ii) Associate Architect (iii) Architect and (iv) Senior Architect.	Facts
In practice, the two cadres draw on a common pool of candidates, the only distinction being made when specific work orders are issued.	Facts
The Promotion Policy 2005 provided that for the post of Associate Town Planner, 60 per cent of recruitment would take place by way of promotion, the eligibility criteria being fifteen years experience as a Planning Assistant.	Facts
Similarly, for the post of Associate Architect, 60 per cent of the posts were to be filled through promotion, the eligibility criteria being fifteen years experience as an Architecture Assistant.	Facts
The remaining 40 per cent of posts were to be filled through direct recruitment, with a degree in Architecture and Town Planning and a degree in Architecture stipulated as essential qualifications for appointment as an Associate Town Planner and Associate Architect respectively.	Facts
A meeting was held by NOIDA on 20 March 2006 to decide whether a degree in Architecture and Town Planning and a degree in Architecture was necessary for candidates who were to be promoted to the posts of Associate Town Planner and Associate Architect.	Facts
An opinion was sought from the Mukhya Nagar Gram Niyojak, Uttar Pradesh (Town and Country Planning Department, Uttar Pradesh).	Facts
In a letter dated 22 December 2008, the Mukhya Nagar Gram Niyojak recommended that a degree or diploma in the relevant subjects should be an essential qualification for candidates seeking promotion.	Facts
NOIDA subsequently sought the opinion of the state government on the same question.	Facts
During this period, promotions to the post of Associate Town Planner and Associate Architect have continued to remain in abeyance, resulting in a situation where employees who have served for as many as twentyfive years being denied consideration for promotion.	Facts
Before the High Court of Allahabad, the first respondent filed three writ petitions.	Facts
(W.P. 57577 of 2008 W.P. 65973 of 2008 W.P. 22155 of 2011)	Facts
In the writ petitions, the first respondent also impleaded the present appellant, the Council of Architecture which is the regulatory body for the profession of architecture in India.	Facts
By the writ petitions, the first respondent sought two reliefs A writ of mandamus directing NOIDA to enforce the provisions of the Architects Act by ensuring that only persons registered with the Council of Architecture are appointed to the post of Associate Town Planner Associate Architect and The post of Associate Town Planner Associate Architect be filled entirely through promotion of the senior most Architect cum Planning Assistant holding the necessary qualifications.	Facts
By an amendment to Writ Petition 22155 of 2011 made in 2013, the first respondent challenged the Promotion Policy 2005 in so far as it permitted the promotion of candidates to the post of Associate Town Planner Associate Architect without requiring that such candidates should hold a degree in Architecture recognised under the Architects Act.	Facts
The High Court of Allahabad observed that Regulation 16 of the Service Regulations 1981, conferred NOIDA with the power to lay down the conditions and qualifications for promotions in the authoritys various departments.	Facts
NOIDA had laid down these conditions and qualifications in the Promotion Policy 2005.	Facts
The High Court noted that the sole ground for challenging the Promotion Policy 2005 was that it allegedly fell foul of Sections 14 and 37 of the Architects Act.	Facts
Relying extensively on the decision of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Mukesh Kumar Manhar v Sri Ram Singh Ahirwar (Mukesh Kumar Manhar) 2006 (1) MPLJ 238 the High Court held that Section 37 of the Architects Act does not create a bar on individuals not registered with the Council from carrying out the duties and functions of an Architect.	Facts
The High Court held that Section 37 only prohibits unregistered individuals from using the title architect.	Facts
As a necessary adjunct of this reasoning, the High Court held that the Promotion Policy 2005, which allowed for individuals not holding a degree in architecture being appointed to the Class II post of Associate Architect, did not contravene Section 37 of the Architects Act in so far as they would be carrying out the activities of an architect.	Facts
In disposing of the writ petitions, the High Court of Allahabad held that the mere nomenclature of the particular post will not in any way be said to violate the provisions of the Architects Act 1971.	Facts
Therefore, the High Court permitted NOIDA to continue referring to the Class II posts as Associate Town Planner and Associate Architect.	Facts
The High Court further noted that as a central legislation, the requirements set out in the Architects Act could not be read into the Promotion Policy 2005 which is a regulation formulated under a state legislation, namely the U.P. Industrial Area Development Act.	Facts
Submissions The Council of Architecture has challenged the decision of the High Court in holding that Section 37 of the Architects Act does not prohibit individuals not registered with the Council from practicing architecture in India.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the Council, such an interpretation defeats the object and purpose of the Architects Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that The object of the Architects Act is to ensure that only qualified architects are permitted to provide architectural services for the purposes of construction and building activity in India (ii) The Architects Act is a comprehensive legislation which regulates the qualifications, registration and disciplinary facets of architecture in India and therefore Section 37 cannot be read only as protecting against the use of the title	Arguments of Petitioner
Architect	Arguments of Petitioner
but it must be read to prohibit unqualified individuals from practicing architecture (iii) Under Section 37 of the Architects Act, only individuals registered with the appellant Council are permitted to render architectural services in India (iv) The High Court has construed Section 37 narrowly and such an interpretation risks allowing unqualified individuals from practicing the profession of supervising buildings and construction and (v) In its decision in Mukesh Kumar Manhar the High Court of Madhya Pradesh directed the state government to cease using the nomenclature of Assistant Architect or Architect in regard to posts where the eligibility criteria did not require appointees to hold a degree in architecture.	Arguments of Petitioner
As the present controversy impacts all persons engaging in the practice of architecture in India, including thousands of individuals employed in various government departments holding posts titled Associate Architect or Architect, this Court considered it fit to issue notice to the Union of India.	Arguments of Respondent
During the course of the hearing, Mr K K Venugopal, learned Attorney General of India appeared for the Union and submitted that According to the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Architects Act, the legislation aims to protect the title of architects but does not grant architects an exclusive right over the activities of designing, supervising and constructing buildings Section 37 of the Architects Act is titled Prohibition against the use of title and prohibits individuals from using the title and style of architect.	Arguments of Respondent
The legal bar created is therefore limited to the use of title and does not prohibit the practice of architecture The Architects Act does not contain a prohibition on the practice of architecture or the designing, supervising or construction of buildings by individuals not registered with the Council and The definition of architect provided by the Architects Act is a person whose name appears on the register of Architects maintained with the Council and not individuals engaged in the design, supervision or construction of buildings in India.	None
Therefore, the Architects Act regulates individuals registered with the Council and does not control the practice of activities undertaken by individuals falling outside the regulatory regime applicable to registered Architects.	Arguments of Respondent
Scope of the present appeal In the writ petitions before the High Court of Allahabad, the question before the court was whether the 2005 Promotion Policy adopted by NOIDA permitting candidates who do not hold a degree in architecture to hold the post of Associate Architect violated the provisions of the Architects Act.	Issue
The answer to that question substantially turned on an interpretation of the Architects Act.	Issue
Primarily, the issue is whether the Architects Act prohibits individuals not registered with the Council from holding of the title of architect or prohibits the m from practicing the activities undertaken by architects.	Issue
This is the question that we are called upon to answer.	Issue
If Section 37 of the Architects Act prohibits individuals not registered with the Council from practicing the activities commonly undertaken by an architect, the 2005 Promotion Policy will violate Section 37 as it allows unregistered individuals to undertake the activities of an architect.	Issue
However, if Section 37 only prohibits individuals not registered with the Council from holding the title of architect, then the Promotion Policy 2005 is valid insofar as it permits unregistered individuals from practicing architecture and only the question of the nomenclature of the post remains to be decided.	Issue
It is to this controversy that we now turn.	None
Decisions of the High Courts Since the adoption of the Architects Act in 1972, there have been several pronouncements by High Courts on whether Section 37 should be interpreted as prohibiting individuals not registered with the Council from undertaking the activities of designing, supervising and constructing buildings in India.	Facts
In Municipal Corporation of Delhi v Ram Kumar Bhardwaj (1980) 18 DLT 283 the respondents challenged the power of the Delhi Municipal Corporation to stipulate who a Licensed Architect was.	None
It was contended by the respondents that the adoption of the Architects Act represented a comprehensive regulatory framework and the Delhi Municipal Corporation could no longer impose restrictions on who a Licensed Architect was in a manner contrary to the provisions of the enactment.	None
Justice V S Deshpande (as the learned Chief Justice then was) speaking for a Division Bench of the High Court of Delhi observed The Architects Act, 1972 sets out the qualification to be possessed by the persons to be registered as architects under the said Act.	None
It also prohibits persons who do not have such registration from describing themselves as architects and also deals with disciplinary action for misconduct of architects.	None
It is, therefore, a complete enactment the effect of which is that a person cannot call himself an architect unless he is registered under the said Act.	None
Of course, unlike the Advocates Act, which restricts the right to practice in courts only to the advocates qualified thereunder, the Architects Act does not restrict the practise by architects to persons registered under the said Act.	None
Therefore, some persons who cannot call themselves architects may still be free to do the work which is ordinarily done by architects and they are not dealt with by the Architects Act.	None
Whether the Corporation can deal with such persons is not a question which arises before us.	None
Our consideration is limited to the question whether the Corporation can regulate the profession and the practice of architects registered under the Architects Act, 1972 by insisting that the architects practising in Delhi and submitting plans for construction of buildings for the approval of the Corporation must possess licences issued by the Corporation.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
On the question of whether the Delhi Municipal Corporation could regulate architects already registered with the Council of Architecture, the Division Bench held The Architects Act, 1972 is a special law dealing with the qualifications to be possessed by persons for being registered as architects and restricting the term architect or registered architects to such persons only.	None
Since the possession of a registration certificate under the Architects Act, 1972 is regarded by Parliament as sufficient qualification for the practice of architects and since all related questions have been dealt with in respect of architects by the said Act, it became unnecessary for the Corporation to do so thereafter.	None
The question before the High Court of Delhi was whether the Delhi Municipal Corporation could require that architects submitting plans for the construction of new buildings must possess a license issued by it.	None
While answering this in the negative, the Division Bench specifically observed that unlike the Advocates Act 1961 (Advocates Act), the Architects Act did not restrict the practice of architecture to persons registered under the Architects Act.	None
The High Court observed that even after the adoption of the Architects Act, there continue to exist individuals who cannot call themselves architects but are free to carry out the work which is ordinarily done by architects.	None
In Om Prakash Mittal v Council of Architecture AIR 1983 Del 223 Sections 35 and 37 of the Architects Act were challenged as ultra vires Articles 14 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India before a single judge of the High Court of Delhi.	None
It was contended that Section 37 restricted the use of the title of architect to a certain category of qualified persons as distinct from other qualified persons, a distinction not supported by a rational nexus with the objects of the Architects Act.	None
In dismissing the constitutional challenge, Justice S B Wad cited the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Architects Act.	None
The High Court of Delhi held Article 19(6) empowers State to make law relating to the professional or technical qualifications necessary for practising any profession laying down professional qualifications for the profession of architecture as done by the Act and prohibiting persons who do not fulfil the said qualifications from posing themselves as architects is constitutionally permissible.	None
The restriction, if at all, is a reasonable restriction.	None
There is no merit in the petitioners contention that there is no nexus with the object of the Act.	None
The object of the Act, as stated above, is to prevent unqualified persons calling themselves as architects and undertaking the construction of buildings which are uneconomical or unsafe and who are bringing the profession of architect into disrepute.	None
The provision is essentially in the interest of the general public and it is meant for protecting the public from unqualified persons working as architects.	None
The restriction imposed by Section 37 does not violate Article 14 of the Constitution.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In dismissing the constitutional challenge, the Single Judge of the High Court of Delhi held that one of the objects of the Architects Act was to prevent unqualified persons calling themselves as architects which can result in untrained individuals being tasked with the critical work of construction.	None
This may lead to unsafe buildings.	None
Section 37 was enacted to protect citizens from being misled by untrained persons and mistakenly entrusting them with the task of construction.	None
Even though the Single Judge undoubtedly recognised the need for trained and qualified architects, Section 37 was interpreted as creating a bar on individuals representing themselves to be qualified architects and not as creating a bar on untrained individuals practicing the tasks undertaken by architects.	None
The issue of using the nomenclature architect in government services has also arisen before the High Courts.	None
In Tulya Gogoi v Association of Architects (1999) 3	None
Gau LR 179 an order of the Government of Assam was challenged.	None
The said order renamed the post of Architectural Draftsman P.W.D. as Junior Architect.	None
The individuals whose posts were to be renamed had at the time obtained a diploma certificate in Architectural Assistantship which was not recognised by either the Central Government or the Council of Architects.	None
The order was challenged by the Association of Architects, Assam as violating Section 37 of the Architects Act as it would effectively allow the concerned individuals to hold the title of Architect without holding a qualification recognised by the Council.	None
In response, it was contended that Section 37 was intended to prevent private individuals from calling themselves Architects and misleading the general public, but this rationale did not extend to government employees.	None
Therefore, it was urged that the government was free to designate its posts howsoever it saw fit.	None
In rejecting this distinction between private architects and employees of the government, Chief Justice Brijesh Kumar (as the learned judge then was) speaking on behalf of a Division Bench of the High Court of Gauhati held It is no doubt that the argument as adva nced on behalf of the appellants is attractive, but it hardly appeals us.	None
It is true, looking into the sudden spurt in the activity of building, constructed for factories, industries, housing colonies, office complexes, etc., it was considered that the profession of architecture must be regulated.	None
Only those who have proper education and training and are qualified to work as such may alone be permitted to work as architects.	None
It is a legislation especially dealing with architects.	None
Meaning of the word architect has been statutorily provided under clause (a) of Section 2 where it has been provided that it means one whose name is entered in the register.	None
Conduct of an architect is effectively controlled by Section 30.	None
As a Government servant may be punished under the Government rules, but still he may practice the profession of architecture.	None
But check is placed by Section 30 under which the name of an architect is even liable to be removed from the register disentitling him to practice.	None
Therefore, the argument that being in Government service an architect is accountable to his employer according to the rules does not hold good since mere punishment as a Government employee may not be enough to debar him from practising as an architect which is only controlled under Sections 22, 29 and 30 of the Act, 1972.	None
Apart from the categories as indicated above, no other exception to the applicability of Section 37 has been provided much less on the ground that one is engaged in private profession or in Government employment.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The High Court rejected the argument that the object of Section 37 to prevent misrepresentation by untrained individuals engaged in architectural activities only applied to private individuals and not government employees.	None
The High Court observed that even where the rules of service stipulated by the government provided for the regulation of architects, the provisions of the Architects Act allowing for the registration and deregistration of architects provided an overarching regulatory framework to protect the integrity of the architectural profession.	None
The Act ensures that individuals who did not possess a statutorily recognised qualification cannot refer to themselves as Architects.	None
Crucially, the High Court observed that Section 37 did not carve out an exception for government employees, therefore the prohibition on the use and the title and style of architect contained in Section 37 applied to both private individuals and government employees.	None
Both the appellant and the Union of India have relied on the decision of the Division Bench of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh in Mukesh Kumar Manhar and it would be pertinent at this juncture to discuss the judgement.	None
The facts of that case were substantially similar to those before us.	None
The petitioners before the High Court of Madhya Pradesh were employed as Draughtsman and Head Draughtsman and held architectural degrees recognised by the Architects Act.	None
Their next promotional post was that of Assistant Architect Class II.	None
One of the prerequisites for appointment as Assistant Architect Class II was the completion of a degree in architecture.	None
In 1991 the relevant recruitment rules were modified and the requirement of a degree in architecture was removed as a prerequisite for appointment as Assistant Architect Class II.	None
The petitioners contended that the amendment to the recruitment rules violated the provisions of the Architects Act.	None
According to the petitioners, the Act restricted the practice of architecture to persons possessing a degree in architecture and registered with the Council of Architects.	None
In dismissing the petitioners case, Chief Justice R V Raveendran (as the learned judge then was) speaking for a Division Bench of the High Court compared the provisions of the Architects Act to those of the Advocates Act and the Indian Medical Council Act 1956 (Indian Medical Council Act).	None
The court held There is a significant difference between the Architects Act 1972 dealing with the profession of Architects and enactments dealing with Medical and Legal professions.	None
Section 15(2) of The Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 bars any person other than medical practitioners enrolled on the State Medical Registers from practicing medicine or holding the office as physician or surgeon in any Government Institution or other Institution maintained by any local or other Authority.	None
Similarly, section 29 of the Advocates Act, 1961, provides that only one class of persons are entitled to practice the profession of law, namely, advocates entered in the Roll of any Bar Council under the provisions of the Advocates Act.	None
Thus there is a clear bar on persons who are not enrolled with the State Medical Council or State Bar Council from practising as a Medical Practitioner or an Advocate.	None
In contrast, the Architects Act 1972 does not prohibit persons other than those who are registered as Architects from practising the profession.	None
As noticed above, Section 37 only prohibits any person other than a registered architect using the title and style of Architect.	Reasoning
It does not prohibit a person, who is not a registered as an Architect with the Council of Architecture from carrying on or discharging any function that can be carried on by a registered Architect.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The High Court noted that both the Indian Medical Council Act and the Advocates Act expressly restrict the practice of medicine and law to individuals registered under the two statutes respectively.	None
When examined in juxtaposition to these two statutes, the choice of the legislature to restrict the title and style of architect in Section 37 of the Architects Act as opposed to the very practice of the profession is significant.	None
Relying on this distinction, the High Court ultimately held that 13.	None
there can be no objection for a rule providing for non architects being promoted to a particular Class II post, which may involve planning, designing and supervision of Building constructions.	None
What is prohibited and what is objectionable in law is calling the persons discharging such functions related to architecture, as Architects when they are not registered as Architects.	None
Even Engineers, who do not have a degree in Architecture (and who are not registered Architects) but having qualifications in Engineering and experience in design and supervision, may perform the function which are normally performed by an Architect.	None
But such Engineers who are not registered Architects and posted to the ClassI or II posts, dealing with architectural aspects and designs, cannot be called as Architects or Assistant Architects unless they are registered Architects under the Architects Act A draughtsman who is a registered Architect, when promoted to Class II post, can however be called as Assistant Architect.	None
We recognise the freedom and choice, vested in the executive, to prescribe the qualifications for various posts.	None
But the qualifications prescribed, should not violate any statutory provision, nor suffer from the vice of arbitrariness or mala fides.	None
Statutory preferences should not be ignored.	None
Architecture is a specialised technical field dealing with design and execution of buildings and structures.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The High Court held that the Architects Act merely prohibited individuals not registered with the Council of Architecture from referring to themselves as Architects but did not prohibit unregistered persons from carrying out the practice of architecture.	None
Even engineers, who are not registered with the Council may perform the functions of designing and supervising construction.	None
Significantly, the High Court held that it was not open for the government to refer to such unregistered engineers or other individuals as architects unless they are registered under the Architects Act.	None
Similar observations were made by a single judge of the High Court of Delhi in Premendra Raj Mehta v National Building Construction Corporation Limited W.P. (C) 2106 2012.	None
The dispute arose by way of a public interest litigation challenging the award of a consultancy service contract to a foreign firm not registered under the Architects Act and not having taken permission from the Central Government in accordance with the proviso to Section 37 of the Act.	None
In response to the public interest litigation, it was contended that Section 37 only prohibits a person other than a registered architect from using the title of architect and any firm can bid for tenders provided they have on their rolls an architect registered under the Architects Act.	None
In dismissing the challenge to the grant of the consultancy service contract, Justice V K Jain observed that A plain reading of Section 37 of the Act which appears under the heading Prohibition against the use of title would show that though the aforesaid provision bars a person other than a registered architect or a firm of architects from using the title and style it does not prohibit him from rendering architectural service so long as he does not use the expression architect and does not describe his firm, if any, as a firm of architects.	None
Had the legislative intent been to prevent rendering of architectural services by any person other than a person registered under the provision of the Act, Section 37 of the Act would have been worded altogether differently.	None
For instance, Section 29 of the Advocates Act, 1961 prohibits a person unless he is enrolled as an advocate from practicing in any Court or before any authority or persons. .	None
Section 15(2) of the Medical Council Act, 1956 also expressly prohibits a person other than a medical practitioner registered in any State, signing or authenticating a medical or fitness certificate, giving evidence as an expert and hold office as Physician or Surgeon or any other office in the Government or any institution maintained by a local or other authority.	None
No similar provision is, however found in the Architects Act.	None
The learned counsel for the petitioners contended that in my view rightly too that such an interpretation may result in unqualified persons providing services such as supervision of construction of buildings and the construction supervised by such persons may not be safe and economical, but, then, the remedy lies in the Parliament amending the provision of the Act so as to prohibit unqualified persons from rendering architectural services, and not in the Court taking an interpretation which a plain reading of Section 37 does not suggest.	None
Moreover such an unqualified person, after coming into force of the Act cannot represent themselves to be architects though they may continue to provide services such as supervision of construction of buildings.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The Single Judge of the High Court of Delhi observed that a plain reading of Section 37 leads to the conclusion that Section 37 merely acts as a prohibition on the use of the title Architect and does not prohibit individuals not registered under the Architects Act from undertaking the practice of architecture.	Reasoning
Importantly, the Single Judge observed that although this may result in certain unregulated individuals engaging in the practice of architecture (i) such untrained individuals cannot refer to themselves as architects and are thus unlikely to be entrusted with tasks requiring specialised architectural knowledge (ii) the court cannot construe a statutory provision in a manner contrary to its plain meaning merely to address a perceived societal harm and (iii) if the legislature is of the opinion that the risk of untrained individuals who cannot refer to themselves as architects engaging in the business of designing and supervising construction is real, it can always amend Section 37 to prohibit the practice of such activities by unregistered individuals as the legislature has done in the cases of the Advocates Act and the Indian Medical Council Act.	None
In Sudhir Vohra v Registrar of Companies W.P. (C) 934/2012 and C.M.	None
No. 18315/2014 three writ petitions were filed before a single judge of the Delhi High Court.	None
The first writ petition sought a mandamus directing the Registrar of Companies and Ministry of Corporate Affairs to prohibit the registration of any company or limited liability partnership which stated that it provided architectural services.	None
The second writ petition sought a direction cancelling the permission granted to an architecture firm from Singapore to set up a wholly owned subsidiary in India.	None
The third writ petition sought the quashing of a Ministry of Corporate Affairs circular which stipulated that if a company or limited liability partnership had as one of its stated objectives the providing of architectural services, such an entity could not be incorporated without a noobjection certificate from the Council of Architecture.	None
Justice Rekha Palli summarised the issues raised by the three writ petitions Thus, what emerges is that the first two writ petitions seek (i) a direction that only architects registered under the Act can provide architectural services and (ii) no company LLP can use the title and style of architect or its derivatives.	None
The third writ petition essentially seeks directions to the contrary.	None
The main thrust of the third writ petition is that the Act only restricts the use of the title and style of architect, and it neither precludes companies LLPs from rendering architectural services nor prevents them from mentioning the same as one of their objects in their MOA.	None
In answering the questions raised by the writ petitions, the High Court of Delhi was essentially asked to consider whether the Architects Act precludes unregistered architects (including legal entities) from providing architectural services, or alternatively whether the Act merely prohibits unregistered architects and entities from using the title and style of architect.	None
After examining the provisions of the Architects Act, the Single Judge held On a careful examination of the aforesaid provisions of the Advocates Act and CA Act vizaviz the provisions of the Architects Act, it is apparent that the latter does not contain any prohibitory provisions similar to the ones in the former two.	None
The Architects Act neither prescribes that only registered architects can provide architectural services, nor contains any clause prohibiting companies and LLPs from providing architectural services.	None
In fact, what emerges from the entire scheme of the Architects Act is that it neither defines as to who can provide architectural services nor puts any fetters on persons who wish to provide architectural services.	None
It merely defines an architect to mean a person whose name is entered in the register maintained by the COA and lays down the mandatory qualifications for an entry in the said register.	None
On the other hand, the Advocates Act and CA Act include specific provisions laying down as to who can practice as an advocate or accountant.	None
Thus, the Act, while clearly prescribing that unregistered persons, including juristic entities, cannot describe or style themselves as architects, does not preclude any one from providing architectural services.	None
Merely because the Act includes a specific provision prescribing that only a registered architect can use the title of an architect or style himself herself as an architect, it cannot be concluded that the Act in any manner envisages that architectural services can be rendered only by those to whom the Act applies.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The Single Judge concluded that the scheme of the Architects Act does not define a set of individuals who can provide architectural services.	None
Merely because the statute stipulates that nobody other than individuals who are registered with the Council of Architects can use the title of Architect cannot mean that the Act restricts the practice of architecture as a whole to those registered with the Council.	None
Controversy at the Supreme Court During the course of the present proceedings, the Learned Attorney General has placed before us a compilation of relevant material including an order dated 14 February 2017 of a twojudge bench of this Court in Council of Architecture v Manohar Krishnaji Ranade C.A. Nos 33463348 of 2005 (Manohar Ranade).	None
We have extracted the relevant portion of the order below While we find no reason to interfere with the impugned judgement and order dated 29 th November, 2004 passed by the Bombay High Court in Writ Petition No. 1830 of 1988 and connected matters, we are of the view that the High Court was in error in rejecting the contention of the appellant that practice under the Architects Act, 1972 is not restricted only to the architects.	Reasoning
It is not correct to say that any one can practice as an architect even if he is not registered under the Architects Act, 1972.	None
Placing reliance on this order, the appellant contended that the question of whether Section 37 prohibits the practice of architecture by unregistered individuals is no longer res integra.	None
It was urged that this Court has already held that the practice of architecture is limited to architects registered under the Architects Act.	None
The order arising out of Manohar Ranade has been followed by a threejudge bench of this Court in an order dated 11 September 2017 in Council of Architecture v Indian Institute of Architects.	None
C.A.	None
No 12649 of 2017 The order of the threejudge bench states that Having heard learned counsel for the parties and keeping in view the order dated 14 th February, 2017, passed in Civil Appeal Nos. 33463348 of 2005, we dispose of the present appeal in similar terms.	None
To have clarity, we reproduce the relevant passage as under  While we find no reason to interfere with the impugned judgement and order dated 29 th November, 2004 passed by the Bombay High Court in Writ Petition No. 1830 of 1988 and connected matters, we are of the view that the High Court was in error in rejecting the contention of the appellant that practice under the Architects Act, 1972 is not restricted only to the architects.	Reasoning
It is not correct to say that any one can practice as an architect even if he is not registered under the Architects Act, 1972.	None
The appeal is disposed of in the above terms The controversy in Manohar Ranade concerned whether the Municipal Corporation could issue licenses to individuals not registered under the Architects Act for the completion of certain tasks that are otherwise undertaken by architects.	None
In answering this question, Justice A P Shah (sitting as a judge of the High Court of Bombay) and Justice Dharmadhikari stated The next issue is whether the engineers or surveyors possessing necessary qualifications can discharge functions which are also discharged by an architect under the Architects Act, 1972 In the above circumstances we are not inclined to accept the case of the petitioners that the Architects Act restricts practice of architecture to persons registered under the said Act.	None
Therefore qualified engineers who cannot themselves call on Architects may still be free to do the work which is ordinarily done by the Architects and it would be open for the Corporations to regulate licensing in favour of such qualified engineers.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The High Court of Bombay rejected the contention that the practice of architecture is restricted to registered architects under the Architects Act.	None
The High Court of Bombay held that the practice of architecture is not restricted to architects registered under the Architects Act, and even qualified engineers are free to carry out the work ordinarily done by architects.	None
The order of this Court dated 14 February 2017 states that the High Court was in error in rejecting the contention of the appellant that practice under the Architects Act, 1972 is not restricted only to the architects.	Reasoning
The appellant was the Council of Architecture.	Reasoning
The order is based on the premise that the contention of the Council of Architecture before the High Court of Bombay was that the practice under the Architects Act, 1972 is not restricted only to architects.	Reasoning
The order stated that the High Court was wrong in rejecting this contention.	Reasoning
Therefore, the order of this Court dated 14 February 2017 clearly sought to lay down the proposition that the practice under the Architects Act, 1972 is not restricted only to architects.	Reasoning
Having laid down this proposition, it would appear that the use of the word not in the next line is inadvertent .	Reasoning
In the previous sentence the court expounded the position that the practice of architecture cannot be restricted to registered architects under the Architects Act.	Reasoning
Hence, it would be an incorrect interpretation of the order to hold that in the very next line, the court would have laid down a contrary proposition.	Reasoning
Therefore, the effect of the order as a whole is to lay down the principle that individuals can practice as architects even if they are not registered under the Architects Act.	Reasoning
The subsequent order of this Court dated 11 September 2017 which quotes and follows the earlier order should also be read in this light.	Reasoning
Therefore, the two orders of this Court do not further the case urged by the appellant but support the position set out by the Union of India, succinctly advanced in the submissions of the learned Attorney General.	None
Regulatory Scheme of the Architects Act Before embarking on our analysis of whether the Architects Act prohibits the practice of architecture by individuals not registered with the Council of Architects, it is pertinent to examine the scheme of the Architects Act in its entirety.	None
The Architects Act is a special legislation creating an exhaustive regulatory regime applicable to the profession of architecture.	None
Clause (a) of Section 2 of the Architects Act defines an architect as follows (a) architect means a person whose name is for the time being entered in the register The register is further defined as (e) register means the register of architects maintained under section 23 Section 3 of the Architects Act brings into existence the Council of Architecture.	Arguments of Respondent
Under Section 14 of the Act, only qualifications included in the Schedule to the Act or notified under Section 15 of the Act shall be recognised as valid qualifications for the purposes of enrolling in the register under the Architects Act.	Reasoning
Clause (2) of Section 14 permits any authority in India which grants architectural qualifications not already included in the Schedule of the Act to apply to the Central Government to have such qualification recognised as a valid architectural qualification for the purposes of registration under the Architects Act.	None
Section 17 of the Architects Act states that Effect of recognition.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, but subject to the provisions of this Act, any recognised qualification shall be a sufficient qualification for enrolment in the register.	None
The import of Sections 14, 15 and 17 is that if an individual wishes to be a registered architect under the Architects Act, they must receive an educational qualification that is recognised as a valid qualification by virtue of its inclusion in the Schedule to the Architects Act or a notification under Section 15.	None
The Schedule to the Architects Act contains a list of qualifications that are recognised in law as sufficient to warrant the holder of the qualification being enrolled as a registered architect.	None
Thus, by creating a system of statutorily recognised educational qualifications, the Architects Act regulates those individuals who are eligible to be registered architects under the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 23 of the Architects Act provides that Preparation and maintenance of register.(1)	None
The Central Government shall, as soon as may be, cause to be prepared in the manner hereinafter provided a register of architects for India.	None
The Council shall upon its constitution assume the duty of maintaining the register in accordance with the provisions of this Act.	None
The register shall include the following particulars, namely (a) the full name with date of birth, nationality and residential address of the architect (b) his qualification for registration, and the date on which he obtained that qualification and the authority which conferred it (c) the date of his first admission to the register (d) his professional address and (e) such further particulars as may be prescribed by rules.	None
Section 23 provides for the maintenance of a register of architects in India.	None
As the term architect itself is defined to mean an individual registered under the Architects Act, the effect of registration of an individual under the Act is firstly to maintain a list of individuals who have a statutorily recognised educational qualification in the field of architecture and secondly to bring such individuals within the regulatory regime of the Architects Act.	None
Section 29 sets out the procedure for the removal of individuals from the register, including on the ground of such individuals having misrepresented material facts at the time of registration, being undischarged insolvents, or having been convicted of offences involving moral turpitude.	None
Section 30 provides the procedure for inquiries into misconduct by architects and Section 31 provides for the surrender of certificates by registered architects.	None
Section 35 of the Architects Act stipulates that Effect of registration.(1)	None
Any reference in any law for the time being in force to an architect shall be deemed to be a reference to an architect registered under this Act.	Reasoning
After the expiry of two years from the date appointed under subsection (2) of section 24, a person who is registered in the register shall get preference for appointment as an architect under the Central or State Government or in any other local body or institution which is supported or aided from the public or local funds or in any institution recognised by the Central or State Government.	None
The consequence of Section 35 is that, where a statute refers to an architect such reference shall be deemed to mean a registered architect under the Architects Act.	Reasoning
Clause (2) of Section 35 creates a statutory preference in favour of registered architects with respect to the appointment of candidates by the Central or state governments or local bodies or institutions which receive state aid.	None
Lastly, we may refer to the provision at the heart of the present controversy, Section 37 of the Architects Act which states Prohibition against use of title.(1) After the expiry of one year from the date appointed under subsection (2) of section 24, no person other than a registered architect, or a firm of architects shall use the title and style of architect Provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply to (a) practice of the profession of an architect by a person designated as a landscape architect or naval architect (b) a person who, carrying on the profession of an architect in any country outside India, undertakes the function as a consultant or designer in India for a specific project with the prior permission of the Central Government.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of clause (a), landscape architect means a person who deals with the design of open spaces relating to plants, trees and landscape naval architect means an architect who deals with design and construction of ships.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Clause (2) of Section 37 states that any person who contravenes the prohibition created in clause (1) of Section 37 shall be punishable on first conviction with a fine that may extend to five hundred rupees and on subsequent convictions with imprisonment which may extend up to six months or a fine not exceeding one thousand rupees or both.	None
Questions before this Court The present case raises two questions that this Court must answer Question 1 Does Section 37 of the Architects Act prohibit individuals not registered as architects under the Architects Act from practicing the activities undertaken by architects, including the design, supervision and construction of buildings and Question 2	Issue
Whether a post titled Architect, Associate architect or any other similar title using the term or style of Architect can be held by a person not registered as an architect under the Architects Act.	None
Question 1 In answering the first question we must begin with the text of Section 37.	None
The provision uses the phrase no person shall use the title and style of architect.	None
Therefore, on a plain reading of the section, the legal prohibition created is on the use of the title and style of architect.	None
Title and style are distinct from practice.	None
While a prohibition on the use of a title merely restricts an individual from attaching the said title to their name in referring to or representing themselves to others, a prohibition on practice creates a bar on the actual undertaking of specific actions.	None
The most compelling evidence that the two concepts are materially distinct is the varied usage of the two phrases by the legislature.	None
For example, clause (2) of Section 15 of the Indian Medical Council Act states Save as provided in section 25, no person other than a medical practitioner enrolled on a State Medical Register, (a) shall hold office as physician or surgeon or any other office (by whatever designation called) in Government or in any institution maintained by a local or other authority.	None
(b) shall practice medicine in any State (Emphasis supplied) In setting out the legal bar applicable to individuals not registered on the State Medical Register, the Indian Medical Council Act clearly uses the term practi ce as distinct from hold office or style and title.	None
Similarly, Section 29 of the Advocates Act provides that Advocates to be the only recognised class of persons entitled to practise law.	None
Subject to the provisions of this Act and any rules made thereunder, there shall, as from the appointed day, be only one class of persons entitled to practice the profession of law, namely, advocates (Emphasis supplied)	None
In making a distinction between individuals registered under the statute and those not registered, the Advocates Act clearly stipulates that unregistered individuals cannot practice the profession of law.	None
This stands in stark contrast to the text of the Architects Act which merely states that unregistered individuals cannot use the title and style of architect.	None
Therefore, a plain reading of Section 37 clearly supports the proposition that the Architects Act prohibits individuals not registered with the Council of Architecture from using the title and style of Architect and does not prohibit unregistered individuals from practicing the activities undertaken by architects such as the design, supervision and construction of buildings.	Reasoning
It has been contended that one of the objects and purposes of the Architects Act is to prevent untrained individuals from designing, supervising and constructing buildings.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has further been contended that registration under the Architects Act forms an essential part of the regulatory regime for architects as it ensures that architects possess adequate educational qualifications.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, it is urged that Section 37 must be read in a manner which prohibits unregistered individuals from practicing the profession of architecture and cognate activities in order to prevent the harms arising from unqualified individuals providing critical architectural services.	Arguments of Petitioner
These submissions are ultimately premised on the argument that even if a plain reading of Section 37 does not support the argument of a prohibition on practice this Court must nonetheless read the provision to include a prohibition on practice in order to avoid defeating the object and purpose of the Architects Act.	None
It is well settled that the first and best method of determining the intention of the legislature is the very words chosen by the legislature to have the force of law.	Reasoning
In other words, the intention of the legislature is best evidenced by the text of the statute itself.	Reasoning
However, where a plain reading of the text of the statute leads to an absurd or unreasonable meaning, the text of the statute must be construed in light of the object and purpose with which the legislature enacted the statute as a whole.	Reasoning
Where it is contended that a particular interpretation would lead to defeating the very object of a legislation, such an interpretative outcome would clearly be absurd or unreasonable.	None
To determine whether the interpretation arrived at on a plain reading of the provision truly defeats the object of the statute as a whole, we may briefly delve into the legislative history of the Architects Act.	None
To answer the question whether reading Section 37 as a prohibition merely on the use of the title and style of A rchitect by unregistered individuals would in truth defeat the object and purpose of the Architects Act this Court may examine the reasons behind the enactment as a whole.	None
The Statement of Objects and Reasons given by the legislature in passing the Architects Act have been extracted below Since independence and more particularly with the implementation of the FiveYear Plans, the building construction activity in our country has expanded almost on a phenomenal scale.	None
A large variety of buildings, many of extreme complexity and magnitude like multistoreyed office buildings, factory buildings, residential houses, are being constructed each year.	None
With this increase in the building activity, many unqualified persons calling themselves as Architects are undertaking the construction of buildings which are uneconomical and quite frequently are unsafe, thus bringing into disrepute the profession of architects.	None
Various organisations, including the Indian Institute of Architects, have repeatedly emphasised the need for statutory regulation to protect the general public from unqualified persons working as architects.	None
With the passing of this legislation, it will be unlawful for any person to designate himself as architect unless he has the requisite qualifications and experience and is registered under the Act.	None
The legislation protects the title architects but does not make the design, supervision and construction of buildings as an exclusive responsibility of architects.	Reasoning
Other professions like engineers will be free to engage themselves in their normal vocation in respect of building construction work provided that they do not style themselves as architects.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Architects Act makes it evident that the legislature was undoubtedly concerned with the risk of unqualified persons undertaking the construction of buildings leading to costly and dangerous buildings.	None
In guarding against this risk, the legislature first set out a minimum standard of statutorily recognised qualifications to be met before an individual is designated as an architect under the Architects Act.	Reasoning
This is done by Sections 14, 15 and 17 of the Act.	Reasoning
Next, the legislature created two classes of individuals the first class consisted of registered architects satisfying these minimum qualifications and a second class of unregistered individuals who did not satisfy these minimum qualifications.	Reasoning
This is the effect of Sections 2(a), 17, 23 and 35 of the Architects Act.	Reasoning
Crucially, the legislature chose to define an architect as an individual registered under the Architects Act and not as an individual practicing architecture or any cognate activities.	Reasoning
Thus, the legislature limited the regulatory regime created by the Architects Act to the first class of individuals.	Reasoning
In protecting the public from the risk of the second class, untrained individuals, the legislature had two options first it could bar this second class of individuals from engaging in the profession altogether (as it had done with physicians and advocates) or alternatively it could prevent this second class of individuals from calling themselves Architects.	Reasoning
The Statement of Objects and Reasons makes it clear that the legislature chose the second option and in fact went to great lengths to clarify that choice.	Reasoning
The legislature stated that with the passing of the legislation, it shall be unlawful for an unregistered individual to designate himself as an architect.	Reasoning
Further, it is expressly stated that the legislation protects the title of architect but does not grant registered architects an exclusive right to undertake the design, supervision and construction of buildings.	Reasoning
Other cognate professions or unregistered individuals may continue to carry out these activities provided that they do not refer to themselves as A rchitects.	Reasoning
It is evident that the legislature did not intend to create a prohibition on the practice of architecture and associated activities by unregistered individuals.	Reasoning
As opposed to the case of physicians or surgeons under the Indian Medical Council Act or advocates under the Advocates Act, the legislature consciously chose to employ a less stringent measure in the case of architects, merely prohibiting unregistered individuals from using the title and style of architect.	Reasoning
It is not for this Court to delve into why the legislature made this choice.	Reasoning
However, during the course of these proceedings a cogent and pragmatic reason for this choice has been placed before this Court, by the learned Attorney General of India and by way of the erudite opinion of Chief Justice Raveendran in the decision in Mukhesh Kumar Manhar to which we may briefly advert.	None
The profession of architecture involves a wide range of activities including inter alia	None
Taking instructions from clients and preparing designs Site evaluation and analysis Site design and development Structural design Design of sanitary, plumbing, sewage, drainage, and water supply structures Design and structural integration of electrical and communications systems Incorporation of heating, airconditioning, ventilation and other mechanical systems including fire detection and prevention systems and Periodic inspection and evaluation of construction work.	None
These activities are undertaken by architects but are also carried out by architects in concert with a range of other actors including draughtspersons, builders, engineers, and designers.	None
If the legislature were to impose an absolute prohibition against unregistered individuals from practicing architecture there would be considerable confusion as to what activities formed the practice of architecture and what did not.	None
It may have resulted in a host of other legitimate professionals being barred from engaging in the design, supervision and construction of buildings merely because they were not registered under the Architects Act.	Reasoning
Further, as the learned Attorney General of India brought to our attention, these varied professions form essential cogs in the overall machinery of construction in India and the design, supervision and construction of new structures cannot be done by architects alone.	Reasoning
It would be unreasonable from a regulatory perspective to ask all professions touching upon the construction of new structures to obtain a degree in architecture.	Reasoning
Architecture undoubtedly constitutes a highly specialised profession requiring the possession of minimum educational qualifications.	Reasoning
However, architects are by and large engaged by means of a contract for services.	Reasoning
In other words, architects provide a set of specialised services towards the larger goal of construction.	Reasoning
Architects are not embarking on construction independently of other actors.	Reasoning
By virtue of the Architects Act, anybody engaging the services of an individual calling themselves an A rchitect is assured that such an individual possesses statutorily recognised educational qualifications and is competent to complete the task at hand.	Reasoning
It is in this manner that the legislature protects the common person from untrained individuals.	Reasoning
For the above reasons, we affirm the decision of the High Court of Allahabad on the first question and hold that Section 37 of the Architects Act does not prohibit individuals not registered under the Architects Act from undertaking the practice of architecture and its cognate activities.	Decision
Question 2	None
The second question before this Court is whether a post titled Architect, Associate architect or any other similar title using the term or style of Architect can be held by a person not registered as an architect under the Architects Act.	Issue
On this question, the High Court of Allahabad held that the mere nomenclature of a particular post will not violate the prohibition on the use of title and style of architect under Section 37.	None
In other words, even an individual not registered as an architect under the Architects Act can hold a post titled Architect or Associate Architect because the name of the post amounted to mere nomenclature.	None
While we have held that Section 37 does not prohibit the practice of architecture by unregistered individuals, it certainly does prohibit unregistered individuals from using the title and style of architect.	Reasoning
Under the scheme of the Architects Act, only individuals possessing the statutorily recognised minimum educational qualifications can apply for registration as an Architect under the Act.	Reasoning
Registration as an architect under the statute is thus a guarantee of possessing certain minimum educational qualifications.	Reasoning
Section 37 prohibits unregistered individuals from designating themselves or referring to themselves as architects.	Reasoning
The consequence of this regulatory regime is that when an individual is called an Architect a reasonable person would assume that they are a registered architect under the Architects Act and as a consequence possess the requisite educational qualifications and specialised knowledge associated with architects.	Reasoning
If an individual is appointed to a post titled Associate Architect, Architect or Senior Architect, they undoubtedly refer to themselves and are referred to by others as Architects.	Reasoning
Holding a post using the term Architect has the realworld consequence of being referred to as an architect.	Reasoning
This is not a matter of mere nomenclature.	Reasoning
As noted above, architecture is a specialised field of study.	Reasoning
Crucially, the scheme of the Architects Act provides a direct nexus between the minimum educational qualifications required to be obtained, registration as an architect under the Act and the prohibition against the use of the title of A rchitect by those not registered under the Act.	Reasoning
If a government post is titled Architect or Associate Architect, such a person certainly use s the title and style of architect and consequently there is a reasonable assumption that such a person is registered under the Architects Act and holds a degree in architecture recognised by the Act.	Reasoning
This assumption finds statutory backing in Section 35 of the Architects Act which provides that any reference to an architect in any other law shall be deemed to mean an architect registered under the Architects Act.	Reasoning
To promote an individual who does not possess a degree in architecture recognised by the Act to a post titled Architect, Associate Architect or of a similar style using the title or style of architect would effectively violate the prohibition on the use of title contained in Section 37 of the Architects Act.	Reasoning
In the present case, we recognise the power of NOIDA to provide and modify the minimum eligibility criteria for promotion of candidates to the posts of Associate Town Planner and Associate Architect.	Reasoning
We further recognise that the authority has significant discretion in how it chooses to title the various posts under its supervision.	Reasoning
However, to permit NOIDA to continue to title a post that includes individuals who are not registered architects under the Architects Act as Associat e Architect would result in a violation of Section 37 of the Architects Act.	Reasoning
In the case of Tulya Gogoi the High Court of Gauhati expressly held that the prohibition on the use of title and style of architect contained in Section 37 of the Architects Act applies to both private individuals and government employees.	Reasoning
The reasoning of the High Court on this issue commends itself for our acceptance.	Reasoning
The text of Section 37 makes no distinction between government employees and private individuals.	None
The U.P. Industrial Area Development Act provides NOIDA with the power to make rules for the management of its internal affairs.	Reasoning
In exercise of this power, NOIDA formulated the Service Regulations of 1981.	Reasoning
Rule 16 of the Service Regulations sets out the Sources of Recruitment for posts under NOIDAs authority.	None
By clause (iv) of Rule 16 NOIDA has the power to modify the sources of recruitment for posts under its supervision.	Reasoning
It is in exercise of this power that NOIDA formulated the Promotion Policy of 2005 which sets out the sources and qualifications for recruitment in its various departments.	Reasoning
It is well established that delegated legislation is susceptible to invalidity on the grounds of being ultra vires its parent legislation but also ultra vires other primary legislation.	Reasoning
Where the provisions of a primary legislation (the Architects Act) are contradictory to the provisions of a delegated legislation (the Promotion Policy 2005), the provisions of the primary legislation must prevail.	Reasoning
This principle is well established and has received articulation by this Court on several occasions.	Reasoning
In Indian Express Newspapers v Union of India (1985) 1 SCC 641 Justice Venkataramiah speaking for a three judge Bench of this Court stated A piece of subordinate legislation does not carry the same degree of immunity which is enjoyed by a statute passed by a competent Legislature.	None
Subordinate legislation may be questioned on any of the grounds on which plenary legislation is questioned.	Reasoning
In addition, it may also be questioned on the ground that it does not conform to the statute under which it is made.	Reasoning
It may further be questioned on the ground that it is contrary to some other statute.	Reasoning
This is because subordinate legislation must yield to plenary legislation.	Reasoning
It may also be question on the ground that it is unreasonable, unreasonable not in the sense of not being reasonable, but in the sense that it is manifestly arbitrary.	Reasoning
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The distinction made by the Allahabad High Court, that the Promotion Policy 2005 was passed under a state legislation, namely the U.P. Industrial Area Development Act, and thus did not need to comport with the terms of the Architects Act as a central legislation is incorrect.	Reasoning
For the reasons stated above, in response to the first question we affirm the decision of the High Court of Allahabad and hold that Section 37 of the Architects Act does not prohibit individuals not registered under the Architects Act from undertaking the practice of architecture and its cognate activities.	Decision
In response to the second question we disapprove of the view of the High Court of Allahabad and hold that NOIDA cannot promote or recruit individuals who do not hold a degree in architecture recognised by the Architects Act to a post that uses the title or style of architect.	Decision
However, the authority is free to change the nomenclature of the post to any alternative as long as it does not violate the provisions of the Architects Act by using the style and title of architect in its name.	Decision
The appeals are partly allowed in the above terms.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	None
Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of.	None
