 G. Balakrishnan, J. This appeal is directed against the judgment and order passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh at Jabalpur in Civil Revision No. 296 of 1992 on 30th January, 1996.	Issue
By the impugned judgment, the Division Bench dismissed the said Civil Revision filed by the appellant under Section 19 of the Madhya Pradesh Madhyastham Adhikaran Adhiniyam, 1982, challenging the award dated 16.3.1992 passed by the M.P. Arbitration Tribunal, Bhopal in Reference Case No. 11/1987.2.	Issue
The appellant, a construction company, entered into an agreement on 18.3.1982 with the respondent State of Madhya Pradesh, for the construction of a Dam in Barchar Tank Project, in the Sidhi district.	Facts
The total cost of the construction was Rs.	Facts
1,22,19,779/.	None
As per the work order given to the appellant, the appellant was to complete the work within a period of 15 months.	Facts
The appellant was, however, given several extensions and the last of such extension was to expire on 30.6.1987.	Facts
Payments were made to the appellant during the course of the progress of the work.	Facts
The total qantity of the earth work to be done was 5,02,929 Cubic Meters.	Facts
As per the contract, the appellant was also bound to do an additional 10 of the agreed earth work at the rate given under the agreement.	Facts
According to the appellant, more than 10 of the agreed quantity of the earth work was carried out and for the additional quantity of the earth work done, a claim was made by him Rs. 34.50 per Cubic Meter.	Facts
The agreed rate for the earth work was Rs. 15/ per Cubic Meter.	Facts
Dispute arose between the parties as to the rate payable for theadditional quantity of the earth work carried out and the matter was referred to the Artbiration Tribunal.	Facts
The Tribunal passed an award on 14.7.1988 and by this award the rate of Rs. 22/ per Cublic Meter was fixed for the additional earth work done by the appellant.	Facts
Aggrieved by this award, the appellant preferred a Civil Revision (Registered as C.R. No. 459 of 1988) before the High Court of Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
The respondent State of Madhya Pradesh also filed Civil Revision No. 512 of 1988 against the said award of the Tribunal whereas the Civil Revision filed by the State was dismissed.	Facts
The revision filed by the appellant ws remitted to the Tribunal with a specific direction, which is to the following effect For the aforesaid reasons, the award of compensation for this extra work at Rs. 22/ per cubic metre is hereby set aside and to that extent Civil Revision No. 459 of 1988, filed by the State Government of M.P. and others is hereby dismissed.	Facts
The matter shall go back to the arbitration Tribunal, which shall, after giving due opportunit to the contractor, i.e, M s Manocha Construction Co., for the additional work done, in accordance with the provisions of clause 4.3.13.3 of the agreement.	Facts
We affirm the finding of the tribunal as to the contriactors entitlement to the compensation for this additional work done.	Facts
Pursuant to the above Revisional order, the matter was again considered by the ?Arbitration Tribunal and a fresh award was passed on 16.3.1992.	Facts
the Trbunal held that the work relating to the additional quantity of the earth was in respect of a temporary bund and the construction of the same was completed by November December, 1985 Therefore, in view of subclause (d) of Clause 4.3.13.3, the rate had to be fixed on the basis of the then prevailing market rate.	Facts
On that basis the claim of the appellant was considered and it was held that the appellant was entitled to get at the rate of Rs. 15.70 per Cubic Meter.	Facts
The award thus passed by the Tribunal was challenged by the appellant before the High Court, but the Division Bench by its order and judgment as aforesid, declined to interfere with the same.	Facts
Hence this appeal.	Facts
We heard the learned Senior Counsel, Mr. S.B. Sanyal, for the appellant and also the counsel for the respondents No. Krishnan Venugopal.	None
Learrned counsel for the appellant contended that the Tribunal had committed a serious error in appreciating the evidence and wrongly held that the additional earth work was completed in November December, 1985 and thus adopted.	Arguments of Petitioner
Inappropriate criteria for fixing the total amount due to the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the series of correspondence between the appellant and the respondent would show that the officers of the respondent State Govt.	Arguments of Petitioner
had agreed to pay Rs. 25.25 per Cubic Meter while the appellant had all along been insisting for payment Rs. 34.50 per Cubic Meter for the additional earth work done by him.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, it is argued that the Tribunal passed a wrong award and thereby failed to exercise the jurisdiction vested in it and the High Court should have interfered by virtue of the powers conferred on it under Section 19 of the Madhya Pradesh Madhyastham Adhkaran Adhiniyam, 1982, to correct the material irregularity committed by the Tribunal by improper appreciation of the evidence.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel for the respondent State, on the other hand, contended that the direction relating to the construction of a temporary bund was carried out by the appellant in 1985 and the rate of Rs. 25.25 per Cubic Meter agreed to be paid to the appellant for hte additional earth work was in respect of the main Dam work.	Arguments of Respondent
he argued that the appellant had been paid at a higher rate than the contract rate.	Arguments of Respondent
It is evidenct from the pleadings that the additional earth work, for which the appellant had been bargaining for a higher rate, related to the construction of the temporary bund in question.	None
this temporary bund was constructed for stopping bund was constructed for stopping the flow of the river to the enable the department to clear the Dam area.	None
In paragraph 2 of the letter written by the appellant to the Superintending Engineer of the respondent State on 25.12.1986, it is stated as under The agreement quantity of earth work was given as 502929 Cums in Schedule G of the contract document.	None
During the course of execution, we were instructed to construct the temporary bunch for stopping the flow of river to enable the department to clear the dam seat of Nalla portion.	None
The work was taken up by us in the month of October 1985 and the same was completed in the month of November 1985.	None
We were paid the rate of Rs. 14/ per Cum (tendered rate) for this item of work for the total of 48651.67 Cums in our running bills No. 20 dated 15.3.86 and 21 dated 4.5.86.	None
The dispute referred to the Arbitration Tribunal related to the rate payable for this work.	None
In its first award dated 14.7.1988, the Arbitration Tribunal had considered that the additional work related to the temporary bund constructed by the appellant and the total earth work done by him was 49027.64 Cubic Meters.	None
Therefore, there cannot be any dispute that the additional work related to the construction of the temporary bund.	None
It is also not possible for the appellant to contend that this work was carried out in May, 1986 after the receipt of Exh.	None
P12 letter dated 5.4.1986 from the Superintending Engineer.	None
The contention of the appellant (1) that there was correspondence between the appellant and the Executive Engineer in charge of the construction work regarding the rate payable to the appellant (ii) that the appellant by letter dated 6.4.1986 had only provisionally agreed for the rate of Rs. 25.25 per Cubic Meter and (iii) that he had been claiming the rate of Rs. 34.50 per Cubic Meter is incorrect.	None
Reference was made to the letter dated 5.4.1986 of the Executive Engineer and the appellants letter dated 6.4.1986 of addressed to the Superintending Engineer.	None
It is clear that these letters and some other similar correspondence referred to by the appellant, related to the additional earth work, if any, done by the appellant in excess of the quantity of the earth work agreed to by him in respect of the main Dam.	None
In the letter dated 31.10.1986 written by the appellant to the Executive Engineer, the appellant had made a reference to the construction of a temporary bund and it was stated therein that he had under taken that work under instructions of the Executive Engineer and the payment for the same was agreed at the rates of earthen dam.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent on the other hand contended that this work itself was an unauthorised work.	None
We need not, however, dilate on that aspect as the Division Bench in its earlier order had stated that the appellant was entitled to get payment for the work relating to temporary bund.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant contended that the Superintending Engineer, by his letter dated 5.4.1986 (Exh. P12) had agreed to pay are the rate of Rs. 25.25 per Cubic Meter and in the face of this admission it was not correct on the part of the Arbitration Tribunal to fix the rate at Rs. 15.75 per Cubic Meter.	Arguments of Petitioner
This letter referred to by the appellant is certainly not in respect of the temporary bund constructed by the appellant in 1985.	Arguments of Petitioner
It seems that thee was a dispute with regard to the rate payable for the additional work in respect of the main Dam.	Arguments of Petitioner
Though the appellant claimed Rs. 34.50 per Cubic meter, the Superintending Engineer by his letter dated 5.4.1986 agreed to pay Rs. 25.25 per Cubic Meter.	Arguments of Petitioner
For this additional quantity of the work, the appellant was paid in excess of the contract rate.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, the dispute before the Arbitration Tribunal was with regard to the temporary bund and its work was completed by November December, 1985 and the total earth work was 49027.64 Cubic Meters.	None
The Tribunal went into this question and fixed the rate having due regard to subclause (d) of Clause 4.3,13,3 of the agreement which is to the following effect If the rates for the altered, additional or substituted work cannot be determined in the manner specified in the Subclause (a), (b),(c) above, the S.E. shall determine the rate or rates and fix the same on the basis of prevailing market rates to include prime cost of material and labour charges (inclusive of hourly wise rates as determined by the department for machinery and equipments if used) plus 15 extra to cover the sundry, overhead charges and profits etc. of the contractor.	None
On the basis of the above clause, the Tribunal considered the prevailing market rates, including the cost of material and labour charges and an additional 15 was added to cover the sundry charges to arrive at the rate.	Reasoning
The details are given in the award.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the appellant could not point out any defect or illegality committed by the Tribunal in fixing the rate payable for the additional work.	Reasoning
When it was proved that the additional earth work as completed in November December, 1985, there was nothing wrong in fixing the amount based on the rate prevalent at that time.11.	Reasoning
The learned counsel for the appellant lastly contended that by its earlier award dated 14.7.1988 the Arbitration Tribunal had fixed the rate of Rs. 22/ per Cubic Meter for the earth work and that the Civil Revision filed by the respondent State Govt.	Reasoning
against that award had been dismissed.	Reasoning
Therefore, it was argued that at least the appellant should be entitled to get therate of Rs. 22/ per Cubic Meter.	Reasoning
we do not find any substance in this contention.	Reasoning
In the order passed by the Division Bench of the High Court on 26.7.1990, it was specifically stated that the rate for the additional earth work is to be refixed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 4.3.13.3 of the agreement and it was accordingly done by the Tribunal.	Reasoning
When a fresh award has been passed by the Tribunal.	Reasoning
whatever award passed by it earlier loses its significance.12.	Reasoning
We are of the view that the appellant failed to establish that there was any error of jurisdiction, illegality or material irregularity warranting interference by the Revisional court.	Reasoning
The appeal has not merit and is dismissed accordingly, however, without any order as to costs.	Decision
