 Sathasivam, J. Leave granted.	None
These appeals are directed against the judgment and order of the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam dated 14.11.2006 in Company Appeal Nos. 14/2006, 15/2006, 17/2006 and 18/2006 which were filed against the order dated 5.7.2006 in Company Petition No.63 of 2005 of the Company Law Board, Additional Principal Bench, Chennai and order dated 1.3.2006 in Company Appeal No.5 of 2006 which was filed against the order dated 13.2.2006 in Company Appeal No. 145 of 2005 in Company Petition No.63/2005 of the Company Law Board.	None
The facts in S.L.P. (C) No. 19882 of 2006 are sufficient to dispose of all these appeals.	Facts
Shri V.S. Krishnan and five others, who filed Company Petition No. 63 of 2005 before the Company Law Board, Additional Principal Bench, Chennai under Sections 397 and 398 read with Sections 402, 403 and Schedule XI of the Companies Act, 1956 are the appellants (Petitioners in SLP (C) No. 19882 of 2006).	Facts
For convenience, we shall refer the parties as arrayed in Company Petition No. 63/2005 on the file of the Company Law Board (in short CLB).4)	Facts
According to the petitioners, they were collectively holding in excess of 1/10th of the issued share capital of M s Westfort HiTech Hospital Limited (hereinafter referred to as the Company).	Facts
Aggrieved on account of a series of purported acts of oppression and mismanagement in the affairs of the Company, namely, illegal (a) convening of the eleventh annual general meeting (b) issuances of further shares on right basis (c) exclusion of the petitioners from the office of directors (d) election of respondents 16 to 24 as Directors (e) transfer of shares (f) breach of fiduciary duties by respondent Nos. 2 3 towards the Company as Directors (g) manipulation of minutes of the meetings and other records (h) statutory violations (i) irregularities in relation to the Investigation Centre in the Hospital premises of the Company etc. invoked the provisions of Sections 397 and 398 of the Companies Act, 1956 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) praying for the following reliefs(i) to appoint an administrator for (a) regulating the future affairs of the company(b) leasing licensing the area earmarked for the Investigation Centre and(c) realizing the outstanding amounts due from respondent Nos. 24, 22 and 23 in respect of the Investigation Centre(ii) to declare that the annual general meeting held on 29.09.2005 and the resolutions passed thereon are invalid(iii) to declare that respondent Nos. 24 vacated the office as Directors under Section 283 of the Act(iv) to declare that the further issue of shares is illegal and void(v) to declare that the election of respondent Nos. 1623 as Directors is invalid and(vi) to declare that petitioner Nos. 14 and respondent No.14 shall be deemed to have been reelected as Directors.	Facts
In support of their above claims, they placed relevant materials and cited various instances alleged to have been committed by the second respondent, who is the Chairman of the first respondentCompany.5) Respondent Nos. 69 before the CLB supported the stand taken by the petitioners.	Facts
Respondent No.14 also adopted the stand of the petitioners and further informed that he has already withdrawn the civil suit challenging the issue of shares and election of Directors at the eleventh annual general meeting of the Company.6)	Facts
The case of respondent Nos. 1 2 are  Westfort HiTech Hospital Ltd. constituted by the second respondent and his family members have been running the Hospital since 1989 independently, while the Company has been promoted in the year 1994 establishing a high speciality hospital by respondent Nos. 2 3 who are the promoter Directors.	Facts
These respondents are permanent Directors and are not liable for retirement and cannot be removed from the Board as envisaged in Article 87.	Facts
At each annual general meeting, one third of the remaining Directors are liable to retire by rotation.	Facts
The alleged acts complained of in the petition do not, in any way, constitute oppression.	Facts
It was pointed out that past and concluded acts complained of by the petitioners, do not fall within the purview of Section 397 of the Act.	Facts
The Company, running a high speciality hospital, is making profits and if ordered to be wound up, the Company and its shareholders would seriously be prejudiced.	Facts
There are no charges of financial irregularities in the affairs of the Company leveled against the respondents.7) The petitioners and respondent No.14 though continued to be Directors since the year 1998 hardly attended the Board meetings from time to time.	Facts
When the petitioners were not elected by the members at the eleventh annual general meeting, they have come out with the petition with untenable allegations.	Facts
Every Director other than respondent Nos. 2 3 is bound to retire one day or the other.	Facts
Any grievance in the capacity as Director cannot be remedied under Section 397 of the Act.	Facts
No relief under Section 397 would arise if the conduct complained of by the petitioner does not relate to his status as a shareholder.	Facts
In addition, respondent Nos. 2 3 also furnished various details in support of their stand and pleaded for dismissal of the Company Petition.8)	Facts
With the above pleadings and after elaborate arguments and framing the main issue namely, whether the petitioners have made out a case under Sections 397 and 398 and are entitled for the reliefs claimed in the Company Petition, the CLB, on 5.7.2006 passed the following order It is hereby declared that (a) further issue of shares impugned in the Company petition is illegal and void(b) the election of respondent Nos. 16 to 23 as Directors is set aside(c) the retiring directors namely, petitioner Nos. 14 and the respondent Nos. 5 14 shall be deemed to have been automatically reappointed as Directors at the eleventh annual general meeting and shall continue till the date of the twelfth annual general meeting for the year 2006 and(d) the transfer of shares by Purushottaman in favour of respondent Nos. 16 to 21 and others is invalid.	Facts
However, Purushottaman is free to transfer his shares in accordance with the law.(II)	Facts
The Company will convene and hold the twelfth annual general meeting in accordance with law to transact, inter alia, the following business(a) consideration of accounts, balance sheet and the reports of the board of directors and auditors for the year 20052006(b) appointment of directors in the place of those retiring and in the existing vacancies(c) appointment of and the fixing of the remuneration of, the auditors and(d) further issue of shares.(III) The petitioners as well as the respondent Nos. 2 to 15 are at liberty with a view to meet the financial requirements, if any, for running the hospital, to contribute any amount by way of unsecured loans carrying interest at the prevailing bank rate to be repaid from and out of the future share application money which may be subscribed by the members, on approving the resolution for further issue of shares at the twelfth annual general meeting.(IV)	Facts
Honble Mr. Justice K. John Mathew (Retd.)	Facts
Ernakulam will preside over the twelfth annual general meeting of the Company, in terms of this order.	Facts
He is at liberty to take the services of any practicing Company Secretary of his choice, in discharge of this present assignment.	Facts
The remuneration of the Chairman and the Practicing Company Secretary fixed in consultation with the Company shall be borne by the latter.(V)	Facts
The Chairman will decide the entire modalities of convening holding and conducting of the twelfth annual general meeting in consultation with the company.(VI) The Board of Directors of the Company shall carry on its business strictly in accordance with the articles and initiate such action in respect of the Investigation Centre, as may be deemed necessary.(VII) The Chairman of the meeting will forward a report on the proceedings of the twelfth annual general meeting within a week from the conclusion of the twelfth annual general meeting of the company.	Facts
With the above directions, the company petition stands disposed of.	Facts
No order as to costs.	None
Aggrieved by the above order, respondents 1 2 i.e., M s Westfort HiTech Hospital Ltd. and its Chairman, K. Mohandas filed Company Appeal No. 14 of 2006 before the High Court of Kerala.	Facts
By the impugned judgment, the Division Bench of the High Court, after taking note of pleadings of both the parties, rival contentions and materials placed before it, partially allowed the appeals and partially set aside the order of the Company Law Board.	Facts
The operative portion of the impugned order of the High Court reads as follows We hold that the general body meeting was held with valid notice.	Facts
Issuance of right shares needs no interference and Company Law Board went wrong in setting aside the issue of duplicate shares to Purushothaman and subsequent transfer of his shares.	Facts
We also hold that reappointment of the retired directors after the date fixed for annual general body meeting is not correct and that part of the decision is set aside.	Facts
But, we hold that CLB is right in setting aside the election of eight directors (though for other reasons  mainly for technical irregularity) and special resolution under Section 81(1A) to issue shares to the public.	Facts
We order that Petitioners and other NRI shareholders shall be given one months time from today to accept the rights shares offered and it is for them to accept the offer or not.	Facts
As offered by the counsel appearing for the Company and Chairman, NRI Directors also will be reappointed to the Board in proportion to their share holdings as on the date of next annual general meting to be conducted after the expiry of 30 days from today.	Facts
Company Law Board directed that next annual general body meeting shall be held on 30.9.2006.	Facts
It is stated that it was not conducted due to pendency of the case.	Facts
Therefore, it shall be positively conducted on or before 30.12.2006.	Facts
In conducting the 12th annual general body meeting, procedure suggested by the Company Law Board shall be complied with and directions in paragraph 7 II, IV, V, VI and VII are not interfered with.	Facts
Till next general body meeting is held, no policy decision shall be taken by the Board.	None
Questioning the above order of the High Court, these appeals have been filed before this Court by way of special leave.	None
We heard Mr. C.A. Sundaram and Mr. Shyam Divan, learned senior counsel for the appellants and Mr. R.F. Nariman, learned senior counsel for the contesting respondents.	None
In order to find out whether the petitioners were successful in making out a case for interference by the CLB by invoking Sections 397 and 398 of the Companies Act, it is but proper to refer those provisions, ultimate decision of the CLB and the High Court.	None
Chapter VI of the Companies Act deals with prevention of oppression and mismanagement.	None
Section 397 deals with relief in cases of oppression and Section 398 deals with relief in cases of mismanagement.	None
Sections 397 398 read as under Application to Tribunal for relief in cases of oppression  (1) Any member of a company who complain that the affairs of the company are being conducted in a manner prejudicial to public interest or in a manner oppressive to any member or members (including any one or more of themselves) may apply to the Tribunal for an order under this section, provided such members have a right so to apply in virtue of section 399.(2)	None
If, on any application under subsection (1), the Court is of opinion (a) that the companys affairs are being conducted in a manner prejudicial to public interest or in a manner oppressive to any member or members and(b) that to wind up the company would unfairly prejudice such member or members, but that otherwise the facts would justified the making of a windingup order on the ground that it was just and equitable that the company should be wound up,The Tribunal may, with a view to bringing to an end the matters complained of, make such order as it thinks fit.398.	None
Application to Tribunal for relief in cases of mismanagement  (1) Any members of a company who complain (a) that the affairs of the company are being conducted in a manner prejudicial to public interest or in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the company or(b) that a material change not being a change brought about by, or in the interests of, any creditors including debenture holders, or any class of shareholders, of the company has taken place in the management or control of the company, whether by an alteration in its Board of directors, or manager, or in the ownership of the companys shares, or if it has no share capital, in its membership, or in any other manner whatsoever, and that by reason of such change, it is likely that the affairs of the company will be conducted in a manner prejudicial to public interest or in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the company,may apply to the Tribunal for an order under this section, provided such members have a right so to apply in virtue of section 399.(2)	None
If, on any application under subsection (1), the Tribunal is of opinion that the affairs of the company are being conducted as aforesaid or that by reason of any material change as aforesaid in the management or control of the company, it is likely that the affairs of the companywill be conducted as aforesaid, the Tribunal may, with a view to bringing to an end or preventing the matters complained of or apprehended, make such order as it thinks fit.	None
In a number of judgments, this Court considered in extenso the scope of Sections 397 and 398.	None
The following judgments could be usefully referred to Needle Industries (India) Ltd. and Others vs. Needle Industries Newey (India) Holding Ltd. and Others, (1981) 3 SCC 333.	Reasoning
(b) M.S. Madhusoodhanan Anr.	None
vs. Kerala Kaumudi (P) Ltd.	None
Ors., (2004) 9 SCC 204.	None
(c) Dale and Carrington Investment (P) Ltd.	None
Anr.	None
vs. P.K. Prathapan Ors., (2005) 1 SCC 212.	None
(d) Sangramsinh P. Gaekwad Ors.	None
Vs.	None
Shantadevi P. Gaekwad (Dead) Through L.Rs.	None
Ors.	None
(2005) 11 SCC 314 (e) Kamal Kumar Dutta Anr.	None
vs. Ruby General Hospital Ltd.	None
Ors.	None
(2006) 7 SCC 613.	None
From the above decisions, it is clear that oppression would be made out(a) Where the conduct is harsh, burdensome and wrong.(b) Where the conduct is mala fide and is for a collateral purpose where although the ultimate objective may be in the interest of the company, the immediate purpose would result in an advantage for some shareholders visvis the others.(c)	Reasoning
The action is against probity and good conduct.(d)	Reasoning
The oppressive act complained of may be fully permissible under law but may yet be oppressive and, therefore, the test as to whether an action is oppressive or not is not based on whether it is legally permissible or not since even if legally permissible, if the action is otherwise against probity, good conduct or is burdensome, harsh or wrong or is mala fide or for a collateral purpose, it would amount to oppression under Sections 397 and 398.(e)	Reasoning
Once conduct is found to be oppressive under Sections 397 and 398, the discretionary power given to the Company Law Board under Section 402 to set right, remedy or put an end to such oppression is very wide.(f) As to what are facts which would give rise to or constitute oppression is basically a question of fact and, therefore, whether an act is oppressive or not is fundamentally basically a question of fact.	Reasoning
Before going into the claims of both parties, it is useful to refer the scope of Section 10F of the Companies Act which provides appeal against the order of the Company Law Board.	None
Section 10F reads as under 10F. Appeals against the order of the Company Law Board  	None
Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the Company Law Board made before the commencement of the Companies (Second Amendment) Act, 2002 may file an appeal to the High Court within sixty days from the date of communication of the decision or order of the Company Law Board to him on any question of law arising out of such orderProvided that the High Court may, if it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal within the said period, allow it to be filed within a further period not exceeding sixty days.	None
It is clear that Section 10F permits an appeal to the High Court from an order of the Company Law Board only on a question of law i.e., the Company Law Board is the final authority on facts unless such findings are perverse based on no evidence or are otherwise arbitrary.	None
Therefore, the jurisdiction of the appellate Court under Section 10F is restricted to the question as to whether on the facts as noticed by the Company Law Board and has placed before it, an inference could reasonably be arrived at that such conduct was against probity and good conduct or was mala fide or for a collateral purpose or was burdensome, harsh or wrongful.	None
The only other basis on which the appellate Court would interfere under Section 10F was if such conclusion was (a) against law or (b) arose from consideration of irrelevant material or (c) omission to construe relevant materials.	None
With this statutory background, let us find out whether the conduct of respondents 1 and 2 (	None
M s Westfort HiTech Hospital Ltd.	None
Mr. K.M. Mohandas, Chairman) has been harsh, burdensome and wrong or mala fide or for collateral purposes or against probity and good conduct.	None
In addition, we have to find out whether such conduct was prejudicial to the interest of the petitioners appellants and the conclusion arrived at by the CLB or the High Court is acceptable in the facts and circumstances of the case.	None
According to the petitioners, they are native of Thrissur, Kerala State but settled abroad and contributed to the tune of 1.28 crores by way of share capital.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also their case that respondent No.2 (the Chairman of the Company) is heavily depending on the financial assistance provided by these petitioners (NRIs), on the understanding that they would be offered directorship permanently.	Arguments of Petitioner
Article 77 provides that the Directors are required to hold 2500 equity shares in the Company as qualification shares.	Arguments of Petitioner
By pointing out the contents of letter dated 04.12.2001 of the second respondent, petitioners have claimed that because of his assurance that they would be made Directors they contributed more to the share capital of the Company which eased the financial crunch and also helped to develop facilities in the Hospital.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, according to them, the second respondent has been heavily dependent upon the financial backup provided by NRIs and the understanding to offer directorship to such contributors.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the grievance of the petitioners that the second respondent in spite of getting substantial money towards share capital did not fulfill the promise made by him as per his letter dated 04.12.2001 addressed to the petitioners.	Arguments of Petitioner
On this aspect, the CLB while accepting the stand of the petitioners has concluded that there is a legitimate expectation in favour of the petitioners 14 for their continuance in the Board of Directors of the Company.	None
The issue of reappointment of retired directors on the theory of legitimate expectation was considered by the High Court in detail.	None
It is the stand of the second respondent (Chairman of the Company), that there was no specific promise that these petitioners would be given directorship permanently.	None
The materials placed and discussed before the CLB show that there was full disclosure of retirement of onethird directors and election to that place are in accordance with the Act and Articles of Association and theory of legitimate expectation has no application.	None
It was also highlighted before the CLB as well as the High Court that out of eight directors elected, six were not related to Chairman.	Reasoning
It was asserted that Chairman and his family stood personal guarantee to Rs.21.99 crores whereas NRI directors have not stood personal guarantee for any loan.	Reasoning
Though CLB has observed that the principle of legitimate expectation is applicable in the case of the petitioners, in the light of the materials placed and the stand taken by the contesting respondents, we are of the view that the claim legitimate expectation cannot be extended to and there is no specific promise that the petitioners would be given directorship permanently.	Reasoning
Even otherwise, the same cannot be accepted in view of the mandate of the statute that 1/3rd of the directors have to retire in a year by rotation.	Reasoning
Accordingly, we accept the conclusion arrived at by the High Court and reject the decision of the CLB on this aspect.	Reasoning
Now let us consider another important issue i.e., validity of the Annual General Meeting which held on 29.09.2005.	None
According to the petitioners, there was no proper notice in terms of Section 172 read with Section 53(1) and (2) of the Companies Act, hence, they had no knowledge about the said meeting and in view of the same, the decisions taken in the said meeting are null and void and not enforceable.	Arguments of Petitioner
The pith and substance of the ground of attack relating to oppression and mismanagement is the convening of XIth Annual General Body Meeting without proper notice.	Arguments of Petitioner
In such circumstances, we have to find out whether the Annual General Body Meeting, convened on 29.09.2005, was in violation of the statutory requirements or not.	None
According to the second respondent, XIth Annual General Body Meeting was convened on 29.09.2005 at 11.00 a.m. at Casino Hotels Limited, Trichur.	None
In fact, in the Board meeting, held on 24.08.2005, a reference was made to the next Annual General Meeting which states that the Board decided to hold the meeting on Thursday, the 29th September, 2005 at 11.00 a.m. at Casino Hotels Limited, Trichur.	Arguments of Respondent
It further states that the particulars as to the date, place and time for the meeting was incorporated in the draft notice and thereafter it was approved and Sri K. M. Mohandas, CMD was authorized to sign the same.	Arguments of Respondent
It is relevant to mention that the above Board meeting was attended by the first petitioner.	None
In such circumstances, it cannot be claimed that the first petitioner and his supporters were not aware of the meeting.	None
It is relevant to mention that even though the CLB has noticed respondent No.14 who was acting in association with the petitioner Nos. 14 in the affairs of the company and respondent Nos. 69 other directors participated in the AGM held on 29.09.2005 raised an apprehension that whether mere knowledge of the meeting would tantamount to serving notice in terms of Section 172.	None
Section 172 of the Act speaks about the contents and manner of service of notice and persons on whom the same is to be served.	None
Subsection (1) mandates that every notice of a meeting of a company shall specify the place, the day, hour of meeting and shall contain a statement of business to be transacted thereat.	None
Subsection (2) mandates that notice of every meeting of the company shall be given to (i) every member of the company, in any manner authorized by subsections (1) to (4) of Section 53 (ii) persons entitled to a share in consequence of the death or insolvency of a member, by sending it through post in a prepaid letter addressed to them by name in India supplied for the purpose by the persons claiming to be so entitled or until such address has been so supplied (iii) the auditor of the company, in any manner authorized by Section 53.	None
Subsection (3) makes it clear that the accidental omission to give notice to, or the nonreceipt of notice by, any member or other person to whom it should be given shall not invalidate the proceedings at the meeting.	None
Apart from the above procedure, while sending notice for any meeting, the procedure prescribed in Section 53 (1) and (2) of the Act has to be followed.	None
It is the case of respondent Nos. 1 and 2 that proper notices in terms of Section 172 read with Section 53 (1) and (2) have duly been sent to all the share holders including the petitioners in respect of the AGM dated 29.09.2005.	None
It was contended on the side of the petitioners that in the absence of any other corroborative evidence, it is not safe to accept the notices sent through certificate of posting and it cannot be presumed that the addressee had the knowledge of the meeting.	None
The High Court has noticed that in the Board Meeting held on 24.08.2005, it was decided to hold a next AGM on 29.09.2005 at 11.00 AM.	None
Item No. 4 reads as follows NOTICE OF THE NEXT ANNUAL GENERAL	None
MEETINGThe draft notice for the next Annual General Meeting was read.	None
The Board then decided to hold the meeting on Thursday, the 29th September, 2005 at 11.00 AM at Casino Hotels Limited, Trichur.	Arguments of Respondent
The particulars as to date, place and time for the meeting was incorporated in the draft notice, and then it was approved, and Sri K.M. Mohandas, CMD was authorized to sign the same.	Arguments of Respondent
It is clear from the materials placed, the said Board Meeting was attended by the first petitioner.	None
Though on the basis of the said information knowledge it cannot be construed that the same would satisfy the mandate of Section 172 read with Section 53 (1) and (2) of the Act, the fact that a decision was taken in the Board Meeting held on 24.08.2005 that next AGM is to be held on 29.09.2005 at 11.00 AM at Casino Hotel, Trichur cannot be ignored.	Reasoning
In addition to the same, as said earlier, respondent No.14 and 6 to 9 who are supposed to be netrual directors participated in the AGM held on 29.09.2005.	Reasoning
It is not the case of the respondent Nos. 1 and 2 or even the petitioners that notice was dispensed with in respect of the AGM held on 29.09.2005.	Reasoning
On the other hand, the respondents have produced certificates of posting to establish the service of notice on the directors and other shareholders.	Reasoning
It is also demonstrated that those notices were given under certificate of posting as provided under Section 53 (1) and (2) and evidence for the same were also produced.	Reasoning
As pointed out earlier, the first petitioner, being a party to the Board Meeting wherein date, place and agenda of the AGM were fixed, cannot make a complaint along with his supporters that they did not receive notice of the meeting.	Reasoning
The materials placed clearly show that NRI directors participated in the meeting and respondent No.14 who was acting along with the appellants had also participated.	Reasoning
Section 172 as well as Section 53 emphasized giving notice.	Reasoning
We have already adverted to how notice should be given for AGM as per Section 172 (2) and Section 53 (1) and (2) of the Act.	Reasoning
In view of the fact that the company has placed materials to substantiate that notices, in terms of the above provisions, were given, as rightly pointed out by learned senior counsel for the contesting respondents, statutory presumption under Section 53 will apply though the said act is rebuttable.	Reasoning
In view of the fact that there are materials to show that notices were sent, the burden is on the addressee to rebut the statutory presumption.	Reasoning
The High Court, on verification of those materials, has concluded that postal receipt with post office seal was produced to show that notice was sent to all shareholders by certificate of posting in the correct address as per the report.	Reasoning
Subsection (2) of Section 53 makes it clear that after expiry of 48 hours a notice duly addressed and stamped and sent under certificate of posting is deemed to have been duly served.	None
In M.S. Madhusoodhanan vs. Kerala Kaumudi (P) Ltd. (supra), this Court held that the fact of posting has to be proved by the sender and that statutory presumption is only a rebuttable presumption.	None
In the case on hand, dispatch of notice in time by certificate of posting was proved.	None
In addition to the same, the High Court has very much relied on the fact that first appellant was party to the Board Meeting which decided the convening of AGM on 29.09.2005.	None
The above information pressed into service by respondent Nos. 1 and 2 cannot, lightly be ignored.	None
It is true that the CLB has found that only 40 out of 300 shareholders attended the meeting.	None
Based on the same, the CLB accepted the case of the petitioners and found that the AGM held on 29.09.2005 was defective.	Reasoning
Before the CLB as well as the High Court, it was demonstrated by the contesting respondents that in previous AGM also number of attendance was below 35.	Reasoning
In the 9th AGM, the persons attended were 32 and 10th AGM, it was 35.	Reasoning
In this regard, it is relevant to refer in the order in I.A. 4727 of 2005 in O.S. 942 of 2005 which is a suit filed by respondent No.14.	Reasoning
The Civil Court, based on the documents produced, has concluded that proper notice was served on the shareholders with regard to AGM held on 29.09.2005.	Reasoning
The person who filed the said suit had prayed for injunction against conducting AGM, participated in the AGM and in fact he applied for reelection.	Reasoning
Though the shareholders voted against him and other NRI directors, the information support stand of the respondents 1 and 2.	Reasoning
The High Court has rightly concluded that AGM held on 29.09.2005 was legal and acceptable and we agree with the same.20)	Reasoning
It is pointed out that the CLB set aside the election of respondent Nos. 16 to 23 as directors only on the ground that there is no valid notice.	Reasoning
The discussion in the earlier paragraphs proves that this finding is not acceptable.	Reasoning
The High Court verified the notice dated 24.08.2005 sent for AGM dated 29.09.2005 wherein the names of the retiring directors were subsequently mentioned.	Reasoning
It was also demonstrated before the CLB and the High Court that proper advertisement in the Indian Express and Deepika were given in terms of Section 157(1)A of the Act.	Reasoning
Though the CLB has not accepted the same, the High Court has rightly found that the same was in compliance with the statutory provisions.	Reasoning
There is no error or illegality in the said finding of the High Court.	None
The next issue relates to reappointment of retired directors on the theory of legitimate expectation which we have already discussed in the earlier paragraphs.	None
However, the High Court found that appointment of 8 directors without a specific agenda is irregular due to technical reason and that as per the agenda only 6 directors can be elected.	Reasoning
We agree with the said conclusion.	None
Now coming to the next issue, namely, allotment of right shares to the public, the CLB has concluded that without a special resolution by 2/3rd majority shareholders cannot be offered to outsiders.	None
Inasmuch as the above said conclusion is in terms of the statutory provisions, the High Court has rightly approved the same and we are also in agreement with the said conclusion.	Reasoning
In this respect, it is useful to refer to the decision of this Court in Needle Industries (India) Ltd. vs. Needle Industries Newey (India) Holding Ltd. (supra).	Reasoning
It was held that directors have absolute powers to issue right share provided they are acting under good faith.	Reasoning
The other issue relates to issuance of duplicate shares of Purshottaman.	None
It is relevant to mention that the same Board approved the said action when the first petitioner also attended the meeting.	None
On the other hand, the CLB set aside the issue of duplicate shares to Purshottaman.	Reasoning
It was pointed out before the High Court that the said decision was not challenged in the petition by any of the petitioners and the decision was taken by the Board of Directors to issue duplicate shares in place of lost shares.	Reasoning
As said earlier, transferring the shares of Purshottaman was approved in the same Board Meeting wherein the first petitioner attended.	Reasoning
It is also brought to the notice of the Court that duplicate shares were issued on receipt of indemnity bond as provided under Section 84(2).	Reasoning
In those circumstances, the High Court has concluded that indemnity bond and documents produced would show that share transfer was also effected validly.	Reasoning
Further the decision to issue duplicate shares to Purshottaman and transfer of the same were not challenged in the company petition.	Reasoning
In view of the same, we agree with the ultimate decision arrived by the High Court.24) Coming to the allegation as to acts of mismanagement particularly regarding the arrangement with special investigating centre, it was proved that the agreement with the special investigating centre was made when the petitioners 1 to 4 as well as their supporting NRI directors were in the Board and in active management.	Reasoning
However, the High Court has directed the company auditor to go through the agreement with the special investigating centre and also the accounts and submit a report and thereafter, the same should be placed before the Board for appropriate action.	Reasoning
The said direction is reasonable and acceptable.25) As rightly pointed out that CLB missed a most basic principle of Section 397, namely, that mere unfairness does not constitute oppression.	Reasoning
When the petitioners were given the right to subscribe to the rights issue along with all others in the same proportion, no prejudice, whatsoever, could have been caused to them.	Reasoning
It is not in dispute even by the petitioners that the need for more funds was an admitted position.	Reasoning
In Needle Industries (supra) this Court has pointed out if there is a need for funds the fact that the directors have incidentally enriched themselves would not entail a court to set aside the issue of shares.	Reasoning
In fact, no unfair prejudice has been caused to the petitioners.	Reasoning
The CLB failed to take note of all these vital aspects and relied on irrelevant materials.	Reasoning
Apart from these, it is pointed out that the company having turned the corner and doing well, it would be fair exercise of discretion by this Court not to interfere with the High Court judgment.26)	Reasoning
In the light of the above discussion, we are of the view that the impugned judgment of the High Court is fair to both sides and safeguards the interest of the directors and shareholders hence there is no valid ground to interfere under Article 136 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
Consequently, the main appeal filed by V.S. Krishnan and Others fails and the same is dismissed.	Decision
In view of the said conclusion, other appeals are also dismissed.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
