 Ramaswami, J. 1.	None
In this case the petitioner, C. A. Rajendran has obtained rule from this Court calling upon the respondents to show cause why a writ in the nature of mandamus under Art.	Facts
32 of the Constitution should not be issued for quashing the Office Memorandum dated November 8,1963 which is annexure C to the Writ Petition, and for directing respondent No. 1 to restore the orders passed by it in Office Memorandum No. 2/11/55RPS dated May 7, 1955 and No. 5/4/55SCT (1) dated January 4, 1957.	Facts
Cause has been shownby the AttorneyGeneral on behalf of the respondents to whom notice of the rule was ordered to be given.	Facts
2.	None
The petitioner is a permanent Assistant in Grade IV (Class III, nongazettedministerial) of the Railway Board Secretariat Service.	Facts
He was initially appointed as Accounts Clerk on February 6, 1953 in Southern Railway.	Facts
He was appointed as an Assistant on October 22, 1956 in the Railway Board and confirmed as Assistant on April 1, 1960.	Facts
The payscale of the Assistants grade is Rs. 210530.	Facts
The next post to which the petitioner claims promotion is that of the Section Officer in the same service.	Facts
The post of Section Officer is classified as Class II, Grade III, Gazetted and it carries a payscale of Rs. 350900.	Facts
The Railway Board Secretariat Service (Reorganisation and Reenforcement) Scheme was drawn up in consultation with the Ministry of Home Affairs and introduced with effect from December 1, 1954 with the approval of the Union Public Service Commission.	Facts
According to the new Scheme the Railway Board Secretariat Service consists of the following grades Grade IVAssistants in the scale of Rs. 210530/ (Class III nongazetted) (to which Petitioner belongs).	Facts
Grade III Section Officers in the scald of Rs. 350900 (Class II gazetted)with effect from 1st July, 1959 (Section Officers grade).	None
Grade IIAmalgamated with effect from 1st July, 1959 as Section Officers grade.	None
Grade I Assistant Directors Under Secretaries in the scale of Rs. 9001,250.	None
(Grade III was called, before 1st July, 1959, Assistant Superintendent in the scale of Rs. 275500 and the scale of Grade II Superintendents was Rs. 530800).	None
Recruitment to permanent vacancies of Grade III of the Railway Board Secretariat Service is made by the following three methods as per pare 18 of the Railway Board Secretariat Service Scheme (a) 331/3 per cent by direct recruit ment on the results of the combined Examinations held by the UPSC for the IAS, IPS and other Central Services Class I and Class II.	Facts
(b) 331/3 per cent by promotion on the basis of seniority subject to the rejection of the unfit.	None
(c) 331/3 per cent by limited competitive examination on the basis of a test to be prescribed and conducted by the UPSC for Assistants Stenographers Grade II between 5 years and 10 years of service in the grade in the Boards office.	Facts
Note For the years 196165 only 1/4 of the substantive vacancies were to be filled by direct recruitment on the results of the competitive examination under item (a) above.	Facts
3.	None
In 1955 the Government issued Office Memorandum dated May 7, 1955 (Annexure E to the Writ Petition) whereby it reaffirmed its decision that there will be no reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in posts filled by promotion, but that certain concessions were to be given to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the matter of promotion.	None
The concessions were as follows (i) While there would be no reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in regard to vacancies filled by promotion, where the passing of tests or examinations had been laid down as a condition for promotion, the authority prescribing the rules for the tests or examinations might issue suitable instructions to ensure that the standard of qualification in respect of members of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes was not unduly high.	None
(ii) Where promotions were made on the basis of seniority subject to fitness, cases of persons belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes were to be judged in a sympathetic manner without applying too rigid a standard and cases of supersession of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes employees reviewed at a high level viz.	None
, if a Scheduled Caste Scheduled Tribes employee was superseded in the matter of promotion to Class I and II posts filled on the basis of seniority subject to fitness, the prior orders of the Minister or Deputy Minister concerned were to be taken.	None
If, however, the supersession was in a Class III or IV post filled on the basis of seniority subject to fitness, the matter was to be reported to the Minister or Deputy Minister concerned within a month of the decision.	None
(Ministries were given powers to modify this procedure to suit their requirements with the approval of the Minister in charge.)	None
In 1957 the Government decided that there should be provision for reservations for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in all grades of services filled by promotion through competitive examination limited to departmental candidates, the quantum of reservation being 121/2 per cent for Scheduled Castes and 5 per cent for Scheduled Tribes.	None
The order of the Government is contained in Office Memorandum dated January 4, 1957, Annexure D to the Writ Petition.	None
In April, 1959 the Ministry of Railways issued an order laying down that in the case of any promotion from Class IV to Class III and from Class III to Class II and for any promotion from one grade to another in Class III, where such promotions were made by selection and not on the basis of senioritycumfitness, there should be reservation for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes on the same scale as in the direct recruitment.	None
This order was challenged by Rangachari by a Writ Petition under Art.	None
226 of the Constitution which was allowed by the Madras High Court and a writ in the nature of mandamus was granted restraining the Railway Authorities from giving effect to the order of the Railway Board directing reservation of selection posts in Class III of the Railway service in favour of the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.	None
An appeal was brought to this Court by the General Manager, Southern Railway General Manager, Southern Railway v. Rangachari, 19622 SCR 586 (AIR 1962 SC 36 ) against the judgment of the Madras High Court and it was held in the majority judgment of the Court that the impugned circulars of the Railway Board were within the ambit of Art.	None
16 (4) of the Constitution and the appeal must succeed.	None
Consequent upon the judgment in this case the matter was reviewed by the Union Government and it was advised that there was no constitutional compulsion to make reservations for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in posts filled by promotion and the question whether the reservation should be continued or withdrawn was entirely a matter of public policy.	None
The Union Government came to the conclusion that there should not be any special treatment of Government servants belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the matter of promotions particularly in promotion to Class I and Class II services which require higher degree of efficiency and responsibility.	None
As a result of this review of the matter the Central Government issued a memorandum dated November 8, 1963 (Annexure C to the Writ Petition) which reads as follows In posts filled by promotion through competitive examinations limited to departmental candidates, reservations at 121/2 percent and 51/2 per cent of vacancies were provided for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes respectively vide this Ministrys O. M. No. 5 4 55  SCT (I) dated 4th January, 1957 and para 3 (iii) of the Brochure issued with O. M. No. 1/2/61SCT(I) dated 27th April, 1962.	Arguments of Respondent
In regard to promotions on the basis of seniority subject to fitness, and those by selection no reservations were provided, but certain concessions were allowed to persons belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes vide Ministry of Home Affairs Office Memorandum No.	Arguments of Petitioner
2/11/55RPS dated 7th May, 1955 (as amended from time to time), No. 1/1/59RPS dated 17 March, 1958 and No. 1/4/60RPS dated 5th March, 1960 and paras 20 and 21 of the aforesaid brochure.	None
4.	None
The Government of India have reviewed their policy in regard to reservations and other concessions granted to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in posts filled by promotion and have, in supersession of all previous orders in this regard, decided as follows (1) Class I and Class II appointments (a) there will be no reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in appointments made by promotion to a Class II or a Higher service of post, whether on the basis of senioritycumfitness, selection, or competitive examination limited to departmental candidates.	None
(b) in the case of promotions made in or to Class I or Class II on the basis of seniority subject to fitness, cases involving supersession of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Officers, will, however, continue to be submitted for prior approval of the Minister or Dy	None
. Minister concerned.	None
(2) Class III and Class IV appointments (a)	None
In the cases of class III and class IV appointments, in grades or services to which there is no direct recruitment whatever, there will be reservation at 12 1/2 and 5 per cent vacancies for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes respectively in promotions made by (i) selection or (ii) on the results of competitive examinations limited to departmental candidates.	None
(b) Lists of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Officers should be drawn up separately to fill the reserved vacancies officers belonging to these classes will be adjudged separately and not along with other officers and if they should be included in the list irrespective of their merit as compared to that of the other officers.	None
Promotions against reserved vacancies will continue to be subject to the candidates satisfying the prescribed minimum standards.	None
(c) There will be no reservation in appointments made by promotion on the basis of seniority subject to fitness but cases involving supersession of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Officers, if any, will as at present be reported within a mouth to the Minister or Deputy Minister concerned for information.	Arguments of Petitioner
The above decisions take effect from the date of issue of these orders except where selections by the Departmental Promotion Committee under the old orders have already been made, or rules for a competitive examination published.	None
5.	None
The contention of the petitioner is that this Office Memorandum (Annexure C to the Writ Petition) violates the guarantee given to backward classes under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
16 (4) of the Constitution	Arguments of Petitioner
and is illegal and ultra vires.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was alleged that the impugned Office Memorandum (Annexure C) made a discrimination by making provision for reservations in certain types of Class III and IV Services only and not in Class II and I Services, and the classification was discriminatory and there was no rational nexus sought to be achieved by the impugned Office Memorandum.	Arguments of Petitioner
The argument was also stressed that Art. 16 (4) was not an exception engrafted on Art. 16, but was in itself a fundamental right granted to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and backward classes and as such it was untrammelled by any other provision of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioner accordingly prays for the grant of a writ in the nature of mandamus quashing the Office Memorandum (Annexure C) and directing respondent No. 1 to restore retrospectively the orders made in its Office Memoranda No. 2/11/55RPS dated May 7, 1955 and No. 5/4/55SCTI dated January 4, 1957 and to consider the claim of the petitioner as member of the Scheduled Castes for promotion as Section Officer in the Railway Board Secretariat Service.	Arguments of Petitioner
Article 14 of the Constitution states	None
The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India.	None
Article 15 provides (1)	None
The State shall not discriminate against any citizen on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them.	None
(2) (3) 6.	None
Nothing in this article or in Clause (2) of Article 29 shall prevent the State from making any special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.	None
Article 16 is to the following effect (1) There shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment under the State.	Reasoning
(2) No citizen shall, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, descent, place of birth, residence or any of them, be ineligible for, or discriminated against in respect of, any employment or office under the State.	None
(3) (4) Nothing in this article shall prevent the State from making any provision for the reservation of appointments or posts in favour of any backward class of citizens which, in the opinion of the State, is not adequately represented in the services under the State.	None
(5) Article 335 reads as follows The claims of the members of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall be taken into consideration, consistently with the maintenance of efficiency of administration, in the making of appointments to services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or of a State.	None
(4) The first question to be considered in this case is whether there is a constitutional duty or obligation imposed upon the Union Government to make reservations for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes either at the initial stage of recruitment and (or?) at the stage of promotion in the way Board Secretariat Service Scheme.	None
6.	None
The relevant law on the subject is well settled.	Reasoning
Under Article 16 of the Constitution, there shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointment to any office under the State or to promotion from one office to a higher office thereunder.	Reasoning
Articles 14, 15 and 16 form part of the same constitutional code of guarantees and supplement each other.	Reasoning
In other words, Art. 16 of the Constitution is only an incident of the application of the concept of equality enshrined in Article 14 thereof.	Reasoning
It gives effect to the doctrine of equality in the matter of appointment and promotion It follows therefore that there can be a reasonable classification of the employees for the purpose of appointment and promotion.	Reasoning
To put it differently, the equality of opportunity guaranteed by Article 16 (1) means equality as between member of the same class of employees, and not equality between members of separate, independent classes.	None
Dealing with the extent of protection of Article 16 (1) of the Constitution, this Court stated in 1962 2 SCR 586 (AIR 1962 SC at pages 596 597 of the Report (SCR) (at pp. 4041 of AIR) as follows It would be clear that matters relating to employment cannot be confined only to the initial matters prior to the act of employment.	None
The narrow construction would confine the application of Article 16 (1) to the initial employment and nothing else but that clearly is only one of the matters relating to employment.	None
The other matters relating to employment would inevitably be the provision as to the salary and periodical increments therein, terms as to leave, as to gratuity, as to pension and as to the age of superannuation.	None
These are all matters relating to employment and they are, and must be deemed to be included in the expression matters dating to employment in Article 16(1).	None
What Article 16 (1) guarantees is equality of opportunity to all citizens in of all the matters relating to employment illustrated by us as well as to an appointment to any office as explained by us.	Reasoning
The three provisions Article 16(1)	None
Art 14 and Article 15 (1) form part of the same constitutional code of guarantees and supplement each other.	Reasoning
If that be so, there would be no difficulty in holding that the matters relating to employment must includes all matters in relation to employment prior and subsequent, to the employment which are incidental to the employment and form part of the terms and conditions of such employment.	None
The Court further observed in that case Article 16 (2) prohibits discriminations and thus assures the effective enforcement of the fundamental right of equality of opportunity guaranteed by Article 16(1).	None
The words, in respect of any employment used in Article 16 (2) must, therefore, include all mattes relating to employment as specified in Article 16 (1).	None
Therefore, we are satisfied that promotion to selection ports is included both under Articles 16 (1) and (2).	None
7.	None
It is manifest that the scope of Clause (4) of Article 16 is not coextensive with the guarantee of equality offered to all citizens by Clause (1) of that Article.	None
In other words, Clause (4) of Article 16 does not cover the entire field covered by clauses (l) and (2) of that Article.	None
For instance, some of the matters relating to employment in respect of which equality of opportunity has been guaranteed by clauses (1) and (2) do not fall within the mischief of the exception Cl.	None
(4).	None
As regards the conditions of service relating employment such as salary, increment, gratuity, pension and age of superannuation there can be no exception even in regard to the backward classes of citizens.	None
The only matter which Clause (4) covers is a provision for the reservation of appoints in favour of a backward class of citizens.	None
It is well settled that Clause (4) of Article 16 is an exception clause and is not an independent provision and it has to be strictly construed (See the judgment of this Court in 19622 SCR 586 (AIR 1982 SC 36).	None
It is also apparent that the language of Article 16 (4) has to be interpreted in the context and background of Article 335 of the Constitution.	None
In other words, in making a provision for reservation of appointments or posts the Government has to take into consideration not only the claims of the members of the backward classes but also the maintenance of efficiency of administration which is a matter of paramount importance.	None
In this connection, Gajendragadkar, J., as he then was, speaking for the majority in 19622 SCR 586 (AIR 1962 SC 36 ) observed at p. 606 of the Report (SCR) (at pp. 45 of AIR) as follows It is true that in providing for the reservation of appointments or posts under Article 16 (4) the State has to take into consideration the claims of the members of the backward classes consistently with the maintenance of the efficiency of administration.	None
It must not be forgotten that the efficiency of administration is of such paramount importance that it would be unwise and impermissible to make any reservation at the cost of efficiency of administration.	None
That undoubtedly is the effect of Article 335.	None
Reservation of appointments or posts may theoretically and conceivably mean some impairment of efficiency but the risk involved in sacrificing efficiency of administration must always be borne in mind when any State sets about making a provision for reservation of appointments or posts.	None
It is also true that the reservation which can be made under Article 16 (4) is intended merely to give adequate representation to backward communities.	None
It cannot be used of creating monopolies or for unduly or illegitimately disturbing the legitimate interests of other employed.	None
In exercising the power under Article 16 (4) the problem of adequate representation of the backward class of citizens must be fairly and objectively considered and an attempt must always be made to strike a reasonable balance between the claims of backward classes and the claims of other employees as well as the important consideration of the efficiency of administration.	None
8.	None
The same view has been reiterated in a later case, M. R. Balaji v. State of Mysore, (1963)	None
Supp 1 SCR 439 (AIR 1963 SC 649 ) which Gajendragadkar, J., as he then was speaking for the unanimous Court stated as follows Whilst we are dealing with this question, it would be relevant to add that the provisions of Article 15 (4) are similar to those of Article 16 (4) which fell to be considered in the case of the General Manager Southern Railway v. Rangachari (1962)	None
2	None
SCR 586.	None
In that case the majority decision of this Court held that the power of reservation which is conferred on the State under Article 16 (4) can be exercised by the State in a proper case not only by providing for reservation of appointments, but also by providing for reservation of selection posts.	None
This conclusion was reached on the basis that it served to give effect to the intention of the Constitutionmakers to make adequate safeguards for the advancement of Backward Classes and to secure their adequate representation in the Services.	None
The judgment shows that the only point which was raised for the decision of this Court in that case was whether the reservation made was outside Article 16 (4) and that posed the bare question about the construction of Article 16 (4).	None
The propriety, the reasonableness or the wisdom of the impugned order was not questioned because it was not the respondents case that if the order was justified under Article 16 (4), it was a fraud on the Constitution.	None
Even so, it was pointed out in the judgment that the efficiency of administration is of such a paramount importance that it would be unwise and impermissible to make any reservation at the cost of efficiency of administration, that, it was stated, was undoubtedly the effect of Article 335.	None
Therefore, what is true in regard to Article 15 (4) is equally true in regard to Article 16 (4).	None
There can be no doubt that the Constitutionmakers assumed, as they were entitled to that while making adequate reservation under Article 16 (4), care would be taken not to provide for unreasonable, excessive or extravagant reservation, for that would, by eliminating general competition in a large field and by creating widespread dissatisfaction amongst the employees, materially affect efficiency.	None
Therefore, like the special provision improperly made under Art. 15 (4), reservation made under Article 16 (4) beyond the permissible and legitimate limits would be liable to be challenged as a fraud on the Constitutions.	None
9.	None
In the present case the respondents have alleged in the counteraffidavit that after the decision of Rangachars case, 19622 SCR 586 (AIR 1962 SC 36 ) the Union Government reviewed the whole position and decided that there should not be any special treatment to Government servants belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the matter of promotion to class I and Class II Services which require higher degree of efficiency and responsibility.	Arguments of Respondent
It was stated in the counteraffidavit that the Union Government satisfied that reservation quotas of promotion were harmful from the point of view of efficiency of Railway Service and therefore the Government issued the memorandum dated November 8, 1963 with drawing the reservation quotas for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Officers made in the previous Government orders.	Arguments of Respondent
On behalf of the petitioner Mr. N. C. Chatterjee submitted the argument that the provision contained in Article 16 (4) of the Constitution was in itself a fundamental right of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and it was not open to the Government to withdraw the benefits conferred on Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes by the Government orders dated May 7, 1955 and January 4, 1957.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Counsel based his argument on the following observations of Subba Rao, J., as he then was, in the minority judgment of this Court in T. Devadasan v. Union of India, 19644 SCR 680 at p. 700 (AIR 1964 SC 170 at p. 190).The expression nothing in this article is a legislative device to express its intention most emphatic way that the power conferred thereunder is not limited in any way by the main provision but falls outside it.	None
It has not really carved out an exception, but has preserved a power untrammelled by the other provisions of the Article.	None
But the majority judgment of this Court in that case took the view that Article 16 (4) was an exception and it could not be so construed as to reader nugatory or illusory the guarantee conferred by Article 16 (1).	None
It was pointed out that though under Art. 16 (4) of the Constitution a reservation of a reasonable percentage of posts for members of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes was within the competence of the State, the method evolved by the Government must be such as to strike a reasonable balance between the claims of the backward classes and claims of other employees, in order to effectuate the guarantee contained in Article 16 (1), and for this purpose each year of recruitment would have to be considered by itself.	None
Accordingly, the Court struck down the Carry forward rule on the ground that it contravened Articles 14, 16 and 335 of the Constitution.	None
In any case, even the minority judgment of Subba Rao, J. does not support the contention of Mr. N. G. Chatterjee that Article 16 (4) confers a right on the backward classes and net merely a power to be exercised at the discretion of the Government for making a provision for reservation of appointments for backward classes which, in its opinion, are not adequately represented in the Services of the State.	Reasoning
Our conclusion therefore is that Article 16 (4) does not confer any right on the petitioner and there is no constitutional duty imposed on the Government to make a reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, either at the initial stage of recruitment or at the stage of promotion.	Reasoning
In other words Article 16 (4) is an enabling provision and confers a discretionary power on the State to make a reservation of appointments in favour of backward class of citizens which in its opinion, is not adequately represented in the Services of the State.	Reasoning
We are accordingly of the opinion that the petitioner is unable to make good his submission on this aspect of the case.	Reasoning
10.	None
We shall next deal with the contention of the petitioner that there is discrimination between the employees belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the Railway Services and similar employees in the Central Secretariat Service.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was said that the competitive departmental examination for promotion to the grade of Section Officers was not held by the Railway Board for the years 19551963.	None
On the contrary, such examinations were held for the Central Secretariat Service and 74 employees belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes secured the benefit of the provisions of reservation.	None
In our opinion, there is no substance in this contention.	None
The petitioner being an employee of the Railway Board is governed by the rules applicable to the officers in the Service to which he belongs.	Reasoning
The employees of the Central Secretariat Service belong to a different class and it is not possible to adopt the argument that there is any discrimination against the petitioner and violation of the guarantee under Article 14 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
11.	None
It was also contended by Mr. N. C. Chatterjee that the impugned order Annexure C, arbitrarily discriminates among Class III employees themselves and Class IV employees themselves.	None
Under the impugned order reservation is kept for appointments for which there is direct recruitment and for a promotions made by (1) selection or (2) on the result of a competitive examination limited to departmental candidates.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no reservation for appointments made by promotion on the basis of seniority cumfitness.	None
In our opinion, there is no justification for this argument as it is well established that there can be a reasonable classification of employees for the purpose of appointment by promotion and the classification as between direct recruits and promotees is reasonable See the decision of this court in Mervyn Countindo v. Collector of Customs, Bombay, (1966)	None
3 SCR 600 (AIR 1967 SC 52 ) and in S. G. Jaisinghani v. Union of India, AIR 1967 SC 1427 .	None
12.	None
A grievance was also made by Mr. N. C. Chatterjee that there is discrimination as between Classes I and II where there is no reservation and Classes III and IV where reservation has been made for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.	None
The respondent stated in the counteraffidavit that in Classes I and II posts a higher degree of efficiency and responsibility was required and therefore reservation was considered harmful so far as Classes I and II were concerned.	None
In view of the requirement of efficiency in the higher echelons of Service it obvious that the classification made in the impugned order is reasonable and the argument of Mr. N. C. Chatterjee on this point must also be rejected as untenable.	None
13	None
For the reasons expressed we hold that the petitioner has made out no case for the grant of a writ under Article 32 of the Constitution.	Decision
The application accordingly fails but in the circumstances of the case, we do not propose to make any order as to costs.	Decision
14.	None
Petition dismissed.	None
