 Wanchoo, J.1.	None
This is an appeal on a certificate granted by the former High Court of Hyderabad.	None
A suit was brought by the respondent in 1920 with respect to village Timmapet.	Facts
The case of the respondent was that the village had been granted to his ancestor Harinarayan alias Raja Nemiwant Bahadur by the Nizam in 1787.	Facts
On the death of Raja Harinarayan, the village was conferred by another sanad on his son Raja Govind Narayan in 1811.	Facts
Ever since then the village had continued in the possession of the descendants of Raja Govind Narayan.	Facts
In 1817.	Facts
Raja Govind Narayan granted this village on Tahud (i.e. lease) to Raja Rama Krishna Rao, ancestor of the defendants.	Facts
Inam inquiries with respect to this village started in 1901 and then an objection was made on behalf of the appellants that the village had been granted to their ancestors by the Nizam and the respondent was only entitled to the pan mukta of the village and no more Pan mukta means a fixed sum which is payable in perpetuity for any land granted by the Ruler or the jagirdar to any person.	Facts
The respondents case further was that the lease money was being regularly paid, though sometime before the suit there was some default.	Facts
The respondent had to file a suit to recover the lease money which was decreed and the decretal amount was recovered.	Facts
In 1917 disputes arose between the parties and consequently in 1918 the respondent asked the appellants to vacate the village.	Facts
They, however, refused to do so.	Facts
Thereupon the present suit was filed in 1920 and the respondents case was that the lease granted to the appellants was not a permanent lease and could only ensure for the lifetime of the grantor and therefore the respondent was entitled to possession of the village, particularly as the appellants had begun to assert a title adverse to the respondent.2.	Facts
The suit was resisted by the appellants and their main defence was that the village had been granted as bilmakta with a fixed pan makta in their favour by the Nizam and therefore the respondent was only entitled to the fixed pan makta per year and could not claim to dispossess them from the village.	Facts
As an alternative, defence of limitation was also pleaded, though the written statements did not make it clear whether the bar of limitation was under Art.	Facts
142 or Art.	Facts
144 of the Limitation Act.	Facts
There were other defences also with which we are however not concerned in the present appeal.3.	Facts
The trial court framed a large number of issues, which were answered in favour of the respondent and the suit was decreed and the plaintiff was held entitled to obtain possession of the village as well as to recover mesne profits at the rate of Rs.	Facts
931/12/ O. S. per year.	Facts
On the two main defences, the trial court held that the village had not been granted by the Nizam to the appellants as claimed by them and the appellants were liable to ejectment as they could not claim the rights of a permanent lessee under the lease granted to their ancestor by the respondents ancestor.	Facts
Further on the question of limitation, the trial court held that the suit was not barred by Art.	Facts
142.	Facts
It does not appear that the case of adverse possession was put forward in the trial court.4.	Facts
There were two appeals to the High Court one of them was by the appellants and the other by the respondent.	Facts
The respondents appeal was confined only to the rate of mesne profits while the appellants reiterated their two main contentions as to the nature of their right and limitation.	Facts
The appeals were heard by a Division Bench of the High Court, the Judges composing which however differed.	Facts
Schripat Rau, J., agreed with the trial court as to the nature of the rights of the respondents as well as on the question of limitation and was of the opinion that the appeal of the appellants should be dismissed.	Facts
It appears that in the High Court a plea of adverse possession was also raised in the matter of limitation but that plea was also negatived by Schripat Rau, J. Further Schripat Rau, J., was of the view that the appeal of the respondent should be allowed and the amount of mesne profits per year should be raised to Rs. 4,381/12/11.	Facts
The other learned judge, Khalilulzaman Siddiqu, J., seems to have held in favour of the appellants both on the questions of title and adverse possession and was of the view that the suit should be dismissed in toto.	Facts
There was then a reference to a third learned judge, Ansari, J. He agreed with Schripat Rau, J., on the question of title and limitation but as by the time he came to deliver judgment the Hyderabad (Abolition of Jagirs) Regulation, No. LXIX of 1358F had come into force from 1951 and possession could not be granted to the respondent, Ansari, J., held that the respondent would be entitled to the compensation payable on the abolition of jagirs.5.	Facts
As Ansari, J., had per force to differ from Schripat Rau, J., as to part of the relief to the respondent because of the abolition of jagirs, the case was referred to a Full Bench of three judges in view of S. 8 of the Hyderabad High Court Act.	Facts
The Full Bench held that as Ansari and Schripat Rau, JJ., were in agreement on the question of title and limitation these matters did not fall to the decided before them and would be concluded by the judgment of Ansari, J.,	Facts
But on the nature of relief on which Ansari, J., per force had to differ from the view of Schripat Rau, J., the Full Bench upheld the view of Ansari, J. Thereafter the appellants applied for a certificate for leave to appeal to this Court, which was granted and that is how the matter has come up before us.6.	Facts
Learned counsel for the appellants has urged only two points before us.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the first place, he submits that on the evidence it has been proved that the Nizam granted a bilmakta sanand to the appellants which included this village also therefore the appellants were entitled to the possession of the village permanently subject only to the payment of pan makta to the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the second place, he submits that even if it be held that the Nizam did not grant a bilmakta sanad including this village, the appellants had perfected their title by adverse possession to the limited right of being permanent lessees under the respondent to payment of a fixed amount of rent per year.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first question therefore that arises is whether the appellants case that this village is included in the bilmakta sanad granted to them by the Nizam and therefore by virtue of that sanad they are entitled to hold this village permanently subject only to the payment of a certain sum annually to the respondent, is proved.	Issue
It is now no longer is dispute that the village was granted in jagir to the ancestors of the respondent.	Reasoning
It is also not in dispute that in 1817 Raja Govind Narayan granted a kowl in favour of the appellants ancestor.	Reasoning
Under the terms of that kowl the village was granted on Tahud (lease) for the fixed sum of Rs. 1,027/10/ per year to the appellants ancestor.	Reasoning
No term is mentioned in the kowl as to its duration but after reciting that the village had been granted on Tahud for a certain fixed amount annually, the kowl goes on to say that the grantee should with entire confidence rehabilitate old and new ryots and pay the amount of Tahud annually as per fixed instalments in every crop season.	Reasoning
As one reads the kowl, on its plain terms it cannot be read to confer on the appellants ancestor a permanent lease on a fixed sum which was not liable to be varied at all.	None
But the appellants claim that they had been in uninterrupted possession since 1817 for over 100 years on the same rent when the suit was filed and this show that the village must have been granted to them as a permanent lease.	None
We cannot accept this contention and the fact that the appellants and their ancestors have continued in possession for over 100 years on the same rent would not make the kowl of 1817 a permanent lease in the face of its plain terms.	Reasoning
The courts below were therefore right in the view that the kowl does not show a grant of a permanent lease on a fixed annual payment to the appellants.8.	None
The appellants however relied on what happened soon after the kowl was granted to them.	None
It appears that soon after 1817 the appellants ancestor made a vajabularz (i.e. application to the Nizam) with various prayers.	None
One of the prayers was for grant of bilmakta sanad.	None
This was obviously with respect to certain Government lands, which the ancestors of the appellants held.	None
In para, 6 of the vajabularz it is said that in these days your devotee has regularly paid Government dues and expects that he should receive sanads of bilmakta with the seal of Diwani.	None
In para 3 it is said that from out of the Government Talukas whichever is entrusted on Tahud, your petitioner will pay the Tahud amount and will look after and improve the Taluka.	None
On a fair reading of the vajabularz there can be little doubt that the ancestor of the appellants was praying that he should be granted a bilmakta sanand of lands held by him from the Government.	None
To this vajabularz was appended a list of villages which apparently the ancestor of the appellants held.	Reasoning
This list contained 88 villages.	Reasoning
There is no difficulty about 85 of these villages which were apparently held by the ancestor of the appellants from the Government but about three villages there was a special mention in the list.	None
These were (1) Timmapet, Jagir Raja Nemivant, Makta of Zamindar of Sugur.	None
It may be mentioned that the ancestor of the appellants was the Zamindar of Sugur and that is how he prayed for a sanad of bilmakta (2) the village Korotkal, attached to Jagir Bahrami, makta Zamindar Sugur and (3) Palmur, including hamlet Gattalpalli.	None
These three villages were obviously not of the same kind as the other 85 villages.	None
Villages Timmapet was in the jagir of the ancestor of the respondent and could not therefore ordinarily be granted to the ancestor of the appellants.	None
Village Korotkal was an attached jagir which was handed over to one Bakhshi Ismail Khan while village Palmur had been granted to the ancestor of the appellants himself in lieu of seri.	None
Strictly speaking these three villages which stood part should not have been included in the list of villages for which bilmakta sanad was prayed for.	None
Anyhow the order of the Government on this vajabularz was that a sanad with seal of Niabat Diwani be granted.	Reasoning
The actual sanand which was granted by virtue of this order has not been strictly proved, though a copy of it appears in a judgment copy of which has been filed.	Reasoning
We do not therefore propose to refer to this copy.	Reasoning
If appears however that in 1880 a bilmakta sanad was again granted by the Nizam himself to the ancestor of the appellants on the death of the previous holder.	Reasoning
The amount of bilmakta (i.e. fixed annual payment) was fixed at Rs. 1,05,412/.	Reasoning
This amount is made up of the revenue of 85 villages out of the 88 villages which were included in the list along with the vajabularz.	Reasoning
The remaining three villages which we have mentioned above, were also shown in the schedule to this sanand under the heading Deduct 3 villages of separate Jagir.	Reasoning
The three villages under this heading are Timmapet, Korotkal and Palmur.	Reasoning
It is the meaning of these words under the heading of which these villages appear which required interpretation in the present suit.	Reasoning
The contention of the respondent was that the heading showed that the bilmakta sanad granted by the Nizam excluded these villages, for these revenue of these villages amounting to Rs. 2,101/ was not included in the bilmakta amount of Rs. 1,05,412/.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further contended on behalf of the respondent that the reason why these three villages were mentioned in this manner in the schedule attached to the bilmakta sanad was that the appellants ancestor had wrongly included these villages in his list filed with the vajabularz and ever since then these villages were included in the schedule to the sanads but were always shown as deducted from the bilmakta.	Arguments of Respondent
We are of opinion that this contention of the respondent is correct and the courts below were right in accepting the respondents contention in this behalf.	None
The very fact that the revenue of these villages is not included in the bilmakta amount of Rs. 1,05,412/ shows that they could not be part of the bilmakta grant by the Nizam.	Reasoning
We cannot accept the argument on behalf of the appellants that the revenue of these villages was not included because the ancestor of the appellants had to pay the amount of this revenue in the case of Timmapet and Korotkal to the jagirdars and the revenue of Palmur was given to him free in seri.	Reasoning
The very fact that these three villages appear under the heading deduct three villages of separate jagir along with the fact that their revenue is not included in the bilmakta grant of Rs. 1,05,412/ shows that they were not apart of the bilmakta sanad.	Reasoning
It is true that they have been mentioned in the schedule and strictly speaking they should not have been so mentioned there but the reason for that in our opinion is that the appellants ancestor had included them in his list and they seem to have been put down in the schedule to the sanad from that list.	Reasoning
But the way in which they were put in the schedule to the sanand shows that they were not part of the sanad granted by the Nizam.	Reasoning
Our attention was also drawn to the Avarja said to have been prepared in 1836 in which also these three villages are included.	Reasoning
But Avarja is merely a paper in which a note of the sanads issued each day is mentioned.	Reasoning
The fact therefore that these three villages were mentioned in the Avarja can be easily explained by the fact that they were mentioned in the sanands which were prepared from the list of villages supplied by the appellants ancestor along with his vajabularz.	Reasoning
The presence of these three villages in the Avarja would not establish that the villages were granted as bilmakta by the Nizam to the appellants ancestor, unless the sanands granted by the Nizam establish it.	Reasoning
We have already examined the sanad of 1880 which is on the record and have no difficulty in agreeing with the courts below that the bilmakta sanad excluded these villages and was only confined to the remaining villages for which the appellants ancestor paid Rs. 1,05,412/ to the Nizam as the fixed annual amount.9.	Reasoning
It was urged on behalf of the appellants that the Nizam was an absolute Ruler and it was open to him to take away any land from a jagirdar and grant it to any other person.	None
That is undoubtedly so but even where an absolute Ruler takes away some land from a jagirdar and gives it to another person, it seems to us clear that he would inform the jagirdar that he had taken away in whole or in part what he had granted to him and would also make it clear by proper words in the sanad granted to the other person that he was giving him the land taken away from the jagirdar.	Reasoning
In any case where the land was granted earlier to the jagirdar there must be a clear indication in the sanad to another person that what had been granted to the jagirdar had been taken away and was being granted to this other person.	Reasoning
As we read the sanad of 1880 we find no clear indication in it that the village of Timmapet which was granted along with other villages as jagir to the respondents ancestor was being taken away  at any rate in part  and that in future the respondents ancestor would only be entitled to a fixed sum from the appellants ancestor with respect to this village and no more.	Reasoning
On the other hand, in the recital of the sanad unfortunately there is nothing clear for the words etc. appear therein in more than one place as to the land granted.	Reasoning
We have therefore to turn to the schedule for whatever help we can get from it.	Reasoning
The schedule shows that these three villages were under the heading deduct three villages of separate jagir.	Reasoning
From that the only inference can be that these three villages were not being included in the bilmakta sanad.	Reasoning
In any case we cannot infer from that the Nizam was intending to take away a part of the rights of the respondents ancestor in village Timmapet and confer them on the appellants ancestor.	Reasoning
Further there is nothing to show that the respondents ancestors were ever informed that the Nizam had taken away part of their rights in village Timmapet.	Reasoning
If anything as late as 1918 village Timmapet along with others was conferred perpetually in favour of the respondent as zat jagir subject to the payment of 2 per centum of haq malkana.	Reasoning
At that time the appellants ancestor had raised some dispute about his right as bilmakatadar of Timmapet but that was left undecided.	Reasoning
On a review therefore of the evidence in this case the conclusion is inescapable that the appellants ancestor was never granted bilmakta sanad by the Nizam which included the village of Timmapet.	Reasoning
Their rights in this village therefore depend entirely on the kowl of 1817, which, as we have already pointed out, did not confer a permanent lease.	Reasoning
The case of the appellants therefore based on their title on the sanads granted to them by the Nizam must fail.10.	None
We now turn to the question of limitation.	None
The case put forward before us in that connection is that the appellants have prescribed for the limited right of being permanent lessees of his land by adverse possession and the genesis of this is traced to what happened in 1875.	None
It appears that there was trouble between the then ancestors of the parties about this village about that time.	None
The ancestor of the respondent appears to have made an application to the Government and the Revenue Member had issued orders for delivery of possession of this village to him.	None
Thereupon the ancestor of the appellants made a representation to the Prime Minister against that order in which it was said that the ancestor the respondent had conferred the said village on the ancestor of the appellants by way of bilmakta (i. e., on a fixed amount) more than eighty years ago and the ancestor of the appellants had been in possession all along and had been regularly paying the amount due the ancestor of the appellants therefore prayed that the order of delivery of possession of the land to the respondents ancestor be set aside.	None
It is remarkable that in this representation the case put forward was that the village had been granted bilmakata by the ancestor of the respondent to the appellants ancestor and not by the Nizam or the Government to the appellants ancestor.	None
However that may be, the Prime Minister ordered that as the ancestor of the appellants had been in possession for a long time, no order could be passed dispossessing him.	None
The ancestor of the respondent then tried to get this order of the Prime Minister changed but failed and in consequence the appellants ancestor remained in possession thereof.	None
It is urged that this shows that the ancestor of the appellants asserted that he was entitled to possession as a permanent lessee against the respondents ancestor and this claim was resisted by the respondents ancestor and the resistance failed.	None
Therefore it must be held that adverse possession of this limited kind was asserted to the knowledge of the respondents ancestor and in consequence twelve years after 1875 the adverse title would be perfected and Art.	None
144 would bar the present suit for ejectment.11.	None
There is no doubt that there can be adverse possession of a limited interest in property as well as of the full title as owner see Sankaran v. Periasami, ILR 13 Mad 467 Thakore Fatehsingji Dipsangji v. Bamanji Ardeshir Dalal, ILR 27 Bom 515 and Daivasikhamani Ponnambala Desikar v. Periyanan Chetti, 63 Ind App 261 ILR 59	None
Mad 809 (AIR 1936 PC 183 ).	None
The present however is a case where the original kowl was granted by a jagirdar and the question arises whether in the case of a jagir there can be adverse possession of a limited interest in the nature of a permanent lease.	None
In that connection one has to look to the incidents of a jagir and the first incident of a jagir is that it must be taken prima facie as an estate granted for life Gulabdas Jugjivandas v. Collector of Surat.	None
6 Ind App 54.	None
In the present case also the indication is that the jagir that was granted to Raja Harinarayan in 1787 was for life, for we find that on the death of Raja Harinarayan a fresh sanad was granted to his son Raja Govind Narayan in 1811.	None
Similar conclusion can be drawn from the fact that as late as 1880 a bilmakta sanad was granted to Raja Rameshwar Rao, an ancestor of the appellants on the death of his father in spite of certain sanads in favour of previous holders of bilmakta.	Reasoning
But the appellants contend that after 1811 no fresh sanads were granted to the descendants of Raja Govind Narayan and therefore it must be held that the jagir became hereditary and was not merely for the lifetime of the grantee after Raja Govind Narayans death.	Reasoning
There is no doubt that there are no sanads on the record which might have been granted to the descendants of Raja Govind Narayan but there is equally no evidence on behalf of the appellants that no such sanads were in fact granted to the descendants of Raja Govind Narayan, due to change in State Policy.	Reasoning
Reliance has been placed on behalf of the appellants on a publication of the government of Hyderabad called Jagir Administration.	None
Vol. I. at p. 3, where the following passage appearsZat or personal grants were originally tenable for lifetime only.	None
If, however, the Sanad conferring such grant contains any words indicative of permanency the grant was treated as one in perpetuity.	None
Formerly on the death of the grantee, the Jagir was attached and reissued in favour of his eldest son by another Sanad.	None
It is urged on the basis of this that the system of attachment of jagir and reissue of new sanads in favour of the eldest son fell into disuse in Hyderabad and therefore jagirs became hereditary.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the first place this passage does not show when the system of attachment of jagir and reissue of another sanad came to an end.	None
In the second place, even this passage shows that jagirs were tenable only for life unless there was something in the terms of jagir grant to show that it was perpetual.	Reasoning
The jagir grant of Raja Govind Narayan is on the record and there is nothing in it to show that it was granted perpetually.	Reasoning
Therefore, it must be held to be a grant for lifetime only at any rate it is clear that the system of granting sanads on each succession was certainly in force when Raja Govind Narayan succeeded, for he was granted a fresh sanad.	Reasoning
In his case it must therefore be held that the jagir was granted to him only for life.	None
Reliance was also placed on Vinayakrao v. Shriniwasrao, ILR (1942)	None
Nag 526 (AIR 1941 Nag 334) where a letter of 1877 from the Government of India.	None
Foreign Department, is quoted as saying thatThe GovernorGeneral in Council also accepts the view that these inams are held in accordance with the custom of the Hyderabad State, which permits the continuance of such jagheers to posterity, notwithstanding the absence of specific provision on the point, but at the same time reserves to the State the right of resuming such grants at pleasure.	None
But even this letter shows that the State has got the right to resume the grant at pleasure and if that is so it cannot be said that the jagirs granted in Hyderabad were permanent and hereditary, though it may be that a son was allowed to succeed to the father in the normal course.	None
The State however had always the right to resume the grant at pleasure.	None
The nature of jagirs in Hyderabad came to be considered by a bench of five judges of the former High Court of Hyderabad in AhmadunNissa Begum v. State.	None
AIR 1952 Hyd 163 at p. 167 (FB).	None
Ansari, J., after referring to two cases of the Privy Council of the former State of Hyderabad as it was before 1947 and certain firmans of the Ruler observed as follows as to the nature of jagirs in HyderabadThe cumulative effect of the authorities referred to above is that the jagir tenures in this State consisted of usufructuary rights in lands which were terminable on the death of each grantee, were inalienable during his life, the heirs of the deceased holder got the estate as fresh grantees and the right to confer the estate was vested in the Ruler and exercisable in his absolute discretion.	None
Nevertheless, the Jagirdars had during their lives valuable rights of managing their estates, enjoying the usufructs and other important privileges which conferred considerable monetary benefits on them.	None
This view of Ansari, J., as to then ature of jagirdari tenure was accepted by the other learned Judges composing the Bench.	None
Therefore the mere fact that sanads granted to the successors of Raja Govind Narayan have not been produced in this case or even the fact that no such sanads were granted to them would make no difference to the nature of the jagirdari tenure in Hyderabad.	None
It is only in 1918 for the first time that we know that this village along with other villages was conferred in perpetuity on the respondent.	Reasoning
There is nothing to show that before that the respondents ancestors had permanent hereditary rights in the jagir.	Reasoning
The initial presumption therefore that jagirs are only for the lifetime of the grantee must prevail in the present case till we come to the sanad of 1918.	Reasoning
Therefore upto that time it must be held that the jagirs were held by various ancestors of the respondent only for their lives.	Reasoning
In such a case where a grant is continued in a family from generation to generation and each grantee holds it for his life the limitation against any one grantee starts to run from the date his title arose.	None
This was recognized by the Privy Council in Jagdish Narayan v. Saeed Ahmed Khan, AIR 1946 PC 59 where it was observed that where each grantee holds an estate for his lifetime the limitation would start to run against an heir from the date when his title accrued on the death of the previous heir.	None
From the very fact that the grant of a jagir is only for the lifetime of the grantee and that his son when he gets the jagir gets a fresh grant, it follows that it was not open to a jagirdar to make an alienation which would ensure beyond his lifetime and thus a jagirdar could not grant a permanent lease, unless he was specifically entitled to do so, under the sanad or the law of the State.	Reasoning
Similarly in such cases limitation would only run against an heir from the date when his title accrued on the death of the previous heir.	None
Consequently the appellants cannot take advantage of what happened in 1875 in the time of Raja Ramarao as the starting point of adverse possession against the respondent.	None
So far as the respondent is concerned, he apparently succeeded to the jagir in 1910 and in his case limitation would start from 1910.	Reasoning
The present suit was brought in 1920 and therefore so far as the respondent is concerned, there is no question of perfecting even the limited title by adverse possession as against him.12.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the appellant drew our attention in this connection to the case of Daivasikhamani, AIR 1936 PC 183 where the Privy Council held that the suits were barred under Art.	None
144 of the Limitation Act.	Facts
That was however a case where a permanent kowl of temple lands was granted by a manager.	None
It was held in view of certain facts proved in that case that the lessee had acquired permanent rights by adverse possession, even though the manager of a temple has no authority, except in certain circumstances, to grant a permanent lease.	None
That case is in our opinion clearly distinguishable from the facts of the present case.	None
It is true that the manager of a temple has generally speaking no authority except in certain circumstances to grant a permanent lease of temple property therefore a permanent lease granted by the manager of a temple may be voidable but is not void ab initio	Reasoning
and so unless it is avoided by the succeeding manager, it may not be rendered inoperative.	Reasoning
Further the temple in that case was the owner of the property and there was no question of any succession from father to son.	Reasoning
In the case of a jagir on the other hand, the holder for the time being is not the owner of the property his son when he succeeds holds the property as a fresh grantee and not on the basis of hereditary succession.	Reasoning
A jagirdar has no right to make a permanent alienation of any part of the jagir granted to him if he makes a permanent alienation even by way of permanent lease the same may be good in his lifetime, but it is void and inoperative after his death the succeeding jagirdar need not avoid it he can just ignore it as void.	Reasoning
Therefore, while it may be possible in the case of a permanent lease granted by a manger of a temple which is the owner of the property to prescribe for a limited permanent interest by adverse possession it would be impossible to do so in the case of a jagir for the limitation in such a case would start to run against the heir from the date when his title accrues on the death of the previous heir and no advantage can be taken of any running of time against the previous holder of the jagir.	Reasoning
Besides in the case of such temple grants, long lapse of time may sometimes give rise to the inference that the alienation was in such circumstances as would justify a permanent lease.	Reasoning
No such inference is however possible in the case of permanent leases granted by jagirdars.	Reasoning
In this view therefore the case of the appellants that they have prescribed for the limited interest of a permanent lessee against the respondent must fail.13.	Reasoning
The appeal therefore fails and is hereby dismissed with costs.14.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
