 Krishna Iyer, J. (For himself and on behalf of M.H. Beg, J.)1.	None
Calcutta or Cochin, for the urban people of India, the shocking scarcity of a roof to rest ones tired bones is an unhappy problem of social justice that compels enactment of control of rent and eviction laws.	None
In the case now before us, attacking the constitutionality of legislation handcuffing the landlordproprietariats right of eviction, the law has to be tested not merely by the cold print of Art, 19 (1) (f) but also by the public concern of Art. 19 (5) and the compassionate animus of Article.39.	Facts
Parts III and IV of the Constitution together constitute a complex of promises the nation has to keep and the legislation challenged before us is in partial fulfilment of this tryst with the people.	Arguments of Petitioner
These observations become necessary in limine since counsel for the respondents dismissed the concept of social justice as extraneous to an insightful understanding of the section invalidated by the High Court, while we think that judicial conscience is not a mere matter of citations of precedents but of activist appraisal of social tears to wipe out which the state is obligated under the Constitution.2.	Arguments of Respondent
The two appeals before us, raising substantially identical points, have been heard together and are being disposed of by a common judgment.	Facts
Both of them stem from a decision of the Calcutta High Court reported as Sailendra Nath v. S. E. Dutt, AIR 1971 Cal 331 .	Facts
One of the decisions under appeal (C.A. 2063 of 1973) was rendered by a single Judge of the High Court following a Division Bench ruling of the same Court (i.e. the one reported as AIR 1971 Cal,331) since he was obviously bound by it3.	Facts
A provision imparting some sort of retroactivity to a 1969 legislative amendment implanting additional restrictions on eviction of premises under the earlier West Bengal rent control law has been voided by the High Court in the judgments under appeal.	Facts
The aggrieved tenant in each case has appealed and the State, not being directly a party to the litigation, has entered appearance to support the legislation and to challenge the Calcutta decision to the extent it has invalidated the retrospective part of the statute.4.	Facts
Welfare legislations calculated to benefit weaker classes, when their vires is challenged in Court, cast an obligation on the State, particularly when notice is given to the AdvocateGeneral, to support the law.	Facts
if necessary by a Brandeis brief and supply of socioeconomic circumstances and statistics inspiring the enactment Courts cannot, on their own, adventure into social research outside the record and if Government lets down the Legislature in Court by not illumining the provisions from the angle of the social mischief or economic menace sought to be countered, the victims will be the class of beneficiaries the State professed to protect.	Facts
In this case, we are unable to compliment the State or the AdvocateGeneral from this point of view.	Facts
It may happen that when the Court decides against the validity of a measure or order because Government fails to bring the socially relevant totality of facts, it is used as an alibi by the latter for the misfortune.	Facts
Courts cannot help cover up the Executives drowsy default or halfhearted help in making the socioeconomic conspectus available.5.	None
The West Bengal Premises Tenancy Act, 1956 (Act XII of 1956) (for short, referred to as the basic Act) clamped down several restrictions on ejectment of tenants by landlords from buildings, the policy behind it being alleviation of the lot of the weaker segment of the urban community without their own homes in the context of the scarcity of accommodation and the colossal socioeconomic upheaval which would follow if unbridled evictions were allowed.	Facts
The temptation to evict or rackrent under scarcity conditions is an irresistible evil in our economic order and it is an all India phenomenon that the social conscience of the State legislatures has responded to this large scale threat by effective control measures.	Facts
Indeed, for decades now, every State in India has on the statute book rent control law and, what is more pertinent to the present case, tactics of circumvention have compelled the enactment of additional safeguards from time to time by vigilant statutory measures, West Bengal, a populous State, with an overcrowded city choked by the largest human congregation in the country, enacted the basic Act whereby the plenary right of landlords to recover possession of their buildings was shackled in many ways.	Facts
Industrial growth and other factors induced demographic congestion such as was witnessed in the urban areas of that State.	Facts
Consequently, the legislature was faced with a fresh danger in the shape of ingenious transfers of ownership of buildings by indigenous but indigent landlords and the transferees resorting to eviction on a large scale equipped as they were with better financial muscles and motivated as they were by hope of speculative returns from their investments on eviction.	Facts
Presumably, the phenomenal increase of the menace of eviction by the new species of transfereeowners of buildings was countered by a legislative measurethe West Bengal Premises Tenancy (Second Amendment) Act. 1969 (Act XXXIV of 1969) (hereinafter referred to as the amendment Act).	Facts
By this legislation the new class of transferee landlords was subjected to a stringent trammel viz., that they should not sue for eviction within three years of the date of transfer (We are not immediately concerned here with certain other changes effected by the Amendment Act).	Facts
The social objective and the practical effect of this fetter will be considered briefly a little later.	Facts
Suffice it to say at this stage, the High Court has upheld this provision which is now contained in Section 13 (3A) of the basic Act.	Facts
However, while holding the provision substantially intra vires the Court has invalidated the giving effect to the provision to pending suits and appeals.	Facts
Such limited retrospectivity had been incorporated by S. 13 of the amending Act and, if the law were only prospective the landlords in the two cases who had initiated their litigation several years prior to the enactment of the Amendment Act would be free from the three years interdict and the other extra restrictions.	Facts
Once the embargo is out of their way, the decrees for eviction they have secured must stand.	Facts
On the contrary, if the restriction on eviction by the transferee, landlords were to operate on pending litigation the appellantstenants are immune to eviction in the current proceedings as they now stand.	Facts
Thus the short constitutional issue is as to whether Section 13 (3 A) of the basic Act to the extent it applies to pending litigation on the strength of Section 13 of the Amending Act is violative of Arts.	Issue
14 and 19 (1) (f) of the Constitution, weapons relied upon for the attack before the High Court, and here.	Issue
We will proceed to consider the constitutional vulnerability of this limb of the protective legislation.	None
By way of anticipating our conclusion we may also pose the problem whether Sections 13 and 4 of the Amendment Act can be validly implemented visavis pending actions in any other just manner which will preserve the additional protection, minimise multiplicity of litigation and make law and justice bedfellows in the changed statutory circumstances.6.	None
Some background observations to appreciate the contest in Court are necessary.	None
No social realist will deny the frightful dimensions of the problem of homeless families and precarious tenancies and if the Directive Principles of State Policy are not to be dismissed by the masses as a teasing illusion and promise of unreality, curtailment, in public interest, of such extreme rights of the landlord as are propriatariat red in tooth and claw is a constitutional compulsion.	None
The Court, informed by this sore economic situation and reinforced by the initial presumption of constitutionality, hesitates to strike a socially beneficial statute dead, leading to escalation of the mischief to suppress which the High House legislated unless, of course, a plain breach of the fundamental right of the citizen is manifest7.	None
The perspective of the amending Act is sketched by the High Court in lurid language The scarcity of accommodation is a burning problem, not only of the State of West Bengal but of the other States as well.	None
Keeping pace with the needs of the gradually swelling population of West Bengal, new buildings have not been built owing to abnormal high price of land and materials.	None
A large majority of the people of West Bengal live in those premises at the mercy of the landlords.8.	None
The explosive import of neglecting such a distressing urban development reasonably obliges the State to impose drastic restrictions on landlords right to property.	None
And when circumvention of wholesome legal inhibitions are practised on a large scale the new challenge is met by clothing the law with more effective armour and that is the rationale of the amendment Act.	None
The learned Judges rightly refer to the legislative proceedings, notorious common knowledge and other relevant factors properly brought to their ken.	None
The sound proof theory of ignoring voices from parliamentary debates, once sanctified by British tradition, has been replaced by the more legally realistic and socially responsible canon of listening to the legislative authors when their artifact is being interpreted.	None
We agree with the High Court when it observesProceedings of legislature can be referred to for the limited purpose of ascertaining the conditions, prevailing at or about the time of the enactment in question, which actuated the sponsor of the bill to introduce the same and the extent and urgency of the evil, sought to be remedied.	None
In the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the West Bengal Premises Tenancy (Second Amendment) Bill, 1969, it is stated that it has been considered necessary that some more reliefs should be given to the tenants against eviction.	None
It is found from the speech of the Minister at the time of introducing the Bill in the legislature, that the problems of tenants are many there are landlords of different kinds there is one class  original owners who are the old inhabitants of the city these ownerlandlords are not affluent they solely depend upon the rents received from the tenants.	None
It has been ascertained from experience that two of the grounds of eviction namely, requirement of the premises for own use of the landlords and for the purpose of building and rebuilding, have been misused by the landlords.	None
In the city of Calcutta and other towns, there are millions of tenants who are left at the mercy of the landlords.	None
In this background and after taking into account similar provisions in other States, it has been decided that some restrictions ought to have been imposed upon transferee landlords prohibiting them from bringing ejectment suits against the tenants within three years from their purchase.	None
On the above two grounds and for that purpose, the said classification has been made.	None
The conclusion of the Court, crystallised in the following words, commends itself to us Taking an overall view of the various considerations, the statement of the Minister, the objects of the Bill, matters of common knowledge and state of facts, existing at the time of the legislation, it may be well conceived that underlying policy and objects of the amended provision is to give more protection to the tenants against eviction and the classification of landlords into ownerlandlords and transfereelandlords is based upon a rational and intelligible differentia and we hold accordingly.9.	None
Proceeding to examine the limited attack on Section 13 (3A) of the basic Act read with S. 13 of the Amending Act.	None
we have to remember the comity of constitutional instrumentalities and raise the presumption that the legislature understands and appreciates the needs of the people and is largely aware of the frontiers of and limitations upon its power.	None
(See State of Bombay v. R.M.D. Chamarbaugwala, 1957 SCR 874 (AIR 1957 SC 699) , and Ram Krishna Dalmia v. S. R. Tendolkar, 1959 SCR 279  (AIR 1958 SC 538 ).	None
Some courts have gone to the extent of holding that there is a presumption in favour of constitutionality, and a law will not be declared unconstitutional unless the case is so clear as to be free from doubt and to doubt the constitutionality of a law is to resolve it in favour of its validity, Constitutional Law of India  by H. M. Seervai  p. 54,	None
Vol. I. Indeed, the legislature owes it to the Court to make like respectful presumptions.	None
We therefore view the provision impugned through a socially constructive.	None
not legally captious, microscope to discover glaring unconstitutional infirmity, if any, and not chase every chance possibility or speculative thought which may vitiate the law.	None
Stray misfortunes when laws affecting large chunks of the community are enacted are inevitable and the respondents before us may perhaps belong to that category.	None
Social legislation without tears, affecting vested rights, is impossible.	None
Statutory construction has a benignant sensitivity and we are satisfied the High Court, in substantially upholding the Amendment Act, has done right, but in striking down the retrospective portion of the section has stumbled into a specious error.10.	None
It is helpful to reproduce the relevant portions of Section 13 of the basic Act in its unamended state and the amendments dovetailed into it by the 1969 Act.	None
(The socalled retrospectivity of this provision has been anathematised by the respondent landlord and annulled by the High Court).13 (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law, no order or decree for the recovery of possession on any premises shall be made by any Court in favour of the landlord against a tenant except on one or more of the following grounds, namely unamended cl.	None
(f) where the premises are reasonably required by the landlord either for purposes of building or rebuilding or for making thereto substantial additions or, alterations or for his own occupation if he is the owner or for the occupation of any person for whose benefit the premises are heldcls, (f) and (ff) substituted therefor (f) subject to the provisions of subsection (3A), and Section 18A where the premises are reasonably required by the landlord for purposes of building or rebuilding or for making thereto substantial additions or alterations and such building or rebuilding or additions or alterations cannot be carried out without the premises being vacated(ff) subject to the provisions of subsection (3A), where the premises are reasonably required by the landlord for his own occupation if he is the owner or for the occupation of any person for whose benefit the premises are held and the landlord or such person is not in possession of any reasonably suitable accommodation Subs.	None
(3A) newly introduced13 (3A) Where a landlord has acquired his interest in the premises by transfer, no suit for the recovery of possession of the premises on any of the grounds mentioned in clause (f) or clause (ff) of subsection (1) shall be instituted by the landlord before the expiration of a period of three years from the date of his acquisition of such interestProvided that a suit for the recovery of the possession of the premises may be instituted on the ground mentioned in clause (f) of subsec.	None
(1) before the expiration of the said period of three years if the controller, on the application of the landlord and after giving the tenant an opportunity of being heard, permits, by order, the institution of the suit on the ground that the building or rebuilding, or the additions or alterations, as the case may be, are necessary to make the premises safe for human habitation.11.	None
Once the substantive restriction superadded by S, 13 (3A) is held valid, we have to focus attention only on the extension of the new ban to pending proceedings.	None
That legislative competence to enact retrospectively exists is trite law	None
and we have only to test its validity on the touchstone of Arts, 14 and 19 (1) (f) pressed into service before us.12.	None
Law is a social Science and constitutionality turns not on abstract principles or rigid legal canons but concrete realities and given conditions for the rule of law stems from the rule of life.	None
We emphasize this facet of sociological jurisprudence only because the High Court has struck down Section 13 of the Amendment Act on surmises, possibilities and maybes rather than on study of actualities and proof of the nature, number and age of pending litigations caught in the net of the retrospective clause.	None
Judges act not by hunch but on hard facts properly brought on record and sufficiently strong to rebuff the initial presumption of constitutionality of legislation.	None
Nor is the Court a third Chamber of the House to weigh whether it should legislate retrospectively or draft the clause differently.	None
We find no foundation for the large assumptions made by the High Court and duly repeated before us.	None
by counsel that there may be cases of ejectment instituted prior to 1956 or that a number of suits and decrees perhaps decades old will unjustly be nullified by the previous operation of the new ban.	None
Recondite instances and casual hardships cannot deflect constitutional construction of social legislation, if the main thrust of the statute relates to a real social evil of dimensions deserving to be antidoted by antedated legislative remedy.13.	None
In the present case, indubitably the State was faced with a new, insidious and considerable situation of exploitation undermining the security of tenancy conferred by the basic Act.	Reasoning
A large number of original landowners living in their own homes could not, under the basic Act, claim recovery of possession, being occupants of their own houses.	Reasoning
Likewise, they could not urge the ground of recovery for rebuilding, not being financially able to invest on such a costly venture.	Reasoning
They had to look up to modest oldtime rentals as the only source of return and lest the penurious tenantry desparately inhabiting little tenements be forced to pay extortionate rents the rent control law of 1956 froze the rates at the 1940 level with gentle increases as provided therein.	Reasoning
However, for new buildings to be constructed special incentive provision was made by deeming the contract rent as fair rent, thus ensuring a high return on building investment.	Reasoning
The social upshot of this scheme was that the old landlords found their ownership a poor return investment, saw a new class of wealthier investors streaming into cities and towns ready to buy the premises, evict old tenants, relet on rackrents or rebuild and reap a rich return.	Reasoning
They had no buildings of their own and could prove plans to rebuild, thus disarming the nonevictability provision of Section 13 of the basic Act.	Reasoning
The transferees could thus get decrees for eviction , under the basic Act.	Reasoning
Naturally, transfers of buildings to this somewhat speculating class increased and the spectacle of eviction litigation or potential eviction proceedings was projected on the urban scene.	Reasoning
The Legislature promptly reacted by the Amendment Act to rescue the lessees by clamping down new restrictions by way of Section 13 (3A).	Reasoning
A three year moratorium was given to the tenants from being hunted out of their homesteads by imposing a ban on institution of suits for eviction by transferee landlords, This would both disenchant speculative purchases and provide occupants time to seek alternative housing.	Reasoning
Presumably these objects inspired the lawmakers to extend the embargo backwards to pending eviction proceedings.	Reasoning
Quite conceivably, the tendency to create a transferee class of real estate owners gradually gathered in volume and showed up in rashes of pending actions.	Reasoning
When Government was alerted amending legislation was proposed.	Reasoning
Unfortunately, the States legal wing has failed to protect in court the class for whose benefit the amending law was made, by placing luscent social or statistical materials on these aspects.	Reasoning
As earlier stated by us, Government have a duty, where social legislation to protect the weak are challenged to exhibit the same activism in the Halls of Court as in the Houses of Legislature.	Reasoning
Failure in the former duty can be as bad as not promulgating the law.	Reasoning
Not an elucidatory affidavit by the State nor even the Ministers explanatory speech has been filed in this Court.	Reasoning
We make these observations because of the handicaps we have faced and the little help on facts the State has given to sustain the legislation.14.	Reasoning
The Calcutta High Court has upheld the vires of subsec.	None
(3A) but invalidated its application to pending litigation.	None
So the short issue is whether this projection into the past of the otherwise reasonable restriction on the right of eviction is arbitrary, irrational, ultra vires?	None
If yes, the lethal sting of Arts, 14 and 19 (1) (f) will deaden Section 13 of the Amendment Act.	None
And the High Court has held so on the basis of the latter Article.15.	None
The prospective validity of the restriction under Arts, 14 and 19 (1) (f), the High Court thinks, is vindicated by sound classification and sanctioned reasonably by the interest of the general public.	None
Having regard to the policy of the legislation, the classification of landlords into two classes of owner landlords and transferee landlords and the imposition of an embargo on the latter minacious class against bringing eviction suits within three years of purchase passes the dual tests of reasonable classification and the differentia having a rational nexus with the statutory object.	None
Therefore, the High Court had no hesitation  and we totally concur that the provision is impregnable.	None
The controversy rages round giving effect to these stringent restraints newly enacted on earlier legal actions.	None
This, it is contended, is a horrendous invasion of property rights and unjust anteriority which hits innocent plaintiffs whose purchases were beyond three years.	None
Before us respondents counsel have contended that Article 14 is violated by Sec.	None
3 read with Section 4 of the Amendment Act although the High Court has negatived this submission thusWe have carefully considered the arguments advanced by the learned counsel and we are of the opinion that the retrospective operation of subsection (3A) on pending suits and appeals does not offend Article 14 of the Constitution.16.	Arguments of Respondent
Since the argument, dressed differently, has been urged before us again we will briefly deal with it, agreeing as we do with the High Court.	Reasoning
All plaintiffs whose transfers are twenty years ago or two years before the Act, are lugged together and subjected to the same ban if their suits were instituted within three years of the transfer.	Reasoning
This blanket ban regardless of the varying periods which have elapsed after the transfers and before the Act was passed was urged to be unequal treatment or rather harshly equal subjection to restriction of unequally situated transferees.	Reasoning
There is seeming attractiveness in this presentation.	Reasoning
But Courts are concerned not how best to hammer out equal justice but to oversee whether the classification is without rational basis unrelated to the object of the Act.	Reasoning
That is why we are confined to check whether the reasoning on this aspect adopted by the High Court is not tenable.	Reasoning
We may, or may not disagree with the wisdom of the legislature in the grouping adopted or hold views about fairer ways of treatment.	Reasoning
But our powers are judicial, not legislative and arbitrariness and irrationality are not writ large in the method of differentiation the Legislature has here chosen.	Reasoning
In the words of A. K. Mukherji, J In the instant case, suits of the affected transfereelandlords may be regarded as a subclass, within a class and, if within the said subclass, the suits are not differently treated, they will not be hit by Article 14.	None
The persons affected are transfereelandlords who instituted their suits within three years of their purchase and they form a separate class and, among the suits of that affected class, there is no discrimination.	None
The law applied equally with respect to the pending suits with regard to this affected class.	None
Some hardship is bound to occur peripherally in any mode of classification and a few hard cases (we have not been shown whether many have been struck by this pattern of grouping) cannot guide the Court in upsetting legislative compartmentalisation.17.	None
The next attack by the respondents is that the deprivation of the right to sue is absurdly beyond the object of the Act when applied to pending cases where the transfers took place more than three years before the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Were we draftsmen of legislation, may be counsels submission could have had more potency.	None
But our limited power is to examine the reasonableness of the restriction, not by substituting our personal notions but by interfering if the Legislature has gone haywire in unreasonably hamstringing transfereelandlords by dismissing their suits brought long before the legislative bill was in the womb of time.18.	Reasoning
In an earlier case this Court observed Murthy Match Works v. Asst.	None
Collector of Central Excise AIR 1974 SC 497 , 503Right at the threshold we must warn ourselves of the limitations of judicial power in this jurisdiction.	None
Mr. Justice Stone of the Supreme Court of the United States has delineated these limitations in United States v. Butler ( (1935) 297 US 1 56 Sup Ct 312 80 Law Ed. 477)	None
thusThe power of courts to declare a statute unconstitutional is subject to two guiding principles of decision which ought never to be absent from Judicial .	None
consciousness.	None
One is that courts are concerned only with the power to enact statutes, not with their wisdom.	None
The other is that while unconstitutional exercise of power by the executive and legislative branches of the government is subject to judicial restraint, the only check upon our exercise of power is our own sense of selfrestraint.	None
For the removal of unwise laws from the statute books appeal lies not to the courts but to the ballot and to the processes of democratic government.	None
In short, unconstitutionality and not unwisdom of a legislation is the narrow area of judicial review.19.	None
The High Court has assumed that even proceedings started prior to 1956 may be affected.	Reasoning
This, admittedly, is wrong as prebasic Act suits will be governed by the then law as provided in Sec.	Reasoning
40 and the Amendment Act amends only the 1956 Act.	Reasoning
It may also be conceded that in both the appeals before us, thanks to Indian longevity of litigation, more than three years from the date of transfer in favour of the plaintiff has passed and thus the spirit of the protection in that sense is fulfilled.	Reasoning
Indeed counsel for the respondents urged that the validation of the retrospective limb of the law would only drive the parties to fresh suits, thus promoting multiplicity of suits ruinous to both sides with no social gain.	Reasoning
There is force in this submission.	Reasoning
Its relevance to decide the constitutional issue is doubtful but its influence on our ultimate solution in this case as will be seen later, is undeniable.20.	Reasoning
A closeup of the social milieu leading up to the enactment in 1964 of the Amendment Act is useful to identify the substantial mischief the law was intended to overpower.	None
Did that evil reasonably necessitate, for effectual implementation of purpose, the extension of the new law to pending suits and appeals?	None
How many suits, appeals and second appeals by transferees within the three year belt were pending?	None
How long had they been so pending?	None
Were there only stray eviction cases of long ago and was it feasible or necessary to draw a line somewhere to prevent injustice to nonspeculative and old time buyers of buildings without impairing the limited immunity meant for tenants and intended against new realty investors?	None
On these facts the State has sat with, folded hands and we have been thrown on our own to scan and sustain or strike down.	None
But here arises the significance of initial presumption of constitutionality.	None
The High Court has made short shrift of this plea thusThere is nothing on the record to show that the mischief, sought to be remedied by the amended legislation, was in existence since 1956.	None
On the other hand the ministerial speech, referred to above, rather indicates that the said mischief was of comparatively recent origin.	None
In this context, the application of the restriction on the omnibus scale to all pending suits and appeals would smack of unreasonableness.21.	None
Who has the onus to place compelling facts, except in flagrant cases of gross unreasonableness, to establish excessiveness, or perversity, in the, restriction imposed by the statute?	None
Long ago in Dalmias case, 1959 SCR 279 (supra) p.297 Propositions (b) and (c) (AIR 1958 SC 538 at op. 547548), this Court held thatThere is always a presumption in favour of the constitutionality of an enactment and the burden is upon him who attacks it to show that there has been a clear transgression of the constitutional principles andthat, it must be presumed that the legislature understands and correctly appreciates the need of its own people, that its laws are directed to problems made manifest by experience and that its discriminations are based on adequate grounds .If	None
nothing is placed on record by the challengers the verdict ordinarily goes against them.22.	None
Moreover, what is the evil corrected by the Amendment Act?	None
The influx of a transferee class of evictors of tenants and institution of litigation to eject and rackrent or rebuild to make larger profits.	None
Apparently, the inflow of such suits must have been swelling slowly over the years and when the stream became a flood the legislature rushed with an amending bill.	None
Had it made the law merely prospective, those who had, in numbers already gone to Court and induced legislative attention would have escaped the inhibition.	None
This would defeat the object and so the application of the additional ban to pending actions could not be called unreasonable.	None
To omit to do so would have been unreasonable folly.	None
The question is whether those cased which were filed several years ago should have been carved out of the category of transferees hit by the Act?	None
Where do you draw the line?	None
When did the evil assume proportions?	None
These are best left to legislative wisdom and not courts commonsense although there may be grievances for some innocent transferees.23.	None
If this be the paradings of judicial review of constitutionality, we have to ignore exceptional cases which suffer misfortune unwittingly.	None
The law is made for the bulk of the community to produce social justice and isolated instances of unintended injury are inevitable martyrs for the common good since God Himself has failed to make perfect laws and perfect justice.	None
Freaks have to be accepted by the victims rightly or wrongly as forensic fate Not that it should be so but human infallibility being unattainable, easily the next best in social justice is to promote the public weal sacrificing some unmerited private hurt as unfortunate but unavoidable.	None
It must be conceded that prima facie the two landlordrespondents had purchased the buildings in the early sixties and three time three year or more have now passed since that date.	None
But while considering constitutionality can we be moved by such accidental instances?	None
No.	None
The substantial evil has been substantially met by a broad application of the new ban to pending proceeding.	None
We see in the Amendment Act no violation of Art 19 (1) (f) read with 19 (5).	None
The same High Court, in a later case Ka1yani Dutt v. Pramila.	None
Bala Dassi ILR (1972) 2 Cal 680 came to the same conclusion by what it called independent1y considering the question.	None
We discern nothing substantially different in the analysis or approach to merit review of our result.	None
We hold Section 13 of the Amendment Act valid and repel the in both the reported rulings of the High Court.24.	None
And if reasonable interpretation can avoid invalidation, it is surely preferable.	None
Here humanist considerations, public policy and statutory purpose may provide guidelines of construction within reasonable limits.	None
Section 13 of the Amendment Act reads 13.	None
Retrospective Effect.	None
The amendments made to the said Act by Sections 4,7,8 and 9 of this Act shall have effect in respect of suits including appeals which are pending at the date of commencement of this Act.	None
The Court is called upon to give effect to S. 4 of this new Act.	None
Section 4 introduced amendments in Section 13 of the basic Act which we have set out earlier.25.	None
There is no doubt that the purpose of the law is to interdict, for a spell of three years, institution of suits for eviction on grounds (f) and (ff) of subs.	None
(3A).	None
Section 13 of the Amending Act makes it expressly applicable to pending actions, so much so the operation of the prohibition is not simply prospective as in the Kerala case cited before us, Neelakandhayya Pillai v. Sankaran, (1961 Ker LT 755).	None
Section 13, fairly read, directs that the amendment made by S.4shall have effect inrespect of suits, including appeals, pending at the commencement of the Act.	None
We are therefore bound to give effect to Section 4 in pending actions, regardless of isolated anomalies and individual hardships.	None
As earlier noticed, Section 4 has two limbs.	None
It amends a Section 13 of the basic Act by substituting two new clauses (f) and (ff) in place of the old clause (f) of sub sec.	None
(1) of Section 13.	None
Secondly, it forbids, for a period of three years from the date of acquisition, suits by new acquirers of landlords interest in premises, for recovery of possession on any of the ground mentioned in cl.	None
(f) or clause (ff) of subs.	None
(1) The result of these two mandatory provisions has to be clearly understood.	None
For one thing, although the old cl.	None
(f) is substantially similar to the present cls.(f) and (ff),the latter impose more severe restrictions protecting the tenants.	None
Much more has to be proved by the landlord now before he can get eviction than when he was called upon to under the earlier corresponding provision of the basic Act.	None
Moreover, the three years prohibition against institution of the suit is altogether new.	None
It follows, therefore, that on the present allegations and evidence the landlord may not get a decree, his suit having been instituted at a time when he could not have foreseen the subsequent enactment saddling him with new conditions.26.	None
We consider that where two interpretations are, possible that which validates the statute and shortens litigation should be preferred to the one which invalidates or proliferates.	None
We are guided by that consideration in the interpretative process.	None
We are satisfied further that the suit as originally brought in, is defective since it did not contain  and ordinarily could not  averments complying with the new c1s.	None
(f) and (ff) of subs.	Reasoning
(1) of Section 13 and we are making it effective by construing the word institute in a natural and grammatical, way.	None
The suit is really instituted in compliance with cls.	None
(f) and or (ff) only when the new pleading is put in 27.	None
The bigger roadblock in the way of the plaintiff in a pending action lies in the prohibition of the institution of the suit within three years of the transfer from the landlord.	None
Indeed, such prohibitions are common in rent control legislation as has been noticed by the Calcutta High Court and is found even in agrarian reforms laws (vide Malabar Tenancy Act, as amended by Act VII of 1954, Madras).	None
Section 13 of the Amendment Act compels the postponement of the institution of the suit (including appeal) for a period of three years from the date of the transfer.	None
In both the cases before us the suits were instituted within the prohibited period of three years.	None
The argument therefore is that the suits must be straightway dismissed, the institution being invalid.	None
We do not think that this consequence is inevitable.	None
To institute is to begin or commence, in plain English.	None
The question then is whether the suit can be said to begin on the date it was filed in 1961 or 1964 as the case may be.	None
Here we have to notice a certain nice but real facet of subsee.	None
(3A). .	None
The prohibition clamped down by subsection (3A), carefully read is on suits.	None
for recovery of possession by transferee landlords on any of the grounds mentioned in c1, (f) or cl.	None
(ff) of subs.	None
(1).	None
Obviously the suits with which we are concerned are not for recovery on grounds, contained in cls.	None
(f) and (ff).	None
They were based on the repealed cl.	None
(f) of S, 13 of the basic Act.	None
Strictly speaking, subsection (3A) brought in by S. 4 of the Amending Act applies only if (a) the suit is by a transferee landlords (b) it is for recovery of possession of premises and (c) the ground for recovery is what is mentioned in c1.	None
(f) and cl.	None
(ff) of Subs.	None
(1).	None
Undoubtedly the third condition is not fulfilled and therefore subs.	None
(3A) is not attracted.	None
This does not mean that the suit can be proceeded with and decree for recovery passed, because S.13 of the basic Act contains a broad ban on eviction in the following words13 (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law, no order or decree for the recovery of possession of any premises shall be made by any Court in favour of the landlord against a tenant except on one or more of the following grounds namely.(emphasis.	None
ours)Since the new cls.	None
(f) and (ff) are included by the Amendment Act in Section 13 of the basic Act and since the suits we are concerned with, as they now stand, do not seek eviction on those grounds they will have to be dismissed on account of the omnibus inhibition on recovery of possession contained in S.13 itself.28.	None
A just resolution of this complex situation was put by us to counsel on both sides and the learned Advocate representing the State readily agreed that the policy of the legislation and the conditions in the Amendment Act would be fulfilled if the interpretation we proposed were.	Reasoning
to be accepted.	Reasoning
We are satisfied that as far as possible courts must avoid multiplicity of litigation.	Reasoning
Any interpretation of a statute which will obviate purposeless proliferation of litigation, without whittling down the effectiveness of the protection for the parties sought to be helped by the legislation, should be preferred to any literal pedantic, legalistic or technically correct alternative.	Reasoning
On this footing we are prepared to interpret.	Reasoning
Section 13 of the Amendment Act and give effect to S. 4 of that Act.	Reasoning
How do we work it out?	Reasoning
We do it by directing the plaintiffs in the two cases to file fresh pleadings setting out their grounds under cls.	Reasoning
(f) and or (ff) of subs.	Reasoning
(1) if they so wish.	Reasoning
On such pleading being filed we may legitimately hold that the transferee landlord institutes his suit on grounds mentioned in cls.	Reasoning
(f) or (ff) of subsec.	Reasoning
(1)on that date.	Reasoning
It is only when he puts in such a pleading setting out the specific ground covered by subsec.	Reasoning
(3A) of Section 13 that we can say he has begun or instituted a suit for the recovery of possession of the premises on that ground.	Reasoning
Institution of a suit earlier has to be ignored for this purpose since that was not based on ground covered by cls.	Reasoning
(f) and or (ff) and is not attracted by subsection (3A).	Reasoning
He begins proceedings on these new grounds only when he puts in his pleading setting out these grounds.	Reasoning
In spirit and in letter he institutes his suit for recovery on the new grounds only on the date on which he puts in his new pleading.	Reasoning
We cannot be ritualistic in insisting that a return of the plaint and a representation thereof incorporating amendments is the sacred requirement of the law.	Reasoning
On the other hand social Justice, and the substance of the matter find fulfilment when the fresh pleadings are put in, subject of course to the threeyear interval between the transfer and the filing of the additional pleading.	Reasoning
Section 13 of the Amendment.	Reasoning
Act speaks of suits including appeals.	Reasoning
It thus follows that these fresh pleadings can be put in by the plaintiff either in the suit if that is pending, or in appeal or second appeal, if that is pending.	Reasoning
Thereupon, the opposite party, tenant, will be given an opportunity to file his written statement and the Court will dispose of it after giving both sides the right to lead additional evidence.	Reasoning
It may certainly be open to the appellate Court either to take evidence directly or to call for a finding.	Reasoning
Expeditious disposal of belated litigation will undoubtedly be a consideration with the court in exercising this discretion.	Reasoning
The proviso to subsec.	Reasoning
(3A) can also be complied with if the plaintiff gets the permission of the Rent Controller in the manner laid down therein before filing his fresh pleading.29.	Reasoning
We are conscious that to shorten litigation we are straining language to the little extent of interpreting the expression institution of the suit as amounting to filing of fresh pleading.	Reasoning
By this construction we do no violence to language but on the other hand, promote public justice and social gain, without in the least imperilling the protection conferred by the Amendment Act.30.	Reasoning
Ruinous protraction of litigation, whoever may temporarily seem to benefit by delay, bankrupts both in the end and inflicts wounds on society by sterile misuse of money.	Reasoning
Tenant passengers who prolong their expensive flight on the litigation rocket, are buying tickets for financial crash, drugged though they be by the seeming blessings of laws delays.	Reasoning
Courts, by interpreting the expression institution of suits cannot authorize reincarnation, all over again, of litigation for eviction.	Reasoning
We save the tenant by applying it to pending cases and save him also from litigative waste.31.	Reasoning
This consideration is itself germane to the larger concept of justice which it is the duty of Courts to promote.	Reasoning
Law finds its finest hour when it speaks to justice in on fair terms.	Reasoning
In the present case our interpretative endeavour has been imbued with this spirit.	Reasoning
In the process of interpretation where alternatives are possible, the man in the law influences the law in the man may be and the construction on Ss. 4 and 13 of the Amendment Act herein adopted we admit, appeals to us as more humane.	Reasoning
The calculus of statutory construction relating to complex problems of the community cannot be hidebound by orthodox text book canons.32.	Reasoning
An obiter, maybe.	None
More buildings is the real solution dwelling shortage freezing scare accommodation relives for a little while.	None
Tigar balm is no serious cure for brain tumour.	None
We make no more comments on the need for dynamic housing policies beyond statutory pa1liatives.	None
These belong to legislative wisdom and administrative activism and not to judicial constiutionalism33.	None
It was noticed in the course of argument that a later Amending , Act of 1970 purporting to give relief to tenants against whom decrees for eviction had been passed but dispossession had not ensued had been put on the statute book.	Reasoning
It is surprising that counsel on either side did not choose to address us any arguments on the basis of those provisions.	Reasoning
We therefore do not go into the impact of that Act on situations where eviction has been ordered by Courts.34.We therefore allow the appeals with costs but direct the High Court to dispose of the cases in the light of the directions and observations we have made.	Reasoning
It will be open to the Court seized of the matter to direct, in its discretion, award of costs to be incurred hereafter.35.	Decision
Goswami, JCivil Appeal No. 1304 of 1973 is by certificate granted by the Calcutta High Court and Civil Appeal No. 2063 of 1973 is by Special Leave of this Court.36.	None
The first one arises out of Letters Patent Appeal No. 14 of 1969 of the Calcutta High Court dismissed on February 3, 1972, relying upon its earlier decision in ILR (1972) 2 Cal 660.	None
A preliminary question had arisen in connection with, the aforesaid Letters Patent Appeal along with three other appeals at an earlier stage with regard to, the constitutionality of Section 13 (3A) of the West Bengal Premises Tenancy (Second Amendment) Act, 1969 (briefly the Amendment Act).	None
A Division Bench repelled the contention of the appellants in a decision which has been reported in AIR 1971 Cal. 331 .	None
The Division Bench had held that subsec, (3A) of Section 13 in so far as it was retrospective in operation was ultra vires Article 19 (1) (f) of the Constitution on the ground of unreasonableness.	None
Since, however, the Letters Patent Appeal was not completely disposed of, the bar of subsection (3A) was this time pleaded asserting that Article 19 was not at all attracted to the present case on the ground that the right of reversion of the landlord, namely, the right to recover possession of the property from the tenant, is not a right of property which is a condition precedent to the application of Article 19 (1) (f) and consequently, the question as to the infringement of fundamental right did not at all arise and that there could not be any scope for holding that the provision of subsection (3A) offended contention which was allowed to be raised by the Letters .	None
Patent Bench was also repelled following its earlier decision in Kalyani Dutts case (supra) disposed of on September 7.1971.37.	None
Civil Appeal No. 2063 of 1973 arises out of the decision of the High Court in Second Appeal No.	None
l193 of 1972 disposed of on 25th July, 1973 relying upon Sailendra Nath Ghosals case, Air 1971 Cal 331 (supra) which is the subjectmatter of appeal in Civil Appeal No. 1304 of 1973.38.	None
The history of tortuous litigation in both the appeals may also be noticed.	None
In civil Appeal No. 1304 of 1973 the plaintiff (respondent herein) purchased the premises in suit on February 16, 1961.	None
She instituted Title Suit No. 480 of 1961 in the court of Munsif of Sealdah, District 24 Pargana for ejectment of the defendant on July 24, 1961.	None
The suit was decreed by the Munsif on July 21, 1964, but was dismissed by the lower appellate court on May 17, 1965.	None
On second appeal at the instance of the plaintiff, the High Court framed an additional issue and remanded the suit to return a finding on the same.	None
On receipt of the finding of the court below, the learned single Judge of the High Court dismissed the second appeal and granted leave to file a Letters Patent Appeal .That appeal was dismissed on February 3, 1972.	None
The High Court granted certificate to appeal against that decision to this Court on May 24, 1973, referring to the earlier certificate granted by that Court in Kalyani Dutts case ILR (1972)2Cal 660 (supra).	None
That is how Civil Appeal No, 1304 of 1973 is now before us.39.	None
The facts in Civil Appeal NO. 2063 of 1973 are these.	None
The property in suit was purchased by the plaintiff (respondent herein) on February 7, 1964 and the eviction suit No. 76 of 1965 was instituted in February 1965.	None
The suit was dismissed by the Trial Court on October 11, 1966.	None
On appeal by the plaintiff, the Additional District Judge allowed the appeal on June 8, 1967, and remanded the suit for disposal after taking additional evidence.	None
The Munsif thereafter decreed the plaintiffs suit on December 23, 1968.	None
On appeal by the defendant the Additional District Judge allowed the same and dismissed the suit on April 8, 1969.	None
On plaintiffs appeal to the High Court in Second Appeal No. 968 of 1969, the High Court allowed the same on April 3, 1971 and remanded the suit to the Munsif for retrial.	None
The Munsif again dismissed the plaintiffs.	None
suit on September13, 1971.	None
On appeal by the plaintiff the Additional District Judge allowed the same and decreed the suit on April 29, 1972.	None
The High Court on appeal by the defendant, dismissed the Second Appeal on July 25, 1973, relying upon Sailendra Nath Ghosals case AIR 1971 Cal 331 (supra) disposed of on January 28, 1971.	None
The defendant then obtained special leave.	None
Thus the life of litigation in Civil Appeal No. 1304 of 1973 is now in the fourteenth year after purchase of the premises by the plaintiff six months earlier.	None
The second one is a decade old the property having been purchased about a year earlier.40.	None
Both the appeals were argued together and will be governed by this common judgment.41.	None
The suits in both the appeals are by what has come to be known as transfereelandlords.	None
They have instituted suits in one case within six months of the purchase in 1961 and in the other within one year of the purchase in 1965.	None
During the long pendency of the litigation the West Bengal Premises Tenancy (Second Amendment) Act was passed which came into force on November 14, 1969, and Section 4, inter alia, was made applicable to pending suits including appeals.	None
It amended the West Bengal Premises Tenancy Act, 1956 (West Bengal Act XII of 1956) (briefly the Original Act).	None
Section 4 of the Amendment Act introduced the following changes in Section 13 of the Original Act42.	None
Section 13 (1) (f) of the Original Act stood as follows13 (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law, no order or decree for the recovery of possession of any premises shall be made by any Court in favour of the landlord against a tenant except on one or more of the following grounds, namelyx x x(f) Where the premises are reasonably required by the landlord either for purposes of building or rebuilding or for making thereto substantial additions or alterations or for his own occupation if he is the owner or for the occupation of any person for whose benefit the premises are held.	None
After the amendment of Section 13 by Section 4 of the Amendment Act, cl.	None
(f) was split up into two cls.	None
(f) and (ff) which read as under(f) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3A) and Section 18A, where the premises are reasonably required by the landlord for purposes of building or rebuilding or for making thereto substantial additions or alterations, and such building or rebuilding, or additions or alterations cannot be carried out without the premises being vacated(ff) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3A), where the premises are reasonably required by the landlord for his own occupation if he is the owner or for the occupation of any person for whose benefit the premises are held and the landlord or such person is not in possession of any reasonably suitable accommodation.	None
In addition.	None
Section 4 of the Amendment Act introduced a new subsection (3A) which reads as followsWhere a landlord has acquired his interest in the premises by transfer, no suit for the recovery of possession of the premises on any of the grounds mentioned in clause (f) or clause (ff) of subsection (1) shall be instituted by the landlord before the expiration of a period of three years from the date of his acquisition of such interest Provided that a suit for the recovery of the possession of the premises may be instituted on the ground mentioned in clause (f) of subsec.	None
(1.) before the expiration of the said period of three years if the Controller on the application of landlord and after giving the tenant an opportunity of being heard, permits, by order, the institution of the suit on the ground that the building or rebuilding, or the additions, or, alterations as the case may be are necessary to make the premises safe for human habitation.43.	None
It should be noted that the grounds for ejectment in the earlier subsection (f) are the same as the new grounds in clauses (f) and (ff) except for some additional restrictions.	None
The common grounds for eviction are, broadly speaking, reasonable requirement for the purpose of building or rebuilding, etc. subclause (f) and reasonable requirement for occupation by the landlord, etc, subclause (ff).	None
There is, therefore, no particular significance to the mention of grounds in clause (f) or clause (ff) of subsection (1) in subsection (3A).44.	None
Section 13 of the Amendment Act which is the bone of contention grants retrospectivity to Section 4 of the Amendment Act and, therefore, necessarily to subsection (3A) and Section 13 (1) (f) (ff).	None
The grievance centres round retrospectivity of subsection (3A) and Section 13 (f) add (ff) made applicable by force of Section l3 of the Amendment Act to suits and appeals pending on the commencement of the Act.	None
It may be in order first to deal with the question of retrospectivity of subsection (3A) which is the principal ground of attack in these appeals.45.	None
Section 13 of the Amendment Act provides that effect should be given to Section 4 of the Amendment Act in pending suits including appeals on the date of the commencement of the Act.	None
The suits of the particular category by transfereelandlords, therefore, could be pending on commencement of the Amendment Act and these may have been instituted several years prior to the Amendment Act.	None
There may also be appeals pending in different appellate courts against decrees in such suits.	None
The appeals necessarily have to be understood as appeals arising out of suits instituted within the three years, ban.	None
The tenants are now permitted to take objection on the score of contravention of Section 13 (3A), before the courts either in a pending suit or in a pending appeal against decrees in such suits and the point for consideration then would be whether such a suit was instituted within three years ban and the appeal was pending against such a banned suit.	None
When Section 13 of the Amendment Act provides that Section 4 therein has to be given effect in pending suits including appeals, effect has to be given by the courts.	None
Now how will effect be given to Section 13 (3A)?	None
Retrospectvity to be given under Section 13 of the Amendment Act to Section 4 broadly requires compliance as follows(1) that no suit for eviction by a transfereelandlord shall be instituted within three years of his acquisition of the premises(2) if eviction is sought on the ground under Section 13 (1) (f) of the Amendment Act, an additional restriction is put, namely, that such building or rebuilding or additions or alterations cannot be carried out without the premises being vacated(3) if eviction is sought on the ground under section 13 (1) (ff) a further restriction is put upon the right of the landlord to evict, viz., that the landlord or such person is not in possession of any reasonably suitable accommodation.46.	None
Under proviso to Sec, 13 (3A) a transfereelandlord can, however, institute a suit within three years ban provided he obtains prior permission from the Controller who on an application by the landlord and after hearing the parties may decide whether permission should be given or not .47.	None
Prima facie, a suit which had already been instituted prior to the Amendment Act would not come within the mischief of section 13 (3A) since this subsection, in terms, prohibits only institution of suits and does not provide for dismissal of suits already instituted.	None
Similarly while there is a relaxation in favour of a transfereelandlord under the proviso to obtain permission from the Controller this benefit is out of the way even in a genuine case where the suit had already been instituted within three years of purchase and the same or an appeal therefrom is now pending after the passing of the Amendment Act.	None
In this regard also it appears subsection (3A) is not intended to be attracted to suits which were already instituted prior to the Amendment Act.	None
But as will be seen hereafter the above position is altered by the express provision of Section 13 of the Amendment Act whereby it is intended that the court should give retrospectivity, inter alia, to section 4 of the Amendment Act.48.	None
On the terms of only Section 13 (3A) it is difficult to hold that it would bring old actions within the mischief of Section 13 (3A) which imposes a ban expressly on institution of suits within three years of the acquisition of ownership of the premises subject to the relaxation contained in the proviso thereto.49.	None
This being the correct interpretation of subsection 13 (A).	None
taken by itself, what is the effect of S. 13 of the Amendment Act upon this provision?	None
Section 13 of the Amendment Act in seeking to give retrospective effect to subsection (3A) does exactly what subsection (3A) by itself contraindicates.50.	None
The first part of S, 13 (3A) which provides for a ban against institution of suits for eviction within three years of acquisition of the premises must be given effect to under Section 13 of the Amendment Act in pending suits and in pending appeals arising out of the decrees passed in such suits provided the former had been instituted within the period of the ban.	None
If, therefore, after the Amendment Act it is found in a pending suit or in a pending appeal that the particular suit was instituted within the three years ban the same will have to be dismissed and only in that way the court will be able to give effect to subsection (3A) With regard to the proviso of subsec (3A), when the ground of eviction is relatable to Section 13 (1) (f) of the Amendment Act the court will have to dismiss the suit in absence of the requisite permission.51.	None
That being the practical result of retrospectivity given to subsection (3A), is that subsection, in so far as it is retrospective, violative of Article 19 (1) (f) of the Constitution?	None
That takes us to the object and purpose of the Amendment Act.	None
The Statement of Objects and Reasons as quoted in Kalyani Dutts case.	None
ILR (1972) 2 Cal 660 (supra) is as followsIt has been considered necessary that some more relief should be given to the tenants against eviction, that the necessity of tender of rent to the landlord every time the rent is deposited with the Controller during a continuous period should be dispensed with, that the interests of the residents of hotels and lodging houses should be safeguarded and that the penalties for contravention of some of the provisions of the west Bengal Premises Tenancy Act, 1956, should be made more stringent.	None
In the earlier judgment of the High Court which is also the subjectmatter of Civil Appeal No. 1304 of 1973 the High Court referred to the statement of the Minister at the time of piloting of the Bill in the following wordsIt is found from the speech of the Minister at the time of introducing the Bill in the legislature, that the problems of tenants are many there is one class  original owners who are the old inhabitants of the city these ownerlandlords are not affluent they solely depend upon the rents received from the tenants.	None
It has been ascertained from experience that two of the grounds of eviction, namely, requirement of the premises for own use of the landlords and for the purpose of building and rebuilding, have been misused by the landlords.	None
In the city of Calcutta and other towns, there are millions of tenants who are left at the mercy of the landlords.	None
In this background and after taking into account similar provisions in other States, it has been decided that some restrictions ought to have been imposed upon transfereelandlords prohibiting them front bringing ejectment suits against the tenants within three years from their purchase.52.	None
The High Court also observed further that there is nothing on the record to show that the mischief, sought to be remedied by the attended legislation, was in existence since 1956.	None
On the other hard, the ministerial speech, referred to above, rather indicates that the said mischief was of comparatively recent origin.53.	None
Again in Kalyani Dutts case, ILR (1972) 2 Cal 660 (supra) the High Court in para 27 observed that such suits are not many and at the same time most of them are pending for more than ten years.	None
The materials relied upon by the High Court stand uncontradicted by any affidavit before us.54.	None
On the above materials it is safe to hold that the main object of the Amendment Act is to counteract the recent mischief of circumvention of the provisions of the original Act in order to evict tenants on even bona fide requirements specified under the law by a device of transfer of premises held under the occupation of tenants.	None
Although the Amendment Act has not completely barred institution of suits by transfereelandlords postponement of litigation for a period of three years from acquisition of the premises was provided for under subsection (3A).	None
This had a twofold purpose, namely.	None
to enable tenants a reasonable respite to arrange their affairs and also to discourage speculative acquisitions with an ulterior motive.	None
This salutary provision for the general body of tenants cannot be called unreasonable.	None
But the question is whether by applying the provision to pending suits and appeals has that object been achieved if the interest of the general body of tenants which would certainly constitute the general public within the meaning of clause (5) of Article 19?	None
From the facts and circumstances extracted above from the two Judgments of the High Court, it is not possible to hold that the interest of the general body of tenants would be served by application of subsection (3A) to pending suits and appeals.55.	None
If the mischief was of recent origin, there is no reason to overshoot the mark and outstretch the long rope of the law beyond the requirements of the situation.	None
It is clear that in trying to include old actions that may be surviving in courts, per chance, because of laws proverbial delay, Section 13 of the Amendment Act has gone far in excess of the actual needs of the time and problems and the provisions therefore cannot be said to impose a reasonable restriction on the right of the transfereelandlords, albeit a well defined class, amongst the landlords, to hold and enjoy their property in the interest of the general public Such transfereelandlords with pending old actions in suits or in appeals are, as observed by the High Court not likely to be of a large number and necessarily so the tenants of such a subclass.	None
It is not in the general interest of the large body of tenants to impose such restrictions on a few transferee landlords of this subclass subject to unbearable delay in litigation, understandably not on their own account.	None
If relief in the shape of postponement of a landlords suit were the object of subsection (3A) in giving retrospectivity to it, the law did not take count of the inevitable long delay that takes place in pending litigation of this type as a result of manmade laws of procedure in courts such as has even been clearly demonstrated by the cases at hand.	None
The law that misses, its object cannot justify its existence.	None
Besides it will be a sterile relief if tenants have to face a fresh summons next day.56.	None
Hard cases will be on both sides of the line.	None
Law contemplates in terms of generality and is not intended to hit a few individuals by making invidious distinction.	None
Article 19 of the Constitution confers protection of rights specified therein be longing to all citizens.	None
Any individual citizen may complain of encroachment of his rights and freedom guaranteed under the Article.	None
Laws encroachment upon such rights and freedom of citizens can survive challenge if it passes the tests laid down in the six saving clauses of Article 19.57.	None
Coming now to Art, 19 (1) (f), with which we are concerned in these appeals, the said provision confers upon each individual citizen the right to acquire, hold and dispose of property.	None
This right is subject to clause (5) which we may read so far as material for our purposeNothing in subclauses (d), (e) and (f) of the said clause shallprevent the State from making any law imposing reasonable restrictions on the exercise of any of the rights conferred by the said subclausesin the interests of the general public. . . . .	None
.58.	None
Even a single citizen may complain against violation of his fundamental rights under Article 19 (1) (f) and, his vindication of his right may be defeated only if the impugned infringement brought upon by the law can be considered as a reasonable restriction and the said restriction is also in the interests of the general public.	None
It is manifest, therefore, under the Constitution that an individuals right will have to yield to the common weal of the general community.	None
That general community may be in broad segments, but even then must form a class as a whole.	None
A few individuals cannot take the place of a class and for the matter of that the general public.	None
In the present case the particular relief contemplated by the Amendment Act is in favour of tenants in general and the restriction under subsection (3A) must be viewed in that context.	None
It cannot be said that the legislature in applying subsection (3A) retrospectively has achieved that avowed object at all.	None
The matter would have been different if, in view of any prevailing conditions, a reasonable date for giving retrospective effect were fixed under the law in the light of the known mischief.	None
In its absence, applicability of the blanket ban to pending suits and appeals cannot be said to be a reasonable restriction in the interests of the general public.	None
It may help a few tenants in litigation but will prejudice the right of transfereelandlords locked up in old and costly litigation.	None
The gain of the few as opposed to the general public cannot be the touchstone for justifying reasonableness of the restriction imposed on the rights of the transferee landlords in applying subsection (3A) to pending suits and appeals.59.	None
In the social combat between the interests of a few and the general welfare of the community the latter is the clinching factor to be reckoned and hard cases of a few individuals cannot be assigned a higher place and status than they deserve to the detriment of the fundamental rights of even a single individual.60.	None
Therefore, the retrospectivity so far as subsection (3A) is concerned with regard to institution of suits made applicable to pending suits and appeals is clearly very wide of a reasonable mark and is, thus, an imposition of an unreasonable restriction on the rights of the transferee landlords in pending suits which had been instituted prior to the Amendment Act and in appeals arising therefrom	None
and it is not saved by the protective clause (5) of Article 19 of the Constitution.	None
Subsection (3A) so far as it is retrospective and as such applicable to pending suits including appeals is ultra vires Article,19 (1) (f) of the Constitution.	None
The provision is valid only prospectively.61.	None
So far as the retrospectivity of Section 13 (1) (f) and (ff), the position is entirely different, Clearly further reliefs have been sought to be given to the tenants as a class by these provisions in the Amendment Act.	None
These further reliefs are in the general interests of tenants and can be applied without any difficulty to pending suits including appeals.	None
There is nothing unreasonable about such a retrospectivity in applying these provisions for the general welfare of tenants in securing for them a safe and sure tenure as far as practicable untrammelled by inconvenient litigation.	None
It is well established that the legislature in enacting laws can legislate prospectively as well as retrospectively.	None
Section 13 (1) (f) and (ff) are, therefore, not ultra vires Article 19 (1) (f) of the Constitution.62.	None
With regard to another contention of the appellants that the right of the landlords that is affected by subsection (3A) is only a mere right to sue and at best a right of reversion and hence it is not a right to property under Article 19 (1) (f) of the Constitution, it is sufficient to state that the question is covered by two decisions of this Court in Commr.	None
Hindu Religious Endowments, Madras v. Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt 1954 SCR 1005 (AIR 1954 SC 282 ) and Swami Motor Transport Pvt. Ltd, v. Sri Sankaraswamigal Mutt, 1963 Supp (1) SCR 282 (AIR 1963 SC 864 ).	None
The right to own and hold property in order to make an effective right under the Constitution must include the right to possession of the property including the right to evict tenants in accordance with law.	None
The submission is, therefore.	None
without any force.63.	None
The position, therefore, is that in a pending suit or even in a pending appeal a landlord may be given an opportunity to adduce evidence to establish such of the new requirements in S.13 (1) (f) Or (ff) as are relevant to the proceeding.	None
In that case the tenant will have also an opportunity to produce evidence in rebuttal.	None
If the matter arises in a pending suit, it will be disposed of by the trial court.	None
If, however, the matter arises in appeal, it will be open to the appellate court, in order to shorten the life of litigation, to remand the matter to the appropriate court to return a finding on such additional issues as may be framed to meet the requirements of (f) and or (ff), as the case may be, under Order 41, Rule 25.	None
Civil Procedure Code.64.	None
In the result these appeals are partly allowed.	None
The judgment of the High Court with regard to invalidity of subsection (3A) so far as it is retrospective and applicable to pending suits and appeals is upheld.	None
The orders dismissing the appeals are, however, set aside and the appeals are remanded to the High Court for disposal in the light of the observations with reference to Section 13 (1) (f) and or (ff), whichever is applicable.	None
The landlords may now be given by the High Court an opportunity, if they so wish, to adduce evidence with regard to such further requirements under cl.	None
(f) and or (ff) as may be applicable and the High Court will call for a finding from the appropriate court in that behalf and thereafter dispose of the appeals on merits.	None
Since success is shared, there will be no order as to costs in these appeals.65.	None
In accordance with the majority judgment the appeals are allowed with costs the cases are remanded to the High Court, and the High Court is directed to dispose of the cases in the light of the directions and observations made in the majority judgment.	Decision
It will be open to the Court seized of the matter to direct, in its discretion, amount of costs to be incurred here after.66.	Decision
Appeals allowed.	None
