 Ray, C.J.1.	None
These two appeals are by certificate from the common judgment dated 10 August, 1971 of the High Court of Himachal Pradesh.2.	Issue
The State and the Taxation Commissioner, Himachal Pradesh are the appellants is Civil Appeal No. 1324 of 1972.	Issue
The ten appellants in Civil Appeal No. 2648 of 1972, are Taxation Inspectors of the former State of Punjab.	Issue
They were allocated to Himachal Pradesh because of reorganisation of the State of Punjab.	Issue
The first seven appellants were confirmed as Taxation Inspectors.	Issue
The other three appellants were Taxation Inspectors but were not confirmed in that post.3.	None
The appellants in the former State of Punjab were SubInspectors of Taxation.	Facts
On 1 April, 1966 the appellants were upgraded from the post of SubInspectors to Inspectors of Taxation.	Facts
When the appellants were allocated to Himachal Pradesh on the appointed day on 1 November,1966 they were Inspectors of Taxation.	Facts
The respondents were Excise SubInspectors in Himachal Pradesh on the appointed day.	Facts
The respondents were upgraded from the position of Excise SubInspectors to Inspectors with effect from 1 May, 1969.	Facts
That upgrading was with the sanction and under the directions of the Central Government in accordance with the provisions of Section 82 (6) of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966 referred to as the Act.	Facts
On 29 May 1971 the State of Himachal Pradesh by an executive decision changed the date of upgrading of the respondents from 1 May, 1969 to 1 April, 1966.	Facts
This upgrading was done by the State of Himachal Pradesh without sanction and direction of the Central Government under Section 82 (6) of the Act.4.	Facts
The preeminent question which falls for consideration is whether the conditions of service of the appellants have been changed to their disadvantage by the executive decision of the State of Himachal Pradesh on 29 May, 1971 to upgrade the posts of SubInspectors of Excise Department of Himachal Pradesh to Inspectors with effect from 1 April, 1966.	Issue
The corollary to this question is whether the executive decision of the State of Himachal Pradesh is invalid by reason of noncompliance with the provisions contained in Section 82 (6) of the Act.5.	Issue
The appellants impeached the two seniority lists prepared by the State.	None
In one of the seniority lists appellant Jagdish Ram has been mentioned along with Excise Inspectors of Himachal Pradesh.	None
The other appellants who were confirmed Taxation Inspectors have been shown in the second impeached seniority list as juniors to several unconfirmed SubInspectors of Excise and Taxation belonging to Himachal Pradesh.	None
The appellants contend that they never worked on the Excise side.	Arguments of Petitioner
They further allege that their cadre was different from that of Taxation Inspectors.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants impugned the second seniority list on the ground that the Excise and Taxation SubInspectors of Himachal Pradesh were treated at par with Taxation Inspectors of the former State of Punjab.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the second seniority list there is a note to the effect that Excise and Taxation SubInspectors of Himachal Pradesh were being promoted and confirmed with effect from 1 April, 1966, and their cases were sent to the Ministry of Home Affairs for necessary orders.	None
The appellants impeached this note as illegal.	Arguments of Petitioner
The contention of the appellants is that the promotion and confirmation of Excise SubInspectors of Himachal Pradesh could not take place with retrospective effect so as to prejudice the rights of the appellants.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
The grievance of the appellants is that the seniority list of Taxation Inspectors should have been prepared separately.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants contend that while they were in the former State of Punjab they belonged to Taxation Cadre and there was a quota fixed in the Punjab Excise and Taxation Service Class IIIA Rules, 1956 in their favour for promotion as Excise and Taxation Officers.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants contend that they have been deprived of this quota benefit as they were placed in a joint list along with unconfirmed Excise Inspectors of Himachal Pradesh.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
The State of Himachal Pradesh appointed four Excise Inspectors as Assistant Excise and Taxation Officers.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants challenged those four appointments and contended that the benefit of promotion should have been given to the appellants.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
The principal contention of the appellants is that Section 82 (6) of the Act prohibits any change in the conditions of service of the appellants which are disadvantageous to them without prior sanction of the Central Government.	None
The State of Himachal Pradesh after the reorganisation on 1 November, 1966 asked for directions of the Central Government with regard to upgradation of Excise and Taxation SubInspectors of Himachal Pradesh.9.	None
The Central Government gave instructions in a letter dated 14 February, 1967 for equating posts for the purpose of integration in the services.	None
The four factors for determining the equation of a post are first, the nature and duties of a post, second, the responsibilities and power exercised by the officer holding the post and the extent of territorial or other charge held or responsibility discharged third, the minimum qualifications, if any, prescribed for recruitment to the post and, fourth, the salary of the post.	None
The Central Government in the said letter dated 14 February, 1967 further said that two factors would be taken into account for determination of relative seniority, first is the length of continuous service whether temporary or permanent in the equivalent post this should exclude periods for which an appointment is held a purely stopgap or fortuitous arrangement.	None
Second is the age of the person.	None
Other factors being equal seniority may be determined on the basis of age.10.	None
It is also important to consider the letter dated 26 April, 1969 written by the Central Government to the State Government.	None
There were 45 posts of Excise and Taxation SubInspectors in Himachal Pradesh.	None
The Central Government stated that those 45 posts of SubInspectors might be abolished and in their place 33 posts of Excise and Taxation Inspectors might be created.	None
The new posts of Excise and Taxation Inspectors were to be offered to the existing incumbents of the posts of Excise and Taxation SubInspectors in order of seniority.	None
The Central Government stated that the order would take effect from 1 May, 1969.11.	None
The State Government by letter dated 19 July, 1969 gave effect to the directions of the Central Government.	None
The Lieutenant Governor was pleased to accord sanction to the creation of 33 permanent posts of Excise Inspectors in the scale of Rupees 15010200/10300 in the Excise and Taxation Department, Himachal Pradesh with effect from 1 May, 1969.12.	None
Consequent upon the abolition of 12 permanent posts of Taxation SubInspectors under the Excise and Taxation Department, Himachal Pradesh with effect from 1 May, 1969, 8 Excise and Taxation SubInspectors were rendered surplus and they were appointed as Taxation Inspectors against 8 temporary posts of Inspectors created for survey work.13.	None
The Central Government directed and sanctioned that SubInspectors of Himachal Pradesh could be promoted as Inspectors with effect from 1 May, 1969.	None
The State of Himachal Pradesh implemented that direction of the Central Government.	None
Latter on the State of Himachal Pradesh superseded the previous order and promoted SubInspectors of Himachal Pradesh as Inspectors with effect from 1 April, 1966.	None
The appellants contend that the State of Himachal Pradesh thereby not only violated the direction of the Central Government under Section 82 of the Act but also changed the conditions of service of the appellants to their disadvantage without obtaining the sanction of the Central Government.14.	Arguments of Petitioner
One of the contentions of the appellants in the High Court was that in Himachal Pradesh the post of Excise Inspectors and Taxation Inspectors belonged to different cadres.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants contended that in Himachal Pradesh posts were sanctioned separately for the Taxation and the Excise Departments.	Arguments of Petitioner
The State on the other hand contended that there was one common cadre of Excise and Taxation Inspectors.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court found that the appellants belonged to the separate cadre of Taxation Inspectors at the time when they were allocated to Himachal Pradesh.	None
In Punjab it is also found by the High Court as a fact that there were two cadres and the appellants did not belong to the cadre of Excise Inspectors.15.	None
The appellants relied on Rule 6 of Class IIIA Punjab Rules, 1956.	None
Under that rule when any vacancy occurs the Government shall determine in what manner it shall be filled provided that 50 per cent.	None
of the vacancies shall be filled by direct appointment, 25 per cent.	Arguments of Petitioner
by promotion of Taxation Inspectors, 121/2 by transfer of members of the ministerial establishment of the Excise and Taxation Department.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants, therefore, contend that 25 promotion quota of the post of Assistant Excise and Taxation Officers should go to Taxation Inspectors and in this manner the Excise Inspectors could not be promoted.16.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, the appellants contend that the date of substantive appointment should be taken into consideration for determination of seniority.	None
The Himachal Pradesh Excise and Taxation Department Inspectorate Class III Service Recruitment, Promotion and certain Conditions of Service Rules, 1963 are relied on by the appellants.	None
Rule 12(2) states that subject to the provisions of subrule (3), permanent officers of each grade shall be ranked senior to person who are officiating in that grade.	None
Rule 9 of the Punjab Rules, 1943 on which the appellants relied stated that the seniority of members of the services in so far as each class of post specified in Appendix A thereto is concerned be determined by the date of their substantive appointment to a post in that class provided that if two or more members are confirmed in that same class of post on the same date, their seniority shall be determined by the Excise and Taxation Commissioner whose decision shall be final.17.	None
The contention of the appellants is that under their conditions of service when they were allocated to Himachal Pradesh on the appointed date 1 November, 1966 in the former State of Punjab.	Arguments of Petitioner
In accordance with the directions of the Central Government contained in the letter dated 14 February, 1967 the appellants contend that the date of substantive appointment, viz., 1 April, 1966 is therefore to be considered for seniority as well as promotion.	Arguments of Petitioner
For promotion the appellants contended that Class IIIA Punjab Rules provided three years continuous service as Inspector to be sufficient.	None
Confirmed Inspectors.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this background the appellants contend that the seniority list wrongly shows that appellant No. 1 was placed along with the Excise Inspectors and in the other seniority list all Inspectors of Punjab were equated with SubInspectors of Himachal Pradesh.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, it is contended that SubInspectors of Himachal Pradesh who were unconfirmed were made senior to the appellants.18.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the State it was contended that the employees of Himachal Pradesh could be given the same benefit of Inspectors by varying the conditions of service which were to their benefit and the sanction of the Central Government under Section 82(6) of the Act would not be required for that purpose.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also said that the conditions of service which govern the appellants who were employees of the former State of Punjab were not varied to their disadvantage.	None
This contention is utterly unsound.	Reasoning
The seniority list has been prepared by giving the employees of Himachal Pradesh, the benefit of the date of upgradation as 1 April, 1966.	Reasoning
The Government of India sanctioned the date 1 May, 1969.	Reasoning
The State of Himachal Pradesh is not only setting at naught the direction but is giving a retrospective validation to the date of upgradation.	Reasoning
That is a matter which changes the conditions of service of the appellants.	Reasoning
The appellants are deprived of their continuous period of service.	Reasoning
The appellants are deprived of their quota of promotion.	Reasoning
The appellants were not heard with regard to equation of posts of Excise Inspectors and Taxation Inspectors.	Reasoning
The appellants were not heard with regard to their seniority list.19.	Reasoning
The appellants, therefore, rightly contend that the conditions of service applicable to them before the appointed day have been altered to their disadvantage without the previous approval of the Central Government.	Reasoning
Again, if the State of Himachal Pradesh wants to equate Taxation Inspectors with Excise Inspectors the approval of the Central Government will be required because the appellants may represent their case of promotion quota under these Rules.20.The High Court correctly held that if the State Government wanted to alter the upgradation of the posts of Himachal Pradesh SubInspectors with effect from 1 April, 1966, the sanction of the Central Government was to be obtained.	Reasoning
The High Court rightly set aside the executive decision changing the date of promotion of Himachal Pradesh SubInspectors from 1 May, 1969, to 1 April, 1966 and the seniority lists as well as the four promotions.21.	Reasoning
The appellants contended that the directions given by the High Court with regard to preparation of seniority lists should be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
The directions given by the High Court were these.	None
The appellants should be equated with the Inspectors of Himachal Pradesh and thereby the High Court held that all Inspectors of Himachal Pradesh should e taken as Excise and Taxation Inspectors and their cadre should be taken as joint.	None
The second direction is that the date of continuous appointment in an equated post shall govern the seniority as provided in the letter dated 14 February, 1967 of the Central Government.	None
The third direction is that specific approval of the Central Government is to be taken under section 82(6) of the Act is the date of promotion or upgradation from the post of SubInspectors is fixed as 1 April, 1966.	None
The fourth direction is that the Rules for promotion to the posts of Assistant Excise and Taxation Officers should be prepared and the same shall be finalised after getting the approval of the Central Government.22.	None
The appellants main contention is that there were two distinct cadres of Inspectors in Himachal Pradesh before reorganisation, viz., one cadre of Taxation Inspectors and SubInspectors and the other cadre of Excise Inspectors and SubInspectors.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents on the other hand contended that there was one cadre in Himachal Pradesh.	None
It was also the contention of the respondents that there was unification of cadres in Himachal Pradesh before the reorganisation of the State.23.	Arguments of Respondent
If the State of Himachal Pradesh wishes to change the date of upgradation of Himachal Pradesh SubInspectors to 1 April, 1966 the State Government cannot do so without sanction of the Central Government under Section 82(6) of the Act.	Reasoning
If the State Government wishes to equate the appellants with the Inspectors of Himachal Pradesh the State of Himachal Pradesh will have to follow the provisions of the States Reorganisation Act in that behalf.	Reasoning
The date of continuous appointment of the appellants and the respondents in the equated post will also have to be in compliance with the provisions of the States Reorganisation Act.24.	Reasoning
All facts and circumstances affecting the service conditions of Inspectors of both the States will have to be placed by the State Government before the Central Government for decision of the Central Government whether it should give approval under Section 823(6) of the Act to upgradation of SubInspectors of Himachal Pradesh with effect from 1 April, 1966.25.	Reasoning
The direction given by the High Court that the State Government shall obtain approval of the Central Government under Section 82 (6) of the Act in regard to the date of promotion or upgradation of SubInspectors is correct and upheld.	Reasoning
The other direction given by the High Court that the Rules for promotion to the post of Excise and Taxation Inspectors shall be finalised after getting the approval of the Central Government is correct and upheld.26.	Reasoning
For these reasons the appeal of the State is dismissed.	Decision
The appeal of the appellants is accepted in part.	Decision
Equation of the appellants with the Inspectors of Himachal Pradesh and the date of continuous appointment in equated posts can be only in accordance with the provisions of the Punjab Reorganisation Act.	Decision
Parties will pay and bear their own costs.27.	Decision
Order accordingly.	Decision
