This writ petition is filed by a detenu challenging the order of detention passed against him on 281999 under the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act (hereinafter referred to as the COFEPOSA ACT).	Issue
The detention actually commenced on 481999 and it is for a period of one year.	None
We are told that presently the detenu is on parole and the parole is being extended by orders of this Court	None
The detention order was passed in the following background the petitioner arrived at Anna International Airport on 2541999 in the company of one Radhakrishnan Prabhakaran.	Facts
The petitioner was an Assistant Public Relations Officer attached to the Department of Tourism under the Government of Tamil Nadu.	Facts
On suspicion, the petitioner and his cotraveller Radhakrishnan Prabhakaran were intercepted and on search 102 mobile phones were detected from the baggage of the petitioner alone and from the baggage of his cotraveller 92 mobile phones were detected.	Facts
Both of them were arrested on the next day and their statements were separately recorded.	None
The petitioner was released on bail on 2861999 The preventive detention order was passed against Radhakrishnan Prabhakaran.	None
We may mention now that the said order was challenged in this Court but we did not interfere with the said order as per the judgment of this Court dated 232000 Mainly three points have been raised by the petitioner in challenge of the detention order passed against him.	None
They are The sponsoring authority (the Customs Department) did not place relevant and vital documents for consideration before the detaining authority There was delay in considering and disposing of the representation made by the petitioner before the Central Government There was no compelling necessity to preventively detain the petitionerFor elaborating the first ground learned counsel contended that records connected with the detention of the cotraveller Radhakrishnan Prabhakaran were not placed before the detaining authority.	None
Had those records been placed, perhaps, the detaining authority would have come to a different conclusion, contended learned counsel We cannot appreciate the said contention for two reasons.	None
First is that the detention order in respect of the present petitioner should be based principally on the facts centred on what he had done in collaboration with his cotraveller.	Reasoning
In other words, if the detention order and the connected records relating to the cotraveller were to be placed before the detaining authority there could possibly be an apprehension that the detaining authority would be biased against the petitioner because of the various allegations contained therein.	Reasoning
Second is that the detaining authority cannot be said to be totally ignorant of the fact that Radhakrishnan Prabhakaran was also detained under a separate order, for, the aforesaid detention order against Radhakrishnan Prabhakaran was passed by the same detaining authority just six days prior to the impugned detention order.	Reasoning
So we do not see much force in the said ground raised now While dealing with the second ground we initially thought that the petitioner has really a case to put forward because at the first blush it may appear that there was delay on the part of the Central Government in disposing of the representation made by the detenu.	Reasoning
We may point out that the representation to the Central Government was actually made by the detenu on 191999 and the same was disposed of by the Central Government only on 1591999.	Reasoning
No doubt there was delay.	Reasoning
It is not the law that whenever there is any delay the detention order would be vitiated.	Reasoning
The law is that the delay should not be unexplainable and that the explanation offered must appear to the court to be reasonable and acceptableIn the present case the representation sent by the detenu to the Central Government on 191999 had reached the COFEPOSA Unit of the Finance Department only on 991999.	Reasoning
Shri T. L. V. Iyer, learned Senior Counsel who argued for the Union on India submitted after verifying the documents that there is some lapse in the Department for mentioning the exact date on which the representation had reached the Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue, New Delhi.	Arguments of Respondent
Normally, a seal would be affixed showing the date on which the representation was received in the Department, but such a seal is not seen affixed on the particular representation.	Arguments of Respondent
Of course, that does not mean that the representation had not reached the Department at all at any time.	Arguments of Respondent
It is a certainty that it would have reached the Department on a day prior to 991999.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Senior Counsel pointed out that as 3rd, 4th and 5th of September, 1999 were government holidays the representation would have possibly reached the Department either on 2nd evening or on the 6th of September.	Arguments of Respondent
If that be so, the question is whether placing the said representation before the COFEPOSA Unit on 991999 can be treated as unreasonably delayed Learned Senior Counsel pointed out the practicalities involved in sifting and sorting various mails which would have heaped up in the Department by 691999 on account of the preceding government holidays for a continuous three days period.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that it is not enough that somebody in the Department would see the outer cover of the representation.	Arguments of Respondent
Every mail should have been opened, read and found out as to which Department it should be placed and only after such sorting process is made the representation could be sent to the appropriate section.	None
We are inclined to accept the said explanation for the intervening period between 6th and 9th September for the representation to reach the COFEPOSA Unit.	None
We may note here that there can possibly be no grievance that the order of disposal made on 1551999 was vitiated by delay subsequent to 991999.	Reasoning
We, therefore, hold that the grievance regarding delay in disposing of the representation made by the detenu to the Central Government is not valid in the circumstances of this caseWhile elaborating the third ground, i.e., want of compelling necessity to preventively detain the petitioner, Shri K. K. Mani, learned counsel for the petitioner vehemently stated that when the cotraveller was preventively detained there was no need to detain the petitioner separately as he had only accompanied him.	Reasoning
On the other hand, Shri V. R. Reddy, learned Senior Counsel arguing for the State of Tamil Nadu pointed out the broad features surrounding the catch made at the airport on 2541999.	Reasoning
This was not the only occasion when the petitioner travelled to Singapore and the surrounding place.	Reasoning
On a previous occasion also the petitioner had gone up to those places.	Reasoning
It is pertinent to point out that on the previous occasion also the petitioner had gone to some places with the same cotraveller.	Arguments of Respondent
On the second occasion when he came back with all the contraband articles it was for the detaining authority to subjectively satisfy whether this petitioner had acquired the wherewithal to continue with the nefarious activities.	Reasoning
Considering the fact that the petitioner is a Public Relations Officer attached to the Tourism Department we cannot accept the contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner that he should be treated at a lesser degree than his cotraveller so far as the formation of subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority is concerned The writ petition is accordingly dismissed.	Reasoning
It is needles to say that the parole benefit which the petitioner is enjoying by virtue of the order passed by this Court will stand terminated forthwith.	Decision
