 Gajendragadkar, J. 1.	None
This is an appeal by a certificate granted by the High Court of Madras against its judgment and decree in Second Appeal No. 1656 of 1947.	None
The appeal arises out of Original Suit No. 27 of 1939 filed by respondent 1 Gollapalli Ramalingamurthi against respondent 2 Immani Venkanna and his four sons appellants 1 to 4.	None
The appellants and respondent 2 are members of an undivided Hindu family.	Facts
The case for respondent 1 was that he had purchased the properties described in the Schedule attached to his plaint on April 1,1936 in a sale held by the Official Receiver in the insolvency of respondent 2.	Facts
A registered sale deed was accordingly issued in favour of respondent 1 (Ex.P. 4) on September 21, 1936.	Facts
In pursuance of the said sale respondent 1 obtained possession and enjoyment of such properties after partitioning them with Rayudu, the brother of respondent 2.	Facts
In October 1938, however, the appellants and respondent 2 trespassed on the said properties and so respondent 1 had to file the present suit claiming a declaration of his title in regard to the said properties, and asking for their possession and or past and future mesne profits.	Facts
That in brief is the nature of the suit from which the present appeal arises.	Facts
2.	None
The claim thus made by respondent 1 was resisted by respondent 2 and the appellants on several grounds.	Facts
It was urged by respondent 2 that the transfer in favour of respondent 1 was benami and that respondent was not the real owner of the properties.	Facts
In support of this case respondent 2 gave, what according to him, was the antecedent history of the sale in favour of respondent 1.	Facts
He alleged that he had sustained heavy losses in business conducted by him with the result that he was indebted to the extent of Rs. 25,000.	Facts
Apprehending that the suit properties would be lost to the family at the instance of his creditors he and his junior motherinlaw Kanthamani Seshamma approached respondent 1s fatherinlaw Suryaprakasa Sastrulu for advice and on his advice respondent 2 executed a collusive and nominal mortgage deed for Rs. 1,000 (Ex.	Facts
P. 9) in favour of respondent 1 on June 16, 1933.	Facts
Similarly, on the same advice a similar nominal transfer deed was executed in favour of respondent 1 on August 6, 1939, (Ex.	Facts
P. 12) after the properties covered by the said document had been released from an earlier nonpossessory mortgage (Ex.	Facts
P. 11) which had been executed on July 21, 1930.	Facts
Thus, according to respondent 2 the documents executed in favour of respondent 1 were nominal and collusive and were not supported by any consideration.	Facts
3.	None
Respondent 2 further alleged that the execution of the said collusive documents between him and respondent 1 came to the knowledge of some of his creditors and that led to an insolvency petition against respondent 2 by one of his creditors in I. P. No. 91 of 1933.	Facts
This petition was filed in the Court of the Subordinate Judge at Ellore on September 15, 1933, against respondent 2.	Facts
In these insolvency proceedings respondent 2 was adjudicated insolvent and the Official Receiver, appointed to take charge of respondent 2s properties, brought the said properties to sale subject to the aforesaid nominal mortgages in favour of respondent 1.	Facts
Kanthamani Seshamma purchased the said properties with her own money but benami in the name of respondent 1 on condition that respondent 1 would reconvey the said properties to the family of respondent 2 whenever called upon to do so.	Facts
The allegation of respondent 1 that he had obtained possession of the properties was denied, and it was urged that respondent 1 had no title to the properties and was entitled to no relief in the suit filed by him.	Facts
That is the substance of the pleas raised by respondent 2 and the appellants joined respondent 2 in making the same pleas by their separate written statement.	Facts
4.	None
At the trial three issues were tried as preliminary issues they were issues 5, 8 and 9.	Facts
Issues 8 and 9 were in regard to the court fees payable on the claim made in the plaint and regarding the pecuniary jurisdiction of the Court.	Facts
The Court found that it had jurisdiction to try the suit and it valued the subjectmatter of the suit at Rs. 2,41172 on which additional courtfee was paid by respondent 1.	Facts
Issue 5 was as to whether the sale in favour of respondent 1 bound the shares of the appellants in the family properties.	Facts
The learned trial judge answered this issue in favour of the appellants purporting to follow the Full Bench decision of the Madras High Court in Ramasastrulu v. Balakrishna Rao, ILR (1943) Mad 83 (AIR 1942 Mad 682 ).	Facts
According to the said decision the right of respondent 2 as the father of the appellants and manager of the undivided Hindu family to set the shares of his sons for purposes binding on the family did not vest in the Official Receiver on his insolvency, and so the sale effect ed by the Official Receiver in favour of respondent 1 did not, and could not, in law bind the shares of the appellants in the properties conveyed.	Facts
After these findings were recorded respondent 1 applied for the amendment of his plaint and the said amendment was allowed.	None
By this amendment respondent 1 alleged that the suit properties were the selfacquired properties of respondent 2 and so the appellants had no interest therein.	Facts
On this alternative plea it was urged by respondent 1 that the properties sold by the Official Receiver to respondent 1 conveyed the entire properties which belonged to respondent 2 alone.	Facts
In addition to this alternative claim made by an amendment respondent 1 also made an alternative prayer that he should be either given possession of the whole of the properties or 1/5th of the properties according as the properties are found to be separate properties of respondent 2 or are held to be properties of the undivided family consisting of respondent 2 and the appellants.	Facts
These alternative grounds taken by respondent 1 by virtue of the amendment were traversed by respondent 2 and the appellants in their additional written statements.	Facts
5.	None
When the suit went to trial on the amended pleadings several issues were framed by the learned trial judge.	None
In addition to the issues arising on the pleadings the learned trial judge framed suo motu one more issue 1(a), whether respondent 1 was the benamidar of the appellants, and if yes, whether the appellants could be allowed to plead the same as a defence in the suit.	Facts
The learned trial judge found that the suit properties were the joint family properties of respondent 1 and the appellants.	Facts
Alternatively he held that even if they were originally the selfacquired properties of respondent 2 they had been blended with the family properties and thus became the properties of the undivided family.	Facts
He found that the shares of the appellants in the said properties did not vest in the Official Receiver and so were not conveyed to respondent 1.	Facts
He came to the conclusion that the purchase by respondent 1 from the Official Receiver was only a benami transaction for the benefit of the appellants and that respondent I had not obtained possession of the properties at any time.	Facts
According to the learned trial judge the sale in favour of respondent I was fraudulent and was brought into existence to defraud the creditors of respondent 2 and this fraud had been carried out and the creditors of respondent 2 had been defrauded.	Facts
Since the fraud had been carried out, the learned judge held that respondent 2 and the appellants could not be allowed to plead the same as a defence in the suit.	Facts
As a result of this finding the learned judge passed a preliminary decree in favour of respondent 1 for 1/5th share in items 1 to 4 and 8 to 10 of the properties described in the Schedule attached to the plaint.	Facts
In regard to items 5 to 7 on which the dwelling house of the family was constructed the learned judge held that respondent 1 was entitled to monetary compensation.	Facts
Consistently with the preliminary decree thus passed as to the share of respondent 1	Facts
the learned judge also directed that future mesne profits should be determined under O. 20, R. 12(c) of the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
Against this decree respondent 1 preferred an appeal, No. 288 of 1943, in the Court of the Subordinate Judge, West Godavari at Ellore.	None
In this appeal he claimed that a decree should be passed in his favour in respect of the whole of the properties sold to him by the Official Receiver.	Facts
The appellants filed crossobjections and urged that the learned trial judge was in error in framing issue 1(a) suo motu and challenged his conclusion on it.	Facts
The appellate Court agreed with the conclusions of the trial judge and so dismissed both the appeal and the crossobjections.	None
6.	None
Against this appellate decree respondent 1 filed a Second Appeal, No. 1656 of 1947, and the appellants filed crossobjections.	Facts
This appeal came on for hearing before Mr. Justice Raghava Rao and it was urged before him that since the Provincial Insolvency (Amendment) Act No. 25 of 1948 which introduced S. 28A had come into operation in the meanwhile retrospectively the decision of the Courts below that the Official Receiver could not in law have sold the appellants shares in the family properties could no longer be sustained.	Facts
This contention was raised by respondent 1.	Facts
It was met by the appellants by their countercontention that issue 1(a) had been sprung upon them as a surprise it had been framed by the trial court after it had heard arguments on both sides and that the appellants had no opportunity to show that in fact the fraud contemplated by the parties had not been effectively carried out.	Facts
They alleged that if the fraud had not been carried out the principle of estoppel invoked against them could not come into play.	Facts
This contention raised by the appellants was accepted by the High Court which called for a finding by the trial court on issue 1(a), after giving both the parties an opportunity to adduce evidence on the question about the completion or otherwise of the fraud connected with the benami purchase.	Facts
After remand the trial court took evidence and made a finding that respondent 2 had successfully played fraud on his creditors by getting the properties purchased by respondent 1 benami or his sons at the sale held by the Official Receiver.	Facts
In due course this finding was submitted by the trial court to the High Court.	Facts
Thereupon the appellants filed objections to the said finding.	None
After this finding was received the second appeal was again placed for hearing by Mr. Justice Raghava Rao.	None
At the second hearing the appellants raised the point that the amending Act by which S. 28A was inserted in the Provincial Insolvency Act was ultra vires.	Facts
The learned judge overruled the objections made by the appellants against the finding submitted by the trial court on the issue remanded to it and accepted that finding but in view of the fact that the vires of the amending Act was challenged he thought it expedient that the second appeal should be heard by a Bench of two judges.	Facts
That is how the second appeal came before a Division Bench of the Madras High Court for final disposal.	None
7.	None
In its final judgment the High Court has observed that the argument that Act 25 of 1948 was ultra vires was not pressed before the High Court, that certain other grounds were sought to be raised by the appellants but they were not allowed to be raised so that in the result the main argument urged before the High Court was whether having regard to the fact that the fraud contemplated by respondent 2 and respondent 1 had been effectively carried out it was open to the appellants to plead that fraud against respondent 1 in respect of his claim for possession of the suit properties in the present suit.	Facts
The High Court considered the conflicting decisions on this point and adhered to the view which has prevailed in the said High Court since the decision in Voddina Kamayya v. Gudisa Mamayya 32 Mad LJ 484 (AIR 1918 Mad 365) and held that the appellants and respondent 2 were estopped from setting up the fraud against respondent 1 in his present suit.	Facts
In the result respondent 1s claim in respect of the whole of the properties conveyed to him by the Official Receiver has been decreed.	Facts
It is against this decree that the appellants have come to this Court with a certificate granted by the High Court and the principal point which has been argued before us on their behalf by Mr. Tatachari is that the High Court was in error in coming to the conclusion that in a case where both the transferor and the transferee were equal in fraud and where the fraud contemplated has been carried out it is not open to the appellants to plead that fraud in defence against the claim made by respondent 1 to obtain possession of the properties conveyed to him benami by the Official Receiver.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Tatachari contends that where the parties are equally guilty estoppel cannot be pleaded against the appellants and the estate must be allowed to remain where it rests.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
The point thus raised lies within a narrow compass and the material facts which give rise to it are no longer in dispute.	Reasoning
The transaction in favour of respondent 1 is the result of a fraudulent plan to which both he and respondent 2 agreed.	None
It was effected with the mutual consent of the vendor and the vendee to defraud the creditors of the vendor.	None
That being so the transfer is not supported by any consideration and the transferee agreed to act as the benamindar until the transferor required him to reconvey the properties to his sons.	None
The object intended to be achieved and the fraud initially contemplated by both the parties have been achieved and the creditors of respondent 2 have been defrauded.	None
Possession of the properties, however, remained with respondent 2 and his sons the appellants and in the present action respondent 1 seeks to obtain possession of the properties on the ground that a deed of conveyance has been passed in his favour by the Official Receiver.	None
Thus both the parties are confederates in the fraud and are equally guilty.	None
Respondent 2 and the appellants seek to resist respondent 1s claim to recover possession of the properties conveyed to him on the ground that the conveyance is void having been effected for a fraudulent purpose which has been carried out.	None
They urge that it has not been supported by any consideration and no title has passed in favour of the transferee.	None
Respondent 1 meets this challenge to his title by pleading that respondent 2 who participated in the fraud cannot be allowed to plead his own fraud in support of his refusal to part with the possession of the properties, and he urges that there is a conveyance duly executed in his favour on which the Court must act without permitting respondent 2 to challenge its validity.	None
The High Court has upheld the plea of respondent 1 and has not allowed either respondent 2 or the appellants to plead the fraud in support of their defence.	Issue
Is this decision right?	None
That is the question which falls to be decided in the present appeal.	None
9. Reported decisions bearing on this question show that consideration of this problem often gives rise to what may be described as a battle of legal maxims.	None
The appellants emphasised that the doctrine which is preeminently applicable to the present case is ex dolo malo non oritur actio or ex turpi causa non oritur actio.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, they contended that the right of action cannot arise out of fraud or out of transgression of law and according to them it is necessary in such a case that possession should rest where it lies in pari delicto potior est conditio possidentis where each party is equally in fraud the law favours him who is actually in possession, or where both parties are equally guilty the estate will lie where it falls.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, respondent 1 argues that the proper maxim to apply is nemo allegans suam turpitudinem audiendus est, whoever has first to plead turpitudinem should fail that party fails who first has to allege fraud in which he participated.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, the principle invoked by respondent 1 is that a man cannot plead his own fraud.	None
In deciding the question as to which maxim should govern the present case it is necessary to recall what Lord Wright, M. R. observed about those maxims in Berg v. Sadler and Moore, 19371 KB 158 at p. 162.	None
Referring to the maxim ex turpi causa non oritur actio Lord Wright observed that this maxim, though, veiled in the dignity of learned language is a statement of a principle of great importance but like most maxims it is much too vague and much too general to admit of application without a careful consideration of the circumstances and of the various definite rules which have been laid down by the authorities.	None
Therefore, in deciding the question raised in the present appeal it would be necessary for us to consider carefully the true scope and effect of the maxims pressed into service by the rival parties, and to enquire which of the maxims would be relevant and applicable in the circumstances of the case.	None
It is common ground that the approach of the Court in determining the present dispute must be conditioned solely by considerations of public policy.	Reasoning
Which principle would be more conducive to and more consistent with, public interest, that is the crux of the matter.	None
To put it differently, having regard to the fact that both the parties before the Court are confederates in the fraud, which approach would be less injurious to public interest.	None
Whichever approach is adopted one party would succeed and the other would fail, and so it is necessary to enquire as to which partys success would be less injurious to public interest.	None
10.	None
Out of the two confederates in fraud respondent I wants a decree to be passed in his favour and that means he wants the active assistance of the Court in reaching the properties possession of which has been withheld from him by respondent 2 and the appellants.	None
Now, if the defence raised by the appellants is shut out respondent 1 would be entitled to a decree because there is an ostensible deed of conveyance which purports to convey title to him in respect of the properties in question, but, in the circumstances, passing a decree in favour of respondent 1 would he actively assisting respondent 1 to give effect to the fraud to which he was a party and in that sense the Court would be allowed to be used as an instrument of fraud, and that is clearly and patently inconsistent with public interest.	None
11.	None
On the other hand, if the Court decides to allow the plea of fraud to be raised the Court would be in a position to hold an enquiry on the point and determine whether it is a case of mutual fraud and whether the fraud intended by both the parties has been effectively carried out.	None
If it is found that both the parties are equally guilty and that the fraud intended by them has been carried out the position would be that the party raising the defence is not asking the Courts assistance in any active manner all that the defence suggests is that a confederate in fraud should not be permitted to obtain a decree from the Court because the document of title on which the claim is based really conveys no title at all.	None
It is true that as a result of permitting respondent 2 and the appellants to prove their plea they would incidentally be assisted in retaining their possession but this assistance is of a purcly passive character and all that the Court is doing in effect is that on the facts proved it proposes to allow possession to rest where it lies.	Reasoning
It appears to us that this latter course is less injurious to public interest than the former.	None
12.	None
There can be no question of estoppel in such a case for the obvious reason that the fraud in question was agreed by both the parties and both parties have assisted each other in carrying out the fraud.	None
When it is said that a person cannot plead his own fraud it really means that a person cannot the permitted to go to a Court of Law to seek for its assistance and yet base his claim for the Courts assistance on the ground of his fraud.	Reasoning
In this connection it would be relevant to remember that respondent 1 can be said to be guilty of a double fraud first he joined respondent 2 in his fraudulent scheme and participated in the commission of fraud the object of which was to defeat the creditors of respondent 2, and then he committed another fraud in suppressing from the Court the fraudulent character of the transfer when he made out the claim for the recovery of the properties conveyed to him.	Reasoning
The conveyance in his favour is not supported by any consideration and is the result of fraud as such it conveys no title to him.	Reasoning
Yet, if the plea of fraud is not allowed to be raised in defence the Court would in substance be giving effect to a document which is void ab initio.	Reasoning
Therefore, we are inclined to hold that the paramount consideration of public interest requires that the plea of fraud should be allowed to be raised and tried, and if it is upheld the estate should be allowed to remain where it rests.	Reasoning
The adoption of this course, we think, is less injurious to public interest than the alternative course of giving effect to a fraudulent transfer.	Reasoning
13.	None
This question has been the subject matter of judicial decisions in most of our High Courts and it appears that the consensus of judicial opinion with the exception of the Madras High Court is in favour of the view which we have taken.	None
In Bombay the principle that in dealing with a contest between two participants in fraud possession should be allowed to remain where it rests appears to have been consistently accepted until Chief Justice Sir Lawrence Jenkins struck a note of dissent in Sidlingappo v. Hirasa, ILR 31	Reasoning
Bom 405.	Reasoning
Thereafter the correctness of this judgment was sometimes doubted in the subsequent decisions of the said High Court (Vide Lakshman Balwant v. Vasudeo Mohaniraj, 33 Bom LR 356 (AIR 1931 Bom 227 )) and finally the Full Bench of the said High Court reversed the said decision of Sir Lawrence Jenkins in Guddappa Chikkappa v. Balaji Ramji ILR (1941,)	Reasoning
Bom 575 (AIR 1941 Bom 274 ) (FB).	Reasoning
Since then the decision of the Full Bench has been consistently followed in the Bombay High Court.	Reasoning
The same view has been accepted by the Calcutta, Allahabad, Nagpur and Patna High Courts (Vide Preomath Koer v. Kazi Mahomed Shazid, 8 Cal WN 620, Emperor v. Abdul Sheikh, AIR 1920 Cal 90, Vilayat Hussain v. Mt. Misran, ILR 45 All 396 (AIR 1923 All 504 ), Nawab Singh v. Daljit Singh, ILR 58	Reasoning
All 842 (AIR 1936 All 401), Qader Baksh v. Hakim, ILR 13 Lah 713 (AIR 1932 Lah 503) (FB) Bishwanath v. Surat Singh, AIR 1943	Reasoning
Nag l13 and Jharia Coal Field Electric Supply Co., Ltd. v. Kaluram Agarwala, ILR 30	Reasoning
Pat 137 (AIR 1951 Pat 463 ) (Case of illegal contract)).	None
14.	None
In Madras the earlier decisions of the High Court appear to have taken the same view (Vide Venkataramana v. Viramma, ILR 10 Mad 17, Yaramati Krishnayya v. Chundru Papayya ILR 20 Mad 326 and Raghavalu Chetty v. Adinarayana Chetty ILR 32 Mad 323 .	Reasoning
In the case of 32 Mad LJ 484 (AIR 1918 Mad 365) however, a Division Bench of the Madras High Court upheld the view that a person who has conveyed property benami to another for the purpose of effecting a fraud on his creditors cannot, where the fraud has been effected, set up the benami character of the transaction by way of defence in a suit by the transferee for possession under the conveyance.	Reasoning
Since then this view has prevailed in the Madras High Court (Vide K. Kotayya Naidu v. C. Mahalakshmamma, ILR 56 Mad 646 (AIR 1933 Mad 457 ) and Arunachalam Chettiar v. Rangaswamy Chettiar, ILR 59 Mad 289 (AIR 1936 Mad 88).	Reasoning
In our opinion, the view taken by these subsequent decisions of the Madras High Court does not represent the true and correct approach to the question.	Reasoning
15.	None
In this connection we may incidentally refer to the observations made by the Privy Council in Petherperumal Chetty v. Muniandi Chetty, 35 Ind App 98 (PC).	None
In that case the Privy Council was no doubt dealing with the question on the basis that the purpose of the fraudulent conveyance had been defeated and so different principles naturally came into play.	None
While discussing the problem in its broad aspect, however, Lord Atkinson, who delivered the judgment of the Board, cited with approval the observations made in Maynes Hindu Law which clearly suport the view that we have taken.	None
Says Mayne	None
The fact that A has assumed the name of B in order to cheat X can be not reason whatever why a Court should assist or permit B to cheat A.	None
But if A requires the help of the Court to get the estate back into his own possession, or to get the title into his own name, it may be very material to consider whether A has actually cheated X or not.	None
If he has done so by means of his alias, then it has ceased to be a mere mask and has become a reality.	None
It may be very proper for a Court to say that if will not allow him to resume the individuality which he has once cast off in order to defraud others.	None
If, however, he has not defrauded any one there can be no reason why the Court should punish his intention by giving his estate away to B, whose roguery is even more complicated than his own.	None
This appears to be the principle of the English decisions. . . . . .	None
But where the fraudulent or illegal purpose has actually been effected by means of the colourable grant, then the maxim applies In pari delicto potior est conditio possidentis.	None
The Court will help neither party and let the estate lie where it falls.	None
Lord Atkinson has observed that this statement of the law is correct and in that sense the view that we have taken may be said to be consistent with the opinion expressed by the Privy Council by approving the statement of the law made by Mayne.	None
Maynes Hindu Law, 7th Ed., p. 595, para 446 (35 Ind App 98 at p. 102 (PC)).	None
16.	None
In support of the contrary view reliance is usually placed on an early English decision in Doe, Dem.	None
Roberts v. Roberts, Widow, (1819) 106 ER 401.	None
In that case it was held that no man can be allowed to allege his own fraud to avoid his own deed and, therefore, where a deed of conveyance of an estate from one brother to another was executed, to give the latter a colourable qualification to kill game.	None
The document was us against the parties to it valid and so sufficient to support an ejectment for the premises.	None
In dealing with the question raised Bayley, J. observed by the production of the deed, the plaintiff established a prima facie title and we cannot allow the defendant to be heard in a Court of Justice to say that his own deed is to be avoided by his own fraud and Holroyd, J. added that a deed may be avoided on the ground of fraud, but then the objection must come from a person neither party nor privy to it, for no man can allege his own fraud in order to invalidate his own deed.	None
17.	None
This decision has, however, been commented on by Taylor in his Law of Evidence.	None
According to Taylorit seems now clearly settled that a party is not estopped by his deed from avoiding it by proving that it was executed for a fraudulant, illegal or immoral purposed.	None
The learned author then refers to the case of Roberts, (1819) 106 ER 401, and adds in the subsequent cas of Prole v. Wiggins, (1837)	None
3	None
Bing NC 230 6 LJ CP 2 43 RR 621, Sir Nicholas Tindal observed that this decision rested on the fact that the defence set up was inconsistent with the deed Taylor then adds that Taholrs Law of Evidence, Vol.	None
I, 11th Ed.	None
p. 97, paragraph 93.	None
the case, however, can scarcely be supported by this circumstance, for in an action of ejectment by the grantee of an annuity to recover premises on which it was secured, the grantor was allowed to show that the premises were of less value than the annuity, and consequently, that the deed required enrolment, although he had expressly covenanted in the deed that the premises were of greater value. .	None
According to the learned authorthe better opinion seems to be that where both parties to an indenture either know, or have the means of knowing, that it was executed for an immoral purpose, or in contravention of a statute, or of public policy, neither of them will, be estopped from proving those facts which render the instrument void ab initio for although a party will thus in certain cases be enabled to take advantage of his own wrong, yet this evil is of a trifling nature in comparison with the flagrant evasion of the law that would result from the adoption of an opposite rule (P. 98).	None
Indeed, according to Taylor,although illegality is not pleaded by the defendant nor sought to be relied upon by him by way of defence, yet the Court itself, upon the illegality appearing upon the evidence, will take notice of it, and will dismiss the action Ex turpi cause not oritur actio.	None
No polluted hand shall touch the pure fountain of Justice.	None
(P. 93).	None
18.	None
To the same effect is the opinion of Story Storys Equity Jurisprudence, Vol. 1, S. 421 English edition by Randall, 1920, S. 298.In general, where parties are concerned in illegal agreements or other transactions, whether they are mala prohibita or mala in se, Courts of Equity following the rule of law as to participators in a common crime will not interpose to grant any relief, acting upon the known maxim In pari delicto potior est conditio defendentis et possidentis.	None
The old cases often gave relief, both at law and in equity, where the party would otherwise deriver an advantage from his inequity.	None
But the modern doctrine has adopted a more severely just and probably politic and moral rule which is, to leave the parties where it finds them giving no relief and no countenance to claims or this sort. 19.	None
In judicial decisions where this question has been considered a passage from the judgment of Lord Mansfield, C. J. in Holman v. Johnson, (1775) 1 Cowp 341, is often quoted.	None
If we may say so with respect the said passage very succinctly and eloquently brings out the true principles which should govern the decision of such cases.	None
Said Lord Mansfield, C. J.,the objection that a contract is immoral or illegal as between plaintiff and defendant sounds at all times very ill in the mouth of the defendant.	None
It is not for his sake, however, that the objection is ever allowed but it is founded in general principles of policy which the defendant has the advantage of, contrary to the real justice, as between him and the plaintiff, by accident, if I may say so.	None
The principle of public policy is this ex dolo malo non oritur actio.	None
No Court will lend its aid to a man who founds his cause of action upon an immoral or an illegal act.	None
If, from the plaintiffs own stating or otherwise the cause of action appears to arise ex turpi causa or the transgression of positive law of this country, there the court says he has no right to be assisted.	None
It is upon that ground the Court goes not for the sake of the defendant, but because they will not lend their aid to such a plaintiff 20.	None
On behalf of the respondents it was urged that the principles on which the appellants rely are applicable to contracts and not to conveyances.	None
A conveyance, it is argued, rests on a different basis from a contract, and so the English decisions cannot be pressed into service by the appellants.	Arguments of Respondent
We are not impressed by this argument.	None
Even if respondent 1 has based his case on a conveyance the position still remains that as a result of the facts proved by respondent 2 and the appellants the conveyance is void ab initio.	Reasoning
It is a document fraudulently executed and as such it conveys no title to the transferee at all.	Reasoning
That being so we do not think that in giving effect to the considerations of public interest or policy it makes any difference that the deed on which the present suit, is brought as one of conveyance.	Reasoning
21.	None
It is then contended that in deciding the point raised by the appellants we must look to the provisions of S. 84 of the Indian Trusts Act and nothing else.	None
The Indian Trusts Act is a comprehensive code and it is only in cases falling under S. 84 that it would be permissible to the Court to apply the equitable principles or to invoke considerations of public policy as the appellants purport to do.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 84 provides that where the owner of property transfers it to another for an illegal purpose and such purpose is not carried into execution, or the transferor is not as guilty as the transferee, or the effect of permitting the transferee to retain the property might be to defeat the provisions of any law, the transferee must hold the property for the benefit of the transferor.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not see how this section is material or can give any assistance in the decision of the point before us.	Reasoning
In the present case the transferee is not in possession of the properties and the present care is not one of the three categories of cases contemplated by the section.	Reasoning
If the argument assumes that the only cases where equitable principles can be invoked are cases falling under S. 84 and S. 84 is exhaustive in that sense, we have no difficulty in rejecting the said argument.	Reasoning
Since the present case is entirely outside S. 84 it inevitably falls to be considered on considerations of general policy, and as we have already held, judged in the light of such considerations it must be held that the public interest would be less injuriously affected if the property is allowed to remain where it lies.	Reasoning
Therefore, we must hold that the High Court was in error in not giving effect to the finding recorded by the trial court that the fraud mutually agreed upon and contemplate by respondents 1 and 2 had been effectively carried out and that in the carrying out of the fraud both the parties were equally guilty.	Reasoning
22.	None
The appeal must, therefore, be allowed and the suit instituted by respondent 1 must be dismissed.	Decision
In the circumstances of this case we direct that the parties should bear their own costs throughout.	Decision
23.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
