 K. Das, J.1.	None
These two appeals have been heard together as they raise some common questions of law and fact, and this judgment will govern them both.2.	None
The appellant before us, Murarka Radhey Shyam Ram Kumar, was elected to the House of the People at the third general elections held in the month of February, 1962.	Facts
He was elected from a constituency known as the Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency in Rajasthan.	Facts
Two election petitions were filed for setting aside the election of the appellant.	Facts
One of these was filed by one Ridmal Singh who stated that he was an elector in the said constituency.	Facts
Another application was filed by one Balji who was also an elector in the said Parliamentary Constituency and whose nomination paper was rejected by the returning officer.	Facts
We are not concerned in the present appeals with the grounds on which the two election petitions, one by Ridmal Singh and numbered as 269 of 1962 and the other by Balji and numbered as 295 of 1962, were based, because the election petitions have not yet been tried on merits.	Facts
By two applications dated July 6, 1962, the appellant who was one of the respondent to the two election petitions raised certain preliminary objections to the maintainability of the two election petitions.	Facts
The Election Tribunal dealt with these preliminary objection by its orders dated August 13, 1962.	Facts
It dismissed the preliminary objections.	Facts
Thereupon the appellant filed two writ petitions in the High Court of Rajasthan by which he prayed that the orders of the election Tribunal dated August 13, 1962 and certain consequential orders passed on August 14, 1962 be quashed and that an order or direction be issued to the Election Tribunal to dismiss the two election petitions on the main ground that they do not comply with certain mandatory provisions of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, hereinafter referred to as the Act.	Facts
These two writ petitions were dismissed by the High Court by its order dated August 31, 1962.	Facts
The appellant then applied for special leave to this court and having obtained such leave, has preferred the present appeals.3.	Facts
We may now state briefly the grounds on which the appellant contends that the two election petitions were not maintainable and should have been dismissed by the election Tribunal.	None
With regard to Election Petition No. 269 of 1962 the grounds urged before us on behalf of the appellant are three in number.	None
Firstly ,it is contended that there was noncompliance with the mandatory provisions of S. 82 of the Act.	None
We shall presently read that section.	None
The contention of the appellant is that Ballu or Balji whose nomination paper was rejected and who was not a contesting candidate was improperly impleaded as respondent No. 7 to the election petition, though S. 82 requires that in cases where in addition to the relief of declaring the election of the returned candidate to be void, a further declaration is claimed that the petitioner himself or some other candidate has been duly elected, all the contesting candidates must be made parties to the election petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ballu or Balji was not a contesting candidate and was therefore impleaded to the election petition in contravention of the provisions or S. 82.	Arguments of Petitioner
Secondly, it is urged that there was noncompliance with the provisions of S. 81 (3) of the Act because the copy of the election petition served on the appellant was not a true copy of the original filed before the Election Commission nor was it properly attested to be a true copy under the signature of the petitioner who filed the election petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thirdly, it is urged that there was noncompliance with the provisions of S. 83 of the Act inasmuch as the affidavit in respect of corrupt practices which accompanied the election petition was neither properly made nor in the prescribed form.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
With regard to Petition No. 295 of 1962 the grounds alleged are these.	None
Firstly, it is stated that at the time of its presentation to the Election Commission, the petition was not accompanied by true copies of the petition as required by S. 81 (3) of the Act because there was a reference to four enclosures at the foot of the schedule of the original petition, but in the copy served on the appellant the enclosures were not reproduced.	Arguments of Petitioner
Secondly, it is urged that the election petition was not duly verified inasmuch as the date and place of verification were not stated at the foot of the verification clause.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thirdly, it is urged that a copy of the treasury receipt showing the deposit of a sum of Rs. 2,000/ in favour of the Election Commission was not enclosed with the copy of the petition which was served on the appellant, nor was the copy of the order dated January 22, 1962 by which the returning officer rejected the nomination paper of the petitioner, signed or verified by the petitioner.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
We may here refer to some of the provisions of the Act (as they stood at the relevant time) which have a bearing on the preliminary objections urged before us.	None
Under S. 79 (b) the expression candidate in Parts VI, VII and VIII of the Act means, unless the context otherwise requires, a person who has been or claims to have been duly nominated as a candidate at any election, and any such person shall be deemed to have been a candidate as from the time when, with the election in prospect, he began to hold himself out as a prospective candidate.	None
Section 80 of the Act states that no election shall be called in question except by an election petition presented in accordance with the provisions of Part VI.	None
Section 81 states in effect that an election Section 81 states in effect that an election petition calling in question any election may be presented on one or more of the grounds specified in subs.	None
(1) of S. 100 and S. 101 to the Election Commission by any candidate at such election or any elector within fortyfive days from the date of election of the returned candidate.	None
Subs.	None
(S) of the S. 81, which subsection is important for our purpose, reads as followsEvery election petition shall be accompanied by as many copies thereof as there are respondents mentioned in the petition and one more copy for the use of the Election Commission, and every such copy shall be attested by the petitioner under his own signature to be a true copy of the petition.	None
S. 82 states who shall be parties to the petition.	None
It readsA petitioner shall join as respondents to his petition(a) where the petitioner, in addition, to claiming a declaration that the election of all or any of the returned candidates is void, claims a further declaration that he himself or any other candidate has been duly elected, all the contesting candidates other than the petitioner, and where no such further declaration is claimed, all the returned candidates and(b) any other candidate against whom allegations of any corrupt practice are made in the petition.	None
S 83 lays down what shall be the contents of the petition.	None
We are concerned in the present case with the proviso to subs.	None
(1) of the S. 83.	None
That proviso says,Provided that where the petitioner alleges any corrupt practice, the petition shall also be accompanied by an affidavit in the prescribed form in support of the allegation of such corrupt practice and the particulars thereof.6.	None
S. 85 states that if the provisions of S. 81 or S. 82 or S. 117 have not been complied with, the Election Commission shall dismiss the petition.	None
Section 86 lays down that if the petition is not dismissed under S. 85, the Election Commission shall cause a copy of the petition to be published in the Official Gazette and a copy to be served by post on each respondent, and shall then refer the petition to an Election Tribunal for trial.	None
We may skip over Ss. 87, 88 and 89 which deal with matters with which we are not directly concerned.	None
We then come to S. 90 which lays down the procedure to be followed, before the Election Tribunal.	None
Subsection (1) of S. 90 says that subject to the provisions of the Act and of any rules made thereunder, every election petition shall be tried by the Tribunal as nearly as may be in accordance with the procedure applicable under the Code all Civil Procedure, 1908, to the trial of suits.	None
Subsection (3) of S. 90 statesThe	None
Tribunal shall dismiss an election petition which does not comply with the provisions of S. 81, or S. 82 notwithstanding that it has not been dismissed by the Election Commission under S. 85.ExplanationAn order of the Tribunal dismissing an election petition under this subsection shall be deemed to be an order made under cl.	Reasoning
(a) of S. 98.7.	None
Subsection (4) of S. 90 states that any candidate not already a respondent shall, upon application made to the Tribunal within fourteen days from the date of commencement of the trial and subject to the provisions of Section 119, be entitled to be joined as a respondent.	None
Subsection (6) states that every election petition shall be tried as expeditiously as possible and endeavour shall be made to conclude the trial within six months from the date of publication of the copy of the petition in the Official Gazette under subs.	None
(1) of S. 86.8.	None
Let us now examine the preliminary objections which have been urged before us on behalf of the appellant, in the light of the provisions to which we have just now referred.	None
We take first the objection based on the joinder of Ballu or Balji to Election Petition No. 269/1962.	None
The argument on this part of the case is the following.	None
Learned Counsel for the appellant has contended that the provisions of S. 82 of the Act are mandatory provisions and any failure to comply with those provisions is fatal in the sense that it is obligatory on the Tribunal to dismiss an election petition which does not comply with the provisions of S. 82.	None
He has relied for this purpose on subs.	None
(3) of S. 90.	None
He has further contended that in view of the aforesaid provisions of the Act, namely, the provisions in S. 82 and subs.	None
(3) of S. 90, it is not open to an Election Tribunal to apply the principles of the Code of Civil Procedure and treat a nonjoinder or misjoinder as not fatal to the maintainability of the petition.9.	None
The foundation of the argument is that there has been a noncompliance with the provisions of S. 82.	None
If that foundation is absent, then the whole argument disappears.	None
Now, it is admitted that Ballu or Balji was not a contesting candidate within the meaning of S. 82 because his nomination paper had been rejected.	None
The admitted position further is that all the contesting candidates were joined to the petition as required by S. 82.	None
Therefore, what happened was this.	None
All the parties whom it was necessary to join under the provisions of S. 82 were joined as respondents to the petition but Ballu or Balji was joined in excess of the requirements of S. 82.	None
The question before us is, does this amount to noncompliance with, or contravention of the provisions of S. 82?	Issue
Learned counsel for the appellant wishes us to read S. 82 as though it said that the persons named therein and no others shall be joined as respondents to the petition.	None
He wants us to add the words and no others in the section.	None
We find no warrant for such a reading of S. 82.We agree with the High Court that if all the necessary parties have been joined to the election petition, the circumstance that a person who is not a necessary party has also been impleaded does not amount to a breach of the provisions of S. 82 and no question of dismissing the petition under subs.	None
(3) of S. 90 arises.	None
It is open to the Election Tribunal to strike out the name of the party who is not a necessary party within the meaning of S. 82 of the Act.	None
The position will be different if a person who is required to be joined as a necessary party under S. 82 is not impleaded as a party to the petition.	None
That however, is not the case here and we are of the view that the learned counsel for the appellant has failed to make out the very foundation on which his argument on this part of the case is based.	None
In the view we have taken it is unnecessary to consider further the legal effect of a contravention of the provisions of S. 82.	None
It is perhaps necessary to add that learned counsel for the respondents relied on the decision of this court in Jagan Nath v. Jaswant Singh, 1954	None
SCR 892 (AIR 1954 SC 210 ) where it was held that S. 82 of the Act as it then stood was not mandatory.	None
Section 82 then provided as followsA petitioner shall join as respondents to his petition all the candidates who were duly nominated at the election other than himself if he was so nominated.10.	Reasoning
Subsection (4) of S. 90 then provided that notwithstanding anything contained in S. 85, the tribunal may dismiss an election petition which does not comply with the provisions of Ss. 81, 83 or117.	Reasoning
There has been a change of law since that decision.	Reasoning
Section 82 has been recast and subs.	Reasoning
(3) of S. 90 now states that the tribunal shall dismiss an election petition which does not comply with the provisions of S. 81 or S. 82 notwithstanding that it has not been dismissed by the Election Commission under S. 85.	Reasoning
Therefore we do not think that the decision in 1954 SCR 892 (AIR 1954 SC 210 ) is determinative of the problem before us.	Reasoning
We need not however pursue this question any further, because we have held that in the present case there was no contravention of the provisions of S. 82.11.	None
We now go to the second point.	None
But before we do so, it may perhaps be stated that certain defects in the verification of Election Petition No. 269 of 1962 have been brought to our notice, as they were brought to the notice of the Election Tribunal.	None
One of these defects was that though the verification stated that the averments made in some of the paragraphs of the petition were true to the personal knowledge of the petitioner and the averments in some other paragraphs were verified to be true on the basis of advice and information received by the petitioner from legal and other sources, the petitioner did not state in so many words that the advice and information received was believed by him to be true.	None
The Election Tribunal took the view that this defect in verification was a matter which came within cl.	None
(c) of subs.	Reasoning
(1) of S. 83 and the defect could be removed in accordance with the principles of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908.	None
The Election Tribunal further held that such a defect did not attract subs.	None
(3) of S. 90 inasmuch as that subsection does not refer to noncompliance with the provisions of S. 83 as a ground for dismissing an election petition.	None
We agree with the view expressed by the Election Tribunal.	None
We have pointed out that subs.	Reasoning
(4) of Sec.	Reasoning
90 originally referred to three sections, namely, Ss. 81, 83 and 117.	Reasoning
It said that notwithstanding anything contained in S. 85 the Tribunal might dismiss an election petition which did not comply with the provisions of S. 81, S. 83 or S. 117.	Reasoning
Section 90 was amended by Act 27 of 1956.	Reasoning
Subsection (3) then said that the Tribunal shall dismiss an election petition which does not comply with the provisions of S. 81, S. 82 or S. 117 notwithstanding that it has not been dismissed by the Election Commission under S. 85.	Reasoning
There was a further amendment by Act 40 of 1961 and subs.	Reasoning
(3) of s. 90 as it now stands has already been quoted by us in an earlier part of this judgment.	Reasoning
It seems clear to us that reading the relevant section in Part VI of the Act, it is impossible to accept the contention that a defect in verification which is to be made in the manner laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 for the verification of pleadings as required by cl.	Reasoning
(c) of subs.	Reasoning
(1) of S. 83 is fatal to the maintainability of the petition.12.	Reasoning
On behalf of the appellant it has been further contended that the copy of the petition which was served on the appellant was not a true copy within the meaning of the mandatory provisions of subs.	None
(3) of S. 81 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The argument is that a failure to comply with the provisions of subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3) of S. 81 attracts subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3) of S. 90 and it is obligatory on the Tribunal to dismiss an election petition which does not comply with the requirements of subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3) of S. 81.	Reasoning
On the basis of the decision of this court in Sri Baru Ram v. Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Prasanni, 1959 SCR 1403 (AIR 1959 SC 93 )	Arguments of Petitioner
it is contended that the principles in such cases is that whenever the statute requires a particular act to be done in a particular manner and also lays down that failure to comply with the said requirement leads to a specific consequence, it would be difficult to accept the argument that the failure to comply with the said requirement should lead to any other consequence.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is argued that no question of substantial compliance arises in such cases, and the mandatory requirement must be strictly complied with.13.	None
Let us first see what are the defects found in the copy of the petition served on the appellant.	None
It is admitted that the first part of subs.	None
(3) of S. 81 has been complied with and the election petition was accompanied by as many copies thereof as there were respondents mentioned in the petition.	None
It is also admitted that one more copy for the use of the Election Commission was also given with the petition.	None
The last part of the subsection says that every such copy shall be attested by the petitioner under his own signature to be a true copy of the petition.	None
The grievance of the appellant is that this part of the subsection was not complied with inasmuch as (1) the copy which was served on the appellant did not contain the signature of the petitioner at the foot of the petition, though the original contained such signature, and (2) the verification in the copy served on the appellant omitted to mention paragraph 14g (ii) in that part of the verification which related to averments stated to be true to the personal knowledge of the petitioner.	None
As to the first of these defects the Election Tribunal pointed out that every page of the copy served on the appellant was attested to be a true copy under the signature of the petitioner and furthermore it was not necessary to append a fresh signature to the copy of the petition.	None
With regard to the second defect the Election Tribunal apparently took the view, though it did not say so in so many words, that the omission of a reference to paragraph 14g(ii) in the verification in the copy served on the appellant was a case of mere oversight which did not mislead anybody because in the body of the petition full details of the averments were made.	None
The High Court took the view that the defect was not of such a nature as to amount to a norcompliance with the provisions of subs.	None
(3) of S. 81.14.	Arguments of Petitioner
We agree with the High Court and the Election Tribunal that the first defect is not a defect at all.	Reasoning
When every page of the copy served on the appellant was attested to be a true copy under the signature of the petitioner, a fresh signature below the word petitioner was not necessary.	Reasoning
Subsection (3) of S. 81 requires that the copy shall be attested by the petitioner under his own signature and this was done.	Reasoning
As to the second defect the question really turns on the true scope and effect of the word copy occurring in subsec.	Reasoning
(3) of S. 81.	Reasoning
On behalf of the appellant the argument is that subs.	None
(3) of S. 81 being mandatory in nature all the requirements of the subsection must be strictly complied with and the word copy must be taken to be an absolutely exact transcript of the original.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the respondents the contention is that the word copy means that which comes so near to the original as to give to every person seeing it the idea created by the original.	Arguments of Respondent
Alternatively, the argument is that the last part of subs.	Arguments of Respondent
(3) dealing with a copy is merely directive, and for this reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in Kamaraja Nadar v. Kunju Thevar, 1959 SCR 583 (AIR 1958 SC 687 ).	None
We are of the view that the word copy in subs.	None
(3) of S. 81 does not mean an absolutely exact copy, but means that the copy shall be so true that nobody can by any possibility misunderstand it (see Strouds Judicial Dictionary third edition, Volume 4, page 3098).In this view of the matter it is unnecessary to go into the further question whether any part of subs.	None
(3) of S. 81 is merely directory.	None
Several English decisions were cited at the bar.	None
The earlier decision cited to us is the decision in Peacock v. Mason, (1834) 131 ER 1111 where it was held that the omission of the words the and by in the copy of the writ of capias prescribed by the Schedule 2 W. 4, c. 39 did not invalidate an arrest.	None
The reason given was thus expressed To ascertain whether or not an unfaithful copy produces any alteration in the meaning, supposes an exertion of intellect which it may be inconvenient to require at the hands of this who serve the copy.	None
It was to obviate this inconvenience, that the Legislature has given a form and required that it should be pursued.	None
Nothing but ordinary care is necessary for taking the copy.15.	None
In a later decision Sutton v. Mary Ann Burgess, (1835) 149 ER 1291 the copy of the writ served on the defendant omitted the letter s in the word she.	None
It was held that the omission was immaterial as it could not mislead anybody.	None
In Morris v. Smith, (1835) 150 ER 51 there was a motion to set aside the service of the writ of summons for irregularity, on the ground that the defendant being an attorney, he was only described as of Paper Buildings in the Inner temple, London and the addition of gentleman was not given.	None
It was held that the form in the statute 2 Will, 4, C. 39 S. 1, did not require the addition of the defendant to be inserted in the Writ and it was sufficient to state his residence.	None
The writ of summons was therefore valid.	None
In another case in the same volume Cooke v. Vaughan, (1938) 150 ER 1346 it was held that where a writ of capias described the defendant by the addition of gentleman, but that addition was omitted in the copy served, the copy was not a copy of the writ, in compliance with the stat.	None
2 Will 4, c. 39, S. 4.	None
On behalf of the respondents a number of decisions under the Bills of Sale Act, 1878 and the Amendment Act, 1882 (45 and 46 Vict c. 43) were cited.	None
The question in those cases was whether the bill was in accordance with the form in the schedule to this Act annexed as required by S. 9 of the Bills of Sale Act 1878, and Amendment Act 1882.	None
In re Hewer Ex parte Kahen, (1882) 21 Ch D 871 it was held that a true copy of a bill of sale within the Bills of Sale Act 1878, S. 10, subs.	None
(2), must not necessarily be an exact copy, so long as any errors or omissions in the copy filed are merely clerical and of such a nature that no one would be thereby misled.	None
The same view was expressed in several other decisions and it is unnecessary to refer to them all.	None
Having regard to the provisions of Part VI of the Act, we are of the view that the word copy does not mean an absolutely exact copy.	Reasoning
It means a copy so true that nobody can by any possibility misunderstand it.	Reasoning
The test whether the copy is a true one is whether any variation from the original is calculated to mislead an ordinary person.	Reasoning
Applying that test we have come to the conclusion that the defects complained of with regard to Election Petition No. 269 of 1962 were not such as to mislead the appellant therefore there was no failure to comply with the last part of subs.	Reasoning
(3) of S. 81.	Reasoning
In that view of the matter subs.	Reasoning
(3) of S. 90 was not attracted and there was no question of dismissing the election petition under that subsection by reason of any failure to comply with the provisions of S. 81.	Reasoning
This disposes of the second preliminary objection raised before us.16.	None
We now turn to the third preliminary objection and this relates to the affidavit which accompanied the petition in respect of the corrupt practices alleged against the appellant.	None
The argument on this part of the case is that the affidavit was neither in the prescribed form nor was it properly sworn as required by the Rules in the Conduct of Election Rules.	Arguments of Petitioner
1961 therefore there was a failure to comply with the proviso to subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) of S. 83 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The argument further is that an election petition under S. 81 must comply with the provisions of S. 83 and unless it complies with those provisions, it is not an election petition under S. 81.17.	Arguments of Petitioner
We think that this contention has been sufficiently disposed of by what has been stated by the Election Tribunal.	None
The Election Tribunal has rightly pointed out that the affidavit was in the prescribed form but due to inexperience the Oaths Commissioner had made a mistake in the verification portion of the affidavit.	None
The Tribunal said It appears that due to inexperience of the Oaths Commissioner instead of verified before me words, verified by me have been written.	None
The signature of the deponent has been obtained in between the writing with respect to admission on oath of the contents of affidavit by the petitioner and the verification by the Oaths Commissioner.	None
According to the prescribed form the verification should be solemnly affirmed or sworn by such and such on such and such date before me.	None
The verification of the affidavit of the petitioner is apparently not in the prescribed form but reading as a whole the verification carries the same sense as intended by the words mentioned in the prescribed form.	None
The mistake of the Oaths Commissioner in verifying the affidavit cannot be a sufficient ground for dismissal of the petitioners petition summarily, as the provisions of S. 83 are not necessarily to be complied with in order to make a petition valid and such affidavit can be allowed to be filed at a later stage also.18.	None
This view of the Election Tribunal was affirmed by the High Court.	None
We agree with the view expressed by the Election Tribunal and we do not think that the defect in the verification due to inexperience of the Oaths Commissioner is such a fatal defect as to require the dismissal of the election petition.19.	None
Turning now to Election Petition No. 295 of 1962 the defect as to the time and place of verification is, as we have said earlier, not a fatal defect.	None
It is a matter which comes within cl.	None
(c) of subs.	Reasoning
(1) of S. 83 and the defect can be remedied in accordance with the principles of the Code of Civil Procedure relating to the verification of pleadings.	None
As to the four enclosures which were not reproduced in the copy served on the appellant, the position was this.	None
In the original petition there was an endorsement to the following effect Enclosed 1.	None
Two copies of the grounds of election petition.2.	None
Original treasury receipt of Rs. 2,000/ as security deposit.3.	None
Certified copy of the order of the Returning Officer rejecting the nomination dated 2211962.4.	Reasoning
Vakalatnama duly stamped.20.	None
In the copy served on the appellant the original treasury receipt of Rs. 2,000/ deposited by way of security was not reproduced.	None
A certified copy of the order of the returning officer rejecting the nomination of the petitioner was appended to the copy but this certified copy was not further signed by the petitioner.	Reasoning
As to the security deposit it was mentioned in the body of the petition (Paragraph 9) that such a deposit had been made.	Reasoning
The certified copy of the rejection of the nomination paper was verified to be a true copy and we fail to see how any further signature of the petitioner was necessary thereon.	Reasoning
It is obvious to us, that a copy of the Vakalatnama was not required under subs.	Reasoning
(3) of S. 81 nor was it necessary to make a further endorsement that two copies of the petition had been filed along with the petition.	Reasoning
It is not disputed that copies as required by subs.	Reasoning
(3) of S. 81 were filed.	Reasoning
The only grievance made is that the endorsement two copies was not repeated in the enclosure portion of the copy served on the appellant.	Reasoning
We have already explained what is meant by the word copy in subs.	Reasoning
(3) of S. 81 and we are of the view that the defect pointed out on behalf of the appellant are not of such a character as to invalidate the copy which was served on the appellant in the present case.21.	Reasoning
In conclusion we have to point out that we allowed one Dr. Z. A. Ahmed to intervene in these appeals on the ground mentioned in his petition dated April 4, 1963.	Reasoning
The intervener supported the argument advanced on behalf of the appellant.	Reasoning
We have fully dealt with those arguments in this judgment and nothing further need be said about the interveners petition.22.	Reasoning
For the reasons given above, we see no merit in these two appeals.	Decision
The appeals are accordingly dismissed with costs.23.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	None
