 C. AGRAWAL J. Leave granted.	None
In the past the telephone directory used to be printed by the department at its own cost for the purpose of supplying the same to the telephone subscribers.	Issue
It was an item of expenditure.	Issue
Today, the telephone directory has become a source of revenue for the State.	Issue
This has become possible by making it a medium for advertising by industrial and commercial concerns.	Facts
A section in distinct yellow pages devoted exclusively to advertisements is contained in the directory.	Issue
The person who undertakes the printing of the directory procures the advertisements from private parties and collects the charges for the same.	Issue
In return, he supplies a prescribed number of directories free of cost to the department and also pays to the department a certain amount by way of royalty.	Issue
The contract for printing and publishing the telephone directory is normally awarded by inviting tenders and selecting the best offer from among the tenders which are so received.	Issue
This practice has been in vogue for some time.	Issue
In Sterling Computers Ltd. v. M and N Publications Ltd. this court has dealt with the award of such a contract for printing and publishing of the telephone directories for Delhi and Bombay.	Issue
The instant case relates to the telephone directory for Hyderabad.	None
By an advertisement published in various newspapers on April 22, 1993, the Department of Telecommunications, Telecom District, Hyderabad, invited sealed tenders from competent agencies for printing, binding and supply of specified number of telephone directories in English for three annual issues commencing from 1993.	Issue
The tenderer was required to supply, free of cost, the telephone directories to the General Manager, Hyderabad Telecommunications, at the specified distribution points.	Issue
The tenderer was also required to specify the royalty amount for each issue offered by him.	Issue
It was mentioned that the successful tenderer will be permitted to procure on his own, classified advertisements and cover page advertisements.	None
In the said advertisement it was stated The tenderer should have the experience in compiling, printing and supply of telephone directories to large telephone systems with the capacity of more than 50, 000 lines.	Issue
The tenderer should substantiate this with documentary proof.	Issue
He should also furnish credentials in this field.	Issue
The tenderer was required to remit a sum of Rs. 5, 00, 000 by way of nonrefundable earnest money deposit.	Facts
The terms and conditions and specifications, etc., for the total job were contained in the tender document which was required to be obtained for the purpose of submitting the tender.	Issue
The last date for submission of tender was May 14, 1993.In the notice containing the requirements to be fulfilled which was attached to the tender documents, it was stated The successful tenderer will also submit copies of telephone directories printed and supplied by them to the telephone systems of capacity more than 50, 000 lines as credentials of his past experience.	Issue
The tenderer should intimate while submitting the tender the equipment and the list of machines, etc., along with the locations available with him which he would employ for carrying out this work, if selected.	Issue
The tenderer also should forward a memorandum furnishing details of outturn that can be given daily and the actual time required for the completion of the job after the input material is handed over to him.	Issue
Five persons, including appellant No. 1, New Horizons Ltd. (for short NHL), and M N Publications Limited (respondent No. 4 herein) submitted their tenders.	Facts
The tenders were opened on May 14, 1993, at 3.30 p.m.	Facts
The royalty amount offered by the five tenderers was as under Name of tenderer Agreed amount offered (Rs.	Issue
in lakhs)1993 issue 1994 issue 1995 issueSesa	Issue
Seat Information SystemsLtd., Pune1 41 121 151M N Publications Ltd., Bangalore52(respondent No. 4 herein) 20 30 45New Horizons Ltd., New Delhi1(appellant No. 1 herein)	Issue
39 129.30 291.60Hyper Media Information ServicesPvt. Ltd., Bangalore10 6 45 72Kaljothi Process Pvt.	Issue
Ltd.	Issue
Hyderabad20 102 138 160	None
The offers were considered by the tender evaluation committee.	None
The offer of respondent No. 4 was accepted.	Issue
The Assistant General Manager (OP), Department of Telecommunications, Telecom District, Hyderabad, by his letter dated August 3, 1993, informed NHL that its offer could not be considered.	Issue
The said letter did not indicate the reason for nonconsideration of the offer of NHL.	Issue
The appellants filed a writ petition in the Delhi High Court under articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India seeking a writ, order or direction in the nature of certiorari for quashing the award of contract by respondent No. 3 to respondent No. 4 for the printing, binding and supply of telephone directories for Hyderabad and also a writ, order or direction in the nature of mandamus directing respondent No. 3 to accept the tender offer of the appellants.	Issue
In the counteraffidavit filed in reply to the said writ petition filed on behalf of respondents Nos. 1 to 3, the reason for nonconsideration of the offer of NHL was disclosed.	None
It was stated that the offer of NHL was not considered because the appellants did not submit any evidence to show that they have in their name undertaken compiling, printing and supply of telephone directories for large telephone systems with the capacity of more than 50, 000 lines.	Issue
In this regard, it may be mentioned that in their tender offer NHL had mentioned that NHL is a joint venture company established by Thomson Press (India) Limited (TPI), Living Media (India) Limited (LMI),	Issue
World Media Limited (WML) and Integrated Information Pvt. Ltd. (IIPL), a whollyowned subsidiary of Singapore Telecom wherein 60 per cent.	Issue
of shares are held by Mr. Aroon Purie, TPI, LMI, WML and other companies in the same group and 40 per cent.	Issue
of shares are held by IIPL (ii)	Issue
The joint venture has received approval of the Government of India and is currently in operation (iii) NHL has been established as an information and database management company with expertise in database processing, publishing, sales marketing and the dissemination of related information and(iv)	Issue
In addition to its projected strength, NHL has access to the benefit of the complete resources and strength of its parent owning companies, each of which is a recognised market leader.	None
An overview of each of the parent companies, namely, TPI, LMI, WML and IIPL, was also given in the tender offer.	None
Regarding the expertise of TPI it was stated that it had been established as a joint venture with Thomson International Canada in 1964 and is located at Faridabad, Haryana, and has units at Okhla, Noida Export Zone and also has sales coordination offices in Metropolitan towns in India and in London and New York.	None
It was stated that with over 125 managers and 1, 255 skilled technicians workers the press is equipped to handle the most exacting printing jobs and working with stateoftheart technology.	Issue
TPI produces both quality and volume and a detailed list of machines installed for printing, folding, cutting and binding and other equipment was enclosed and it was stated that the said equipment and skill would be available utilised for all directory production work.	Issue
It was stated that among the many diverse jobs that have been executed by TPI are printing of editions of India Today (two languages and a total of 1.2 million copies per month), Computers Today, Business Today, Readers Digest, Span Magazine, Scientific Journals, books (both hard and soft bound) for export and telephone directories for UDI, Sterling Computers, Sesa Seat, etc.	None
With regard to LMI it was stated that as India Today group it was first set up in 1962 and became LMI in 1988.	None
LMI employs approximately 500 people in various disciplines, viz., editorial, prepress, production, sales and marketing.	Issue
Its current activities include publishing (India Today, Business Today, Computers Today, Target, Journal of Applied Medicine, etc.), distribution (both in house magazines, diaries and Time International), Music Today (producing and marketing a wide selection of Indias best music) Newstrack (the leading video news magazine in Hindi and English) and printing (four regional language editions with a print order of one million copies per month).	Issue
A list of machines and equipment installed at its units at Delhi and at Maraimalainagar in Tamil Nadu was also enclosed.	Facts
As regards WML it was stated that it was established in 1944 in Lahore and moved its registered office to New Delhi in 1969.	None
Its major activity was film financing, finance, marketing and publishing and now it also distributes LMI products and commissions articles features for Business Today.	None
With regard to IIPL it was mentioned that it is a whollyowned subsidiary of Singapore Telecom established in 1967 to publish the Singapore telephone directory with yellow pages and a brochure which described the strength and developments achieved by Singapore Telecom and IIPLs position within the group was attached with the tender offer.	Issue
It was further stated that IIPL serves Singapore which has a telenetwork offering subscribers up to date and efficient telecom services and that IIPL has experience in international operations with special focus on the Asian regions and that IIPL experience and expertise would contribute actively to the systems and professional skills of the new joint venture.	Issue
It was also mentioned that for the past 25 years the directory operation has evolved a continuously updated and responsive system specifically for quality directory management publishing and many of the managers involved with the joint venture company have been a part of IIPL since inception.	Issue
With specific reference to the Indian venture, it was stated that IIPL will be providing its unique integrated directory management system along with the expertise of its managers and that the managers will be actively involved in the project both out of Singapore and resident in India.	Issue
The particulars of various IIPL publications, namely, Singapore Phone Book and Yellow Pages, Singapore Telex and Fax directory and other publications and particulars of the Integrated Directory System for publishing software for medium to large directories operating in a VAX environment were mentioned.	None
Referring to itself (NHL), it was stated in the tender As a joint venture in the true sense of the phrase, the company will have access to expertise in database management, sales and publishing of its parent group companies.	None
In addition, the equipment, manpower and expertise are available to NHL.	Issue
Perhaps even more significant, at this point in the directory yellow page cycle, is the unique reputation of its parent companies as market leaders.	Issue
This will lend a unique credibility and public recognition to the joint venture, as well as its products.	Facts
A modern, extremely powerful, computer system is being purchased to install the integrated directory system developed over the past 25 years by IIPL.	Issue
The IDS will ensure efficiency and accuracy of operations.	Issue
Training of all personnel is being and will continue to be conducted by experienced managers from IIPL.	Facts
Along with the tender the appellants submitted the directories of Delhi and Bombay 1992 which were printed and bound by Living Media Press in Madras.	None
In the counteraffidavit filed on behalf of respondents Nos. 1 to 3 in the High Court it was stated that as per the averments in the writ petition TPI and LMI had printed and bound the telephone directories for respective parties who had been awarded the contract for Delhi and Bombay and that the appellants did not produce any evidence to show that they have in their name undertaken compiling, printing, binding and supply of telephone directories of large telephone systems with a capacity of more than 50, 000 lines and further that the telephone directory of Delhi 1992 issue was published by Sterling Computers Limited on behalf of United Data Base (India) Pvt.	Issue
Ltd.	Issue
and it was printed and bound at Navneet Publications (India) Ltd., Gandhinagar, and the telephone directory of Bombay 1992 issue does not indicate any publishers or printers name.	Issue
It was also stated that NHL was converted into a joint venture company in 1992 and have no experience whatsoever in their own name for compiling, printing, binding and supply of telephone directories of telephone systems of more than 50, 000 lines capacity.	Issue
It was further stated that the appellants had submitted the directories of Delhi and Bombay only to show the capability of printing facilities of TPI and LMI and it does not substantiate their experience of a full job of compiling, printing and supply of telephone directories as stipulated in the tender notice document.	Issue
In the counteraffidavit it was also stated that the royalty and other aspects of the tender were not considered since the appellants did not meet the primary requirement of experience as above.	None
Before the High Court it was urged on behalf of the appellants that NHL was fully eligible and met the criteria as laid down and was competent to compile, print and supply telephone directories as per the invitation of tender and in this connection reliance was placed on the experience of the foreign collaborator equityholder and the experience of the major Indian equity shareholders, viz., TPI and LMI who owned the most wellequipped modern printing and binding facilities and had executed the work for the parties who had been awarded contracts earlier for telephone directories for metropolitan cities of Delhi and Bombay.	Issue
It was also submitted that these facilities were available to NHL to execute the contract in question and that all these facts were clearly brought out in the tender document submitted by it and that the contract was awarded to respondent No. 4 on extraneous considerations which is violative of article 14 of the Constitution.	Issue
It was further submitted that since the matter involved public revenue the tender of the appellants containing the highest offer could not be rejected on the hypertechnical plea that NHL itself has no experience.	Issue
The said contentions have been negatived by the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court in its judgment dated October 15, 1993, whereby the writ petition filed by the appellants was dismissed.	None
The High Court has proceeded on the assumption that the shareholders of NHL have all the experience in compiling and printing the telephone directories but has observed that that it is not at all the job requirement.	Facts
According to the High Court it is one thing to say that the shareholders of a company have vast experience in the publication of telephone directories with yellow pages and it is entirely another thing if the company itself has that experience.	Facts
The approach of the High Court is that a company is an independent person distinct from its members and that NHL is carrying on its business independently from that of the shareholders.	Facts
The High Court has held that the experience of a shareholder cannot be the experience of the company nor is NHL the agent of its shareholders.	Facts
Referring to the principle of lifting of the corporate veil in modem company law the High Court has observed that so far as NHL is concerned, it cannot invoke the said principle either as a ground of attack or as a ground of defence.	Facts
In the view of the High Court it could not be said that the authorities had failed in their duty to look behind the facade of corporateness of NHL and that it was none of their duty and they rightly examined the experience, etc., of NHL and came to the conclusion that it did not satisfy the eligibility conditions and that there was no error in the said approach of the authorities.	None
Dealing with the contention that NHL is a joint venture the High Court has observed that a joint venture is a onetime grouping of two or more persons in a business undertaking and unlike a partnership, a joint venture does not entail a continuing relationship among the parties and on that view the High Court has held that there is no joint venture as such and there is only a certain amount of equity participation by a foreign company in NHL.	Facts
The High Court rejected the contention urged on behalf of the appellants regarding the absence of reasons for rejecting the tender of NHL on the ground that the noncommunication of reasons is not fatal in all circumstances and that in the present case the reasons existed on the record of the authorities that the tender submitted by NHL was not in conformity with the condition of the tender and NHL was found ineligible for award of the tender and its offer could not have been accepted.	Facts
The High Court further held that since the bid of the appellants was rejected at the threshold the authorities could not consider the question of the higher amount of royalty offered by NHL and that a higher bid could not be a substitute for eligibility conditions.	Facts
Shri Soli Sorabjee, learned counsel appearing for the appellants, has submitted that the High Court was in error in considering whether NHL fulfilled the condition regarding experience contained in the tender notice and that the authorities should have taken into consideration the experience of the constituents of NHL which is a joint venture company duly approved by the Government of India in which 40 per cent.	Arguments of Petitioner
equity is owned by IIPL (a whollyowned subsidiary of Singapore Telecom) and the remaining 60 per cent.	Arguments of Petitioner
equity is held by the Indian group of companies consisting of TPI, LMI, WML and Mr. Aroon Purie, and that the constituents of NHL had expertise and experience in publishing yellow page directories as well as telephone directories and had necessary resources for that purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Sorabjee has also submitted that it is a fit case in which the authorities should have lifted the corporate veil and if they had done so they would have seen the reality.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Sorabjee has emphasised that there is a difference of more than three and a half crore rupees between the amount of royalty offered by NHL and that offered by respondent No. 4 to whom the contract has been awarded.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri K. K. Venugopal, learned counsel appearing for respondent No. 4, has, however, supported the judgment of the High Court and has submitted that the authorities were justified in not considering the tender submitted by NHL on the basis that it did not fulfil the conditions regarding experience contained in the tender notice.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Venugopal has submitted that there is nothing to show that the constituents of NHL had the necessary experience of supplying telephone directories to large telephone systems of the capacity of more than 50, 000 lines and that no document to prove that NHL had the necessary experience was submitted by NHL along with the tender.	Arguments of Respondent
At the outset, we may indicate that in the matter of entering into a contract, the State does not stand on the same footing as a private person who is free to enter into a contract with any person he likes.	None
The State, in exercise of its various functions, is governed by the mandate of article 14 of the Constitution which excludes arbitrariness in State action and requires the State to act fairly and reasonably.	Arguments of Respondent
The action of the State in the matter of award of a contract has to satisfy this criterion.	Arguments of Respondent
Moreover, a contract would either involve expenditure from the State exchequer or augmentation of public revenue and consequently the discretion in the matter of selection of the person for award of the contract has to be exercised keeping in view the public interest involved in such selection.	Arguments of Respondent
The decisions of this court, therefore, insist that while dealing with the public, whether by way of giving jobs or entering into contracts or issuing quotas or licences or granting other forms of largesse, the Government cannot act arbitrarily at its sweet will and like a private individual, deal with any person it pleases, but its action must be in conformity with the standards or norms which are not arbitrary, irrational or irrelevant.	Arguments of Respondent
It is, however, recognised that a certain measure of free play in the joints is necessary for an administrative body functioning in an administrative sphere	Arguments of Respondent
See Ramana Dayaram Shetty v. International Airport Authority of India, Kasturi Lal Lakshmi Reddy v. State of Jammu and Kashmir, Fasih Chaudhary v. DirectorGeneral, Doordarshan Sterling Computers Ltd. v. M and N Publications Ltd. Union of India v. Hindustan Development Corporation.	None
In the recent decision in Tata Cellular v. Union of India, this court has examined the scope of judicial review in the field of exercise of contractual powers by Government bodies and, after noticing the current mood of judicial restraint in England, the court has laid down the following principles The modern trend points to judicial restraint in administrative action.(2)	None
The court does not sit as a court of appeal but merely reviews the manner in which the decision was made.(3)	None
The court does not have the expertise to correct the administrative decision.	None
If a review of the administrative decision is permitted it will be substituting its own decision, without the necessary expertise which itself may be fallible.(4)	None
The terms of the invitation to tender cannot be open to judicial scrutiny because the invitation to tender is in the realm of contract.	None
Normally speaking, the decision to accept the tender or award the contract is reached by process of negotiations through several tiers.	None
More often than not, such decisions are made qualitatively by experts.(5)	None
The Government must have freedom of contract.	None
In other words, a fair play in the joints is a necessary concomitant for an administrative body functioning in an administrative sphere or quasiadministrative sphere.	None
However, the decision must not only be tested by the application of the Wednesbury principle of reasonableness (including its other facets pointed out above) but must be free from arbitrariness not affected by bias or actuated by mala fides.(6)	None
Quashing decisions may impose heavy administrative burden on the administration and lead to increased and unbudgeted expenditure.	None
The Wednesbury principle of reasonableness to which reference has been made in principle Union of India v. Hindustan Development Corporation aforementioned is contained in Associated Provincial Picture Houses Ltd. v. Wednesbury Corpn.	None
In that case, Lord Greene M. R. has held that a decision of a public authority will be liable to be quashed or otherwise dealt with by an appropriate order in judicial review proceedings where the court concludes that the decision is such that no authority properly directing itself on the relevant law and acting reasonably could have reached it.	None
In Tata Cellular v. Union of India this court has mentioned two other facets of irrationality It is open to the court to review the decisionmakers evaluation of the facts.	None
The court will intervene where the facts taken as a whole could not logically warrant the conclusion of the decisionmaker.	None
If the weight of facts pointing to one course of action is overwhelming, then a decision the other way, cannot be upheld.(2)	None
A decision would be regarded as unreasonable if it is partial and unequal in its operation as between different classes.	None
The validity of the action of the tender evaluation committee in not considering the tender submitted by NHL has to be considered in the light of the aforementioned principle 5 as laid down in Tata Cellular v. Union of India.	None
In other words, what has to be seen is whether the refusal by the tender evaluation committee to consider the tender of NHL on the ground that the condition regarding experience as laid down in the tender notice was not fulfilled can be regarded as arbitrary and unreasonable.	None
The requirement with regard to experience, as stated in the advertisement dated April 22, 1993, for inviting tenders, as noticed earlier, was in the following terms The tenderer should have experience in compiling, printing and supply of telephone directories to large telephone systems with the capacity of more than 50, 000 lines.	None
The tenderer should substantiate this with documentary proof.	Issue
He should also furnish credentials in this field.	Issue
The requirement of experience was, however, differently worded in the notice for inviting sealed tenders dated April 26, 1993, which was attached to the tender documents which prescribes the conditions to be fulfilled for submission of tenders and wherein it was stated as under The successful tenderer will also submit copies of telephone directories printed and supplied by them to the telephone systems of capacity more than 50, 000 lines as credentials of his past experience.	None
In the said notice, the expressions tenderer and successful tenderer have been used.	None
While the expression tenderer has been used in paragraphs 5, 7, 11 and 14, the expression successful tenderer is used in paragraphs 7, 9(a), 10 and 12.	None
Since paragraph 10 provides for execution of the agreement by the successful tenderer, the said expression is intended to mean the tenderer whose tender has been found suitable for acceptance.	None
The use of the expression successful tenderer instead of the expression tenderer in paragraph 12, therefore, indicates that the documentary proof, by way of credentials of past experience, has to be submitted after the tender has been considered and is found suitable for acceptance by the concerned authorities.	None
This would mean that the past experience is a matter which is to be considered after the tender has been examined and evaluated and the tenderer whose tender is found acceptable is required to submit documentary proof regarding his past experience.	None
In other words, a tender is not liable to be excluded from consideration on the ground of noneligibility on account of lack of past experience.	None
This inference is strengthened by paragraphs 8 and 11 of the notice dated April 26, 1993.	None
In paragraph 8, it is provided that a tender is liable for summary rejection if it is submitted without the demand draft of Rs. 5, 00, 000.	None
Similarly, in paragraph 11, it is provided that the tender is liable to be excluded from consideration if the incometax clearance certificate is not furnished with the tender.	None
There is no similar provision for excluding from consideration a tender on the ground of failure to furnish with the tender the required material by way of credentials of past experience.	None
It means that the matter of past experience has to be considered after the tender has otherwise been found to be suitable for acceptance and a tender is not liable to be rejected at the threshold without consideration on the ground that the tenderer lacks experience.	None
The decision of the tender evaluation committee to exclude the tender of NHL from consideration was, therefore, not warranted by the terms and conditions for submission of tender as contained in the notice for inviting sealed tenders dated April 26, 1993.	None
Even if it be assumed that the requirement regarding experience as set out in the advertisement dated April 22, 1993, inviting tenders is a condition about the eligibility for consideration of the tender, though we find no basis for the same, the said requirement regarding experience cannot be construed to mean that the said experience should be of the tenderer in his name only.	None
It is possible to visualise a situation where a person having past experience has entered into a partnership and the tender has been submitted in the name of the partnership firm which may not have any past experience in its own name.	None
That does not mean that the earlier experience of one of the partners of the firm cannot be taken into consideration.	None
Similarly, a company incorporated under the Companies Act having past experience may undergo reorganisation as a result of merger or amalgamation with another company which may have no such past experience and the tender is submitted in the name of the reorganised company.	None
It could not be the purport of the requirement about experience that the experience of the company which has merged into the reorganised company cannot be taken into consideration because the tender has not been submitted in its name and has been submitted in the name of the reorganised company which does not have experience in its name.	None
Conversely there may be a split in a company and persons looking after a particular field of the business of the company form a new company after leaving it.	None
The new company, though having persons with experience in the field, has no experience in its name while the original company having experience in its name lacks persons with experience.	None
The requirement regarding experience does not mean that the offer of the original company must be considered because it has experience in its name though it does not have experienced persons with it and ignore the offer of the new company because it does not have experience in its name though it has persons having experience in the field.	None
While considering the requirement regarding experience it has to be borne in mind that the said requirement is contained in a document inviting offers for a commercial transaction.	None
The terms and conditions of such a document have to be construed from the standpoint of a prudent businessman.	None
When a businessman enters into a contract whereunder some work is to be performed he seeks to assure himself about the credentials of the person who is to be entrusted with the performance of the work.	None
Such credentials are to be examined from a commercial point of view which means that if the contract is to be entered into with a company he will look into the background of the company and the persons who are in control of the same and their capacity to execute the work.	None
He would go not by the name of the company but by the persons behind the company.	None
While keeping in view the past experience he would also take note of the present state of affairs and the equipment and resources at the disposal of the company.	None
The same has to be the approach of the authorities while considering the tender received in response to the advertisement issued on April 22, 1993.	None
This would require that first the terms of the offer must be examined and if they are found satisfactory the next step would be to consider the credentials of the tenderer and his ability to perform the work to be entrusted.	None
For judging the credentials past experience will have to be considered along with the present state of equipment and resources available with the tenderer.	None
Past experience may not be of much help if the machinery and equipment is outdated.	None
Conversely lack of experience may be made good by improved technology and better equipment.	None
The advertisement dated April 22, 1993, when read with the notice for inviting tenders dated April 26, 1993, does not preclude adoption of this course of action.	None
If the tender evaluation committee had adopted this approach and had examined the tender of NHL in this perspective it would have found the NHL, being a joint venture, has access to the benefit of the resources and strength of its parent owning companies as well as to the experience in database management, sales and publishing of its parent group companies because after reorganisation of the company in 1992, 60 per cent.	None
of the share capital of NHL is owned by the Indian group of companies, namely, TPI, LMI, WML, etc, and Mr. Aroon Purie and 40 per cent.	None
of the share capital is owned by IIPL a whollyowned subsidiary of Singapore Telecom which was established in 1967 and is having long experience in publishing the Singapore telephone directory with yellow pages and other directories.	Issue
Moreover, in the tender it was specifically stated that IIPL will be providing its unique integrated directory management system along with the expertise of its managers and that the managers will be actively involved in the project both out of Singapore and resident in India.	Issue
The expression joint venture is more frequently used in the United States.	None
It connotes a legal entity in the nature of a partnership engaged in the joint undertaking of a particular transaction for mutual profit or an association of persons or companies jointly undertaking some commercial enterprise wherein all contribute assets and share risks.	None
It requires a community of interest in the performance of the subjectmatter, a right to direct and govern the policy in connection therewith, and duty, which may be altered by agreement, to share both in profit and losses.	None
(Blacks Law Dictionary, 6th edition, page 839).	None
According to Words and Phrases, permanent edition, a joint venture is an association of two or more persons to carry out a single business enterprise for profit (page 117, volume 23).	None
A joint venture can take the form of a corporation wherein two or more persons or companies may join together.	None
A joint venture corporation has been defined as a corporation which has joined with other individuals or corporations within the corporate framework in some specific undertaking commonly found in oil, chemicals, electronic, atomic fields.	None
(Blacks Law Dictionary, 6th edition, page 342.	None
Joint venture companies are now being increasingly formed in relation to projects requiring inflow of foreign capital or technical expertise in the fast developing countries in East Asia, viz., Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, China, etc.	None
See Jacques Buhart Joint Ventures in East Asia, Legal Issues (1991).	None
There has been similar growth of joint ventures in our country wherein foreign companies join with Indian counterparts and contribute towards capital and technical knowhow for the success of the venture.	None
The High Court has taken note of this connotation of the expression joint venture.	None
But the High Court has held that NHL is not a joint venture and that there is only a certain amount of equity participation by a foreign company in it.	Facts
We are unable to agree with the said view of the High Court.	None
As noticed earlier, in its tender NHL had stated that it is a joint venture company established by TPI, LMI, WML and IIPL wherein TPI, LMI and WML and other companies in the same group as well as Mr. Aroon Purie own 60 per cent.	None
shares and IIPL owns 40 per cent.	None
shares.	None
It was also stated that the joint venture has received the approval of the Government of India and is currently in operation and that the promoter will increase their capital contribution commensurate with the project need and that the company has been established as an information and database management company with expertise in database processing, publishing, sales marketing and the dissemination of related information.	None
In the tender it is also stated that as a joint venture in the true sense of the phrase, the company will have access to expertise in database management, sales and publishing of its parent group companies.	None
It would thus appear that the Indian group of companies (TPI, LMI and WML) and the Singaporebased company (IIPL) have pooled together their resources in the sense that TPI, LMI and WML have made available their equipment and organisation at various places in the country while IIPL has made available its wide experience in the field as well as the expertise of its managerial staff.	None
All the constituents of NHL have thus contributed to the resources of the company (NHL).	None
This shows that NHL is an association of companies jointly undertaking a commercial enterprise wherein they will all contribute assets and will share risks and have a community of interest.	None
We are, therefore, of the view that NHL has been constituted as a joint venture by the group of Indian companies and IIPL, the Singaporebased company, and it would not be correct to say that IIPL which has a substantial stake in the success of the venture, having 40 per cent.	None
of shareholding, is a mere shareholder in NHL.	None
Once it is held that NHL is a joint venture, as claimed by it in the tender, the experience of its various constituents, namely, TPI, LMI and WML as well as IIPL, had to be taken into consideration if the tender evaluation committee had adopted the approach of a prudent businessman.	None
The conclusion would not be different even if the matter is approached purely from the legal standpoint.	None
It cannot be disputed that, in law, a company is a legal entity distinct from its members.	None
It was so laid down by the House of Lords in 1897 in the leading case of Salomon v. Salomon and Co. Ltd. 1897 AC 22 (HL).	None
Ever since this decision has been followed by the courts in England as well as in this country.	None
But there have been inroads in the doctrine of corporate personality propounded in the said decision by statutory provisions as well as by judicial pronouncements.	None
By the process, commonly described as lifting the veil, the law either goes behind the corporate personality to the individual members or ignores the separate personality of each company in favour of the economic entity constituted by a group of associated companies.	None
This course is adopted when it is found that the principle of corporate personality is too flagrantly opposed to justice, convenience or the interest of the Revenue.	None
(See Gowers Principles of Modern Company Law, 4th edition, page 112).	None
This concept, which is described as piercing the veil in the United States, has been thus put by Sanborn J. in U.S. v. Milwaukee Refrigerator Transit Co. 1905 142 Fed 247, 255 When the notion of legal entity is used to defeat public convenience, justify wrong, protect fraud, or defend crime, the law will regard the corporation as an association of persons.	None
In a number of decisions, departing from the narrow legalistic view, courts have taken note of the realities of the situation.	None
In Scottish Coop.	None
Wholesale Society Ltd. v. Meyer, a case under section 210 of the Companies Act, 1948, Viscount Simonds has quoted with approval, the following observations of Lord President Cooper (at page 9 of 29 Comp Cas)	None
In my view, the section warrants the court in looking at the business realities of a situation and does not confine them to a narrow legalistic view.	None
Similarly in Harold Holdsworth and Co. (Wakefield) Ltd. v. Caddiesit was argued that the subsidiary companies were separate legal entities each under the control of its own board of directors, that in law the board of the appellantcompany could not assign any duties to anyone in relation to the management of the subsidiary companies, and that, therefore, the agreement cannot be construed as entitling them to assign any such duties to the respondent.	None
The argument was rejected by Lord Reid with the observation This is too technical an argument.	None
The learned Law Lord went on to hold This is an agreement in re mercatoria and it must be construed in the light of the facts and realities of the situation.	None
In DHN Food Distributors Ltd. v. London Borough of Tower Hamlets , the Court of Appeal was dealing with three companies, out of which one was the holding company and the other two were its subsidiaries.	None
After quoting the views of Prof. Gower that there is evidence of a general tendency to ignore the separate legal entities of various companies within a group, and to look instead at the economic entity of the whole group, Lord Denning M. R. has observed This group is virtually the same as a partnership in which all the three companies are partners.	None
They should not be treated separately so as to be defeated on a technical point.	None
In the same case, Goff L. J. has said This is a case in which one is entitled to look at the realities of the situation and to pierce the corporate veil.	None
The observations of Shaw L. J. were to the following effect Why then should this relationship be ignored in a situation in which to do so does not prevent abuse but would on the contrary result in what appears to be a denial of justice ?.	None
In this case, the holding company was held entitled to compensation for disturbance from premises in its occupation on account of compulsory purchase of the property which belonged to one of the subsidiaries and in which the holding company had no interest.	None
This was a case in which the court lifted the corporate veil so as to confer a benefit on the company.	None
It may, however, be stated that the existing state of the law in England in this field is not very satisfactory.	None
According to Professor Gower, the development has been essentially haphazard and irrational (See Gowers Principles of Modern Company Law, 4th edition, page 138).	None
This court in Juggilal Kamlapat v. CIT, has laid down that in certain exceptional cases the court is entitled to lift the veil of corporate entity and to pay regard to the economic realities behind the legal facade.	None
In State of U. P. v. Renusagar Power Co.this court lifted the veil to hold that Hindalco, the holding company, and Renusagar Power Co., its subsidiary, should be treated as one concern and the power plant of Renusagar must be treated as the own source of generation of Hindalco and Hindalco would be liable to payment of electricity duty on that basis.	None
It was observed It is high time to reiterate that, in the expanding horizon of modern jurisprudence, the lifting of the corporate veil is permissible.	None
Its frontiers are unlimited.	None
It must, however, depend primarily on the realities of the situation . . .	None
The horizon of the doctrine of lifting of the corporate veil is expanding.	None
There are cases where the court has looked behind the facade of the company and its place of registration in order to determine its residence and for this purpose the test laid down is the place of the central management and control.	None
(See De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd. v. Howe 1906 AC 455 1904 07 ALLER 1256.	None
Similarly the court has looked at the corporators in order to determine the character of the corporation as an enemy alien or as a British resident (See Daimler Co. Ltd. v. Continental Tyre and Rubber Co. Ltd. 1916 (2) AC 307 1916 17 ALLER 191.	None
According to Professor Gower this does not involve breach of the principle laid down in Salomon v. Salomon and Co. Ltd.	None
1897 AC 22 (HL) 1895 99 ALLER 33(See Gowers Principles of Modern Company Law, 4th edition, page 136).	None
After making a special study of this branch of the law, a learned scholar has discerned four different attitudes towards the company in judicial pronouncements.	None
According to him these categories, in progressive order, are (i) peeping behind the veil (ii) penetrating the veil (iii) extending the veil and (iv) ignoring the veil.	None
The decisions relating to determination of residence or enemy status of a company have been placed by him in the category of peeping behind the veil where the court peeps behind the veil and concludes from the shareholders or from the people in control of the company, something about the nature of the company (See S. Ottolenghi From Peeping Behind the Corporate Veil to Ignoring it Completely 1990 53 Mod L Rev 338, 340.	None
This court has adopted a similar approach and in some cases it has seen through the corporate veil.	None
In Central Inland Water Transport Corpn. Ltd v. Brojo Nath Ganguly the court was considering the question whether the appellantcompany was an agency or instrumentality of the State for the purpose of article 12 of the Constitution.	None
It was said For the purposes of article 12 one must necessarily see through the corporate veil to ascertain whether behind that veil is the face of an instrumentality or agency of the State.	None
So also in State of U. P. v. Renusagar Power Co.	None
it has been observed The veil of corporate personality, even though not lifted sometimes, is becoming more and more transparent in modern company jurisprudence.	None
Seeing through the veil covering the face of NHL it will be found that as a result of reorganisation in 1992 the company is functioning as a joint venture wherein the Indian group (TPI, LMI and WML) and Mr. Aroon Purie hold 60 per cent.	None
share and the Singaporebased company (IIPL) holds 40 per cent.	Arguments of Petitioner
shares.	None
Both the groups have contributed towards the resources of the joint venture in the form of machines, equipment and expertise in the field.	None
The company is in the nature of a partnership between the Indian group of companies and the Singaporebased company who have jointly undertaken this commercial enterprise wherein they will contribute to the assets and share the risks.	None
In respect of such a joint venture company the experience of the company can only mean the experience of the constituents of the joint venture, i.e., the Indian group of companies (TPI, LMI and WML) and the Singaporebased company (IIPL).	None
On behalf of the respondent reliance has been placed on the decision of the Delhi High Court in Paharpur Cooling Towers Ltd. v. Bangaigaon Refinery and PetroChemicals Ltd. 1994 28 DRJ 425 , wherein it has been held that the expression tenderer should possess such experience would mean the experience of the tenderer itself and not that of its collaborator.	None
It has been pointed out that SLP(C)	None
No. 1484 of 1994 filed against the said judgment has been dismissed by this court by order dated January 28, 1994.	None
It has been urged that on the same logic the experience of a shareholder would not be included within the expression experience of the tenderer.	None
We fail to appreciate the relevance of this judgment.	None
There can be no comparison between a collaborator who has no stake in the business of the company and a constituent of a company, such as NHL, constituted as a joint venture, wherein the constituents in the joint venture have a substantial stake in the success of the venture.	None
Thus the approach from the legal standpoint also leads to the conclusion that for the purpose of considering whether NHL has the experience as contemplated by the advertisement for inviting tenders dated April 22, 1993, the experience of the constituents of NHL, i.e., the Indian group of companies (TPI, LMI and WML) and the Singaporebased company, (IIPL) has to be taken into consideration.	None
As per the tender of NHL, one of its Indian constituents (LMI) had printed and bound the telephone directories of Delhi and Bombay for the years 1992 and its Singaporebased constituent (IIPL) has 25 years experience in printing the telephone directories with yellow pages in Singapore.	None
The said experience has been ignored by the tender evaluation committee on an erroneous view that the said experience was not in the name of NHL and that NHL did not fulfil the conditions about eligibility for the award of the contract.	None
In proceeding on that basis the tender evaluation committee has misguided itself about the true legal position as well as the terms and conditions prescribed for submission of tenders contained in the notice for inviting tenders dated April 26, 1993.	None
The nonconsideration of the tender submitted by NHL has resulted in acceptance of the tender of respondent No. 4.	None
The total amount of royalty offered by respondent No. 4 for three years was Rs. 95 lakhs whereas NHL had offered Rs. 459.90 lakhs, i.e., nearly five times the amount offered by respondent No. 4.	None
Having regard to this large margin in the amount of royalty offered by NHL and that offered by respondent No. 4, it must be held that the decision of the tender evaluation committee to refuse to consider the tender of NHL and to accept the tender of respondent No. 4 suffers from the vice of arbitrariness and irrationality and is liable to be quashed.	None
In the reWe have been informed that while the matter was pending in the High Court and in this court the telephone directory for the year 1993 has been printed and supplied to the department by respondent No. 4 as per terms of the contract.	None
In so far as the directory for the year 1994 is concerned we find that, as per the terms of the contract, the process for preparation of the telephone directory has already commenced.	Reasoning
We cannot lose sight of the fact that as a result of quashing of the contract in respect of the directory for 1994 fresh steps will have to be taken to award a fresh contract and the said process would take some time and thereafter the contractor will require time to print and publish the telephone directory.	Reasoning
It would, therefore, not be feasible to bring out the directory for 1994 before the close of the year.	Reasoning
As a result, the department would suffer loss of revenue which it would otherwise earn by way of royalty from respondent No. 4 for the directory for the year 1994.	Reasoning
In so far as the contract in respect of the year 1995 is concerned there is sufficient time for the department to award a fresh contract if the contract awarded to respondent No. 4 is cancelled and the new contractor will have sufficient time at his disposal to print and deliver the directory as per the time schedule.	Reasoning
Moreover, in respect of the directory for the year 1995 the amount of royalty that is payable by respondent No. 4 is Rs. 45 lakhs and the amount of royalty offered by NHL for the directory for the said year was Rs. 291.6 lakhs.	Reasoning
Keeping in view the circumstances referred to above, the course that commends itself to us is that, while maintaining the contract awarded to respondent No. 4 in respect of the directories for the years 1993 and 1994, the said contract may be set aside insofar as it relates to the directory for the year 1995 and fresh tenders may be invited for award of the contract for the directory for the year 1995.	Reasoning
The appeal filed against the judgment and order of the Delhi High Court dismissing the writ petition of the appellants must, therefore, be allowed in the above terms.	Reasoning
The other appeal has been filed by the appellants against the order of the Delhi High Court dismissing C. M. No. 6120 of 1993 which was an application for an interim relief during the pendency of the writ petition in the High Court.	Reasoning
In view of the final order that is being passed in the writ petition, the application for interim relief has become infructuous and the appeal against the order dismissing C. M. No. 6120 of 1993 must, therefore, be dismissed as infructuous.	None
In the result, the appeal against the judgment and order of the Delhi High Court dated October 15, 1993, in C. W. P. No. 3837 of 1993 is allowed, the said judgment is set aside and Writ Petition No. 3837 of 1993 filed by the appellant is disposed of with the direction that the award of the contract for printing and publishing the telephone directories for Hyderabad for the years 1993, 1994 and 1995 is set aside to the extent it relates to the directory for the year 1995.	Reasoning
The appeal filed against the order of the Delhi High Court dated October 15, 1993, dismissing C. M. No. 6120 of 1993 for interim relief is dismissed as infructuous.	Decision
No order as to costs.	Decision
