Dr. Arijit Pasayat, J. The order of acquittal passed by a Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court is the subject matter of challenge in this appeal.	Issue
Before the High Court the respondent had challenged the correctness of the judgment and order dated 24.5.1980 passed by the then IX Additional Sessions Judge, Kanpur, convicting him for an offence punishable under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (in short the IPC) and sentencing him for imprisonment for life.	Issue
Prosecution version in a nutshell is as follows The deceased in this case was Mohammed Anwar.	Facts
He was in love with the younger sister of the accused Mushtaq Alam and both of them wanted to marry each other, which move was being opposed by the accused and his family members.	Facts
On this issue the accused even harassed and used to beat her sister, consequently she committed suicide.	Facts
Accused Mushtaq Alam became inimical to the deceased as he thought that it was on account of him that his sister ended her life.	None
On 18.8.1979 at about 11.00 p.m. the deceased was coming back home from Halim College crossing alongwith Shakir (PW1).	None
When they were in front of Jay Bharat Washing Company, accusedappellant appeared there with a country made pistol in his hand and fired a single shot on the back of the deceased, who on being hit, fell down on the ground.	Facts
The incident was witnessed by Shakir (P.W.1) in the electric light emanating from the neighbouring houses.	Facts
The cries of the deceased and Shakir (P.W.1) attracted to the scene of occurrence Ghulam Mustafa (PW4) and Mohammed Jamil, who saw the accused running away from the scene of occurrence.	Facts
Similarly, constable Amar Singh (PW 7) also reached the spot on hearing shouts for help.	None
Shakir (P.W.1) got the First Information Report (Ex.Ka.1) scribed by Mohammed Hasan and lodged the same on that night at 11.40 P.M. at police station Raipurwa.	Facts
Head constable Deena Nath (P.W. 2) prepared check report and registered the case under Section 307 I.P.C. After receiving information of the death of Mohammed Anwar the case was converted to under Section 302 I.P.C. SubInspector Ramyagya Singh (P.W.6) was the Investigating Officer who rushed to the spot after registration of the case but did nothing in the night and collected blood from the scene of occurrence in the morning of 19.8.1979.	Facts
He also made an inspection of the scene of incident and prepared site plan (Exb.Ka.12).	Facts
The witnesses were also interrogated.	Facts
On transfer of Inspector Ramyagya Singh, SubInspector O.P. Mishra (P.W.8) took up the investigation and he submitted charge sheet against the accused.	Facts
After the completion of investigation, charge sheet was placed and in view of the denial of the accusations trial was held.	None
At the trial, 8 witnesses were examined.	Facts
PW1 claimed to be an eyewitness and PW4 claimed to have arrived at the spot immediately after the occurrence.	Facts
The trial court found the evidence of PWs 1, 4 and 7 to be credible and cogent and, therefore, recorded conviction and imposed sentence as noted above.	None
Before the High Court the stand of the accused was that the evidence of PWs 1, 4 and 7 does not inspire confidence and the presence of the socalled eyewitness and that of PW4, PW 7 appear to be totally without any truth and the prosecution version is rendered unacceptable in view of the medical evidence.	Facts
The States stand, on the other, hand is that the evidence has been analysed in great detail by the trial Court and, therefore, the High Court should not have accepted the stand of the accused.	None
The High Court, as noted above, directed acquittal doubting credibility of prosecution version.	None
In support of the appeal, learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the High Court should not have discarded the evidence of PWs 1, 4 and 7.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no infirmity in their evidence to warrant interference.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the accusedrespondent on the other hand supported the judgment of acquittal passed by the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court has taken note of several factors to find the prosecution version improbable.	Reasoning
PW1 stated that he and the deceased had gone to take tea after dinner.	Reasoning
In the post mortem report it was found that there was no presence of food in the stomach except 20 grams of watery fluid and even the small intestines were empty.	Reasoning
According to PW1 the Police Constable (PW7) arrived at the spot immediately and he had taken the deceased to the hospital.	Reasoning
Both PWs.	Reasoning
1 and 4 admitted that the names of the assailants were not disclosed by PW1 to PW7.	Reasoning
Only name of the deceased was told.	Reasoning
The High Court found it improbable that when the Police Constable had arrived at the spot why the name of the assailant could not have been told.	Reasoning
Further, PW1 had accepted that he had not accompanied the deceased to the hospital and waited at the spot for about 40 minutes before he left for the police station to lodge the first information report.	Reasoning
This, according to the High Court, was also unnatural conduct.	Reasoning
In a normal course, he could have either accompanied the deceased or could have immediately gone to the police station which was not very far away from the place of occurrence to lodge the FIR.13.	Reasoning
So far as the gun shot injury is concerned, the prosecution version was contrary to what PW1 deposed.	Reasoning
Though oral testimony has to get preference over the medical opinion, yet when the latter totally improbablises a witnesss oral testimony, same is a relevant factor.14.	Reasoning
The presence of PWs.	Reasoning
1 and 4 at the spot has also been found to be not established.	Reasoning
PW4 is the owner of a tea stall.	Reasoning
The High Court found that he had no reason to go out in the night to take tea at another tea stall which was at a distance from his own house.	Reasoning
The evidence of PW1 so far as manner of assault and about his presence has been stated to be not consistent.	Reasoning
In the examinationinchief he stated that both he and the deceased were coming together when the accused put the pistol on the side of the deceased and shot.	Reasoning
On being shot at, both PW1 and the deceased cried loudly but in the cross examination he categorically admitted that he was at a distance and was coming behind the deceased as he had stopped mid way for urinate.	Reasoning
That is why he was not by the side of the deceased.	Reasoning
The High Court referred to this aspect to conclude that possibility of his having seen the assailant was remote.	Reasoning
The reasoning indicated by the High Court to discard the prosecution version, as analysed above, does not suffer from any infirmity to warrant interference.	Reasoning
The appeal fails and is dismissed.	Decision
