 Sarkaria, J.1.	None
The common question of law that arises in these appeals by the same assessee, is whether the sales in question made by the assessee were sales effected in the course of export of goods out of the territory of India and as such were exempt from imposition of SalesTax under Art.	Issue
286 (1) (b), of the Constitution.2.	None
The relevant assessment years are 195758, 195859 and 1959l960.	None
The assessee, the New Rajasthan Mineral Syndicate is registered as a dealer under the Punjab General Sales Tax Act, 1948.	Facts
It is not registered under the Central Sales Act, 1956, (for short called the Act).	Facts
The assessee carries on the business of quarry contractors.	Facts
In the relevant years, it held a licence from the then Punjab State to quarry iron ore at Nizampur, District Mohindergarh.3.	Facts
During the assessment year in question, the Salestax Officer assessed the assesseefirm to tax under Section 9 of the Act on a turnover of Rs. 3,18,757/6, Rs.	Facts
3,99,948/93 and Rs. 5 lakhs, respectively.	Facts
The last assessment was made on the best judgment basis.4.	Facts
To impugn these assessment orders, the assessee filed three writ petitions in the High Court of Punjab under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution.	Facts
It was averred in the petitions that the export of ironore had been nationalised by the Central Government and no such export could be made by any private dealer like the assessee.	Facts
The Government of India had authorised like the State Trading Corporation (to be hereinafter referred to as S.T.C.) as the sole authority for the purpose of exporting ironore to other countries, including Japan.	Facts
The S.T.C. had further nominated Sri Narayan and Co. (to be called for short N and Co.,) to procure the ironore for the purpose of export.	Facts
N and Co. accordingly entered into agreements with the assessee firm for procuring the ironore from the assessee.	Facts
Excepting the quantity to be supplied, the basic terms of the agreements were the same.	Facts
The material part of one such agreement, reads as followsAgreement made on this day, the 1st April, 1957, between Messrs. Shri Narayan Company, Mine Owners Exporters and Importers 174 Mahatma Gandhi Road, Calcutta7 hereinafter called Buyers and Messrs .Rajasthan	None
Mineral Syndicate Maonda, Rajasthan hereinafter called Sellers, on the following terms and conditionsx x x x xQuantity 25,000 (twentyfive thousand) tons of Hamoitite Iron Ore of their Dhanota Dhancholi Mines Railway Station, Nizampur.	None
Specification x x x Price Rs.14/8/ plus actual Rly.	None
Freight Nizampur to Kendai Port, per ton 2240 Lbs.	None
F.O.R.Kandi Port.	None
Delivery x x x Sampling and analysis The sellers agree to stock the ore at the Railway siding or sidings and the buyers have the right to reject any ore or cancel at any stage before the same is loaded into wagons, the Buyers have the option to appoint any good analytical and consulting Chemist and their findings shall be binding on both the buyers and sellers.	None
Payment Rs.	None
25,000/ .(Twentyfive	None
thousand) will be arranged for payment to the sellers after the acceptance of Re. 1 (Rupee one) per ton for the aggregate quantity of 25,000 tons contract for supply.	None
The balance amount shall be paid, to the sellers against actual weight of Iron Ore loaded by the sellers when Iron Ore is either weighed a Kandla Port or by draft weight of the ship at the time of shipment to the Foreign countries as per bargain by the Buyer or by the State Trading Corporation of India.	None
x x x x x3.	None
The amount of Railway Freight shall be paid directly by the buyer at Kandla Port on the To pay R Rs, and the sellers shall be held responsible for shortage and excess of weight if any.4.	None
The account shall be finally settled when the shipment is made and satisfactory report is received from the Foreign Buyers or the State Trading Corporation approves the material for foreign countries where Iron is extracted out of it.x x x x x5.	None
Then there is a letter dated 291957 from N. and Co. addressed to the assesseefirm.	None
It reads as underWe are in receipt of your letter and noted your comments regarding the price schedule mentioned in your agreement referred to above which runs as underRs.	None
14/8/ plus actual railway freight from Nizampur to Kandla Port for ton of 2240 f.o.r.	None
Kandla Port in this connection we have to clear our position as under(1)	None
It is clear to all and you, that the Government of India is dealing with foreign countries on Government level in the export as of iron ore2.	None
The State Trading Corporation of India, New Delhi is the business organization on Government level and we work as the brokers(3)	None
Whatever term or terms they dictate to us we pass on to you(4)	None
Your iron ore is be shipped to Japan and you are solely responsible for the quantity and quality till the material is delivered to Japanese firms.5.	None
They test the material for extracting of iron, before they pass the pay order.6.	None
As such we get approximately Re. 1/ (Rupee one) per ton, which is in fact our brokerage, otherwise in fact you are the sellers and Japanese Firm are the buyers, through State Trading Corporation.	None
The following details will clear your doubt.	None
Selling price to S.T.C. Rs. 47/per ton f.o.b.	None
t Kandla Port	None
Our approximate price per ton1.	None
Cost of iron ore payable to youRs. 14802.	None
Railway freight Nizampur to Kandla portRs.	None
24803.	None
Port charges unloading of Wagons, Plot rent Agents commission, shipmentRe.	None
100.4.	None
Our Brokerage and Misc.expensesRe.	None
100.Hope you are satisfied that the price fixed is in your interest Please continue railment without any hesitation.6.	None
Before the assessing authority, it was contended by the assessee that he was exporting the iron ore outside India and is not liable to tax under the Central Sales Tax Act,1956.	None
He also produced copies of the agreement and other letters in support of his contention.	None
It was further contended that no interState tax was leviable in view of the exemption in Section 5 (1) of the Act and Art.	None
286 (1) (b) of the Constitution as the sale was in the course of export if goods outside the territory of India the sale having occasioned the export.	None
The assessing authority negatived the assessees claim to the, exemption, in these termsThe dealer has no privity of contract between the foreign buyers and plea taken by him that he exported the goods outside the State of Punjab holds no ground.	None
It appears to me that the State Trading Corporation of India enters into contract with the foreign buyers for the suppliers of iron ore.	None
In order to meet their obligations, the State Trading Corporation of India appoints certain procuring agents such as M s. Shri Narayan and Co., as intermediaries.	None
These intermediaries enter into contract with the quarries who extract iron .	None
ore charge their commission and pass on this iron ore to the State Trading Corporation.	None
The agreement entered into between the New Rajasthan Mineral syndicate and M s. Shri Narayan and Co. leaves no doubt that the former is the seller and the latter is the buyer.	None
In view of the ambiguous position stipulated in the agreement, the dealer sold iron ore in the course of interState trade and commerce.	None
It is further evident that M s New Rajasthan Mineral Syndicate are not the direct exporters of iron ore because they did not enter into contract between the foreign buyers.	None
The inter State tax is therefore, leviable on the dealer viz.	None
M s. Narayan Rajasthan Mineral Syndicate.7.	None
The learned Single Judge of the High Court allowed the writ petitions and quashed the assessment orders with holding that the petitioner was engaged in the export of the iron ore to Japan through the S.T.C. which in turn, for its facility, had appointed N. and Co. a broker and that at no point of time the property in goods passed either to N. and Co., or to S.T.C.8.	Facts
The Letters Patent Bench of the High Court dismissed the appeal preferred by the Revenue.	Facts
Mehr Singh C. J. who delivered the opinion of the Bench	None
observedThese facts prove beyond controversy that the sale of ironore by the assesseefirm to the Japanese buyers through the State Trading Corporation and with the aid of the nominee of that Corporation leading to export of the iron ore from the country, and this export, is a single unbroken transaction or activity.	None
Between the sale or supply of ironore, its transportation to the port of shipment its shipment at that port, and its export to Japan, there intervenes no independent transaction net directly connected with the export of ironore from this country to Japan.	None
No completed and independent transaction of sale occurs between the assessee firm and any other party before the ironore leaves the port of this country.	None
The whole is one and the same transaction .	None
.The intervention of the State Trading Corporation or its nominee, as Shree Naravana and Company, is not as buyers, of ironore from the assessee firm, but merely as intermediaries facilitating the export of ironore by the assessee firm so that in regard to foreign exchange earned by such export what is earned is available to the nation without any questionable handling of the same.	None
This manner and method of export of ironore through the State Trading.	None
Corporation as an intermediary does not bring about any contractual relation between the assessee firm and the Corporation so that a conclusion can be drawn that there has first been a sale of ironore by the assessee firm to the Corporation and thereafter the latter has been responsible for the export of the same.9.	None
Article 286 of the Constitution, so far as it is material for our purpose, reads thus286 (1).	None
No law of a State shall impose, or authorise the imposition of a tax on the sale or purchase of goods where such sale or purchase takes place.(a) outside the State or(b) in the course of import of the goods into or export of the goods out of the territory of India(2)	None
Parliament may by law formulate principles for determining when a sale or purchase of goods takes place in any of the ways mentioned in clause (1).Pursuant to cl.	None
(2)of Art.	None
286 Parliament has enacted S. 5 in the Central Sales Tax Act,1956 subsection (1) which runs thusA sale or purchase of goods shall be deemed to take place in the course of the export of the goods out of the territory of India only if the sale or purchase either occasions such export or is effected by a transfer of documents of title to the goods after the goods have crossed the customs frontiers of India.10.	None
In view of the tests prescribed by this subsection, the points to be considered are Did the sales in question made by the assessee occasion the export?	None
Were these sales effected by a transfer of documents of title of the goods after the goods had crossed the customs frontiers of India?	Issue
If the answer to either of these questions is in the affirmative the sales would be deemed to have taken place in the course of export of the goods out of the territory of India.	Issue
If neither of these tests is satisfied the sales would be sales in the course of inter State trade and taxable as such.11.	Issue
Learned counsel for the appellant has pressed these points into argument(1)	Arguments of Petitioner
The sales in question neither occasioned the export nor were they effected by transfer of documents of title after the goods crossed the customs.	Arguments of Petitioner
frontiers of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
These Sales, at best, could be said to be for export and not in the course of export(2)	Arguments of Petitioner
The sales in question did not occasion the export because(a) the movement of the goods was the result of the agreement between the assessee and N. and Co., and was not caused by any agreement entered into by the assessee with the forign buyers and(b)	Arguments of Petitioner
There was no privity of contract between the assessee and the foreign buyers.(3) there is no room for two or more sales in the course of export within the contemplation of Article 286 (1) (b).	Arguments of Petitioner
That constitutional provision is not attracted in the present case because there have been more than one sale, namely, one by the assessee in favour of N and Co.	Arguments of Petitioner
S.T.C. and another by the STC in favour of the foreign buyer.12.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference has been made to this Courts decisions in Coffee Board Bangalore v. Joint Commercial Tax Officer Madras, (1970) 3 SCR147 (AIR 1971 SC 870 ) Binani Bras.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Union of India, (1974) 1 SCC 459 (AIR 1974 SC	Arguments of Petitioner
1510 )	Arguments of Petitioner
Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Ltd, v. The Commissioner of Commercial Taxes Bangalore, (1974) 34 STC 553(Mys) Sales Tax Officer, Jodhpur v. Shiv Ratan G. Mohatta, (1965) 3	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 71 (AIR 1966 SC142).13.	Arguments of Petitioner
At the outset the learned counsel tried to contend that the authenticity of the agreement and the letter dt.	None
291957 was doubtful and that the High Court was in error in basing its findings on these documents but subsequently he did not press this contention.14.	None
Mr. Sharma, learned Counsel for the assessee, has advanced these contentions(1) That the property in the goods, according to the agreement read with letter, dated 291957, never passed to the buyer before the goods had crossed the customs frontiers of India.	Arguments of Respondent
It is stressed that the contract between the assessee and the nominee of the S.T.C. was an f.o.b. t (fee on board trim).	Arguments of Respondent
The point sought to be made out is that the sales in question were effected by transfer of documents of title to the goods after the goods had crossed the customs frontiers of India, and therefore, they had taken place in the course of export within the meaning of subsec.	Arguments of Respondent
(5) (1).	None
Reliance has been placed on this Courts decision in National Tractors Hubli v. Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Bangalore, (1971) 3 SCC 143 (AIR 1971 SC 2277 ) and B. K. Wade yer v. Daulatram Rameshwar Lal, 16 STC 757 (AIR 1961 SC 311 ).(2)	Arguments of Respondent
The sales in question had directly occasioned the movements of the goods for export.	Arguments of Respondent
The whole process that is the despatch of the iron ore from the quarry till it was handed over to the common carrier i.e. the shipper constituted one integrated transaction, N and Co., and S.T.C. being merely conduits in this course of export.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference has also been made to Serajuddin and Co, v. Commercial Tax Officer Sealdah Charge, (1969) 23	Arguments of Respondent
STC 258 (Cal) J. V. Gokal and Co. (Pvt.)	Arguments of Respondent
Ltd. v. The Asstt.	Arguments of Respondent
Collector of Sales tax (Inspection) 11 STC 186 (AIR 1960 SC 595 ) and Ben Gorm Nilgiri Plantations Co. v. The Sales Tax Officer, Special Circle Ernakulam, 15 STC 753 (AIR 1964 SC 1752 ).15.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Sharma further tried to distinguish the decision of this Court in Coffee Boards case, (AIR 1971 SC 870 ) (supra) on the ground that there the auction sale by itself did not occasion the export.	Arguments of Respondent
It is maintained that privity of contract between the indigenous seller and the foreign buyer is not an indispensable aspect to bring the sale within the ratio of Nilgiri Plantations case (Supra).16.	Arguments of Respondent
As factual premises for his contentions, Mr. Sharma relied on these facts which are apparent from the agreement between the assessee and N. and Co. and the said letter dated 291957(a)	None
The iron ore was meant for export(b) The assessee was a licensee from the Government authorised to quarry the ore.(c)	None
The Government of India had appointed S.T.C. as the only authority competent to export iron ore out of India.(d)	Arguments of Respondent
The goods were liable to be rejected even by the foreign importer and any shortage or loss according to the agreement had to be recovered from the assessee.(e) N. and Co. were merely brokers nominated by S.T.C.	Arguments of Respondent
They were entitled only to brokerage.(f)	Arguments of Respondent
The bulk of the price was to be paid against actual weight of the ore sold by the assessee when either it was weighed at Kandla or weighed on ship.(g)	Arguments of Respondent
The documents of title of the goods were prepared after the ore was tested at the port and thereafter the price was collected by N and Co. from the S.T.C, and passed on to the assessee.17.	Arguments of Respondent
Towards the fag end of the arguments, it was brought to our notice that these very points which are in issue before us, were pending consideration by the Constitution Bench of this Court in Civil Appeals Nos. 697703 of 1973 (Mohd.	Arguments of Respondent
Serajuddin v. State of Orissa.	Arguments of Respondent
Judgment in Civil Appeals Nos. 697703 of 1973 has since been delivered (reported in AIR 1975 SC 1564 ).)	Arguments of Respondent
The facts of that case were very similar, if not on all fours with the one before us.	Arguments of Respondent
There, the assessee had entered into two contracts with S.T.C, for the supply of mineral ore (chorme concentrates).	Arguments of Respondent
The S.T.C. entered into contract with the foreign buyers for sale of identical goods purchased by it from the assessee.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel for the assessee, in this Court contended as followsThe contract in each case between the appellant and the Corporation is inextricably bound up with the export.	Arguments of Respondent
The sale between the appellant and the corporation and the export by the Corporation to foreign buyers constituted one integrated transaction.	Arguments of Respondent
Second, the Corporation has been interposed by the statute for a limited purpose between the appellant and the foreign buyer.	Arguments of Respondent
Export cannot be made except by the Corporation.	Arguments of Respondent
The inextricable link is not broken by the Corporation.	Arguments of Respondent
The Corporation could not have diverted the goods to a buyer in India without violating export and import control order.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the sale is in the course of export.	Arguments of Respondent
Third, the contract between the appellant and the corporation being on F.O.B. basis, the property in the goods passed only on shipment when the goods are in the stream of export.	Arguments of Respondent
There is thus no sale in the taxable territory.	Arguments of Respondent
Fourth, even if it is held that the appellant did not have any contract with the foreign buyer and that privity is essential the rigid rate of privity of the contract should be relaxed in consideration of equity and justice and a realistic approach should be adopted.	Arguments of Respondent
The nature of the entering into contracts through the channel of the Corporation raises in reality a presumption of the Corporation being an agent of the appellant in the integrated transaction.18.	Arguments of Respondent
The clauses of the agreement executed between the assessee and the S.T.C, were similar to the terms of the agreement between the assessee and N and Co. in the present case.	None
The price was expressed in U. S. Dollars per long ton.	None
F.O.B. Ocean Liner Vessel.	None
Calcutta.	None
Under that agreement sampling and moisture determination had to be made at the time of unloading at the port of discharge by Far East Superintendence Company or U.S. Consultants and their certificate was to be final binding on both the buyer and the seller.	None
Final weights as ascertained by Far East Superintendence Co. Ltd. or U. S. Consultants at the port of discharge was to be final and binding on both parties.	None
The terms as to payment were these90 against shipping documents as described in buyers corresponding sale contract.	None
Buyers will assign the relevant foreign letter of credit which is to be opened in their name by their foreign buyers Messrs. Associated Metals and Minerals Corporation on receipt from the sellers of a Bank draft for difference between buyers FOB purchase value and FOB sale value, i.e. 1.00 (Rs. 4.75) per troy long ton for a Bank Guarantee from a Scheduled Bank.	None
Guaranteeing that sellers will pay buyers F.O.B, purchase value shown in the contract and buyers FOB sale value as shown in the Foreign letter of credit and the buyers will endorse the bills of lading and deliver the same to sellers to negotiate against the above mentioned letter of credit.	None
Balance after destinational weight and analysis on the basis of documents mentioned in the Corporations corresponding sale contract with buyers.	None
If the balance 10 is insufficient to cover short fall in weight and analysis at destination or any penalty imposed by the Corporation foreign buyer the additional amount shall be payable by sellers to buyers on demand.19.	None
There were two other clauses of contract(i) Unless otherwise agreed upon, the sellers agree that the contract shall be deemed as cancelled if for any reasons whatsoever M s Associated Metals and Minerals Corporation, cancel their corresponding purchase contract with the buyers for supply of chrome ore.(ii) The term and conditions of the buyers corresponding sale contract with M s. Associated Metals and Minerals Corporation will apply to this contract also except to the extent specified in this purchase contract.(iii)	None
A true copy of buyers sale contract with M s Associated Metals and Minerals Corporation is attached.20.	None
It was further argued on behalf of the assessee that the commodity could not be exported directly by him in view of the restrictions imposed by law that he entered into negotiations with the foreign purchasers and settled all the conditions of the contract the Corporation thereafter entered into a F.O.B. contract with the assessee and with the foreign buyers on identical terms that the Corporation was interested only in the commission of one Dollar per long ton from the assessee that all necessary steps including payment of customs duty for the shipment and export had been taken by the assessee and that the contract between the assessee and the Corporation being on f.o.b. basis, the property in the goods passed only on shipment when the goods were in the course of export.21.	Arguments of Respondent
Almost all the relevant rulings which have been cited before us were noticed in that case.	None
Following the ratio of the Coffee Boards case (AIR 1971 SC 870 ) (supra) and Binani Brothers case, (AIR 1974 SC 1510 ) (supra) the learned Chief Justice who delivered the opinion of the majority negatived the contentions of the assessee in these termsThe Coffee Board case as well as the of Binani Bros. (supra) clearly indicates that the distinction between sales for export and sales in the course of export is never to be lost sight of.	None
The features which point with unerring accuracy to the contract between the appellant and the Corporation on the one hand and the contract between the Corporation and the foreign buyer on the other as two separate and independent contracts or sale within the ruling in the Coffee Board case (supra) and the Binani Brothers case, are these.	None
The Corporation entered on the scene and entered into a direct contract with the foreign buyers to export the goods.	None
The Corporation alone agreed to sell the goods to the foreign buyer.	None
The corporation was the exporter of the goods.	None
There was no privity of the contract between the appellant and the foreign buyer the privity of contract is between the Corporation and the foreign buyer.	None
The immediate cause of the movement of goods and export was the contract between the foreign buyer who was the importer and the Corporation who was the exporter and shipper of the goods.	None
All relevant documents were in the name of the Corporation whose contract of sale was the occasion of the export.	None
The expression occasions in Section 5 of the Act means the immediate and direct cause.	None
But for the contract between the Corporation and the foreign buyer, there was no occasion for export.	None
Therefore, the export was occasioned by the contract of sale between the corporation and the foreign buyer and not by the contract of sale between the corporation and the appellant.	None
The appellant sold the goods directly to the Corporation.	None
The circumstances that the appellant did so to facilitate the performance of the contract between the Corporation and the foreign buyer on terms which were similar did not make the contract between, the appellant and the Corporation the immediate cause of the export.	None
The Corporation in regard to its contract with the foreign buyer entered into a contract with the appellant to procure the goods.	None
Such contracts for procurement of goods for export are described in commercial parlance as back to back contracts.	None
In export trade it is not unnatural to find a string of contracts for export of goods.	None
It is only the contract which occasions the export of goods which will be entitled to exemption.	None
The appellant was under no contractual obligation to the foreign buyer either directly or indirectly.	None
The rights of the appellants were against the Corporation.	None
Similarly the obligations of the appellant were to the Corporation.	None
The foreign buyer could not claim any right against the appellant nor did the appellant have any obligation to the foreign buyer.	None
All acts done by the appellant were in performance of the appellants obligation under the contract with the Corporation and not in performance of the obligations of the Corporation to the foreign buyer.22.	None
With regard to the contention that the contracts between the assessee and the Corporation were F.O.B. contracts, the learned Chief Justice saidIn the present case, the mention of F.O.B. price in the contracts between the appellant and the Corporation does not render the contracts F.O.B, contracts with the foreign buyer.	None
The Corporation entered into independent contracts with the foreign buyers on F.O.B. basis.	None
The appellants were required under the contracts between the appellant and the Corporation to bring the goods to the ship named by the Corporation.	None
The shipment of the goods by the Corporation to the foreign buyers is the F.O.B. contract to which the appellants are not the parties.	None
The course of export in the export stream is possible in direct contracts between the Indian seller and the foreign buyer.	None
The Corporation purchased goods from the appellants in order to fulfil the contracts with the foreign buyer.	None
The only scope of the deeming provision in the Act is to final out the contract of sale which is the direct cause or which occasions the export. .	None
The directions given by the Corporation to the appellant to place the goods on board the ship are pursuant to the contract of sale between the appellant and the Corporation.	None
These directions are not in the course of export, because the export sale is an independent one between the Corporation and the foreign buyer.	None
The taking of the goods from the appellants place to the ship is completely separate from the transit pursuant to the export sale.	None
The fact that the exports can be made only through the State Trading Corporation does not have the effect of making the appellants the exporter where there is direct contract between the Corporation and the foreign buyer.23.	None
The above observations, reproduced in extenso, furnish a complete and effective answer to all the arguments advanced on behalf of the assessee, in the instant case, to support the judgment of the High Court.	Reasoning
Indeed, the factual premises on which Mr. Sharmas contentions are based, are weaker and less favourable to the assessee than those in Serajuddins case (AIR 1975 SC1564) (supra).	Reasoning
Here there is no direct agreement between the assessee and the S.T.C, the agreement is between the assessee and N. and Co.	Reasoning
Here is thus room for argument that the export sale made by the S.T.C. to the foreign buyers was preceded by two separate sales, namely, the first made by the assessee to N and Co. and the second made by N and Co, to S.T.C. Further, in the case before us, the assessee was entitled to payment even before ship ment, if the goods were weighed and approved by ,S.T.C. at Kandla Port.24.	Reasoning
Be that as it may, the basic features of the case in hand are the same as those in ,Serajuddins case (AIR1975 SC 1564)	Reasoning
(supra).	Reasoning
Respectfully following the ratio and reasoning of this Court in the above quoted observations in Serajuddins case by which we are bound we accept the contentions canvassed on behalf of the appellant and negative those advanced by the assessee.25.	Reasoning
In the result we allow these appeals, set aside the judgment of the High Court, and dismiss the writ petitions filed by the assessee.	Decision
We further direct that in the circumstances of the case, that the parties to bear their own costs.26.	Decision
Appeals allowed.	Decision
