 KHANNA, J. 1.	None
On an election petition filed by Ratnakar Mohanty respondent, the election of Jugal Kishore Patnaik appellant to the Orissa Legislative Assembly from Bhadrak constituency was declared to be void by the Orissa High Court and as such set aside.	Issue
The appellant has filed the present appeal against the judgment of the High Court.	Issue
2. Bhadrak assembly constituency is a singlemember general constituency.	Facts
During the general elections to the Orissa Legislative Assembly held in February 1974, the respondent filed four nomination papers for being elect ed from this constituency.	Facts
At the time of scrutiny on January 36, 1974, objection was raised at the instance of Balaram Sahu, one of the contesting candidates, before the Returning Officer that the respondent was disqualified for being chosen as a member of the Assembly as there subsisted contracts between him and the Government of Orissa for execution of certain works.	Facts
The respondent, it was accordingly asserted, was disqualified under section 9A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) from seeking election.	Facts
Some documents were also produced before the Returning Officer to show that proceedings had been initiated by the Block Development Officer for realisation of certain amounts alleged to be due under those contracts from the respondent.	Facts
The Returning Officer upheld the objection and rejected the nomination papers of the respondent.	Facts
3.	Facts
Four candidates contested the election, but the main contest was between the appellant, a Congress nominee, who secured 25, 522 votes, and Balaram Sahu, art Utkal Congress nominee, who secured 18, 723 votes.	Facts
The result of the election was declared on February 28, 1974.	Facts
Petition to challenge the election of the appellant was filed by the respondent on April 12, 1974.	Facts
4.	None
The case of the respondent as set up in the election petition was that his nomination papers had been improperly rejected by the Returning Officer.	Facts
According to the respondent, the works on account of which he had been held to be disqualified by the Returning Officer had been undertaken by him not in his personal capacity but as the Sarpanch of Rahanj Gram Panchayat under the Bhadrak Panchayat Samiti.	Facts
The respondent, therefore, prayed that the election of the appellant be declared to be void.	Facts
5.	None
The petition was resisted by the appellant.	Facts
Objections were raised on his behalf that the petition was liable to be dismissed for noncompliance with sections 81, 82 and 83 of the Act.	Facts
It was also averred that the nomination papers filed by the respondent were not in conformity with sections 33 and 34 of the Act.	Facts
On merits, the appellant stated that the respondent was disqualified under section 9A of the Act from seeking election to the Legislative Assembly of Orissa because he had on the date of filing of the nomination papers subsisting contracts with the Government of Orissa in course of his trade and business for execution of work undertaken by the Government.	Facts
Following issues were framed by the High Court ISSUES 1.	Facts
Is the election petition liable to be dismissed for noncompliance of sections 81, 82 and 83 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 ?	Facts
2.	Facts
Whether the nomination paper filed by the petitioner was in substantial compliance of sections 33 and 34 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 ?	Facts
3. Was the petitioner disqualified under section 9A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 having subsisting contract with the Government of Orissa in course of his trade and business for execution of work undertaken by the Government on the date of the filing of the nomination?	Facts
4.	None
To what relief, if any, the petitioner is entitled to in the facts and circumstances of the case ?	None
Issues (1) to (3) were decided by the High Court in favour of the respondent and against the appellant.	None
In the result, the election of the appellant was declared to be void.6.	Facts
In appeal before us Mr. D.P. Singh has at the outset assailed on be half of the appellant the finding of the High Court on issue No.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
The challenge to the finding on issue No. (1 ) is, however, confined only to alleged infraction of subsection (3) of section 81 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to that subsection, every election petition shall be accompanied by as many copies thereof as there are respondents mentioned in the petition, and every such copy shall be attested by the petitioner under h is own signature to be a true copy of the petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Singh contends that no attested copy of the election petition signed by the petitioner was filed along with the petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
This contention has been controverted by Mr. Chatterjee on behalf of the respondent, who submits that a copy of the petition attested by the respondent under his own signature was filed along with the petition.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further pointed out that the said attested copy of the petition was sent along with the summons to the appellant, but as., he declined to accept the summons, the attested copy along with the summons was affixed at his residence.	Arguments of Respondent
The above stand of the respondent is borne out by the report of the process server.7.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Singh has assailed the correctness of the above report of the process server, and has contended that in the index attached to the petition the re was no reference to the copy.	Arguments of Petitioner
As against that, it is submitted on behalf of the respondent that it is not the usual practice in the High Court to refer to the copy of the petition in the index.	Arguments of Respondent
8.	None
There are, in our opinion, some broad facts of the case which lend support to the finding of the High Court on issue No.	Reasoning
(1 ) that the election petition was accompanied by an attested copy signed by the respondent.	Reasoning
Endorsement dated April 15, 1974 made by an officer of the High Court shows that a copy of the election petition had been flied.	Reasoning
We find no cogent reason as to why an officer of the High Court should make a false endorsement on the petition if, , in fact, no such copy had been filed.	Reasoning
As regards the factum of the, attestation of the copy by the respondent under his own signature we find that the appellant cannot in the very nature of things assert positively that the copy had not been attested by the respondent as, according to.	Reasoning
him, he did not see that copy.	Reasoning
The copy was also not available on the record as the same had been affixed at the residence of the appellant when he, according to the report of the process server, declined to accept the summons.	Reasoning
Before summons were issued to the appellant, the following endorsement was made by an officer of the High Court in respect of t he election petition flied by the respondent Defect Nil.	Reasoning
We see no cogent ground to question the correctness of this endorsement which clearly lends support to the inference that the copy filed with the petition had been attested by the respondent and that the petition did not suffer from lack of compliance with the procedural requirement.9.	None
Mr. Singh has next assailed the correctness of the, finding of the High Court on issue No.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2).	Reasoning
It is urged that the respondent obtained signatures of his proposers on blank nomination papers, subsequently filled in the columns and then filed the nomination papers.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is, in our opinion not necessary to express opinion about three of the nomination papers as we find that one of the, nomination papers in.	Reasoning
any case did not suffer from any such alleged infirmity.	Reasoning
This nomination paper of the respondent was signed by Lakshmikant Mahapotra (PW 3 ) as proposer.	Reasoning
Evidence of this witness dearly shows that he signed, the nomination paper as proposer of the respondent after the various columns in that paper had been filled in.	Reasoning
Nothing has been brought to our notice as to why the statement of the witness in this respect be not accepted.	Reasoning
As at least one of the nomination papers filed by the respondent was in compliance with the legal requirement, .	Reasoning
the High Court, in our opinion, correctly decided issue No.	Reasoning
(2).	Reasoning
In view of the above finding, it is not necessary to express opinion on the point as to whether a nomination paper should be hold to be invalid in case the signature of the proposer is obtained before filling in the columns of the nomination paper.	Reasoning
10.	None
It has been faintly argued that Balaram Sahu, who raised objection to the validity of the nomination papers of the respondent, was not impleaded as a party in the election petition and as such the petition was liable to be dismissed for nonjoinder of parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
This submission too is bereft of force.	Reasoning
According to section 82 of the Act, a petitioner shall join as respondents to his petition where the petitioner, in addition to claiming a declaration that the election of all or any of the returned candidates is void, claims a further declaration that he himself or any other candidates has, been duly elected, all the contesting candidates other than the petitioner, and where no such further declaration is claimed, all the returned candidates.	Reasoning
It is further provided that if allegations of any corrupt practice are made in the petition against any other candidate, he too shall be joined as a respondent.	Reasoning
In the present case, there was no prayer made by the respondent in the election petition that he or any other person should be declared to have been duly elected.	Reasoning
There was also no allegation of corrupt practice against any candidate.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, the requirements of law should be held to be fully satisfied when the respondent impleaded the successful candidate, namely, the appellant, as a respondent in the petition.11.	Reasoning
Contention has also been advanced on behalf of the appellant that the objections of Balaram Sahu before the Returning Officer about the validity of the nomination papers of the respondent were raised in collusion with the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant, who has been duly elected, , should not, according to the contention, suffer because of any order made on such collusive objections.	Reasoning
In this respect we find that .there is no factual basis for the assertion that the objections which were raised by Balaram Sahu about the validity of the nomination papers of the respondent were of collusive character.	Reasoning
On the contrary, the appellant in the course of his written statement stated in respect of the objections as underAt the time of the scrutiny valid and genuine objections were filed against the petitioner on the ground that there was subsisting contract between the petitioner and the Government of Orissa and as such he was disqualified to be a candidate.	Reasoning
12.	None
In view of the unequivocal assertion of the appellant in the written statement that the objections were valid and genuine, it would not be permissible for the appellant to take an inconsistent stand in appeal and urge that those objections had been filed in collusion with the. respondent.	Reasoning
Apart from that, we find that according to section 100 (1 ) (e) of the Act, if the High Court is of the opinion that any nomination has been improperly rejected, it shall declare the election of the returned candidate to be void.	Reasoning
In view of the imperative nature of the provision, it is open to question as to whether the courts cam in the event of an improper rejection of nomination, afford relief to the successful candidate on the score that the objections resulting in the improper rejection of the nomination, were collusive.	Reasoning
Whether the legislature would do something in the matter is essentially for the legislature to decide.	Reasoning
We need not, however, dilate upon this aspect of this case in the face of our finding that the appellant has clearly admitted in the written statement that the objections which were filed about the validity of the nomination papers of the respondent were not collusive but were genuine.13.	Reasoning
Lastly, Mr. Singh has assailed the finding of the High Court on issue No.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3).	Arguments of Petitioner
Although during the course of the trial of the election petition the appellant relied upon 15 items to show that the respondent had entered into works contracts with the State Government, in this Court Mr. Singh has , confined his argument to only two items, namely, item No.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) and item No. (8).	Arguments of Petitioner
Item No.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) relates to an advance of Rs. 100 for repair of Erein School.	Arguments of Petitioner
The case of the respondent is that the above amount was received by him as Sarpanch of Gram Panchayat Rahanj and that the said work had to be executed by that Gram Panchayat and not by the respondent personally.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court accepted the stand of the respondent, and we find no cogent ground to take a different view.	Reasoning
Ex. 43 is letter dated December 3, 1968 signed by the SubDivisio nal Officer Bhadrak to the Certificate Officer for recovery of Rs. 7, 017/.	Reasoning
This letter shows that the aggregate sum of Rs. 7, 017, of which Rs. 100 was a part, constituted the fund of the Gram Panchayat Order dated May 25, 1965 of the Block Development Officer also shows that the work on account of which Rs. 100 were paid had to be executed through the agency of Rahani Gram Panchayat.	Reasoning
To similar effect is the statement of PW 9 Khageswar Roy.	Reasoning
Block Development Officer.	Reasoning
The evidence of this witness shows that the amount in question was given to the Gram Panchayat for repair work.	Reasoning
The above material, in our opinion, , clearly shows that the contract for the execution of the repair work, which is the subject matter of item No.	Reasoning
(1 ), was not entered into with the respondent in his personal capacity and that the said work had to be.	Reasoning
executed by the Gram Panchayat.	Reasoning
14.	None
So far as item No.	None
(8) is concerned, the same relates to work of wooden culvert No. 9 on Jamujhari Khirkona road.	Reasoning
Ex. 55 is the written agreement relating to this contract.	Reasoning
Perusal of the agreement makes it clear that the tender in respect of this work was accepted on behalf of the Modern Labour Cooperative Contract Society, of which the respondent was the President.	Reasoning
The document thus shows that it was not the respondent but the society which entered into contract to the execution of the above work, and the respondent signed the document in his capacity as the President of that Society.	Reasoning
15.	None
Apart from the above, we agree with the High Court that the above contract was not subsisting on the date of the filing of the nomination paper.	Reasoning
The agreement for the execution of the above work was dated May 8, 1964.	Reasoning
On November 24., 1966 an order was made by the Block Development Officer that the construction work of the culvert had been completed since long and final measurements too had already been made.	Reasoning
The total work was found to be worth Rs. 4, 253.7 0.	Reasoning
It was further observed in the order that Rs. 722 should be paid on account of the above work after deducting the previous advances and cost of the material.	Reasoning
The contractor was directed to return the material used in the tubewell.	Reasoning
The above order of the Block Development Officer shows that the cost of the material and the amounts advanced to tile respondent were deducted before direction was given for payment of Rs. 722 to the contractor.	Reasoning
Mr. Singh has laid particular stress upon the direction in the order of the Block Development Officer that the contractor should return the material used in the tubewell.	Reasoning
In respect of the material used in the tubewell, it appears to us that the said material was also returned by the contractor the same day the order was made.	Reasoning
According to the testimony of RW 11 J.K. Satpathy Block Development Officer, if the material required to be returned as per that last order was not returned, the final bill amount in respect of that work could not have been paid.	Reasoning
Rs. 722 were, however, admittedly paid on November 24, 1966.	Reasoning
The factum of that payment clearly points to the conclusion that the contractor returned the material used in the tubewell before the payment of Rs. 722 was made to him.	Reasoning
There is also nothing to show that any demand was mad e to the contractor subsequent to 1966 for return of the material used in the tubewell.	Reasoning
The absence of any such demand, even though a long period has elapsed since 1966, clearly goes to show that no, material used in the, tubewell remained with the contractor.	Reasoning
It cannot, therefore be said that the said contract was subsisting on the date the respondent filed his nomination paper.	Reasoning
We consequently uphold the finding of the High Court on items (1) and (8) under issue No. (3).	Reasoning
16.	None
As a result of the above, we dismiss the appeal, but in the circumstances without costs.	Decision
KRISHNA IYER, J., 17.	None
Wholehearted is my agreement with the judgment of my learned brother Khanna J., both in the conclusions and in the reasonings.	None
This does not obviate an extra opinion on certain deeper, though peripheral, aspects of the law thrown up.	None
by the facts, disturbing in their implications and laying bare certain gaping gaps in the election law.	None
In a democracy, , the electoral process has a strategic role and in India it has constitutional status although canalysed by the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (hereinafter called the Act).	None
Lord Holt long ago observed(1)	None
A right that a man has to give his vote at an election of a person to represent him in Parliament, there to concur to.	None
the making of laws, which are to bind his liberty and property, is a most transcendent thing, and of an high nature, and the law takes notice of it as such in divers statutes The right of voting at the election of burgesses is a thing of highest importance, and so great a privilege, that it is a great injury to deprive the plaintiff of it	None
And, if I may add, This widespread right belongs to every common citizen.	None
18.	None
In such circumstances, no one can gainsay the need for the provisions regulating disqualifications affecting the adult franchise to run for elective office to be foolproof to that degree that the little man of India may confidently participate in the political process without being exposed to booby traps of the law.	None
Quoted in University of Pensylvania Law Review 1968 p. 24 (Vol. 117).	None
19.	None
In this case an election was honestly fought and won by the appellant but the verdict has been reduced to a Dead Sea fruit by a surprise blow of the law because the respondents nomination, on the captious objection of the defeated candidate (the appellant being innocent, at that stage, of raising any obstructive tactic), was illegally reject ed The facts, already set out by my learned brother, disclose that the wrong rejection by the Returning Officer was on the score that he had subsisting contracts with the State Government.	None
This ground was plausibly urged before the Returning Officer by a candidate who polled poorly.	None
The Officer was taken in by the specious plea and rejected the respondents nomination Its aftermath, long after the election was fought and won, is that peoples verdict has been stultified and its victim is the then innocent appellant.	None
Had there been any procedure for doublequick determination of objections to nominations with early appellate finality attached to it, the lurking danger of the whole process being ultimately baulked on account of antecedent official error would not have arisen a consummation devoutly to be wished.	None
Nor does it require great imagination to make provision in this behalf, but its omission has led to the martyrdom of the appellant and the orphanage of the electorate.	None
20.	None
Yet another legislative insufficiency surrounding Section 9A of the Act needs to be highlighted.	None
This provision, as has been explained earlier by my learned brother, disqualifies a person from being a candidate if there subsists a contract entered into by him in the course of his trade or business with the appropriate government for the supply of goods to, or for the execution of any works undertaken by, that government.	None
It is followed by an Explanation which is more or less a legal fiction.	None
The rugged edges of ambiguity of Section 9A especially as to how long and in what sense can a contract be said to be subsisting envelop the disbarment provision with subtle legal questions.	None
The common man of India is the potential candidate and is he to risk his candidature en the niceties of the law of contracts ?	None
In this context we must remember that the vast and various developmental works undertaken by the State and its subsidiaries and executed by a large number of little construction contractors made it very desirable that the disqualificatory net should not be cast too wide to disfranchise innumerable persons and must be easy of ascertainment if uncertainty is not to overhang elections in our political system.	None
In this very case several problems were mooted, somewhat difficult to answer.	None
How long does a contract subsist ?	None
Is every liability arising on a breach of contract , a claim under the contract attracting the lethal coils of Section 9A ?	None
If government money is involved in the execution of the work.	None
does the contract necessarily become one with government ?	None
A host of other questions may mystify the legal imports of the taboo s. 9A sets out and yet every lay man is imperilled by this vague provision in the exercise of his electoral right.	None
Such a brooding fear and haunting provisions is counter productive an d may perhaps have to be redrafted in the light of experience in court.	None
These are problems not of highsounding law but affecting the common man in the exercise of his most democratic right.	None
Nietzche once said The great problems are in the streets.	None
The inaugural error in the drawing up of our election law, as is illustrated by this case, is that sophisticated provisions amenable to logicolinguistic feats or subtle interpretation of civil law ill suit a regulatory area of the political process where the small individual offers himself for electoral contest.	None
I choose to make these observations and draw the attention of the concerned instrumentalities only because in my humble view the court has an activist role to tell the nation, through its judgment or other designated channels where the law misfires, or how the law stands in need of reform.	None
This case therefore induces me to make what may be regarded as obiter The little case, the ordinary case, is a constant occasion and vehicle for creative choice and creative activity, for the shaping and ongoing reshaping of our law.(Quoted in (196162) Vol.	None
71 Yale Law Jownal p. 259.)	None
21.	None
More than a hundred years ago Lord Chancellor Westbury made certain seminal observations(Quoted in Vol. 128, Mod. L.R.p.	None
1.)	None
The first thing, then, that strikes every member of our profession who directs his mind beyond the daily practical necessity of the cases which come before him is, that We have no machinery for noting, arranging, generalising and deducing conclusions from the observations which every scientific mind could naturally make on the way in which the law is worked in the country .	None
Take any particular department of the common lawtake, if you please, any particular statute.	None
Why is there not a body of men in this country whose duty it is to collect a body of judicial statistics, or, in the more common phrase, make the necessary experiments to see how far the law is fitted to the exigencies of society, the necessities of the times, the growth of wealth, and the progress of mankind ?	None
Way back in 1921, , Benjamin N. Cardozo, then a Judge of New Yorks highest court, said(Address to the Association of the Bar of the City of New York quoted in ( 3) supra.)	None
The Courts are not helped as they could and ought to be in the adaptation of law to justice.	None
The reason they are not helped is because there is no one whose business it is to give warning that help is needed We must have a courier who will carry the tidings of distress To day courts and legislature work in separation and aloofness.	None
The penalty is paid both in the wasted effort of production and in the lowered quality of the product.	None
On the one side, the judges, left to fight against anachronism and injustice by the methods of judgemade law, are distracted by the conflicting promptings of justice and logic, of consistency and mercy, and the output of their labors bears the token of the strain.	None
On the other side, the legislature, informed only casually and intermittently of the needs and problems of the courts, without expert or responsible or disinterested or systematic advice as to the workings of one rule or another, patches the fabric here and there, and mars often when it would mend.	None
Legislature and courts move on in proud and silent isolation.	None
Some agency must be found to.	None
mediate between them.	None
22.	None
May be, as has been done in the State of New York, the establishment of a Law Revision Commission charged with comprehensive law reform duties with direct link with the law court may go a long way to meet the felt need.	None
