 Leave granted.	None
These appeals are directed against the common judgment and order passed by the High Court of Judicature of Himachal Pradesh in FAO(MVA)	Issue
Nos, 404, 405, 406, 407, 408, 409, 410, 411, 412, 413, 414, 415, 416, 417, 418, 419, 420, 421, 425, of 2001 and 140, 141, 142, 143, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148, 149, 150, 151, 152, 153, 154 of 2002 and 453 of 2003, dated 10.9.04.	Issue
By the impugned judgment and order, the high court has directed the petitioner to pay compensation to the respondents herein who were injured and also to the legal representatives of the deceased passengers.3.	Facts
The facts in brief are The incident occurred on 18.7.1999 when the bus belonging to Sh.	Facts
Jai Prakash, the owner of the vehicle, started its journey from shillai for Bali Koti.	Facts
En route to Bali Koti, the said bus while negotiating the curve went out of the road and rolled down in the khud.	Facts
Thereafter, the bus trampled down several persons on the road as well as on the pathway beneath the road thereby taking lives of several persons while others received multiple injuries.	Facts
We have heard Shri Vishnu Mehra, learned counsel for the Insurance Company and Shri Kartar Singh, learned counsel for the respondent(s).5.	None
Shri Mehra, learned counsel, would submit that since the bus in question was carrying more passengers than the permitted capacity, the Insurance Company is not liable to pay to the persons who expired in the accident and also to those persons who sustained injuries.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of that submission, the learned counsel invites our attention to the observations made by this Court in the case of National Insurance Co. Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Anjana Shyam Ors. reported in 2007(7) SCC 445.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
In reply to the submissions so made by Shri Mehra, the learned counsel appearing for the respondent(s) would bring to our notice, the issues raised by the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (the Tribunal for short) and the conclusions reached thereon in particular, to the fourth issue that was raised and considered by the Tribunal.	Arguments of Respondent
The Tribunal, while coming to the conclusion that the bus in question was not overloaded by more than its permitted capacity, has observed at paragraphs 13,14 and 15, as under Shri A.S.Shah, Advocate, the learned counsel for the owner and driver of the bus has argued that in all 51 claim petitions have been filed suggesting that the total number of injured and dead persons is not more than 51.	None
He has further argued that the number of injured and the dead persons is also inclusive of the persons, who were not in the vehicle because it is in the reply of the Insurance Co. in para22 or para24 of the different petitions that the deceased was not travelling in the illfated bus.	None
These averments in the reply suggests that some of the persons suffered injuries because at the relevant time, they were not in the bus.	None
Moreover, as per para No.1 of the reply of the Insurance Co., the information of overloading was received by th Insurance Co. after going through the newspaper or the inquiry report of the SDM, which are not admissible in evidence.	None
The report of the SDM cannot be treated as reliable evidence as it is based on hearsay evidence and conducted at the back of the petitioners.	None
According to the report, about 18 persons were examined.	None
The Insurance Co. should have examined some of these persons in evidence to prove that actually there was overloading in the bus.14.	None
The petitioners examined many witnesses of whom PW 4 Jeet Singh and PW 5 Hari Singh are the persons who witnessed the accident in question.	None
Their statements do not suggest that there was any overloading in the bus.	None
The crossexamination of PW 5 Hari Singh made by respondent no.1 and 2 further proves that few persons, who were walking on the road below the road where the bus fell down were also run over by the bus when it fell down.	None
He has denied that more than 100 persons were there in the illfated bus.15.	None
The above discussion of evidence suggests that it cannot be said that at the relevant time there was overloading in the bus.	Reasoning
Moreover only because o overloading, it cannot be said that there is any breach of conditions of the permit.	None
A reference in this regard may be made to the law laid down by the Honble Supreme Court in case State of Maharashtra and Others Vs.	Reasoning
NandedParbhani Z.L.B.M.V.Operator Sangh, reported in (2002) 125 Punjab Law Reporter 558, wherein at page 561 in para8 following proposition of law has been laid down But carrying passengers more than the number of specified in the permit will not be a violation of the purpose for which the permit is granted.	Reasoning
If the legislature really wanted to confer power of detention on the police officer for violation of any condition of the permit, then there would not have been the necessity of adding the expression relating to the route on which or the area in which or the purpose for which the vehicle may be used This finding of the Tribunal though raised before the High Court, the High Court, for the reasons best known to it has not answered the same.9.	Reasoning
One thing is certain and clear to us, in view of the finding of fact reached by the Tribunal that the bus in question on the date of the incident was not carrying passengers more than the permitted capacity.	Reasoning
It is also the finding of the Tribunal that apart from the persons who were travelling in the bus, the persons walking on the road were also involved in the accident.	Reasoning
If that is so, the Tribunal is justified in directing the Insurance Company to compensate all those persons who died in the accident and also those who sustained injuries.	Reasoning
In that view of the matter, we sustain the order passed by the Tribunal.11.	Decision
At this stage, we make it clear that we do not subscribe to the findings and the conclusions reached by the High Court in the impugned judgment and order.	Decision
However, the dismissal of the appeals filed by the Insurance Company in the High Court is correct for the reasons aforestated by us in this order.12.	Decision
The Appeals are disposed of accordingly.	Decision
No order as to costs.	None
Ordered accordingly.	None
