 Wanchoo, J.1.	None
This is an appeal on a certificate granted by the Punjab High Court.	Issue
Sharda Singh (hereinafter called the respondent) was in the service of the appellantmills.	None
On August 28, 1956, the respondent was transferred from the night shift to the day shift in accordance with para 9 of the Standing Orders governing the workmen in the appellantmills.	None
At that time an industrial dispute was pending between the appellantmills and their workmen.	None
The transfer was to take effect from August 30, 1956 but the respondent failed to report for work in the day shift and was marked absent.	Facts
On September 1, 1956, he submitted an application to the General Manager to the effect that he had reported for duty on August 30, at 1030 p.m. and had worked during the whole night, but had not been marked present.	Facts
He had again gone to the mills on the night of August 31, but was not allowed to work on the ground that he had been transferred to the day shift.	Facts
He complained that he had been dealt with arbitrarily in order to harass him.	Facts
Though he said that he had no objection to carrying out the orders, he requested the manager to intervene and save him from the high handed action taken against him, adding that the mills would be responsible for his wages for the days he was not allowed to work.2.	Facts
On September 4, 1956, he made an application to the industrial tribunal, where the previous dispute was pending, under S. 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, No. XIV of 1947, (hereinafter called the Act) and complained that he had been transferred without any rhyme or reason from one shift to another and that this amounted to alteration in the conditions of his service, which was prejudicial and detrimental to his interest.	Facts
As this alteration was made against the provisions of S. 33 of the Act, he prayed for necessary relief from the tribunal under S. 33A. On September 5, 1956, the General Manager replied to the letter of September 1, and told the respondent that his transfer from one shift to the other had been ordered on August 28, and he had been told to report for work in the day shift from August 30 but instead of obeying the order which was made in the normal course and report for work as directed he had deliberately disobeyed the order and reported for work on August 30 in the night shift.	Facts
He was then ordered to leave and report for work in the day shift.	Facts
He however did not even then report for work in the day shift and absented himself intentionally and thus disobeyed the order of transfer.	Facts
The General Manager therefore called upon the respondent to show cause why disciplinary action should not be taken against him for wilfully refusing to obey the lawful orders of the departmental officers and he was asked to submit his explanation within 48 hours.	Facts
The respondent submitted his explanation on September 7, 1956.3.	Facts
Soon after it appears the appellantmills received notice of the application under S. 33A and they submitted a reply of it on October 5, 1956.	Facts
Their case was that transfer from one shift to another was within the power of the management and could not be said to be an alteration in the terms and conditions of service to the prejudice of the workman and therefore the complaint under S. 33A was not maintainable.	Facts
The appellantmills also pointed out that a domestic inquiry was being held into the subsequent conduct of the respondent and prayed that proceedings in the application under S. 33A should be stayed till the domestic inquiry was concluded.	Facts
No action seems to have been taken on this complaint under S. 33A, for which the appellantmills might be partly responsible as they had prayed for stay of those proceedings.	Facts
However, the domestic inquiry against the respondent continued and on February 25, 1957, the inquiry officer reported that the charge of misconduct was proved.	Facts
Thereupon the General Manager passed an order on March 5, 1957, that in view of the serious misconduct of the respondent and looking into his past records, he should be dismissed but as an industrial dispute was pending then, the General Manager ordered that the permission of the industrial tribunal should be taken before the order of dismissal was passed and an application should be made for seeking such permission under S. 33 of the Act.4.	Facts
In the meantime, a notification was issued on March 1, 1957, by which 10th March.	Facts
1957, was fixed for the coming into force of certain provisions of the Central Act, No XXXVI of 1956, by which Ss. 33 and 33A were amended.	Facts
The amendment made a substantial change in S. 33 and this change came into effect from March 10, 1957.	Facts
The change was that the total ban on the employer against altering any condition of service to the prejudice of workmen and against any action for misconduct was modified.	Facts
The amended section provided that where an employer intended to take action in regard to any matter connected with the dispute or in regard to any misconduct connected with the dispute, he could only do so with the express permission in writing of the authority before which the dispute was pending but where the matter in regard to which the employer wanted take action in accordance with the Standing Orders applicable to a workman was not connected with the dispute or the misconduct for which action was proposed to be taken was not connected with the dispute, the employer could take such action as he thought proper, subject only to this that in case of discharge or dismissal one months wages should be paid and an application should be made to the tribunal before which the dispute was pending for approval of the action taken against the employee by the employer.	Facts
In view of this change in the law, the appellantmills thought that as the misconduct of the respondent in the present case was not connected with the dispute then pending adjudication, they were entitled to dismiss him after paying him one months wages and applying for approval of the action taken by them.	Facts
Consequently, no application was made to the tribunal for permission in accordance with the order of the General Manager of March 5, 1957, already referred to.	Facts
Later, on April 2, 1957, an order of dismissal was passed by the General Manager after tendering one month wages to the respondent and an application was made to the authority concerned for approval of the action taken against the respondent.	Facts
Thereupon the respondent filed another application under S. 33A of the Act on April 9, 1957, in which he complained that the appellantmills had terminated his services without the express permission of the tribunal and that this was a contravention of the provisions of S. 33 of the Act he therefore prayed for necessary relief.	Facts
On April 18, 1957, an interim order was passed by the tribunal on this application by which as a measure of interim relief, the appellantmills were ordered to permit the respondent to work with effect from April 19 and the respondent was directed to report for duty.	Facts
It was also ordered that if the management failed to take the respondent back, the respondent would be paid his full wages with effect from April 19 after he had reported for duty.	Facts
On May 6, 1957, however, the application dated April 9, 1957, was dismissed as defective and therefore the interim order of April 18 also came to an end.	Facts
On the same day (namely, May 6, 1957), the respondent made another application under S. 33A in which he removed the defects and again complained that his dismissal on April 2, 1957, without the express previous permission of the tribunal was against S. 33 and prayed for proper relief.5.	Facts
It is this application which is pending at present and has not been disposed of, though more than three years have gone by.	Facts
It is also not clear what has happened to the first application of September 4, 1956, in which the respondent complained that his conditions of service had been altered to his prejudice by his transfer from one shift to another.	Facts
Applications under S. 33 and S, 33A of the Act should be disposed of quickly and it is a matter of regret that this matter is pending for over three years, though the appellantsmill must also share the blame for this state of affairs.	Facts
However, the appellantsmill gave a reply on May 14, 1957, to the last application under S. 33A and objected that there was no breach of S. 33 of the Act, their case being that the amended S. 33 applied to the order of dismissal passed on April 2, 1957.	Facts
Further, on the merits, the appellantmills case was that the dismissal was in the circumstances justified.	Facts
The matter came up before the tribunal on May 16, 1957.	Facts
On this date, the tribunal again passed an interim order, which was to the effect that as a measure of interim relief, the respondent should be permitted to work from May 17 and the respondent was directed to report for duty.	Facts
It was further ordered that in case the management railed to take him back, they would pay him his full wages with effect from the date he reported for duty.6.	Facts
Thereupon the appellantmills filed a writ petition before the High Court.	Facts
Their main contention before the High Court was twofold.	None
In the first place it was urged that the tribunal had no jurisdiction to entertain an application under S. 33A of the Act in the circumstances of this case after the amended sections 33 and 33A came into force from March 10, 1957.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the alternative it it was contended that the tribunal had no jurisdiction to pass an interim order of reinstatement or in lieu thereof payment of full wages to the respondent even before considering the questions raised in the applications under S. 33A on the merits.	Facts
The High Court held on the first point that in view of S. 30 of the Industrial Disputes (Amendment and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, No. XXXVI of 1956, the present case would be governed by S. 33 as it was before the amendment and therefore the tribunal would have jurisdiction to entertain the complaint dated May 6, 1957, under S. 33A of the Act.	Facts
On the second point, the High Court held that the order of the tribunal granting interim relief was within its jurisdiction and was justified.	Facts
In consequence, the writ petition was dismissed.	Facts
Thereupon the appellantmills applied and was granted a certificate by the High Court to appeal to this Court and that is how the matter has come up before us.7.	Facts
The same two points which were raised in the High Court have been urged before us.	Reasoning
We are of opinion that it is not necessary in the present case to decide the first point because we have come to the conclusion that the interim order of May 16, 1957, is manifestly erroneous in law and cannot be supported.	Reasoning
Apart from the question whether the tribunal had jurisdiction to pass an interim order like this without making an interim award, (a point which was considered and left open by this Court in The Management, Hotel Imperial v. Hotel Workers Union, AIR 1959 S C 1342)	Reasoning
we are of opinion that where the tribunal in dealing with an application under S. 33A of the Act and the question before it is whether an order of dismissal is against the provisions of S. 33 it would be wrong in law for the tribunal to grant reinstatement or full wages in case the employer did not take the workman back in its service as an interim measure.	Reasoning
It is clear that in case of a complaint under S. 33A based on dismissal against the provisions of S. 33, the final order which the tribunal can pass in case it is in favour of the workman, would be for reinstatement.	Reasoning
That final order would be passed only if the employer fails to justify the dismissal before the tribunal, either by showing that proper domestic inquiry was held which established the misconduct or in case no domestic inquiry was held by producing evidence before the tribunal to justify the dismissal See Punjab National Bank Ltd. v. AllIndia Punjab National Bank Employees Federation, AIR 1960 S C 160 where it was held that in an inquiry under S. 33A, the employee would not succeed in obtaining an order of reinstatement merely by proving contravention of S. 33 by the employer.	Reasoning
After such contravention is proved it would still be open to the employer to justify the impugned dismissal on the merits.	Reasoning
That is a part of the dispute which the tribunal has to consider because the complaint made by the employee is to be treated as an industrial dispute and all the relevant aspects of the said dispute fall to be considered under S. 33A.Therefore, when a tribunal is considering a complaint under S. 33A and it has finally to decide whether an employee should be reinstated or not, it is not open to the tribunal to order reinstatement as an interim relief, for that would be giving the workman the very relief which he could get only if on a trial of the complaint the employer failed to justify the order of dismissal.	Reasoning
The interim relief ordered in this case was that the workman should be permitted to work in other words he was ordered to be reinstated in the alternative it was ordered that if the management did not take him back they should pay him his full wages.	Reasoning
We are of opinion that such an order cannot be passed in law as an interim relief, for that would amount to giving the respondent at the outset the relief to which he would be entitled only if the employer failed in the proceedings under s, 33A. As was pointed out in Hotel Imperials case, A I R 1959 S C 1342 ordinarily, interim relief should not be the whole relief that the workmen would get if they succeeded finally.	Reasoning
The order therefore of the tribunal in this case allowing reinstatement as an interim relief or in lieu thereof payment of full wages is manifestly erroneous and must therefore be set aside.	Reasoning
We therefore allow the appeal, set aside the order of the High Court as well as of the tribunal dated May 16, 1957, granting interim relief.8. Learned counsel for the respondent submitted to us that we should grant some interim relief in case we came to the conclusion that the order of the tribunal should be set aside.	Reasoning
In the circumstances of this case we do not think that interim relief to the respondent is justified hereafter.	Reasoning
As we have pointed above, applications under Ss. 33 and 33A should be dealt with expeditiously.	Reasoning
We trust that the applications dated September 4, 1956, which appears to have been overlooked and of May 6, 1957,will now be dealt with expeditiously and finally disposed of by the tribunal, as all applications under S. 33A should be.	Reasoning
In the circumstances we pass no order as to costs.9.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	Decision
