 RAY, C.J.1.	None
This appeal by special leave is from the judgment dated 6 February, 1970 of the High Court at Bombay.	Issue
The Respondent No. 1 obtained a decree for redemption of mortgage dated 21 May, 1953 for possession of mortgaged property consisting of a shop and house premises at Sangli.2.	Issue
The appellant was mortgagee in possession of the property by a Deed of Mortgage dated 21 May, 1953.	None
The property was mortgaged for Rs. 10, 000/.	Facts
No interest was to be paid.	Facts
Instead possession of the property was agreed to remain with the mortgagee.	Facts
The period for redeeming the mortgage was fixed for 10 years from 7 November, 1953.The respondent mortgagor by notice dated 1 October, 1963 informed the appellant that he was ready and willing to redeem the mortgage.	Facts
The appellant replied that he should be paid Rs. 30, 000/ being the expenses for repairs and other incidental expenses.	Facts
The appellant also claimed that even after the redemption he was entitled to retain possession because his previous tenancy right subsisted.	Facts
The Trial Court held that the tenancy of the appellant would revive on redemption of the mortgage.	Facts
The Trial Court further decreed that the respondent was entitled to get only symbolical possession from the appellant and thereafter get rent of the suit property from the appellant.3.	None
On appeal the District Judge came to the conclusion that under the Mortgage Deed the appellant ceased to be a tenant with effect from 7 November, 1963 possession of the appellant thereafter was only as a possessory mortgagee and not as a tenant.	Facts
On redemption of the mortgage the respondent was entitled to recover possession of the property forthwith.	Facts
The District Judge passed a decree for the principal mortgage amount and a sum of Rs. 4458 24 on account of repairs in favour of the appellant.	Facts
The District Judge further gave the respondent a decree for actual possession of the property from the appellant after the respondent deposited the amount in the Court.	Facts
The High Court on second appeal held that the Deed of Mortgage shows that the relationship between the appellant and the respondent was that of a mortgagor and mortgagor and confirmed the decree in favour of the respondent.4.	Facts
Counsel for the appellant contended that in case of a tenant in possession who takes a possessory mortgage the effect of such mortgage is that the tenants rights remain in abeyance during the term of mortgage and the parties revert to their former position on redemption.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also said that the mortgagor respondent could not take possession from the appellant without actual eviction.	Arguments of Petitioner
The mortgage according to the appellant was usufructuary mortgage with the result that at the end of 10 years being the period of mortgage possession the mortgagee acquires the statutory protection given to the tenants.	Arguments of Petitioner
The mortgage Deed is described as a Possessory Mortgage Deed of the housesite and was for a sum of Rs. 10, 000/.	None
The respondent mortgagor stated, inter alia, as followsI have given you the housesite in possessory mortgage in consideration of the aforesaid amount.	None
The said property is in your possesion as the last tenant by the date 6 November, 1953.	None
The possession thenceforth is confirm ed by this Deed of Possessory Mortgage.	None
Hence you are to either use the housesite and shop premises for home (personal) purpose or let it to anybody.	None
The income that may be received by giving the property on rent is to be appropriated by you towards the interest on the said amount.	None
I shall not pay you any interest separately.	None
I shall not ask for the accounts in respect of the income of the housesite from you.	None
I am to pay all the Government dues.	None
I am also to carry out repairs of all sorts to the house premises, and I shall do so.	None
If I fail to pay Government dues and if I do not defray the costs of the repairs yor are to pay all the said Government dues and defray the costs of the repairs.	None
The aforesaid amounts which you may have to pay and spend will be paid by me to you together with interest at the rate of Rs. 0 120 annas twelve per cent per month.	None
The above mortgaged property is charged with the liability of repaying the aforesaid amounts.	None
The period of this document is 10 years from 7 November, 1953.	None
I shall pay you the aforesaid amount within the said period and redeem the housesite from the mortgage.	None
If I fail to do so you are to carry on the vahiwat of the housesite under the above agreement.	None
If you do not wish to keep the amount with me beyond the above period, you are to sell the said mortgaged property through Court and recover the entire amount due and payable to you.	None
The appellants contentions were these First, the defendant was a tenant of the suit building prior to the execution of the mortgage on 21 May, 1953 and the tenancy could either exist concurrently with the usufructuary mortgage or be in abseyance during the currency of the mortgage but could never be extinguished as a result of the mortgage.	Arguments of Petitioner
Second, once the tenancy of the appellant continued after the execution of the mortgage deed then there would be no question of either express or implied surrender of his tenancy rights during the subsistence of the mortgage.	Arguments of Petitioner
Third, the fact of a tenant taking a mortgage from his landlord does not itself extinguish the tenancy and the effect of such a mortgage on the tenants rights is merely that they are in abeyance and when the landlord redeems the mortgage, the parties revert to their former position, and the landlord is not entitled to get actual possession.	Arguments of Petitioner
Fourth, that the existence of possessory mortgage does not necessarily terminate the tenancy.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent contended as followsFirst, the conduct of the mortgagee along with the terms made it clear that the appellant mortgagee surrendered his tenancy rights at the time of execution of Mortgage Deed.	Arguments of Respondent
Second, on the expiry of the period of 10 years the appellants mortgagee could not insist upon retaining possession on the ground of the previous right of lessee, and the lease could not be revived on the expiration of the period of the mortgage, Third, on the terms of the Deed of Mortgage, there was an express or implied surrender of the lease.	Arguments of Respondent
Fourth, the tenancy in question was to be continued till 6 November, 1953 though the mortgage was executed on 21 May, 1953.	Arguments of Respondent
The possession of the mortgage was confirmed from 7 November, 1963 amounting to unequivocable conduct showing that the relationship became that of a mortgagor and mortagee only.	Arguments of Respondent
The Deed of Mortgage shows these features indicating that there was surrender of tenancy and the appellant was only a mortgagee.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court found that there was a surrender of tenancy right.	Arguments of Respondent
No particular form of words is essential to make a valid surrender.	Arguments of Respondent
A surrender may be oral.	Arguments of Respondent
A surrender may be express although delivery of possession is necessary for surrender in the facts and circumstances of a given case.	Arguments of Respondent
In the present case, delivery of possess ion was immediately followed by a redelivery of possession of the appellant as mortgagee.	Arguments of Respondent
The Mortgage Deed establishes beyond doubt that the effect of the Deed was inconsistent with the continuance or subsistence of the lease because the par ties themselves stipulated that the lease was to exist only up to 6 November, 1953.	Arguments of Respondent
On the redemption of the mortgage the respondent had a right to recover possession both on the terms of the mortgage deed and under section 62 of the transfer of Property Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The second feature in the Mortgage Deed is that the appellant was given power to sublet.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 15 of the Bombay, Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, 1947 as it stood in 1953 forbade any subletting.	Arguments of Respondent
In 1959 the words but subject to any contract to the contrary were introduced into the said section 15, with the result that in the absence of the contract to the contrary, the tenant is not to sublet or transfer.	Arguments of Respondent
Before 1959 there could be no subletting.	Arguments of Respondent
In the Mortgage Deed, there is provision for subletting.	Arguments of Respondent
The provision for subletting shows that the character of tenant is lost.	Arguments of Respondent
Third, the mortgagor is to do repair works and is also to undertake repairs.	Arguments of Respondent
Fourth, the possession was to be under the agreement.	None
Though the Mortgage Deed was made on 21 May, 1953, the tenancy was continued till about 7 November, 1953.	Arguments of Respondent
The possession of the appellant as mortgagee was confirmed from 7 November, 1953.	Arguments of Respondent
This is rightly held to be unequivocal conduct showing that no tenancy was to exist from 7 November, 1953 but the relationship was that of mortgagor and mortgagee.	Arguments of Respondent
If the intention of the parties was to revive the tenancy there was no necessity of a term that the appellant might let out the property to any one.	Arguments of Respondent
The contention of the appellant was that there was no surrender and there was marger of the interest of the mortgagee and the tenant.	Arguments of Respondent
Ordinarily, the doctrine of marger applies to extinction of mortgage security.	Arguments of Respondent
This occurs by the marger of a lower in a higher security and by the merger of a lesser estate in greater estate.	Arguments of Respondent
Where the capacity in which a person in possession of the mortgagees rights is something quite different from the capacity in which he is in possession of the equity of redemption, the mere fact that the two capacities are united in the same physical person cannot result in a marger.	Arguments of Respondent
For a marger to arise, it is necessary that a lesser e state and a higher estate should merge in one person at one and the same time and in the same right, and no interest in the property should remain outsion.	Reasoning
In the case of a lease the estate that is in the lessor is a reversion.	Reasoning
In the case of a mortgage the estate that is outstanding is the equity of redemption of the mortgagtor.	Reasoning
Therefore, there cannot be a merger of lease and mortgage in respect of the same property since neither of them is a higher or leaser estate.	Reasoning
than the other.	Reasoning
The view expressed in Narayan v. Ramchandra (1) is correct.6.	None
Section 111 of the Transfer of Property Act is clauses (e) and (f) deal with surrender, and in clause (d) with merger.	Reasoning
Clause (d) states that lease in movable properties determines in case t he interest of the lessee or the lessor in the whole of the property becomes vested at the same time in one person in the same right.	Reasoning
When a leasehold and a reversion coincide there is a merger of a lesser estate in the greater.	Reasoning
The leasehold is t he lesser estate, for it is carved out of the estate of the owner, which is the reversion.	Reasoning
The lesser estate is merged in the greater.	Reasoning
The lease determines and merges in the reversion.	Reasoning
If the lessor purchases the lessees interest, the lease is extinguished, as the same man cannot be at the same time both landlord and tenant.	Reasoning
The interests of the lessor and of the lessee must be in the whole of the property, otherwise there is no merger.	Reasoning
The interest of the lessor and the lessee in the whole of the property should become vested at the same time in one person in the same right.	Reasoning
Thus a lease is not extinguished because the lessee purchases a part of the reversion.	Reasoning
A surrender under clauses (e) and (f) of section 111 of the Transfer of Property Act, is an yielding up of the term of the lessees interest to him who has the immediate reversion or the lessors interest.	Reasoning
It takes effect like a contract by mutual consent on the lessors acceptance of the act of the lessee.	Reasoning
The lessee cannot, therefore, surrender unless the term is vested in him and the surrender must be to a person in whom the immediate reversion expectant on the term is vested.	Reasoning
Implied surrender by operation of law occurs by the creation of a new relationship, or by relinquishment of possession.	Reasoning
It the lessee accepts a new lease that in itself is a surrender.	Reasoning
Surrender can also be implied from the consent of the parties or from such facts as the relinquishment of pos session by the lessee and taking over possession by the lessor.	Reasoning
Relinquishment of possession operates as an implied surrender.	Reasoning
There must be a taking of possession, not necessarily a physical taking, but something amounting to a virtual taking of possession.	Reasoning
Whether this has occurred is a question of fact.	Reasoning
In the present case if the mortgagor was not able to redeem the appellant mortgagee was to enjoy the property in accordance with the terms of the mortgage and also to sell the property for recovery of debts.	Reasoning
This feature shows that appellant surrendered the tenancy from 7 November, 1953.7.	None
In the present case the terms of the deed show that the mortgagee undertook to deliver possession of the property to the mortgagor on the expiry of a period of 10 years.	None
The Mortgage Deed shows that the tenancy was surrendered on 7 November, 1963 and thereafter the possession was only that of mortgagor.	Reasoning
There would be no question of the tenancy being kept in abeyance or the tenancy reviving on the expiration of the period of mortgage.	Reasoning
For these reasons the judgment of the High Court is affirmed and the appeal is dismissed with costs.8.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
