 Subba Rao, J.1.	None
This appeal by special leave raises the question whether the expression incometax in cl.	None
(c) of subr.	None
(2) of R. 2 of Schedule 1 to the Madhya Pradesh Abolition of Proprietary Rights (Estatet, Mahals, Alienated Lands) Act, l950 (M.P. Act No. .1 of 1951), hereinafter called the Act, includes supertax.2.	None
The facts are as follows The respondent was the zamindar of Bhadra Estate in Balaghat District of Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
His estate was known as Bahela Zamindari consisting of 78 villages.	Facts
The Act came into force on January 26, 1951.	Facts
Under the Act the proprietary rights of the zamindari vested in the State and he became entitled to compensation in respect of the said rights in the said villages under S. 8 of the Act.	Facts
The compensation was to be determined in accordance with the rules contained in Schedule 1 to the Act.	Facts
Under R. 8 of Schedule 1 the zamindar would be entitled to compensation at 10 times the net income.	Facts
The net income would be calculated by deducting from the gross income, inter alia, the average of the incometax paid in respect of the income from big forest during 30 agricultural years preceding March 31, 1951.	Facts
On November 30, 1951, the Compensation Officer determined the compensation payable to the respondent at Rs. 2,21,330126.	Facts
In arriving at that figure he deducted not only the incometax payable by the respondent but also the supertax and surcharge payable by him.	Facts
The average of the incometax paid by him during the material 30 years was only Rs.	Facts
3,76029, but if the average of the supertax and surcharge was included, the average came to Rs.	Facts
7,07080.	Facts
The result was was that the net yearly income of the estate was reduced by Rs.	Facts
3,31053 and compensation was paid to him on the basis of the amount so reduced.	Facts
The respondent moved the Settlement Commissioner under S. 15 of the Act for enhancement of the compensation, but the Commissioner confirmed the order of the Compensation Officer.	Facts
Thereafter, the respondent filed an application in the High Court under Arts, 226 and 227 of the Constitution for quashing the order of the Compensation Officer.	Facts
The High Court held, on a construction of the relevant provisions of the Act, that supertax should not be takes into account while calculating the compensation payable to the respondent.	Facts
The State of Madhya Pradesh has filed the present appeal against the order of the High Court.3.	Issue
Mr. Sen, learned counsel for the State, contends that the object of,R.2(2).(c) is to provide a method for ascertaining the net income of an estate, that in that context there cannot be any justifiable distinction, between incometax and supertax, for both of them have, inter alia, to be deducted from the gross income to arrive at the net income, and that the Legislature used the word incometax in its comprehensive sense so as to take in supertax.	Arguments of Petitioner
He adds that under the Incometax Act, supertax is only an additional duty of incometax and, therefore, a part of it.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Rajagopal Sastri, learned counsel for the respondentassessee argues that in construing a provision of an exproprietary Act the Court will have to construe such a provision strictly and if so construed, supertax cannot be included in the expression incometax.	Arguments of Respondent
He took us through the relevant provisions of the Incometax Act to support his contention that super tax is different in its origin, description, scope incidents and collection from the incometax.5.	Arguments of Respondent
The question turns upon the correct interpretation of R.2(2)(c) of the rules of Schedule I to the Act.	None
The relevant provisions of the Act and the rule read Section 8 (1) of the Act The State Government shall pay to every proprietor, who is divested of proprietary rights, compensation determined in accordance with the rules contained in Schedule I.Schedule I to the ActRule 2 (2).	None
The net income of an estate or mahal in the Central Provinces shall be calculated by deducting from the gross income the sums under the following heads, namelyx x	None
x x x x(c) the average of the incometax paid in respect of the income received from big forest during the period of thirty agricultural years preceding the agriculture year in which the relevant date fallsx x	None
x x x x x xRule 8.	None
(1) The amount of compensation in the Central Provinces and in Berar shall be ten times the net income determined in accordance with the rules herein contained.	None
The combined effect of the said provisions is that for the purpose of ascertaining the net income of an estate one of the deductible items is the average of the incometax paid in respect of the income received from the big forest.	None
That average is ascertained on the, basis of the incometax paid during the 30 agricultural years preceding the agricultural year in which the relevant date falls.	None
The compensation payable is ten times the net income ascertained under the rules.	None
The relevant date for the purpose of ascertaining the average is the date specified by notification by the State Government under S. 3 of the Act for instance, if the relevant date falls in the year 1951, the incometax paid during the years 1921to 1951 will afford the basis for arriving at the average.6.	None
To appreciate the distinction between the concepts of incometax and supertax a brief history of their incidents will not be inappropriate.	None
Under the Incometax Act of 1886 the total income from various sources was not the criterion for assessment but the different sources alone were the basis for it.	None
For the first time1918 Act introduced the scheme of total income for the purpose of determining the rate of tax.	None
Under that Act several heads were enumerated, under which the income of an assessee fell to be charged.	None
The 1922 Act went further and enacted that loss under one head of income can be set off against the profit under another head.	None
Till the 1922 Act supertax was separately levied.	None
It was first introduced by the Supertax Act of 1917, and then it was replaced by the 1920 Act.	None
Only in 1922, for the first time, it was incorporated in the Incometax Act.	None
Though both the taxes are dealt with by the same Act, their distinctive features are maintained.	None
As regards incometax, in the words of a learned author, S. 3 charges the total income, S. 4 defines its range, S. 6 qualifies it and Ss. 7 to 12 quantify it.	None
There are various other sections which provide the machinery for the ascertainment of the total income for assessment and recovery of tax.	None
As regards supertax, a separate chapter viz., Ch. IX, deals with it it comprises Ss. 55 to 58.	None
Section 55 is the charging section for the, purpose of supertax under that section.	None
In addition to the incometax charged for any year, there shall be charged, levied and paid for that year in respect of the total income of the pervious year an additional duty of incometax (in this Act referred to as supertax) at the rate or rates laid down for that year by a Central Act.	None
Section 56 says that for the purpose of supertax, except in specified cases, the total income shall be the total income as assessed for the purpose of incometax, S. 56A exempts from supertax certain dividends.	None
Section 58(1) applies by reference to supertax certain provisions of the Act relating to the charge, assessment, collection and recovery of incometax.	None
It would be seen from this Chapter that though supertax is described as an additional duty of incometax it is not incorporated in the incometax its identity is maintained.	None
A selfcontained Chapter deals with the charge, assessment, collection and recovery, of supertax.	None
There are essential differences between the two taxes emanating not only from the express provisions contained in Ch. IX but also from the omission to apply the specified sections of the Act to the said tax.	None
Successive Finance Acts also made a distinction between the two taxes.	None
This is not the occasion to notice in detail the differences between the two taxes.	None
It is enough to state that there are pronounced differences between the incidents of the two taxes.	None
But two relevant differences may be noticed, namely (i) though both the taxes are assessed on the total income of a person, the total income for the purpose of incometax is computed on the basis of Income classified under the different heads mentioned in S. 6 of the Act, whereas supertax is not concerned with the different heads, but is payable on the total income so ascertained and (ii) while supertax, except in a few cases, is payable by the assessee direct, the incometax is payable by him direct as well as by deduction.	None
While in the case of Incometax by reversing the process the tax attributable to a particular source can be ascertained, in the base of supertax no such process is possible as the said liability springs into legal existence only after the total income is ascertained.	None
The only possible method by which the said tax may be split up is by working out the proportion of the tax payable by the assessee in respect of an income from a particular source on the basis of the ratio the said income bears to the total income.	None
But this method is not sanctioned by the Act.	None
It is not legally possible to predicate what particular part of the supertax is attributable to an income from a particular source, for unlike in the case of incometax, total income alone is the criterion and the income from different sources is not relevant.	None
To illustrate supertax is now levied on income over certain levelat present Rs. 25,000  	None
If As total income is Rs. 35,000/ made up of Rs. 20,000/ from big forest and Rs.15,000/ from other sources, what is the supertax attributable to the income from the big forest?	None
The answer is, it is not possible to do so.7.	Reasoning
With this background let us give a close look to the provisions of R. 2(2) (c) of the Schedule I to the Act.	None
The legislative intention is manifest from the express language used and also by internal evidence.	None
With the knowledge that under the Incometax Act two separate duties, namely, incometax and supertax, are imposed, the Legislature has used the expression incometax.	None
If the intention was to refer to both the taxes, it would have stated incometax and supertax.	None
The mention of the one and the omission of the other is a sure indication of its intention.8.	None
The qualification that incometax paid should have been in respect of the income received from the big forest necessarily excludes supertax, for under the Incometax Act no supertax is payable in respect of the income received from big forest, but only in respect of the total income.	Reasoning
As we have pointed out earlier, it is not legally possible to disintegrate and allocate a portion of the supertax to the income attributable to the big forest.	Reasoning
It is not paid in, respect of the income from the big forest, but is paid only in respect of the total income.	Reasoning
If the contention of the appellant prevails, though the income from big forest falls below the taxable income, it will be deducted if, in combination with the income from other sources, the income goes up to the taxable level.	Reasoning
In that event supertax not payable in respect of the income from big forest will have to be deducted.	Reasoning
That apart, the rules made under the Act do not provide for any machinery for allocating the supertax payable on the total income among the different sources.	Reasoning
It, is said that the same difficulties are present even in the case of incometax.	Reasoning
Though incometax is also a tax on the total income of an assessee, the Act, as we have indicated earlier, provides for computing the income under different heads and, therefofe, it is not inappropriate to describe a particular tax as attributable to an income from a particular head, but it would wholly be inappropriate to describe that a part of the supertax is payable in respect of an income from a particular source.9.	Reasoning
The argument of Mr. Rajagopal Sastri, learned counsel for the respondent, that the 30 years mentioned in the rule takes us back to a period when there was no supertax appears to be not sound, for as we have stated earlier, supertax was payable in one form or other from the year 1917.	Reasoning
That apart, if the incometax takes in supertax, the nonexistence of supertax in a particular year does not make any difference in ascertaining the average, for the incometax for that year will be the incometax without the addition of supertax.	Reasoning
This circumstance is not, therefore, of much relevance and we exclude it from our consideration.10.	Reasoning
The argument that if the Legislature intended not to exclude supertax from the gross income, it would have expressly stated so in the rule is an attempt to put the shoe in the wrong foot.	Reasoning
The proper approach, particularly in the case of an exproprietary statute is to ask the question why the Legislature did not expressly mention, supertax, if it intended to do so.	Reasoning
The use of one of the two well understood expressions is, on the other hand, an indication that the legislature provided for the deduction of the one used and not of the other omitted.	Reasoning
The reason for the rule, if it is legitimate to speculate, appears to be that as it is concerned with the calculation of the net, income from the estate after making certain deductions, only those deductions which have a direct relation to that income are allowed.	Reasoning
If the other construction prevails, speculation would take the place of certainty and supertax not paid factually in respect of the income from big forest would have to be deducted.	Reasoning
Such a construction defeats the purpose of the rule.11.	None
Some of the decisions cited at the Bar may now be noticed.	None
Lord Sumner pithily remarks in Brooks v. Commissioner of Inland Revenue, 19147 Tax Cas 236 . . . . . . .	None
.for	None
supertax is another and a new tax nonetheless, though it is an additional duty of Incometax.	None
In Bates, In re Selmes v. Bates, 1925 Ch D 157 at pp, 159, 160, 161 a testator gave to his wife by his will such a sum in every year as after deduction of the incometax for the time being payable in respect thereof will leave a clear sum of ?	None
2000.	None
It was held that the wife was entitled to the ?	None
2000 free of incometax only and was not entitled to payment of any sum in respect of super tax.	None
There the trustees were directed to pay the annuity after deducting the incometax in respect of that annuity.	None
Rejecting the argument advanced on behalf of the wife that the said annuity should be free from supertax also, Rusell, J., observed Now supertax was not a charge in respect of any particular annuity or sum, but was a charge in respect of the recipients whole income and was not a matter with which the trustees would be charged or concerned at all, and, in his opinion, what the testator had done was to give the widow the yearly sum of ?	None
2500 clear of all deductions for which the trustees were accountable, but that did not include supertax, which she must pay herself.	None
The learned Judge proceeded to state No supertax is really payable in respect of this sum.	None
It is true that the said judgment turned upon the provisions of a particular will, but the reasoning is helpful.	None
There, incometax was deductible in respect of sum bequeathed here incometax is deductible in respect of the income received from big forest.	None
As supertax is not a charge in respect of the income from big forest, on the parity of reasoning it shall be held that the word Incometax used in cl.	None
(c) of R. 2(2) of Schedule I to the Act excludes supertax.	None
In Reckitt, In re Reckitt v. Reckitt, 19331 ITR 1 (Eng.)	None
a fund was bequeathed to trustees upon, trust for investment and to pay out of the income of the investments the annual sum of, ?	None
5000 free of incometax during the life of the annuitant.	None
The Court of Appeal held that annuitant was entitled to have the sum paid to her without deduction on account of supertax and that the trustees, must pay the supertax payable in respect of that sum out of the income of the fund.	None
The conclusion turned upon the provisions of the will.	None
Lord Hanworth, M. R. distinguished the decision in 1925 Ch D 157 on the ground that Russell, J., founded his judgment upon the reference to deductions and also upon the direction to the trustees that specified sum should be paid after deduction of incometax in, respect thereof and proceeded to observe that in the case before them no reference was made to the system, or the power of the trustees to make deductions and that it was simply that a total sum in each year was to be paid free of income tax.	None
That decision may be right or wrong on the construction of the will before the Court of Appeal but the features which distinguished Bates case, 1925 Ch D 157 from the decision in Reckitts case 1933 ITR 1 (Eng.) are also present in the case before us now.	None
Here also the rule empowers the prescribed authority to deduct from the gross incometax paid in respect of the income received from big forest.	Reasoning
The earlier decision is more in point to the present case than the later.	Reasoning
Be that as it may, the English decisions on the construction of will are not of much help in construing the express provisions of R. 2(2)(c) of Schedule I to the Act they shall be construed on their own terms.	Reasoning
Having regard to the terms of the rule, we have come to the conclusion that incometax does not take in supertax.12.	None
In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.13.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
