 SABYASACHI MUKHARJI, J. These appeals by special leave arise from the decision of the High Court of Allahabad.	Issue
These involve common question.	Issue
It would, however, be appropriate to deal with the facts of Civil Appeal No. 1845 of 1986 which is an appeal from the decision of the High Court of Allahabad in Writ Petition Nos. 8145 and 8146 of 1985 decided on November 20, 1985.	Issue
The other two civil appeals deal with identical questions.	Issue
In order to appreciate the controversy involved it would be necessary to refer to certain facts of the case.	Issue
Uttar Pradesh Urban Planning and Development Act was enacted by the U.P. legislature in 1973.	Facts
On or about September 11, 1974, Lucknow had been declared to be a development area by a notification.	Facts
On or about September 24, 1984 Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act, 1984 was made effective subsequent to September 24, 1984.	Facts
On December 8, 1984 a notification under Section 4(1) and a declaration under Section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1984 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) in respect of Ujariyaon Housing Scheme (Gomti Nagar) Phase II was published.	Facts
On December 28, 1984 notification under Section 4(1) and declaration under Section 6 of the Act in respect of LDA Office Nagar Mahapalika Office and other offices on B.N. Road was published.	Facts
On January 2, 1985 notification under Section 4(1) and declaration under Section 6 of the Act in respect of extension of Kursi Road up to Mahanagar through Vishnupuri was published.	Facts
On February 21, 1985 notification under Section 4(1) and declaration under Section 6 of the Act in respect of Ujariyaon Housing Scheme (Gomti Nagar), Phase III was published.	Facts
In respect of several of these matters on reverse dates several writ petitions had been moved and orders were passed by the High Court staying taking over of possession of the diverse lands, if not already taken over, in case notifications under Section 4(1) and Section 6 of the Act have been passed simultaneously.	Facts
As mentioned hereinbefore, we are concerned in these appeals with the judgment and order of the High Court of Allahabad dated November 20, 1985 in Writ Petitions Nos. 8145 and 8146 of 1985.	Facts
The Petitioners before the High Court and the respondents herein are owners of plots situated in village Sonera, Tehsil Kichha, District Nainital.	Facts
Their land was being acquired under the provisions of the Act.	Facts
A notification under the said Act was issued on May 6, 1985 declaring that the land in question including the respondents land was needed for public purpose, namely, for construction of market yard for the Krishi Utpadan Mandi Samiti, Kichha.	Facts
The notification further contained a declaration that since there was urgency for the acquisition, the provision of Section 17(1A) and Section 17(4) of the Act shall apply and the provisions of Section 5A of the Act shall not apply.	Issue
On the same day, that is to say, on May 6, 1985 another notification was issued by the State Government under Section 6 of the Act making declaration that the land in dispute was required for a public purpose, namely, for the construction of market yard for the Krishi Utpadan Mandi Samiti, Kichha.	Facts
That notification also contained a direction as contemplated by Section 17(1) and (1A) of the Act authorising to Collector to take possession of the land even before the declaration of the awarded under Section 11 of the Act.	Issue
Both the aforesaid notifications were published on the same day, namely, May 22, 1985.	Issue
Aggrieved thereby, the respondents filed two writ petitions challenging the validity of the said notifications.	Facts
It was urged on behalf of the respondents before the Division Bench of the High Court of Allahabad that in view of the amendments introduced by the Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act, 1984 (Act 68 of 1984)	Facts
the declaration as contemplated under Section 6 of the Act could not have been made on the same day on which the notification under Section 4 of the Act was published, it submitted that now after the amendment, the notification under Section 6 of the Act can only be issued after the notification under Section 4 was published.	Facts
The High Court found substance in the said submission.	Facts
According to the High Court, prior to the amendment of the Act by the Amending Act 68 of 1984 it was permissible for the government to issue notification under Section 4 of the Act and to made declaration as contemplated under Section 6 of the Act simultaneously and it was further permissible to publish both the notifications simultaneously as held by this Court in Smt.	Facts
Somawanti v. State of Punjab ((1963) 2	Facts
SCR 775 AIR 1963 SC 151 (1963) 33 Com Cas 745).	Facts
The High Court noted that normally after the issue of the notification under Section 4 of the Act objections are invited as contemplated by Section 5A of the Act and after holding enquiry the Collector submits report to the government and on consideration of the same, the government makes declaration as contemplated by Section 6 of the Act.	Facts
Possession of the land is taken after the award is declared.	Facts
But in case of urgency where the government considers it necessary to acquire the land immediately and to make it possible even prior to the making of the award, it has that power to dispense with the provisions of Section 5A of the Act.	Facts
Section 17 of the Act confers special power on the government and the Collector in case of urgency for immediate taking of possession after the issue of the notification under Section 6 of the Act and without complying with the provisions of Section 5A of the Act.	Facts
Section 17(4) of the Act prior to this amendment conferred power on the government to direct that the provisions of Section 5A shall not apply, if in its opinion the provisions of subsections (1), (1A) and (2) of Section 17 were applicable.	Facts
The High Court was of the view that on the issue of such a direction by the government, a declaration could be made as contemplated by Section 6 of the Act in respect of the land at any time after the publication of the notification under Section 4 of the Act.	Facts
According to the High Court, prior to the amendment of Section 17(4) of the Amending Act 68 of 1984, a declaration as contemplated under Section 6 of the Act could be made at any time along with the publication of the notification under Section 4 of the Act but after the amendment of Section 17 4), a declaration as contemplated by Section 6 of the Act can be made only after the date of publication of the notification under Section 4(1).	Facts
In view of this amendment notification under Section 6 of the Act had to be made after the notification under Section 4(1) of the Act was published.	Facts
The expression after the date of publication of the notification as added to subsection (4) of Section 17 of the Act contemplated the issue of notification underSection 6 of the Act only after the publication of notification under Section 4(1) of the Act.	Facts
The High Court was of the view that prior to the amendment, a declaration under Section 6 of the Act could be made simultaneously with the publication of the notification under Section 4 (1) of the Act.	Facts
But after the amendment, a declaration can only be made after the date of publication of the notification under Section 4.	Facts
The High Court came to the conclusion that there must be difference of dates between the date of the publication of the notification under Section 4 and Section 6.	Facts
After the amendment, according to the High court, both the notification cannot published on the same date.	Facts
The publication of the notification under Section 4 and 6 of the Act on the same date would be contrary to Section 17(4) of the Act as amended by the Act 68 of 1984 and would render the notification under Section 6 of the Act invalid.	Facts
The High Court found that the notification under Section 6 of the Act containing declaration that the land in dispute was needed for a public purpose was issued on May 6, 1985 and published simultaneously along with the notification under Section 4 (1) of the Act on the same date, namely, May 22, 1985.	Facts
This, according to the High Court, was in clear violation of Section 17(4) of the Act.	Facts
In this view, the impugned notification under Section 6 was rendered illegal and as such the appellant were not entitled to take possession of the respondents land.	Facts
The High Court accordingly quashed the notification dated May 6, 1985 issued under Section 6 of the Act.	Facts
The short question with which these appeals are concerned is, whether the declaration under Section 6 of the Act could be issued simultaneously along with the notification under Section 4 of the Act in view of the amendment made to Section 17 (4) of the Act.	Issue
To decide the question it is necessary to appreciate the scheme of the Act after amendment.	None
Section 4 of the Act envisages publication of preliminary notification where it appears to the appropriate government that land in any locality is needed or is likely to be needed for any public purpose or for a company, it enjoins in such situation that a notification to that effect shall published in the official gazette and in certain other daily newspapers and the substance of the notification is to be given at convenient places in that locality.	Reasoning
It is not necessary to dilate on the subsequent procedure as contemplated by Section 4 of the Act.	Reasoning
Section 5 of the Act enjoins payment of damages on the acquisition.	Reasoning
Section 5A of the Act provides for hearing of objection which has been notified under Section 4 of the Act the procedure thereto.	Reasoning
Thereafter comes declaration under Section 6 of the Act.	Reasoning
The sections provide that after consideration of the report, if any, made under Section 5A that a particular land is needed for a public purpose or for a company, a declaration in the manner enjoined in Section 6 of the Act shall be made.	Reasoning
The provisions of procedure to be followed on declaration under Section 6 of the Act, are not directly relevant for the purpose of these appeals.	Reasoning
Section 17 of the Act with which we are directly concerned here provides with cases of urgency where the government can dispense with some of the provisions of the Act especially regarding inviting objections and hearing of these.	Reasoning
As mentioned hereinbefore, several objections challenging the acquisition had been admitted by the High Court of Allahabad and some of these are the subject matter of appeal in this court and Stay orders preventing the taking of the possession of the land pursuant to the acquisition had been granted on the basis that in view of the Division Bench judgment under appeal herein of the Allahabad High Court there could not be any simultaneous notification under Section 4 and declaration under Section 6 of the Act even in a case where by virtue of invocation of the emergency provisions Section 5A of the Act need not be complied with.	None
The government contends that even after the amendment of subsection of (4) of Section 17 of the Act it is possible to have such simultaneous notification under Section 4 and declaration under Section 6 of the Act in cases where the emergency provisions had been invoked.	None
According to the State, a large number of cases have been filed and stay orders obtained from the court particulars whereof have been mentioned in the grounds of appeals herein.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted on behalf of the appellant that the substitutions of the words after the publication of the notification by the words after the date of the notification in subsection (4) of Section 17 of the Act has not made any change in law and as such simultaneous publication on one and the same date of the notification under Section 4 and declaration under Section 6 of the Act in case of urgency where Section 5A had been made inapplicable prior to the amendment by Amending Act 68 of 1984 have been upheld in a number of decisions of this Court and this position, it was submitted, continues to be valid even after the amendment by Amending Act 68 of 1984.	Arguments of Petitioner
In order to appreciate the contentions urged in support of this submissions, it is necessary to note the significant changes that have been made by the Amending Act 68 of 1984 in Section 4 and 6 as well as Section 17 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The relevant subsections of sections prior and subsequent to the amendment are as follows Unamended Section 4(1).	None
Wherever it appears to the appropriate government that land in any locality is needed or is likely to be needed for any public purpose, a notification to that effect shall be published in the official gazette, and the Collector shall cause public notice of the substance of such notification to be given at convenient places in the said locality.	None
Amended Section 4(1)	None
Wherever it appears to the appropriate government that land in any locality is needed or is likely to be needed for any public purpose or for a company, a notification to that effect shall be published in the official gazette and in two daily newspapers circulating in that locality of which at least one shall be in the regional language and the collector shall cause public notice of the substance of such notification to be given at convenient places in the said locality the last of the dates of such publication and the giving of such public notice, being hereafter referred to as the date of the publication of the notification.	None
Unamended Section 6(2)	None
Every declaration shall be published in the official gazette, and shall state the district or other territorial division in which the land is situate, the purpose for which it is needed, its approximate area, and, where a plan shall have been made of the land, the place where such plan may be inspected.	None
Amended Section 6(2)	None
Every declaration shall be published in the official gazette and in two daily newspaper circulating in the locality in which the land is situate of which at least one shall be in the regional language, and the Collector shall cause public notice of the substance of such declaration to be given at convenient places in the said locality (the last of the dates of such publication and the giving of such public notice, being hereinafter referred to as the date of the publication of the declaration), and such declaration shall state the district or other territorial division in which the land is situate, the purpose for which it is needed, its approximate area, and, where a plan shall have been made of the land, the place where such plan may be inspectedUnamended Section 17(4).	None
In the case of any land to which, in the opinion of he appropriate government the provisions of subsection (1) or subsection (2) are applicable, the appropriate government may direct that the provisions of Section 5A shall not apply, and if it does so direct, a declaration may be made under Section 6 in respect of the land at any time after the publication of the notification under Section 4, subsection (1).	None
Amended Section 17(4)	None
In the case of any land to which, in the opinion of the appropriate government, the provisions of subsection (1) or subsection (2) are applicable, the appropriate government may direct that the provisions of Section 5A shall not apply, and, if it does so direct, a declaration may be made under Section 6 in respect of the land at any time after the date of the publication of the notification under Section 4, subsection (1).	None
It was contended that the amendment of Section 17(4) by the words after the date of the publication of the notification was necessitated because of the change of the expressions in subsection (1) of Section 4 which for the first time gave a definition of the date of the publication of the notification.	None
Similarly, in Section 6(2), the last date of the publication as enjoined in Section 6 and as set out herein before had been defined as the date publication.	None
For this purpose, it was necessary to introduced the expression after the date of the publication of the notification under subsection (4) of Section 17 of the Act.	None
It was submitted that the proceedings for acquisition of land commenced from the publication of the notification under Section 4(1) of the Act and under the provisions of Section 5A of the Act any person interested in any land which has been notified under Section 4(1) as being needed or likely to be needed for a public purpose or for a company may within 30 days from the date of the publication of the notification, object to the acquisition of the land or of any land in the locality, as the case may be, In ordinary cases after hearing objections, the State Government makes a decision regarding the acquisition of land and in case it is decided by the State Government that the land is needed for a public purpose or for a company, a declaration to that effect is enjoined to be made by the State Government under Section 6(1) of the Act.	None
Since in normal course declaration is made after objections under Section 5A of the Act have been considered and disposed of, the date of the declaration under Section 6(2) of the Act has to be subsequent to the date of the notification under Section 4(1) of the Act, but in a case where objections under Section 5A have been dispensed with, simultaneous publication on one and the same date of the notification under Section 4(1) and the declaration under Section 6(1) and (2) of the Act can be made simultaneously, was the position before the amendment of the Act before 1984.	Facts
That this was the position in law, cannot be disputed in view of the decision of this Court in Smt.	None
Somawanti v. State of Punjab ((1963) 2	Facts
SCR 775 AIR 1963 SC 151 (1963) 33 Com Cas 745) which conclusively held that in a case where Section 5A was out of the way, publication of both notification under Section 4 and declaration under Section 6 in the issue of the gazette is not irregular.	None
It may be mentioned that in that case it was found that in the official gazette of August 25, 1961 a notification was published under Section 4 of the Act to the effect that land belonging to the petitioners was likely to be needed by the government at public expenses for a public purpose, namely, for setting up of a factory for manufacturing various ranges of refrigeration and ancillary equipments.	None
The government had directed that action under Section 17 of the Act shall be taken because there was urgency and that the provisions of Section 5A shall not apply to the acquisition.	None
In the same gazette, another notification under Section 6 of the Act dated August 19, 1961 was published to the effect that the Governor of Punjab was satisfied that the land was required by the government at public expenses for public purpose.	None
The notification provided for immediate taking of the possession of the land under Section 17(2)(c) of the Act.	None
A Bench of five Judges of this Court inter alia held that simultaneous publication of the notification under Section 4 and declaration under Section 6 of the Act in a situation where Section 5A was out of the way was not bad.	None
This view was reiterated by this Court in Babu Singh v. Union of India ((1981) 3 SCC 628 AIR 1979 SC 1713 ).	None
A Bench of two Judges in that decision held that there is nothing in the provision of the Act which would come in the way of the government issuing a notification under Section 6 immediately after notification under Section 4 if on applying urgency clause, enquiry under Section 5A is dispensed with and both could be issued on the same day.	None
The question is, has the position changed with the changes noted in law hereinbefore.	None
Mr. S. N. Kacker, learned counsel who argued this case before us had submitted that the use of the words the date of the publication under Section 4 as well as Section 6 of the Act has the sequel to the amendment made in Sections 4 and 6 of the amendment.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that after enquiry under Section 5A was dispensed with by application of emergency provisions, there could not be any reason or justification for not allowing publication simultaneously of the notification under Section 4 and declaration under Section 6 of the Act especially so where in urgent cases it was vitally necessary for the government to do so.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that where under subsection (2) of Section 17 of the Act there is urgency for acquisition owing to sudden change in various circumstances, immediately possession may have to be taken for the purpose of maintaining either the structure or system or irrigation or water drainage, road communication or electricity, and any delay in taking immediate possession by not publishing the declaration under Section 6 and notification under Section 4 simultaneously on one and the same date may result in great catastrophe.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that the expression after the date of the publication of notification have no bearing on the exercise of power or urgency necessitating simultaneous publication of the notification under Section 4(1) and declaration under Section 6 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted on behalf of the appellant that the acquisition proceedings commence with the publication of the notification under Section 4 of the Act, besides publication of notice of substance of such notification at convenient places in the locality.	None
This was required to be done under Section 4(1) of the Act prior to the amendment of Section 4(1) of the Act 68 of 1984.	None
As a result of amendment of Section 4(1) by Act 68 of 1984, it is now laid down that notification under Section 4(1) of the Act that land in a locality is needed or likely to be needed for any public purpose or for a company shall be published in the official gazette and in two daily newspaper circulating in that locality of which at least one shall be in a regional language and the Collector shall also cause public notice of the substance of such notification, the last of the date of such publication being hereinafter referred to as the date of the publication of the notification.	Reasoning
Similarly, under section 6(2) of the Act it has been provided that as a result of amendment by Act 68 of 1984 every declaration shall published in the official gazette and two daily newspapers circulating in the locality in which the land is situated of which at least one shall be in the regional language, and the Collector shall cause pubic notice of the substance of such declaration to be given at convenient places in the locally in which the land is situated, the last of the dates of such publication and the giving of such public notice, being hereinafter referred to as the date of the publication of the declaration.	None
Under both Section 6(2) and 4(1) the date of publication having been specified, amendment had to be made under subsection (4) of Section 17 of the Act and it was laid down that in case of urgency the appropriate government may direct that the provisions of Section 5A of the Act shall not apply and it so directs that the declaration be made under Section 6 in respect of the land at any time after the date of the publication of the notification under subsection (1) of Section 4 and the addition of the words the date of have not brought about any change in law at all.	None
It was verbal change necessitated by the amendment in Section 4 and Section 6 noted above and the position in law continues as it was before.	None
Mr. Anil Dev Singh also supported Mr. Kacker appearing in other appeals being Civil Appeal Nos. 1843 and 1844 of 1986.	None
On the other hand, Mr. R. K. Jain canvassed the view that if the words have changed adherence must be given to the change of the expression used.	Arguments of Respondent
Our attention was drawn by Mr. Jain to a decision of this Court in Collector (District Magistrate)	Arguments of Respondent
Allahabad v. Raja Jaiswal ((1985) 3 SCC 1 ).	Arguments of Respondent
There, the facts were, however, slightly different.	None
In that case the Hindi Sahitaya Sammelan, Prayag had obtained a large open land from Municipal Board in 1953 for constructing Hindi Sangrahalaya, but the land was laying vacant and unutilised.	None
In the vicinity of the Sammelans campus was the land of the respondent who with a view to construct a soundproof airconditioned cinema theatre thereon sought certificate of approval from the DM under Rule 3 read with Rule 7(2) of the U.P. Cinematograph Rules, 1951.	None
The Sammelan vehemently opposed that proposal on the ground that a cinema theatre in the vicinity would be destructive of culture and academic environment of the institute.	None
Overruling the objection, the DM granted the certificate to the respondent.	None
Thereupon, the Sammelan made an application to the government for acquiring the respondents land as, according to it, the land was needed by it for the purpose of extension of Hindi Sangrahalaya, though later it shifted its stand to need for construction of Natyashala and Rangmanch and ultimately maintained that it would devise scheme for proper utilisation as and when the land is made available.	None
Although the Collector on whom the statue confers power to initiate proceeding for acquisition himself was satisfied that Sammelan sought acquisition not because it requires the land but it wanted to stop or do away with the cinema theatre, but ultimately a notification was issued under Section 4 (1) of the Act stating that the land was needed for a public purpose, namely, for extension of Hindi Sangrahalaya of the Sammelan.	None
The notification was issued in the official gazette and the substance of the notification was also published in the locality.	None
But since the plot number of the land was wrongly mentioned in the notification, a corrigendum was published cancelling and superseding the earlier notification and correcting the plot number.	None
The notice of the substance of the second notification was not published in the locality.	None
As the earlier notification had no relevance to the plot of the respondent, there was admittedly no notice of the substance of the notification in the locality.	None
Question for determination were Whether the requirement under the second part of Section 4(1) regarding giving of the substance of the notification in the locality is mandatory and its noncompliance is fatal to the acquisition proceedings Whether the acquisition proceedings was vitiated by legal mala fides Whether the notification under Section 4 was invalid as it had been issued without first complying with Rule 4 of the Land Acquisition (Companies) Rules, 1963 ?	None
This Court answered the first two questions in the affirmative and left the third question open.	None
This Court held that the publication of the notice in the locality as required in the second part of Section 4(1) of the Act was mandatory and unless that notice was given in accordance with the provisions contained therein, the entire acquisition proceedings would be vitiated.	None
The court further held that the assumption that the sole purpose behind publication of a notice in the locality under Section 4(1) was to give an opportunity to the person interested in land to object to the acquisition under Section 5A of the Act was not well founded.	None
Therefore, it could not be said that where such person files his objections the purpose was achieved and that the failure to give public notice in the locality needed not to be treated as fatal to the proceedings.	None
We have examined the observations of this Court at page 13 of judgment upon which reliance has been placed on behalf of the respondent.	Reasoning
We are, however, of the opinion that in view of the significant difference in the set of facts with which this Court was dealing with in that case, the observations therein are not relevant for our present purpose.	None
Reliance was also placed on certain observations of this Court in Shri Balaganesan Metals v. M. R. Shanmugham Chetty ((1987) 2 SCC 707 ) where this Court, dealing with the provisions of Section 10(3)(c) of T.N. Buildings (Lease Rent Control) Act, 1960 observed that it was a settled rule of the interpretation of statues that provisions of an Act should be interpreted in such manner as not render any of its provision otiose unless there where compelling reasons for the court to resort to that extreme contingency.	None
It was submitted that the use of the expression after the date of the publication of the notification in subsection (4) of Section 17 would become otiose if it is not construct as holding that simultaneous publication of notification under Section 4 and declaration under Section 6 are not permissible.	None
In Raja Satyendra Narayan Singh v. State of Bihar ((1987) 3 SCC 319 )	None
this Court had to deal with Bihar Land Reform Act, 1950 and it was observed that while interpreting statures plain meaning has to be ascertained and the statute has to be read as a whole and in the context and that statutory rules should be harmoniously read with the statute.	None
The basic principle, it was reiterated at page 325 of the report, of construction of every statute was to find out what is clearly stated and not to speculate upon latent imponderables.	None
The scheme of the Act also must be looked into.	None
In interpreting the statutes it is safer to rely on the obvious meaning rather than to investigate the imponderables.	None
It is true that the expression after the date of the publication of the notification introduced in Section 17(4) can be explained away as making no change from the provision of law by reading it along with the amendment made in Section 4 whereby in different situation in Section 4, the last date publication of the notice has been determined as the date of the publication of the notification and similarly in Section 6 a date of the publication of the notice has been provided for.	Facts
But the words after the date of the publication of the notification in subsection (4) of Section 17 read simpliciter clearly indicate that declaration under Section 6 had to made after the publication of the notification meaning thereby subsequent to the date of the publication of the notification.	None
It appears to us that there is nothing in the scheme of the Act which militates against such a construction.	None
At times where emergency provisions are invoked emergent action may be taken but in such a situation in view of the state of law that was before it, the legislature has made a conscious change which cannot be explained away merely because this is as a consequence of the changes in Section 4 and 6 of the Act.	None
15.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was placed on behalf of the appellant on Lord Howard de Walden v. IRC ((1948) 2	Arguments of Petitioner
All ER 825) for the proposition that no alteration in meaning by alteration of language can result unless the requirement of the English language demand it or those requirements permit it and the sense of the section demands it.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion, in this case in view of the alteration of the language and meaning and the meaning of the language used and the sense will be in consonance with the interpretation that the change was intended.	None
Similarly, in Hopes v. Hopes ((1948) 2 All ER 920), it was the proposition that changes in the word may be because the draftsman wanted to improve the style.	None
But in this case the style is not improved and the expression after the date as indicate above, become otiose.	None
It is job of the court to interpret the intention of the legislature by the words used.	None
The fairest and the most rational method to interpret the will of the legislature is by exploring its intention at the time when the law was made by signs, the most natural and probable, says Blackstone in his Commentaries on the Laws of England (facsimile of 1st edn. of 1765, University of Chicago Press, 1979 Volume I, p. 59.)	None
And these signs are either the words, the context, the subject matter, the effects and consequence, or the spirit and reason of the law.	None
The words have to be understood in their usual and most known signification.	None
If that be so, then the legislature must have had some intention in choosing the expression after before date of publication of the notification in subsection (4) of Section 17 of the Act while making amendment by Amending Act 68 of 1984.	None
It is true that there were some changes giving the meaning of the date of the publication in Section 4(1) and (2) as well as Section 6(2) of the Act.	None
But for that, there was no need for the use of the expression after the date.	None
If that be the position, then we must accept the interpretation put upon the amended clause by the High Court in the judgment under appeal.	None
It will however, be up to the appellant to issue a fresh declaration under Section 6, if so advised, within the period contemplated in the proviso to Section 6(1) of the Act read with its first explanation.	None
In that view of the matter the appeal must fail and is accordingly dismissed.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs.	None
In the view that we have taken, Civil Appeals Nos. 1843 and also dismissed without costs.	Decision
