 Subba Rao, J.1.	None
These five appeals by certificate arise out of Original Suits Nos. 183, 184 and 185 of 1945 filed in the Court of the Subordinate Judge, Coimbatore, Madras State.2.	None
O. S. No. 183 of 1945 relites to properties claimed on behalf of Sri Chowleswaraswami temple.	Facts
Periaswami Goundar and Samana Goundar, the plaintiffs in the said suit, are the trustee of the said temple.	Facts
They filed the suit for the recovery of the plaintscheduled properties from the defendants who are the archakas and the alienees from them on the ground that the said properties were the properties of the deity and that the defendants had no right therein.	Facts
They also claimed mesne profits for a period of 3 years prior to the suit.	Facts
The defendants filed a written statement admitting the claim of the deity to the melvaram interest in the properties but claimed that the archakas owned the kudivaram therein and that some of the said properties were validly transferred to the alienees.3.	Facts
O. S. No. 184 of 1945 was filed in the said Court by the trustees of Sri Pongali Amman temple situated in the village of Vengambur for the recovery of the properties mentioned in the schedule attached to the plaint.	Facts
The defendants, who are the archakas and aliences from them, inter alia, pleaded that only melvaram in the said properties was granted to the deity and that the archakas owned the kudivaram therein and they had validly alienated their interest in the said properties in favour of the aliencees.4.	Facts
O. S. No. 185 of 1945 was filed in the same Court by the trustees of Sri Varadaraja Perunal temple situated in Vengambur village.	Facts
The plaintiffs sought to recover the properties mentioned in the schedule annexed to the plaint from the archakas and the alienees from them on the same grounds and the defendants raised similar pleas.	Facts
It is not necessary to mention other defences raised in the written statements filed in the three suit as nothing turns upon them in these appeals.5.	Facts
The main issue in O. S. No. 183 of 1945, O. S. No. 184 of 1945 and O. S. No. 185 of 1945 was whether the inam grants made to the three temples consisted of both the varams or melvaram alone.6.	None
The learned Subordinate Judge tried the said suits along with two othersuits and delivered a common judgment therein.	Facts
On the said issue he held in all the three suits that the grants to the three deities comprised both the varams.	Facts
He further held that the alienations made by the archakas prior to May 16, 1931, were binding on the trustees of the respective temples and that the alienations made subsequent to that date were liable to be set aside.	Facts
In the result the learned Subordinate Judge gave a decree in each of the suits for possession of the plaintschedule properties except those covered by the alienations effected before May 16, 1931.	Facts
He also decreed mesne profits to the plaintiffs for a period of 3 years prior to the suits and also subsequent profits from the date of the suits to the date of delivery of possession at the rate fixed by him.	Facts
The defendants in the said suits preferred appeals to the High Court of Madras, being appeals Nos. 259, 260 and 385 of 1947.	Facts
The said appeals were heard by a Division Bench of the said High Court, consisting of Satyanarayana Rao and Rajagopalan, JJ.	Facts
The High Court agreed with the trial Court on the finding relating to the nature of the grants to the temples, that is to say it held that the grants to the temples comprised both the varams, namely, melvaram and kudivaram.	Facts
The learned Judges, for the first time, though there was no pleading, no issue and no contention in the trial Court, held that the archakas were entitled to have a portion of the said properties allotted to them towards their remuneration for the services to the temples and gave a decree directing the division of the said properties into two halves and putting the archakas in possession of one half.	Facts
They did not disturb the finding of the learned Subordinate Judge in regard to the alienations, that it they maintained the alienations made before May 16, 1931.7.	Facts
Against the decree of the High Court in A. S. No. 259 of 1947 and A. S. No. 385 of 1947 both the archakas and the trustees preferred appeals to this Court questioning the correctness of the decree of the High Court in so far as it went against them.	Issue
Against the decree in A. S. No. 260 of 1947 no appeal was filed by the archakas, but the trustees preferred an appeal questioning that part of the decree directing a part of the properties to be put in possession of the archakas.8.	Facts
Mr. Desai and Mr. Tatachari appearing for the archakas in the different appeals, contended that the Courts below, having regard to the consistent and continuous conduct of enjoyment as absolute owners of the properties by the archakas spread over a long period of time, should have invoked the doctrine of lost grant particilarly when there was no clear and convincing evidence of the terms of the grant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Alternatively, they argued that the Courts should have held, on a fair construction of the recitals found in inam statements and the inam register, that only melvaram was granted to the deity.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Viswanatha Sastri, learned counsel for the trustees, contested this position.	Arguments of Respondent
He would say that there is no scope for invoking the doctrine of lost grant as the recitals in the inam register and the inam statement, which are of great evidentiary value, conclusively establish that both the varams were granted to the deity and that all the documents, or most of them, disclosing the conduct of the archakas would support the conclusion that both the varams were so granted to the deity.10.	Arguments of Respondent
At the outset it would be convenient to notice briefly the scope of the doctrine of lost grant, as the learned counsel for the appellants have strongly relied upon it.	Reasoning
The doctrine of lost grant with its limitations has been succinctly explained by the Judicial Committce in Sankaranarayana Pillayan v. Hindu Religious Endowments Board, Madras, ILR (1948) Mad 585 at pp.	Reasoning
605606 (AIR 1948 PC 25 at p. 33).	None
The temple in that case had 4 kattalais.	Reasoning
Though the temple had a general trustee, each of the kattalais was in the charge of a special trustee or trustees.	Reasoning
In regard to one of the kattalais after meeting all the expenses there remained a surplus which the trustees claimed for their own benefit and in fact they were utilising the surplus for the benefit of their families.	None
It was contended by the appellants that they were the owners of the suit properties, which were subject only to a charge in favour of the kattalai for the performance of the worship according to the prescribed scale.	None
The Judicial Committee, after noticing the earlier decisions, observed The presumption, it was stated, of an origin in some lawful title which the Courts have so often readily made in order to support possessor rights long and quietly enjoyed, arises where no actual proof of title is forthcoming, and the rule has to be resorted to because of the failure of actual evidence.	None
In the present case, where there is ample and convincing proof the nature of the grant, the object of the endowment and the capacity of the persons claiming the user and enjoyment, the rule can hardly have any application.	None
In the result the Judicial Committee held that the properties were granted only to the deity and that the trustees had no claim to any surplus income.	None
The said principle has been accepted by this Court in B. Satyanarayana v. K. Venkatapayya, 1953 SCR 1001 at p. 1003 (AIR 1953 SC 195 at p. 196).	None
There a question similar to that now raised was considered.	None
The archakas claimed, relying upon the doctrine of lost grant, that under the original inam grant only the melvaram interest was given to the deity.	None
Rejecting that contention, Das, J., speaking for the Court, observed There is no doubt, on the authorities, that a presumption of an origin in some lawful title may in certain circumstances be made to support possessory rights long and quietly enjoyed, where no actual proof of title is forthcoming but it is equally well established that that presumption cannot be made where there is sufficient evidence and convincing proof of the nature of the grant and the persons to whom it was made.	None
The basis of this doctrine is clearly brought ought by two judgments of the Judicial Committee.	Reasoning
Lord Buckmaster, delivering the judgment in Magniram Sitaram v. Kasturbhai Manibhai, 49 Ind App 54 (AIR 1922 PC 163) observed At the lapse of 100 years, when every party to the original inaction has passed away, and it becomes completely impossible to ascertain what were the circumstances which caused the original grant to be made, it is only following the policy which the Courts always adopt, of securing as far as possible quiet possession to people who are in apparent lawful holding of an estate, to assume that the grant was lawfully and not unlawfully made.	Reasoning
Viscount Sumner in Mohamad Muzafar Ali Musavi v. Jabeda Khatun 57 Ind App 125 (AIR 1930 PC 103 ) said much to the same effect thus The presumption of an origin in some lawful title, which the Courts have so often readily made in order to support possessory rights, long and quietly enjoyed, where no actual proof of title is forthcoming, is one which is not a mere branch of the law of evidence.	None
It is resorted to because of the failure of actual evidence.	None
It is, therefore, clear that the said principle can only be invoked where there is no acceptable evidence of the terms of the grant.11.	None
In these appeals the trustees filed copies of the relevant extracts of the inam register and the statements filed by the ancestors of the archakas during the inam enquiry in support of the contention that both the varams were granted to the deity.	None
The evidentiary value of the recitals in the inam register has been emphasised by the judicial Committee in more than one decision.	None
In Arunachalam Chetti v. Venkata Chalapathi Guruswamigal, ILR 43 Mad 253 (AIR 1919 PC 62) the Judicial Committee expressed its view on the evidentiary value of the recitals in inam register thus It is true that the making of this register was for the ultimate purpose of determining whether or not the lands were tax free.	None
But it must not be forgotten that the preparation of this register was a great act of state and its preparation and contents were the subject of much consideration under elaborately detailed reports and minutes.	None
It is to be remembered that the Inam Commissioners, through their officials, made enquiry on the spot, heard evidence and examined documents, and, with regard to each individual property, the Government was put in possession not only of the conclusion come to as to whether the land was tax free, but of a statement of the history and tenure of the property itself.	None
While their Lordships do not doubt that such a report would not displace actual and authentic evidence in individual cases, yet the Board when such is not available, cannot fail to attach the utmost importance, as part of the history of the property, to the information set forth in the inam register.	None
In the latest decision of the Judicial Committee reported in Sankaranarayana Pillayans case, ILR (1948) Mad 585 at p. 599 (AIR 1948 PC 25 at p. 30) reiterated the same position when it said The question arose in a recent case before this Board with reference to a Madras Inam (see Secy. of State v. Vidya Sri Varada Thirtha Swamigal, ILR (1942)	None
Mad 893 at p. 908 (AIR 1942 PC 21 at pp. 2425) where it was held that the title deeds and the entries in the inam register are evidence of the true intent and effect of the transaction and of the character of the right which was being recognised and continued.	None
The entries in the inam register and the description of the inamdar therein were accepted as indications of the nature and quantum of the right and the interest created in the land.	None
This view of the Judicial Committee has been accepted and applied by the Madras High Court in many decisions when it was called upon to decide on the conflicting claims of a trustee and a archaka to the properties dealt with in the inam registers.12.	None
The documents relating to Sri Pongali Amman temple are Exs.	None
P2 and P3.	None
Ex.	None
P2 is the statement filed by an ancestor of the present archakas before the Inam Commissioner.	None
It is of the year 1862.	None
Ex.	None
P3 is an extract of the inam register.	None
As observed by the Judicial Committee, the entries made in the said register are the result of an elaborate enquiry based upon oral evidence, on the spot enquiry and scrutiny of available accounts and records.	None
The inam statement is only one of the pieces of evidence which the Inam Commissioner might have taken into consideration in compiling the Inam register.	None
The recitals in the statement must therefore, give place to the recitals in the inam register, though an attempt shall be made to harmonize them if possible.	None
Before considering the recitals in Ex.	None
P3 it is necessary to bear in mind the common case i.e. that it is the case of both the archakas and the trustees that Ex.	None
P3 deals only with the property that was given to the deity.	None
But the dispute is as regards the extent of the interest in the property that was given to the deity.	None
Was it only the melvaram in the said property that was granted to the deity or was it that both the varams therein were granted to the deity?	None
Now let us give a close look to the recitals under the various columns in Ex. P3.	None
The first major head is class, extent and value of inam.	None
The said major head is divided into 7 subheads.	None
In col. 2 under the subhead General class to which inam belongs, the entry is religious.	None
In col. 3 under the head the survey number and the name of the field or fields comprised in the grant  dry, wet or garden, the particulars of the lands are given.	None
This entry shows that except a small extent which is a garden the rest is dry land.	None
These details are more consistent with the grant being of both the varams than being of mere melvaram.	None
If it is of melvaram alone, the quality of the field is quite irrelevant.	None
Subheads 4, 5 and 6 show that the extent is about 18 acres and 99 cents and the assessment is Rs. 24/14/5.	None
These recitals leave the impression that the land was a dry land bearing a small assessment of Rs. 24/14/5 and the income therefrom could not have been appreciable in those days.	None
The second main head is description, tenure and documents in support of the inam.	None
The entries under the various columns under this head establish that the dry lands bearing an assessment of Rs. 24/14/5 described in cols.	None
3, 4, 5 and 6 were granted as Devedayam to the deity Pogali Amman permanently by Maduraiyar Paligar of Madura.	None
The date of the grant is not known but even in the accounts of 1209 F. the name of the deity was entered as the grantee.	None
The third major head is name and relationship of original grantee and of subsequent and present heirs  length of possession.	None
In Cols. 13 and 15 the name of the deity alone is given.	None
In Col. 16 under the heading name and age and in Col. 17 under the heading place of residence only the name of the deity is given.	None
Below the name of the deity the name of the Pujari Pujari Muttandi, age 45 is given.	None
In Cols. 18 and 19 under the heading relation to original grantee or subsequent registered holders and surviving heirs of the present incumbent no entry is made.	None
Obviously no entries are made under these subheads, as the deity cannot have relations.	None
The mention of Pujari Muttandi in the context of other entries indicates that he was incharge of the temple.	None
If his name was mentioned because he had some interest in the land, the other suitable entries in regard to his relations would have been made under the relevant subheads.	None
Indeed it is not the case of the archakas that they have some interest in the melvaram.	None
If the document was concerned only with the melvaram interest, strictly them was no place for the archaka in the document, for he had no interest therein.	None
His name was mentioned only as he was the person who was in de facto management of the properties of the deity.	None
In Col. 21 under the heading Deputy Collectors opinion and recommendation, the entry is To be confirmed permanently to the Pagoda so long as it is well kept up, subject to the existing jodi of Rs. 317.	None
Under Col. 22 the inam is confirmed to the pagoda.	None
A reasonable interpretation of the recitals in this document leads to the only conclusion that the Inam Commissioner was dealing in the entire interest in the land, the particulars whereof were given therein.	None
There is no evidence that at the time the grant was made the archakas or any others were kudivaramdars.	None
But it is said that Ex.	None
P2, the inam statement, filed by the then archakas would establish that what was granted was only the melvaram.	None
There, in Col. 2 under the head Name of the inamdar entered in dowle and name of the present enjoyed the following entry is found Pongaliamman Possari Kuppaiyandi Muthuveeran as per paimash entry.	None
For fields Nos. 595 and 597 no possaris name is mentioned.	None
Present (enjoyer) Pongaliamman possari Muthandi.	None
It is said that pujari is shown as the enjoyer and, therefore the deity has no interest in the enjoyment of the land.	None
The deity was obviously represented by the pujari who was the de facto trustee.	None
He was in possession of the property in the capacity as the de facto trustee.	None
In those circumstances if the pujari of the temple is described as an enjoyer, it can only mean that he was in possession of the land on behalf of the temple.	None
Whatever ambiguity there might be in the said recital it is dispelled by the entry in Col. 12 under the head Particulars of present enjoyment, namely.	None
By directly cultivating this land, selling the produce derived therefrom and applying the sale proceeds to the service of the deity I and my agnates have been performing pooja and enjoying the said (sic) and according to the conditions of the grant.	None
This entry is couched in clear and unambiguous terms.	None
It described the nature of the enjoyment of the land by the archaka it clearly says that he was cultivating the land, selling the produce and from the sale proceeds he was doing the services to the deity in accordance with the terms of the grant.	None
If the deity was entitled only to the melvaram, this recital is inconsistent with it.	None
The recital indicates that the entire land was subjectmatter of the grant in favour of the deity and that the produce from that land was utilized for the services to the deity.	None
Strong reliance is placed upon the entry in Col. 13 under the head Income derived from the manibam whether sarvadambla or jodigai, if jodigai, how much.	None
The entry is, Income Rs. 24145	None
Jodigai Rs. 317.	None
Basing upon the said entries the argument is that Ex.	None
P3 shows that the assessment on the land was Rs. 24145 and Ex.	None
P2 indicates that the same amount was the income derived from the inam and, therefore, what was granted in inam could have been only the assessment i.e. Rs. 24145.	None
This argument is far fetched and based on a slender foundation.	None
One of the main objects of the inam enquiry was to ascertain whether the alienated lands were free of tax or not.	None
The archaka who was in possession of the land on behalf of the deity had to give information as regards the tax payable in respect of the land in his possession.	None
In that context the expression Income derived from the manibam can only mean the assessment fixed on the land.	None
After stating that full assessment was only Rs. 24145 the archaka stated that he was not paying the entire amount, but was paying only the jodigai of Rs. 317.	None
So understood the said recitals fit into the scheme of other recitals in the said statement and those found in Ex. P3.	None
A similar argument was advanced before this Court in Satyanarayanas case, 1953 SCR 1001 (AIR 1953 SC 195 ) and was rejected.	None
Das J. observed at p.1006 thus Apart from these points of distinction the decision relied on by the learned AttorneyGeneral appears to us to be of doubtful authority.	None
As will appear from the passages quoted above, the decision rested mainly, if not entirely, on the fact that the amount of assessment and the amount of income were the same and the conclusion was drawn that the Inam grant comprised only of the revenue assessment, i.e., of melvaram rights.	None
We are unable to follow the reasoning.	None
We, therefore, hold that, from the recitals in the said two documents, what was granted to the deity was of both the varams.13.	None
Learned counsel for the archakas relied upon the long possession and enjoyment of the suit lands by the arckakas and their ancestors in support of their contention that the melvaram alone could have been granted to the deity.	Arguments of Petitioner
Long enjoyment is also consistent with an arrangement that might have been entered into between the grantor and the then functioning archaka or archakas having regard to the conditions prevailing then.	None
The lands granted were comparatively of small extent and they were dry lands.	None
In those days the income from the said lands must have been very insignificant.	None
There was no trustee for the temple in those circumstances it is mare likely that the grantor would have put the land in the possession of the archaka so that he might, from and out of the produce from the land, maintain the temple, perform the puja and meet the expenditure connected with the puja and also pay himself the remuneration for his services to the temple.	None
That was a convenient arrangement which was adopted in many of the small temples in that part of the country.	None
This practice was recorded with clarity by the Madras High Court in Narayanamurthi v. Achayya Sastrulyu, 47 Mad LJ 714 at p. 716 (AIR 1925 Mad 411 at pp. 412413).	None
In dealing with a similar argument the learned Judge observed The evidence of user and enjoyment, however long, uninterrupted and unquestioned, would be evidence of the grant only in the absence of any reliable or cogent evidence with regard to the terms of the grant itself or in the case of any ambiguity in the grant.	None
It seems to be clear that almost very recently the suit lands yielded only just what was sufficient for nitya naivedyam or the daily worship.	None
No doubt in such a state of things not only the persons who established the temples and made the endowments but succeeding generations of worshippers would have allowed the archakas to cultivate the lands and take the income performing the puja as it was obviously the most convenient mode of arranging for the worship of the deities and the payment of remuneration for the archaka service.	None
But when the income accruing from the lands came to be considerable and the archakas, by reason of old habits and following their forefathers, claimed the lands and surplus profits therefrom to be their own, it was only natural that the worshippers should take steps to secure the surplus income for the institutions.	None
These observations are very opposite and they clearly describe the circumstances under which the archakas of the temple were allowed to be in possession of the temple lands.	None
If that was the situation under which the archakas came into possession of the lands, they were certainly in the position of de facto trustees and they could not be mortgaging or otherwise alienating the properties claims any rights in derogation of the title of the deity.	Reasoning
Indeed the documents on which the learned counsel relied contain clear and unambiguous admission on the part of the archakas that the land itself was the property of the deity.	Reasoning
Exs.	Reasoning
P.12, P13, P14 and P15 are copies of mortgages executed by the archakas.	Reasoning
Under these documents the land in their possession was mortgaged and it was described as paditharam manyam.	Reasoning
They also disclosed that the paditharam paddy directed to be paid to the temple was more than the kist payable thereon to Government.	Reasoning
In the prior proceedings i.e. applications preferred by the archakas for declaring the temples as excepted ones, them was no claim that the melvaram alone was granted to the deity.	Reasoning
In other proceedings the archakas claimed that the lands were service inams, but they did not come forward with the present plea that melvaram only was granted to the deity.	Reasoning
Further, pattas for the suit lands were transferred without any objection of the archakas in the name of the deities in 1939 and the archakas also paid contribution to the Madras Hindu Religious Endowments Board on the basis that both the varams belonged to the deity.	Reasoning
The conduct of the archakas, therefore, is consistent with the recitals in the inam registration namely, that what was granted to the deity was the land i.e. both the varams, and that they had been put in possession and enjoyment of the said land in their capacity as archakas and de facto trustee.14.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the appellants relied upon an order made by A. R. C. Westlake, Collector of Coimbatore, on April 14, 1941, wherein he held that only melvaram was granted to the deity.	None
That order came to be made under the following circumstances.	None
The trustees appointed by the Coimbatore District Temple Committee filed an application before the Revenue Division Officer under S. 44B11 (a) of the Madras Hindu Religious Endowments (Amendment) Act, 1934, for a declaration that the alienations of portions of inam land attached to the temple were null and void and for resumption and regnant of the same to the deity.	None
One of the issues in the application was whether the inam comprised melvaram or both melvaram and Kudivaram.	None
The Revenue Division Officer held that the inam comprised both the varams.	None
On appeal, the Collector came to the contrary conclusion.	None
But a perusal of the order shows that his conclusion was based upon pure surmises.	None
The Collector did not refer to any document or evidence for his conclusion.	Reasoning
The trustees filed a suit in the Court of the Subordinate Judge, Coimbatore, for a declaration that the inam grant in favour of the plaint temple comprised both the varams.	Reasoning
The learned Subordinate Judge held that S. 44B of the Act had no application as the grant was to the deity and was not a service inam.	Reasoning
The result of this litigation was that there was no final decision on the question whether the grant was of both the varams or only of the melvaram.	Reasoning
These proceedings cannot, therefore, be of any evidentiary value in this case.	Reasoning
On a consideration of the entire evidence we agree with the conclusion arrived at the by the High Court that the grant to the deity comprised both the varams in the suit lands.15.	None
Now coming to the appeals relating to Chowleswaraswami temple, the factual and legal position is exactly the same as in the case of Pongaliamman temple.	None
Ex.	None
P2 is the statement made before the Inam Commissioner by the then archaka and Ex.	None
P3 is the extract from the Inam register.	None
Under the relevant entries in the inam register, survey numbers, extent, quality and the assessment of the subjectmatter of the grant are given.	None
The land is described as Devadayam and is stated to have been granted for the support of the pagoda of Chowleswaraswami.	None
The nature of the grant is described as permanent.	None
The date of the grant is not known.	None
The grantors name is given as Maduraiyar Paligar of Madura.	None
The name of the original grantee is given as Chowleswaraswami.	None
The grant of the land described earlier is confirmed permanently to the pagoda as long as it is well kept subject to the existing jodi of Rs. 2482.	None
The only mention of archaka is in Col. 17 under the head Particulars regarding present owner and the entry thereunder is Chowleswaraswami, stanika Muttaiyan.	None
The other columns where the relationship of the present owner with the previous owners is expected to be recorded are left blank for the obvious reason that the said columns are irrelevant in the case of a deity.	None
The archakas name in addition to the deity is mentioned as he was in possession of the land in his capacity as de facto trustee.	None
The deity must necessarily have to be represented by somebody and that he can only be the stanika who was managing the temple and its properties.	None
The relevant entries in the inam register do not countenance any contention that the melvaram interest only in the land was granted and that was confirmed to the deity.	None
If the melvaram was granted or confirmed, the recitals would have been different.	Reasoning
The corresponding inam statement is Ex. P2.	None
The entries are practically similar to those found in Ex.	None
P2 relating to Pongaliamman temple with some slight variations.	None
Col. 2 makes a near distinction between ownership of the land and enjoyment.	Reasoning
The owner is shown as Chowleswaraswami and the present enjoyer is shown as Chowleswaraswamis stanika.	Reasoning
The nature of the enjoyment is described in Col. 2 thus The said lands are leased out for varam cultivation and I cultivate the same myself some times and the income (Masul) therefrom is enjoyed by me and cosharers (Pangali) and used for Swami Viniyogam.	None
It is manifest from this recital that the land was the subjectmatter of the grant and the income, therefrom was derived either by direct cultivation or by leasing out the same, and the said income was enjoyed by the archaka and used for Viniyogam.	Reasoning
The point to be noted is that the predecessorininterest to the present archaka admitted that the produce from the land was utilized for the services of the deity.	Reasoning
The said admission is inconsistent with the allegation that the grant was only of melvaram.	Reasoning
The entries in Col. 13 are similar to those contained in the corresponding Ex.	None
P2 relating to Pongaliamman temple, and for the reasor already given, they do not support the contention that the assessment of Rs. 7415 was only granted to the deity.16.	None
A combined reading of these two documents leads to the only conclusion that both the varams were granted to the deity.	None
Just as in the case of Pongaliamman temple so in the case of Chowleswaraswami temple, the subsequent conduct of the archakas belie their assertion that only melvaram interest in the land was granted to the deity.	Reasoning
Exs.	Reasoning
D 1 of 1867, D2 of 1868, D  3 of 1870 and D4 of 1883 are some of the mortgages executed by the archakas of Chowleswaraswami temple.	Reasoning
Exs. D5, D6 and D7 are sales.	None
In all these documents the property is described as Chowleswaraswami manyam.	Reasoning
If really the kudivaram belonged to the archakas, they would not have described the land they are alienating as Chowleswaraswami manyam.	Reasoning
The description of the property as that of the deity is consistent with the title of Kudivaram also being in the deity.	Reasoning
Further, as in the other case, the pattas were transferred in the name of the deity in 1939, the contributions were paid to the Hindu Religious Endowments Board on the basis that the entire interest in the lands belonged to the deity and that in other proceedings the archakas case was not that the grant to the deity was only of the melvaram but the lands were service inam lands.	Reasoning
Though the archaks dealt with the properties by mortgaging or otherwise alienating them they never denied the title of the deity.	Reasoning
For the foregoing reason we hold that even in the case of Chowleswaraswami temple the original grant made to the deity comprised both the varams.17.	Reasoning
In regard to Sri Varadaraja Perumal temple, no appeal was filed by the archakas and they allowed the judgment of the High Court in regard to the title to become final.	Reasoning
Nowthing, therefore, need be said on the question of title of the land in respect of this temple.18.	Reasoning
Coming to the crossappeals by the trustees against that part of the decree of the High Court apportioning the property of the deity between the deity and the archakas, the question raised is whether the High Court, having held that the title to the suit property vested in the deity, had jurisdiction to compel the trustees of the temples to put the archakas in possession of specified extent of property towards their remuneration.	None
The High Court observed thus On these findings, it is no doubt true that the decree in favour of the plaintiffs for possession of the properties on behalf of the deity has to be upheld subject to the consideration set forth below.	None
Then it proceeded to consider whether any allocation of land should he made between the archakas and the trustees.	None
After noticing the relevant decisions on the subject, it observed thus These decision are practically uniform except for the decisions (in) Brahmayya v. Rajeswaraswami Temple A. S. NNo.	None
237 of 1950	None
(AIR 1953 Mad 580 ) and. . . .	None
(in) Venkatadri v. Seshacharyuly, ILR 1948 Mad 46 (AIR 1948 Mad 72 ) and have upheld the allocation of lands between the archakas and the trustees, the proportion, how were, varying with the extent of the lands and the amount of the income.	None
None of the Judges were of the opinion that the arrangement should be a permanent and an unalterable one and it must naturally be subject to revision or alteration according to the circumstances of the case at the instance of the archakal, if it was found that the allocation was working to the detriment of either the archakas or of the temple.	None
It concluded We think, therefore, in these cases, the best arrangement would be to allocate half the lands in each of the suits for the remuneration of the archakas, to be divided equally, having retard to the wet and dry extents, and leave the remaining half to the trustees, who have to meet the cost of the daily worship and accumulate the surplus in their hands as it belongs to the deity.	None
On principle, in our view, the conclusion arrived at by the learned Judges of the High Court is unsupportable.	None
The suits were based on title and the relief asked for was the eviction of the archakas from the suit property as they according to the plaintiffs, had no title to remain in possession.	Reasoning
The archakas raised the plea that the title of the deity was confined only to melvaram in the plaint schedule lands and that they had title to the kudivaram.	Reasoning
Both the courts confirmed the title of the deity to both the interests and negatived the title of the defendantarchakas.	Reasoning
In the circumstances the Court has no option but to deliver possession to the plaintiffs who had established their title to the suit properties.	Reasoning
In a suit for framing a scheme for temple a Court may, in an appropriate case, put the archaka in possession of a portion of the temple lands towards his remuneration for services to the temple but these are not suits for framing a scheme.	Reasoning
That apart, there is absolutely no material either in the pleadings or in the evidence to make any such apportionment, for the allotment of a particular share to the archaka would depend upon the total income from the lands, the value of the articles required for the worship, the amount of reasonable remuneration intended to be provided and other similar circumtances.	Reasoning
An allotment cannot possibly be made on the basis of allocations made in the circumstances and facts peculiar to other cases.	Reasoning
Indeed, this Court has already expressed a clear opinion on this aspect of the case in B. Satyanarayanas case, 1953 SCR 1001 (AIR 1953 SC 195 ).	None
Therein, Das, J., said at p. 1008 (of SCR) (at p. 197 of AIR) thus In a proceeding for the framing of a scheme relating to a temple it may be permissible to take into account the claims, moral if not legal, of the Archakas and to make some provision for protecting their rights, but those considerations appears to us to be entirely out of place in a suit for ejectment on proof of title.	None
With respect we entirely agree with the said observations.	None
It follows the High Court went wrong in making an allocation of the lands between the trustees and the archakas in a suit for ejectment.19.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the archakas made an impassioned appeal that we should give a direction to the authorities concerned to make an apportionment of the properties on the lines suggested by the High Court, having regard to the long enjoyment of the temple lands by the archakas.	Reasoning
Long enjoyment of the temple lands by the archakas is not a peculiar feature of this case.	Reasoning
The authorities concerned have made suitable arrangements for remuneration in the case of other temples and we have no doubt that they would make a reasonable provision for the archakas in the present case also for their remuneration in accordance with law.20.	Reasoning
In the result Civil Appeals Nos. 648 and 650 of 1960 filed by the trustees, are allowed but, in the circumstances, without costs.	Decision
Civil Appeal No. 649 of 1960 filed by the trustees is also allowed without costs except as against the 14th respondent.	Decision
The said appeal against the 14th respondent is withdrawn on the ground that his interest as a mortgagee is not now subsisting and the said appeal against the 14th respondent is dismissed as withdrawn but, in the circumstances, without costs.	Decision
Civil Appeals Nos. 651 and 652 of 1960 filed by archakas are dismissed with costs.	Decision
One hearing fee.21.	None
Order accordingly.	None
