SHIVARAJ V. PATIL, J.	None
In the light of the contentions raised and submissions made before us, the only question that arises for consideration and decision in this appeal is whether pumping out water from a mine comes within the meaning of manufacture, production, processing or repair of goods as to claim exemption from duty under notifications issued under subsection (3) of Section 3 of the Rajasthan Electricity (Duty) Act, 1962 (For short the Act)	Issue
This appeal is by Rajasthan Electricity Board, Jaipur, the defendant in the suit In short and substance, the facts which are considered relevant and necessary for the disposal of this appeal are the following PlaintiffRespondent 1 is a registered public limited company.	None
It is engaged in excavating stones from the collieries and thereafter converting them into slabs by cutting and polishing.	Facts
The Rajasthan State Government levied electricity duty under the provisions of the Act.	Facts
A notification dated 2631962 was issued by the State under Section 3(3) of the Act granting exemption from tax on the energy consumed by a consumer in any industry in the manufacture, production, processing or repair of goods and by or in respect of any mine as defined in the Indian Mines Act, 1923 Subsequently a notification was issued on 231963 superseding the aforesaid notification dated 2331962, remitting the electricity duty on the energy consumed in electrochemical industry and in electric furnaces of electrothermo industries and reducing such duty on the energy consumed in other industries in the manufacture, production, processing or repair of goods, from 3 naye paise per unit to 1 naya paise per unit.	Facts
Further one more notification was issued on 1111965 superseding the earlier two notifications mentioned above and fixing duty at 5 paise per unit as the rate at which electricity duty shall be computed.	Facts
However, by clause (c) of the said notification, the State of Rajasthan reduced the duty on the energy consumed in industries other than those mentioned in clause (a) of the notification in the manufacture, production, processing or repair of goods to 1 paise per unit.	Facts
The same was later on enhanced to 2 paise by notification dated 531979The defendant issued three notices dated 3061972, 21121973 and 30111974 asking the plaintiff to pay electricity duty at the full rate of 0.05 per unit holding that the plaintiff was not entitled either for exemption of electricity duty or to a reduced rate of duty.	Facts
Hence the plaintiff filed the suit for injunction restraining the defendant from realising the electricity duty as per the demands made in the said notices.	Facts
The trial court dismissed the suit.	Facts
The plaintiff filed the appeal in the Court of the District Judge at Kota.	Facts
The learned District Judge allowed the appeal reversing the judgment and decree of the trial court and passed the decree in favour of the plaintiff.	Facts
The defendant filed the second appeal in the High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan at Jaipur Bench, Jaipur.	Facts
The learned Single Judge of the High Court dismissed the appeal confirming the judgment and decree passed in favour of the plaintiff.	Facts
Hence the defendant has filed this appeal challenging the validity and correctness of the said judgment and decree passed by the High Court Shri Pradeep Aggarwal, learned counsel for appellantDefendant 1 urged that (1) consumption of energy for pumping out water from the mine cannot be construed as energy consumed by industry in the manufacture, production, processing or repair of the goods further excavating stones from a mine and thereafter cutting and polishing them into slabs did not amount to any manufacture (2) the subsequent two notifications dated 231963 and 1111965 have clearly removed exemption in relation to any mine.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his submissions, he relied on the decision of this Court in CCE v. Rajasthan State Chemical Works ( 1991 SC 819)	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, the learned counsel for the plaintiff made submissions supporting the impugned judgment and decree.	Arguments of Respondent
He argued that excavation of stones, thereafter cutting and polishing them into slabs amounted to manufactureWe have considered the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties.	Arguments of Respondent
The 3 notifications to the extent they are relevant are extracted hereunder Notification dated 2631962 In pursuance of subclause (3) of clause 3 of the Rajasthan Electricity (Duty) Bill, 1962, read with the declaration inserted therein under Section 3 of the Rajasthan Provisional Collection of Taxes Act, 1958 (Rajasthan Act 23 of 1958), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in public interest to do so, hereby exempts from tax the energy consumed (1) by a consumer in any industry in the manufacture, production, processing or repair of goods and(2) by or in respect of any mine as defined in the Indian Mines Act, 1923 (Central Act of 1923)	Arguments of Respondent
Notification dated 231963 quot In exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (3) of Section 3 of the Rajasthan Electricity (Duty) Act, 1962 (Rajasthan Act 12 of 1962) and in supersession of Excise and Taxation Department Notification No. F.9(2)	None
ET/62/1 dated 2631962, the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in public interest to do so, hereby remits the electricity duty on the energy consumed in electrochemical industries and in electric furnaces of electrothermal industries and reduces such duty on the energy consumed in other industries in the manufacture, production, processing or repair of goods, from three naye paise per unit to one paisa per unit.	Facts
Notification dated 1111965 quot In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Rajasthan Electricity (Duty) Act, 1962 (Rajasthan Act 12 of 1962) and in supersession of Government Notification No. F.9(2) ET/62II dated 2631962 and No. F.(6) FD RT/63 dated 231963, the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in public interest to do so, hereby fixes, with immediate effect, five paise per unit as the rate at which the electricity duty shall be computed and subject to the conditions laid down in the third proviso to the said section (a) remits, with immediate effect, the electricity duty on the energy consumed (i) in electrochemical industries, and (ii) in electro furnaces of electrothermal industries(b) remits with effect on and from 1111964, the electricity duty on energy consumed by or in respect of any Municipal Board or Council or Panchayat or Panchayat Samiti or other authority for the purpose of or in respect of public street lighting and(c) reduces with immediate effect such duty on the energy consumed in industries, other than those mentioned in (a) above, in the manufacture, production, processing or repair of goods to two paise per unit.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no dispute that the controversy related to claim for exemption or reduced rate of duty in relation to consumption energy for pumping out water from the mines.	None
In the notification dated 2631962 the tax was exempted expressly for the energy consumed by or in respect of mines as defined in the Indian Mines Act, 1923.	None
The two subsequent notifications of 231963 and 1111965 have omitted the provision of exemption in respect of mines.	None
It is not the case of the plaintiff that electrical energy was consumed in any industry in the manufacture, production, processing or repair of goods.	None
The specific case of the plaintiff is that the electrical energy was consumed for pumping out water from mines to make the mines ready for mining activity namely, excavating stones and thereafter cutting and polishing them into slabs.	None
The 1963 notification superseded the 1962 notification and the 1965 notification superseded both the 1962 and 1963 notifications.	None
As already noticed above, the 1963 and 1965 notifications have not made any provision for exemption of duty on the electricity consumed by or in respect of mines.	None
It is the case of the plaintiff that the electricity was used for the purpose of pumping out water from the mines to facilitate mining activity, namely excavating of stones.	None
It must be also kept in mind that a mining activity is distinguished from a manufacturing activity.	None
It appears that this removal of exemption in the said notifications in respect of mines was done consciously so as to bring the mining activity within the purview of Section 3 of the Act.	None
Hence we consider it unnecessary to deal with the notification of 1962 in relation to the claim for exemption by or in respect of a mineThe word manufacture is not defined in the Act under which the aforementioned three notifications were issued.	None
The word manufacture used in the notifications under Section 3(3) of the Act, a taxing statute, should be understood in its commercial sense, in the absence of the definition of it in the statute itself The definitions of manufacture given in other enactments such as the Factories Act, the Industrial Disputes Act or the Excise Act cannot be applied while interpreting the expression manufacture in relation to the provisions of the Act The learned Judge in the judgment under appeal has stated thus It is also admitted that the electricity was utilised for pumping out water from the mines.	None
It cannot be disputed that the plaintiff could not have worked his mines unless the water had been pumped out from the mines and, therefore, pumping out the water from the mines was incidental with the excavation of stones from the mines.9.	None
Further having referred to various decisions dealing with manufacturingand manufacturing process, has stated thus In my opinion, the pumping out of water from mines was necessary and essential for carrying of the work of excavation of stones from the mines and, therefore, it should be held to be a part of the manufacturing process of the whole industry and business carried out by the plaintiff.	Reasoning
In the notification dated 2631962 the State had exempted from duty the energy consumed in any industry in the manufacture, production, processing or repair of goods and also by or in respect of any mine as defined in the Indian Mines Act, 1923.	None
As can be seen from the subsequent two notifications of 231963 and 1111965 the exemption given to the mines in the notification dated 2631962 was withdrawn.	None
The intention appears to be clear that the exemption available to the mines specifically was taken away.	None
It appears the plaintiff did not plead specifically that the electricity was being used for pumping out water from the mines which formed part of the manufacturing process.	None
This apart, excavation of stones from a mine and thereafter cutting them and polishing them into slabs did not amount to manufacture of goods.	None
The word manufacture generally and in the ordinary parlance in the absence of its definition in the Act should be understood to mean bringing to existence a new and different article having a distinctive name, character or use after undergoing some transformation.	None
When no new product as such comes into existence, there is no process of manufacture.	None
Cutting and polishing stones into slabs is not a process of manufacture for the obvious and simple reason that no new and distinct commercial product came into existence as the end product still remained stone and thus its original identity	None
continuedThis Court in Union of India v. Delhi Cloth and General Mills Co. Ltd. 1962	None
SC 310 1962 SC 310) as to the meaning of manufacture in para 14 has stated thus The word manufacture used as a verb is generally understood to mean as bringing into existence a new substance and does not mean merely to produce some change in a substance, however minor in consequence the change may be.	None
This distinction is well brought about in a passage thus quoted in Words and Phrases (Permanent Edition), Vol. 26, from an American judgment.	None
The passage runs thusManufacture implies a change, but every change is not manufacture and yet every change of an article is the result of treatment, labour and manipulation.	None
But something more is necessary and there must be transformation a new and different article must emerge having a distinctive name, character or use.	None
Para 17 of the same judgment reads thus These definitions make it clear that to become goods an article must be something which can ordinarily come to the market to be bought and sold.	None
In the case of CCE v. Rajasthan State Chemical Works ( 1991 SC 819)	None
this Court was considering process connected with the manufacture for manufacturing common salt brine pumped into salt pans by using diesel pump and for manufacturing lime, coke, and limestones lifted to the platform at the head kiln by the aid of power.	None
It was held that pumping of brine and lifting of raw material constituted processes in or in relation to the manufacture.	None
Para 16 of the judgment reads thus (SCC pp.	None
47980)	None
The expression in the manufacture of goods would normally encompass the entire process carried on by the dealer of converting raw materials into finished goods.	None
Where any particular process is so integrally connected with the ultimate production of goods that but for that process, manufacture or processing of goods would be commercially inexpedient, goods required in that process would, in our judgment, fall within the expression in the manufacture of goods.	None
(Quoting from J. K. Cotton Spg.	None
Wvg.	None
Mills Co. Ltd. v. STO, 1964 SC 211 at p. 905)This	None
Court in the same judgment in para 20 has stated thus (SCC p. 481, para 20)	None
A process is a manufacturing process when it brings out a complete transformation for the whole components so as to produce a commercially different article or a commodity.	None
But, that process itself may consist of several processes which may or may not bring about any change at every intermediate stage.	None
But the activities or the operations may be so integrally connected that the final result is the production of a commercially different article.	None
Therefore, any activity or operation which is the essential requirement and is so related to the further operations for the end result would also be a process in or in relation to manufacture to attract the relevant clause in the exemption notification.	None
In our view, the word process in the context in which it appears in the aforesaid notification includes an operation or activity in relation to manufacture.	None
In conclusion, it is said that if any operation in the course of manufacture is so integrally connected with the further operations which result in the emergence of manufactured goods and such operation is carried on with the aid of power, the process in or in relation to the manufacture must be deemed to be one carried on with the aid of power.	Reasoning
Pumping out water, excavation of stones and cutting and polishing them into slabs cannot be said to be integrally connected in the manufacturing of goods Keeping in view what is stated above, we find it difficult to accept the view of the learned Judge that the energy consumed for pumping out water from the mines should be held to be a part of the manufacturing process of the whole industry and the business carried out by the plaintiff.	Reasoning
It is also not possible to accept that excavation of stones and thereafter cutting and polishing them into slabs resulted in any manufacture of goods.	Reasoning
On the basis of evidence, the trial court found that there are two separate electric metres one for pumping out water whenever required, the other for the workshop to which the stones excavated are carried.	Reasoning
The trial court also concluded that the electricity consumed for pumping out water was not consumed in the manufacturing business of the plaintiffIn the light of what is stated above, we are of the considered opinion that the energy consumed for pumping out water from a mine cannot be accepted as the energy consumed by a consumer in any industry in the manufacture, production, processing or repair of goods so as to claim exemption or reduced rate of duty by the plaintiff by virtue of the aforementioned two notifications dated 231963 and 1111965.	Reasoning
In the view, we have taken, the appeal is entitled to succeed.	None
Hence it is allowed, the judgment and decree under appeal are set aside and the suit of the plaintiff is dismissed.	Decision
Parties to bear their own costs, in the facts and circumstances of the case.	None
