 Ray C.J. (with Palekar, J.)1.	None
The petitioner in this writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution asks for a mandamus or any other appropriate writ, direction or order directing the respondents to withdraw and cancel the order dated 27 June, 1972.	Facts
The petitioner further asks for direction to repost the petitioner to the post of Chief Secretary in the State of Tamil Nadu.	Facts
The respondents are the State of Tamil Nadu and the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu.2.	Facts
The petitioner is a member of the Indian Administrative Service in the cadre of the State of Tamil Nadu.	Facts
On 2 August, 1968 the petitioner was confirmed in the Selection Grade of the Indian Administrative Service with effect from 22 May, 1961.	Facts
There were 8 Selection Grade posts in the State of Tamil Nadu.	Facts
The petitioner was No. 4 in that list.	Facts
The petitioner in the years 1964, 1965, 1966, 1968 and 1969 was posted to act as Fifth Member, Board of Revenue Fourth Member, Board of RevenueThird Member, Board of Revenue Second Member, Board of Revenue.	Facts
On 5 April, 1969 the petitioner was posted to act as Second Member, Board of Revenue.	Facts
On 11 July 1969 the petitioner was posted to act as Additional Chief Secretary.3.	Facts
On 11 July, 1969 the post of Additional Chief Secretary was temporarily created in the grade of Chief Secretary for one year.	Facts
The State Government further directed that the post of Chief Secretary to Government, Additional Chief Secretary to Government and the First Member, Board of Revenue were deemed to be in the same category and they were interchangeable selection posts.4.	Facts
On 7 August, 1969 the State of Tamil Nadu wrote to the Central Government to amend Schedule IIIA of the Indian Administrative Service (Pay) Rules, 1954, so that the posts of Chief Secretary to Government, Additional Chief Secretary to Government and First Member, Board of Revenue could be of the same cadre carrying the same pay.	Facts
The Government of India by a letter dated 26 September, 1969 stated that the status of Chief Secretary as the head of the Secretariat organisation in the State should remain unquestioned.	Facts
The view of the Central Government was that the status of Chief Secretary should not be allowed to be diluted by the creation of the post of Additional Chief Secretary carrying the same status and emoluments as the Chief Secretary.	Facts
The Central Government also stated that the post of Additional Chief Secretary was not a cadre post.	Facts
The Central Government, however, expressed to view that the post of First Member, Board of Revenue in the State should carry pay as adminisible to the Chief Secretary.5.	Facts
On 13 November, 1969 the petitioner was posted to act as Chief Secretary to Government with effect from the afternoon of 13 November, 1969 vice C.A. Ramakrishnan whose date of superannuation was 14 November, 1969 who has been grated refused leave with effect from 14 November, 1969.6.	Facts
On 7 April, 1971 the petitioner was appointed Deputy Chairman of the State Planning Commission.	Facts
That post was created temporarily for a period of one year in the grade of Chief Secretary to Government.	Facts
The petitioner did not join the post.	Facts
The petitioner went on leave from 13 April, 1971 to 5 June, 1972.	Facts
When the petitioner was on leave Raja Ram, the First Member, Board of Revenue was by an order dated 18 August, 1971 asked to hold the additional charge of the post of Deputy Chairman for one year with effect from 13 August, 1971.	Facts
On 6 June, 1972 the petitioner returned from leave.	Facts
He was again posted as Deputy Chairman, State Planning Commission on a salary of Rs. 3500/ per month.	Facts
The petitioner did not join that post.	Facts
The petitioner pointed out that the post of Deputy Chairman which was created for one year did not exist after 13 April, 1972.7.	Facts
By an order dated 27 June, 1972 the Government of Tamil Nadu accorded sanction to the creaton of a temporary post of Officer on Special Duty in the grade of Chief Secretary to Government for a period of one year from the date of appointment or till the need for it ceased whichever was earlier.	Facts
By the same order the petitioner was transferred and appointed as Officer on Special Duty in the post sanctioned aforesaid.	Facts
The petitioner did not join that post.	Facts
The petitioner in the month of July, 1972 filed this petition.8.	Facts
The petitioners contentions were these.	None
First, the petitioner is appointed to a post or transferred to a post which is not validly created.	Arguments of Petitioner
The post of Officer on Special Duty is said to be not a post carrying duties and responsibilities of a like nature to cadre posts within the meaning of Rule 4 of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954.	Arguments of Petitioner
Second, under Rule 9 of the Indian Administrative Service (Pay) Rules, 1954 no member of the Service shall be appointed to a post other than a post specified in Schedule III unless the State Government concerned in respect of posts under its control or the Central Government in respect of posts under its control, as the case may be, make a declaration that the said post is equivalent in status and responsibility to a post specified in the said Schedule.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is, therefore, said that the petitioner who is a cadre post holder, viz., holding the post of Chief Secretary cannot be posted to a nonscheduled post without a declaration that the nonscheduled post is equal in status and responsibilities to a scheduled post.	Arguments of Petitioner
Third, the petitioner is posted to an office which is inferior in status and office to that of the Chief Secretary.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the order is a hostile discrimination offending Article 14 and 16.	Arguments of Petitioner
Forth, the creation of the post as well as the appointment and transfer of the petitioner to the post is mala fide.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this context it is to be ascertained as to whether the petitioner was appointed to the substantive post of Chief Secretary to the State of Tamil Nadu.	None
The petitioner relied on draft order of the Chief Minister dated 13 November, 1969 which stated that the petitioner is promoted and posted as Chief Secretary.	Reasoning
The petitioner also relied on the following note of the Chief Minister at the time of the passing of the order.	None
There were 11 senior I.C.S. I.A.S. Officers borne on the Tamil Nadu State Cadre.	None
The petitioners position was No.10 in the list of Senior I.C.S. I.A.S. Officers borne on the Tamil Nadu State Cadre.	None
Ramakrishan, the then chief secretary was No. 1 in the list.	None
Kaiwar, Subramanyam, Mani, Govindan Nair, Vaidyanathan, Ramachandran.	None
Raman, Raja Ram were above the petitioner in the list Ramakrishnan and Kaiwar were retiring from service in the month of November 1969.	None
Subramanyam and Govindan Nair were acting as Secretaries to the Government of India.	None
Vaidyanathan was away from the State for over 8 years and was working under the Central Government.	None
Ramchandran and Raman were also working under the Government of India since 19  and 1969 respectively.	None
Rajaram had left the State cadre in 1960.	None
In 1969 Rajaram was the special Representative to the Government of Tamil Nadu.	None
The choice was between Mani whose position was No. 4 and the petitioner.	None
Manis work was not satisfactory during the flood relief operations in 1967.	None
There was adverse criticism on his work from the public and the press.	None
The petitioner was commended by his superiors to be dynamic efficient, vigorous.	None
The petitioner was, therefore, described by the chief Minister to be best suited for the post.10.	None
It thus appears that the Chief Ministers Note as well as the draft order stated that the petitioner was promoted and posted as Chief Secretary.	Reasoning
But the Gazettee Notification dated 13 November, 1969 was that the petitioner was promoted and posted to act as Chief Secretary to the Government vice C.A. Ramakrishnan, who has been granted refused leave with effect from 14 November, 1969.	Reasoning
The Gazette notification prevails over the draft order.11.	None
The substantive appointment of the petitioner was in the selection grade of Rs. 18002000.	Reasoning
The petitioner was appointed on 13 November, 1969 to act as Chief Secretary.	Facts
It was a temporary appointment.	None
He was not appointed substantively to the post of Chief Secretary.	None
The fact that the petitioner was not appointed substantively to the post of Chief Secretary will appear from the note signed by the petitioner himself on 16 November, 1970.	None
When Ramakrishnan went on refused leave for four months from 14 November, 1969 there was no substantive vacancy in the post of Chief Secretary.	None
The petitioner in his note dated 16 November, 1970 stated that the post of Chief Secretary fell vacant substantively from 14 March, 1970 and was available for confirmation of an Officer.	None
The petitioner signed the note as acting Chief Secretary.	None
The note was put up as to whether there was any objection in confirming the petitioner as Chief Secretary.	None
No order was passed on that note.12.	None
Under Fundamental R. 56 (f) a member of the Indian Civil Service shall retire after 35 years service counted from the date of his arrival in India.	None
Ramakrishnan completed 35 years service on 14 November, 1969.	None
When the petitioner was posted on 14 November, 1969 to act as Chief Secretary.	Facts
Ramakrishnan went on what is described as refused leave for four months.	None
Under Fundamental Rule 86 clause (c) the grant of refused leave extending beyond the date upto which a Government servant must compulsorily retire or beyond the date upon which a Government servant has been permitted to remain in service, shall not be construed as an extension of service.	None
Fundamental Rule 13 (d) provides that a Government servant ceases to retain lien on a permanent post while he is on refused leave granted after the date of compulsory retirement under Fundamental Rule 56 or corresponding other Rules.	Reasoning
The effect of refused leave under the Fundamental Rules is that there is no extension of service by the period of that leave.	None
Again, during the period of refused leave there is no earning of pension.	None
Counsel for the petitioner relied on Fundamental Rules 56 (f) and 86 (c) and contended that the post of Chief Secretary fell vacant as Ramkrishnan did not hold a lien on his post.13.	None
It was contended that the petitioner was appointed in an officiating capacity to the post of Chief Secretary and reliance was placed on Fundamental Rule 9 (19).	Arguments of Respondent
Under that Rule a Government servant officiates in a post when he preforms the duties of a post on which another person holds a lien or the Government may, if it thinks fit, appoint a Government servant to officiate in a vacant post on which no other Government servant hold a lien.14.Ramakrishnan, who was on refused leave being a member of the Indian Civil Service, was entitled under Article 314 of the Constitution to conditions of service as respects remuneration, leave and pension to which members of the Civil Service were entitled immediately before the commencement of the Constitution.	None
Fundamental Rule 13 (d) as it stood prior to the commencement of the Constitution provided for the retention of lien on a permanent post while on leave without making any exception with regard to refused leave.	Reasoning
Fundamental Rule 86 as it stood prior to the commencement of the Constitution did not contain any provision to the effect that the grant of refused leave would not amount to extension of service.	Reasoning
The Government of India, Finance Department Notification No. 520CER dated 31 May, 1922 contained the Government decision that the grant of leave under Fundamental Rule 86 automatically carried with it the extension required and no formal sanction to the extension was necessary.	Reasoning
The effect of Fundamental Rules 86 and 13 (d) as they stood prior to the commencement of the Constitution is that an Officer does not continue on duty but draws leave salary by virtue of a privilege granted to him.	Reasoning
There is no formal extension of service.	Reasoning
He retains lien on his post.	Reasoning
The post cannot be substantively filled till he actually retires from service.15.	Reasoning
The Fundamental Rules of the Madras Government corrected upto 30 June, 1966 issued by the Finance Department, 2nd Ed. 1966 at pages 133134 contain a note appended to Fundamental Rule 56 of Tamil Nadu State Government.	Reasoning
In that note an exception in respect of Indian Civil Service Officers is created by providing that in the case of an Officer of the former Secretary of State Service the grant of such leave shall be treated as sanctioning as extension of service upto the date on which the leave expires.	Reasoning
Therefore, Ramakrishnan held lien on his post until 14 March, 1970.16.	Reasoning
The petitioner in the note for circulation dated 14/16 November, 1970 prepared by the Joint Secretary, Finance Department, noted that the date of retirement of Ramakrishnan would take effect from the date of expiry of the refused leave namely, 14 March, 1970.	Reasoning
That is why the petitioner asked to be confirmed as Chief Secretary with effect from 14 March, 1970.	Reasoning
The petitioner was, however, not confirmed in the post.	Reasoning
Therefore, the petitioner was not substantively appointed the post of Chief Secretary.	Reasoning
The petitioners substantive appointment was in the selection grade of Rs. 18002000.	Reasoning
The petitioner during the period of refused leave of Ramakrishnan acted as Chief Secretary by way of a temporary arrangement.	Reasoning
The petitioner did not have any right to hold the post of Chief Secretary.17.	None
It was contended that neither the post of Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission nor the post of Officer on Special Duty was a cadre post within the meaning of Rule 4 of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Additional Solicitor General as well as the Advocate General of the State did not contended that either of the posts was a cadre post within the meaning of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules.	None
The strength and composition of the cadre as contemplated by R. 4 of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules is to be determined by the Central Government in consultation with the State Government.	None
The relevant provision in subrule (2) of Rules 4.	None
It states that the Central Government shall at the interval of every three years reexamine the strength and composition of each such cadre in consultation with the State Government or the State Government concerned and may make such alterations as it deems fit.	None
There are two provisions in the subrule.	None
The first proviso states that nothing shall be deemed to affect the power of the Central Government to alter the strength and composition of the cadre at any other time.	None
The second proviso states that the State Government may add for a period not exceeding one year and with the approval of Central Government for a further period not exceeding two years, to a State or joint cadre one or more posts carrying duties and responsibilities of a like nature of cadre posts.	Reasoning
It, therefore, follows that the strength and composition of the cadre shall be determined by regulations made by the Central Government in consultation with the State Government.	None
The State Government alone cannot alter the strength and composition of the cadre.18.	Reasoning
The aforementioned second proviso to rule 4 (2) of the Cadre Rules does not confer any power on the State Government to alter the strength and composition of the cadre.	Reasoning
If such power were conferred on the State examination of the strength and composition at the interval of every three years by the Central Government in consultation with the State Government would be nullified.	Reasoning
The meaning of the second proviso to Rs. 4 (2) is that the State Government may add for a period mentioned there to the cadre one or more posts carrying duties and responsibilities of the like nature of a cadre posts.	Reasoning
The posts so added do not become cadre posts.	Reasoning
There temporary posts do not increase the strength of the Cadre.	Reasoning
The addition of the post of Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission or Officer on Special Duty to the Indian Administrative Service Cadre of Tamil Nadu State is not permissible because that would result in altering the strength and composition of the Cadre.	Reasoning
The State has no such power within the second proviso to Rule 4 (2) of the Cadre Rules.19.	None
Counsel for the petitioner contended that the post of Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission as well as the post of Officer on Special Duty was no equivalent in status and responsibility to the post of Chief Secretary to Government within the meaning of Rule 9 (1) of the Indian Administrative Service (Pay) Rules, 1954.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioner alleged that both the posts were upgraded or down graded depending upon the persons to occupy them and therefore the posts were not equivalent in status and responsibility to the post of the Chief Secretary.	None
When the petitioner was appointed to the post of Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission it was upgraded.	None
When Rajaram was appointed to hold an additional charge of Deputy Chairman in addition to the post of First Member, Board of Revenue it was downgraded.	None
When the petitioner was appointed to occupy the post the was said to be equivalent to that of was said to be equivalent to that of Chief Secretary.	None
When Rajaram was appointed it was downgraded to the level of the First Member.	None
Board of Revenue.	None
The post of Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission was created for one year in the month of April 1971.	None
On 26 June, 1972 the State created a new post of Special Officer for Commercial Taxes which was stated to be of the rank of Member, Board of Revenue.	None
On 27 June, 1972 the petitioner was appointed to the post in the grade of Chief Secretary for a period of one year or till the need of the post ceased whichever was earlier.	None
The petitioner alleged that on 2661972 when the post of Special Officer for Commercial Taxes was created it was supposed to be of the rank of a Member, Board of Revenue but on 27 June, 1972 the post was upgraded and regarded as of the grade of Chief Secretary.20.	None
When the petitioner did not take charge as Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission on 7 April, 1971, the Government directed Rajaram the senior mostofficer in the State who was the First Member Board of Revenu to hold additional charge.	None
Again when the petitioner did not join on 6 June, 1972 as Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission it was decided to post Rajaram in his place.	None
Rajaram was drawing only a salary of Rs. 3000/ per month.	None
The post of Deputy Chairman was to be filled either by the petitioner or by Rajaram.	None
The post was not inferior.	None
The Planning Commission is an advisory body to the Government like the Planning Commission at the Center.	None
The Chief Minister is the Chairman of the Planning Commission.	None
The petitioner was drawing a salary of Rupees 3500/ per month when he acted as Chief Secretary.	None
Therefore, the post of Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission, carried a pay of Rs. 3500/ per month when the petitioner was appointed as Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission.	Reasoning
The upgrading an the downgrading of the post of Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission alleged by the petitioner is not correct.	Reasoning
The post was not upgraded or downgraded.	Reasoning
The incumbent of the post carried a higher or a lower salary according to the salary enjoyed by the incumbent at the time of the appointment.21.	Reasoning
Broadly stated, the petitioners contentions about the two post of Deputy Chairman, planning Commission and the Officer on Special Duty ware first that there was no declaration in accordance with R. 9 of the Indian Administrative Service (Pay) Rules that the posts were equivalent in status and responsibility to a post specified in the Schedule to the aforesaid Rules and secondly, that the functions and responsibilities of the two posts were such that no comparison could be made between those posts and the posts in the Schedule.22.	Arguments of Petitioner
Rule 9 speaks of declaration that the post is equivalent in status and responsibility to a post specified in Schedule III to those Rules.	None
Subrule (4) of Rule 9 states that where equation of posts is not possible the State Government or the Central Government may, for sufficient reasons to be recorded in writing appoint a member of a service to such a post without making a declaration.	None
It is, therefore, said on behalf of the petitioner that a declaration in writing is necessary where a post is declared to be equivalent in status and responsibility just as reasons are to be recorded in writing where it is not possible to have a post equivalent in status and responsibility.	None
In other words it is said that in one case it is a declaration in positive terms that the post is equivalent in status and responsibility and in the other case the declaration is negative in content that through the post is not equivalent in status and responsibility yet a cadre officer of the Service is appointed to such a post.	None
It is not in dispute that the posts of Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission and the Officer on Special Duty carried the same pay as that of the Chief Secretary.	None
It cannot be said that equal pay will by itself alone be decisive of the equation of status and responsibility of the post.	None
But pay scale will primarily show status and responsibilities of equal nature.23.	None
The Chairman of the Planning Commission is the Chief Minister.	None
The Planning Commission is a high powered Commission.	None
The position of the Deputy Chairman is equal in status and responsibility to the duties of the Chief Secretary.	None
The real significance of aforementioned Rules 9 is that Members of Crade posts cannot be deployed to noncadre posts unless posts are of a caliber which can be filled up by Cadre men.24.	None
It also appears that the State since the year 1970 had been contemplating the setting up of a Planning Commission.	None
In the month of March, 1970 the Finance Department prepared a note that a Planning Commission was necessary in industrial project, power project and irrigation.	None
A properly organised plan for a region is to be an adjustment of the continuing rate of growth of economic product and a plan of continuing investments.	None
A plan of long term development is necessary.	None
Such a plan would spell out the various resources which can be utilised and the manner in which the fuller life can be attained by the people.	None
The Finance Department of the State in 1970 advocated engagement of a group of qualified economists to work in collaboration with the Institute of Economic Growth, New Delhi.	None
The State wanted to set up an Institute of Economic Planning, to work with the advice of the National Council of Applied Economic Research.	None
A separate department of planning was suggested by the State.	None
The reason was to have the advice of experts with knowledge in the specialised field.25.	None
The petitioner as the Chief Secretary on 23 March, 1970 did not accept the advice of the Finance Secretary of the State.	None
He was against the proposal to entrust formulation of plan to a body of experts.	None
The petitioner advised utilising the services of senior officers of Government Department and enlisting the services of experts in any particular sphere of activity or project if found necessary.	None
The Chief Minister on 25 December, 1970 recorded a note that a 10year plan was necessary.	None
The State Planning Commission was set up in the month of April, 1971.	None
The Planning Commission was to consist of Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Members, Secretary and Deputy Secretary.	None
The Chief Minister was to be the Chairman.	None
A full time officer in the grade of Chief Secretary was to be the Deputy Chairman.	None
The Planning Commission was to achieve the declared objectives of the Government to promote a rapid rise in the standard of living of the people.	None
The other objects were to see that the ownership and control of the permaterial resources of the community are so distributed as to subserve the common good.	None
The character and content of the Planning Commission shows that the Chairman being the Chief Minister the Deputy Chairman was equal in status and responsibility to the post of the Chief Secretary.26.	None
The State Government in the year 1969 sanctioned the constitution of a statistical cell for preparing scientifically processed data of production and the source of production of various commodities liable to sales tax.	None
A scientific analysis was also made of the pattern of trade and revenue accruing from different sections of the trade.	None
In the month of August 1970 the Government examined the suggestion of the Commissioner, Commercial taxes to constitute an expert committee to look into the various aspects of sales tax.	None
In the month of October, 1970 the Chief Minister indicated that a committee might be constituted for going into the working of the sales tax law and to suggest methods for simplification of the legislative measures.	None
In the month of April, 1971 the Chief Minister reviewed the important aspects of administration of Commercial Taxes Department.	None
There were persistent demands from one sector of the trade for single point levy.	None
There ware also demands from the other section for changing the existing single point items to multipoint levy of sales tax.	None
The ides of appointing a committee was still engaging the attention of the Government.	None
A note was prepared by the Revenue Department with regard to constitution of a committee to undertake a comprehensive study of the sales tax structure in the State.	None
Eventually the Government in the month of June 1972 decided to appoint a senior Indian Administrative Service Officer for streamlining and rationalising the structure of Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act and similar enactments relating to Commercial Taxes and Rules made thereunder.27.	None
The State General Sales Tax and other Commercial Taxes for long contributed the preponderant share towards the revenue receipts of the State.	None
Sales Tax played a significant role in the context of development programme of the State.	None
These taxes fatched Rs. 112 crores in 197172.	None
The General Sales Tax Act was enacted in 1959.	None
In order to meet the situations arising from changing patterns of trade and commerce, the interpretations of the Act by courts of law, the discovery of loophoks in the statutory frame work, the Sales Tax Act has been amended from time to time.	None
The Chambers of Commerce represented to the Government for simplification and rationalisation of the tax structure and statutory procedures and practices.	None
It is in this context that the State Government created the post of Officer on Special Duty.28.	None
The Officer on Special Duty was entrusted to deal with these matters.	None
First, there is to be general review of the Commercial Taxes Acts from the point of view of the rate of growth of revenue in relation to the rate of growth of income and the rate of growth of commerce and industry.	None
Second, the Sales Tax Act, the Entertainment Tax Act the Local Authorities Finance Act, the Motor Spirit Taxation Act, the Betting Tax Act being all State Acts and the Central Sales Tax Act cold be rationalised and simplified so as to facilitate easy administration and also to reduce hardship to the trading community.	None
Third the present classification of commodities taxed at single point and multi point is to be studied in order to find out as to what extent there is a case for transfer of commodities from multi point to single point and vice versa.	None
Fourth, it is to be found out whether there is any need and justification for the continuance of the concessional rate of taxation under the General Sales Tax Act on components coming under single point levy and, if so, whether there is a case for extending the same concession to all raw materials, Fifth, measures are to be found to improve the procedure of inspection, search and seizure in order to make them more effective and at the same time to minimise the apprehension of harassment on the part of the trading community.	None
Sixth, measures are to be taken to make the check post more effective and arrangements for the collation and interpretation of data collected at the check posts and the cross verification of such data with assessment records are also to be made.	None
Seventh, measures to ensure regular and systematic flow of vital data such as tax yield from various commodities and changes in trade practices affecting tax yield to the Board of Revenue (Commercial Taxes) are to be devised and arrangements are to be made for their collation and interpretation to facilitate tax policy.29.	None
There are some of the principle duties and responsibilities of the Officer on Special Duty.	None
These duties indicate in no uncertain terms that the post of Officer on Special duty is of enormous magnitude and importance in formulation and shaping of the revenue structure of the State.	None
The duties and responsibilities of the Officer on Special Duty are beyond any measure of doubt equal in status and responsibility to those of the Chief Secretary.30.	None
It was contended on behalf of the petitioner that there should be a declaration in writing the purpose of the declaration that the post is equivalent in status and responsibility to Cadre post specified in the Schedule to the Indian Administrative Service (Pay) Rules is to ensure that members of the Cadre are not taken to posts beneath their status and responsibility.	Arguments of Petitioner
These measures are intended to preserve respectability and responsibility of the Cadre Officers.	None
The declaration is not one of mere form.	None
It is of substance A declaration in writing is desirable.	None
The absence of a declaration will not be an impediment in ascertaining the equivalent status and responsibility.	None
Similarly the presence of a declaration may not be conclusive if the declaration is a mere cloak.	None
The facts and circumstances will be looked into in order to find out whether there is in real substance equality in status and responsibility.31.	None
Fundamental rule 15 provides that no Government servant can be transferred substantively to or appointed to officiate in a post carrying less pay than the pay of the permanent post on which he holds a lien or would hold a lien had his lien not been suspended under Rule 14.	None
The position of the petitioner was that he was holding a lien in the selection grade post.	None
It was open to the Government to transfer him to a post or to appoint him to officiate in a post carrying pay not less than what he was entitled to in the selection grade of Rs. 18002000.	None
However, the petitioner was appointed to the post of Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission on 6 April, 1971 carrying a salary of Rs. 3,500/ per month.	None
The petitioner went on leave from 13 April, 1971 to 5 June, 1972.	Facts
On 6 June, 1972 when the petitioner returned from leave he was again posted as Deputy chairman of the State Planning Commission.	None
The post carried a salary of 3500/ per month which is the same as that of the Chief Secretary.	None
The petitioner made a representation on 17 June, 1972 that the post of Deputy Chairman in the rank of Chief Secretary could not continue for a period of more than one year since April, 1971.	Facts
The Government on 26 June, 1972 sanctioned the creation of a temporary post of Officer on Special Duty.	None
On 27 June, 1972 the petitioner was promoted to the post of Officer on Special Duty.	None
The post of Officer on Special Duty also carried the same salary as that of the Chief, Secretary.	None
Therefore, the petitioner who was in the selection grade could be transferred to any of these two posts of Deputy Chairman, Planning commission or Officer on special Duty which were posts not lower in status and responsibility to the Cadre posts in Schedule III of the Indian Administrative Service (Pay) Rules, 1954 and which carried the same salary as that of the Chief Secretary.32.	None
The posts of the Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission and the Officer on Special Duty were created for cadre officers to discharge duties and responsibilities of a high order.	None
These posts were not created all of a sudden with any oblique purpose.	None
The Planning Commission had been in contemplation for some time.	None
Similarly, the post of Officer on Special Duty was created after consideration and evaluation of serious problems of State Revenue.	None
Each one of the posts carried specific functions and responsibilities.	None
Comparisons between functions, duties and responsibilities of posts at the apex of different departments are not always possible.	None
The status of the post would also depend on the incumbent, because a brilliant officer can so augment the opportunities of public service in the post that others may cover it.	None
The posts were created under the inherent executive powers of the State Government.	None
These posts were not additions to posts specified in the Cadre Schedule of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954.	None
These were posts outside the cadre.33.	None
On an objective consideration we find that the two posts were created for discharging functions requiring very high calibre and specialized experience and must be counted as no less responsible than the topmost cadre posts.	None
Finding suitable officers for such specialized jobs is always a difficult problem for the administration.	None
The Cadres do not always overflow with superabundance of specialized experience.	None
The choice, therefore, becomes limited.	None
The Administration has also to take into account the willingness or otherwise of an officer to take up a new job which may not invest him with wide executive powers which he wields, while holding even less important posts.	None
The choice in the present case fell on the petitioner when the post of the Deputy Chairman was created and then again when the post of Special Officer was created.	None
He was given the pay scale of the Chief Secretary, because that was the scale of pay, he was drawing when he was appointed to these posts.	None
The fact that on his refusal to join the posts, somebody else was appointed on Rs. 3000/ does not devalue the job.	None
The job remains the same.	None
The question for the administration is to choose the man for the job, and it is only to be expected that whosoever is chosen will take with him his pay unless Government thinks of paying him more.	None
When the petitioner was posted to the new posts he was permitted to draw his salary as the Chief Secretary and when Rajaram the First Member of the Board of Revenue was appointed, he took with him has salary as the First Member.	None
When the petitioner was to occupy the post of Deputy Chairman or Special Officer the post was graded to give him his old scale of pay and when Rajaram was appointed to these posts, he was given his old scale as First Member.	None
That the post of Chief Secretary and First Member were interchangeable though the former got a higher salary, was recognized by the State Government and also endorsed by the State Government long back in January, 1970.	None
There was, therefore, no upgrading or downgrading of the post.34.	None
The petitioner had worked as Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes and subsequently as Secretary to Government Revenue Department dealing with Commercial Taxes also.	Reasoning
The petitioner was also Commissioner, Board of Revenue in charge of Commercial Taxes.	Reasoning
In view of the wide experience of the petitioner in the field of commercial taxes the Government decided to post him as Officer on Special Duty.	Reasoning
This was neither unjust nor unfair nor mala fide.	Reasoning
There was no reduction in rank.	Reasoning
The petitioners status as well as pay was in conformity with the Rules.35.	Reasoning
The petitioner could not claim that till retirement he must continue to act in the post of the Chief Secretary.	Reasoning
The order of transfer were passed in the administrative exigencies.36.	Reasoning
The member of Indian Administrative Service and particularly those who are in the high posts are described as the steel framework of the Administration.	Reasoning
The smooth and sound administration of the country depends on the sense of security and stability of the officers.	Reasoning
These officers should not be made to feel that their position or posts are precarious with the change of Government.	Reasoning
Their service must be completely free from the fear or threat of arbitrary act of the authorities.	Reasoning
Similarly, the members of the Service should keep themselves isolated from turmoils of political parties.	Reasoning
It is this sense of disinterestedness and detached devotion to duty which has to be recognised and rewarded.37.	Reasoning
The posts of Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission and Officer on Special Duty are equal in status and responsibility.	None
The services of cadre officers are utilised in different posts of equal status and responsibility because of exigencies of administration, and employing the best available talent in the suitable post.	None
There is no hostile discrimination in transfer from one post to another when the posts are of equal status and responsibility.38.	None
The petitioner alleged that the creation of the posts of Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission and Officer on Special Duty as well as the appointment of the petitioner to the posts was mala fide.	Arguments of Petitioner
Broadly stated petioners allegations were that the Chief Minister acted mala fide in removing the petitioner from the post of Chief Secretary.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioner alleged that in the discharge of his duty he was fearless and he suggested action against persons who were friendly to the Chief Minister.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is said that the Chief Minister therefore wreaked his vengeance on the petitioner.39.	Arguments of Petitioner
One of the instances alleged by the petitioner which gave rise to the anger of the Chief Minister relates to irregularities in the accounts of Thanjavur Cooperative Marketing Federation.	None
V. S. Thiagaraja Mudaliar was the head of the Federation.	None
Mudaliar was a powerful and influential person.	None
He was a close associate of the Chief Minister.	None
The petitioner put up a note to the Chief Minister that the case should be handed over to the police and the persons responsible should be hauled up.	None
The petitioner alleged that the Minister for Cooperation called the petitioner and asked him to modify the note.	None
The modification suggested was to leave out any reference to Mudaliar and to omit the suggestion for handing over the matter to the police.40.	None
Another allegation concerning Mudaliar is that he was flouting orders of the Government and health authorities and allowing effluents from the distillery at Tricharapalli without proper treatment into the river and thereby causing harzards.	None
The petitioner wrote a note asking for deterrent action and launching prosecution against Mudaliar.	None
The petitioner alleged that the Chief Minister expressed his annoyance.41.	None
The Minister for Cooperation denied that he asked the petitioner to modify any note.	Reasoning
The Chief Minister denied that he ever asked for and modification in the note.	Reasoning
The Chief Minister further alleges in the affidavits that there is no note written by the petitioner suggesting the launching of prosecution against Mudaliar.	Reasoning
Both the Chief Minister and the Minister for Cooperation state in their affidavit that action has been taken and is being pursued against all the persons concerned relating to the affairs of the Federation.	Reasoning
The petitioners suggestion was accepted.	Reasoning
There is no occasion for vindictiveness.42.	Reasoning
The petitioners allegation that the Chief Minister expressed annoyance at the petitioners note against Mudaliar for causing hazards by discharge of effluent from the distillery is belied by the action taken by the Government.	Reasoning
The petitioner in his note suggested a joint inspection and satisfactory arrangement for treatment of the effluent in accordance with the recommendation of the Water and Sewage Advisory Committee.	Reasoning
The petitioners proposal was accepted.	Reasoning
The petitioners also recommended implementation of a plant scheme on pain of cancellation of licence.	Reasoning
Industrial alcohol is manufactured in the distillery.	Reasoning
This product is required by the cordite factory of the Defence Department and for pharmaceutical, medicinal and industrial products.	Reasoning
The petitioners recommendation to close the distillery would not only have unemployment of a large section but created also lose of important products.	Reasoning
The way the affairs of the distillery were handled according to the suggestion and recommendation of the petitioner does not disclose any evidence of mala fide on the part of the Government.43.	Reasoning
The third instance of mala fide alleged by the petitioner was that the Chief Minister did not like the suggestion of the petitioner that Vaithialingam, the Private Secretary to the Chief Minister should be transferred.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Chief Minister is also alleged to have said that the Chief Secretary should be transferred but not the Private Secretary.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Chief Minister denied that he ever made any statement that the Chief Secretary should be transferred.44.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also alleged that the Chief Minister wanted to prefer Vaithialingam in the preparation of the seniority list of the Indian Administrative Service.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioner alleged that he declined to oblige.	None
Therefore, it is said that the petitioner suffered by the mala fides of the Chief Minister.	None
There were disputes between direct recruits and promottes in regard to fixation of seniority.	None
The Chief Minister on the advice of the petitioner passed an order on 22 December, 1969 that the Government could finalise the seniority list after considering the representations of the members.	None
The petitioner thereafter submitted a file to the Chief Minister that direct recruit Assistant Engineers of the Public Works Department also made requests for revision of seniority as between them and the promotee Engineers.	None
The Chief Minister under these circumstances cancelled his order dated 22 December, 1969.	None
Subsequent to the cancellation of the order direct recruit Deputy Collectors filed writ petitions in the High Court claiming revision of seniority on the basis of Government order dated 22nd December, 1969.	None
Those petitions are pending disposal in the High Court of Madras.45.	None
The petitioner also alleges that the Chief Minister refused to allow Deputy Collectors in the select to allow Deputy Collectors in the select list to act in the Indian Administrative Service posts and many retired at the age of 55 without acting as I.A.S. Officers.	None
The petitioner alleges that the Chief minister thought that Vaithialingam would thereby gain seniority in the inter se seniority list of Deputy Collectors because the age of superannuation of I.A.S. Officers is 58.	None
The respondents in their affidavits stated that the I.A.S. Selection Committee could not meet for the years 1968, 1969 and 1970 for various reasons.	None
The petitioner in a note suggested that the inclusion of name in the Select List did not confer any right of promotion.	None
The Chief Minister agreed with the petitioner.46.	None
These facts in relation to Vaithialingam indicates that the petitioner was not only a party to all the decisions but also he was responsible for the decision taken by the Government.	Reasoning
There is no ground whatever for attributing bad faith or improper motive to the Government against the petitioner.47.	Reasoning
The petitioner alleged other instances which gave rise to the wrath of the Chief Minister against the petitioner.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was land acquisition at Manali for Madras Refineries.	Arguments of Petitioner
Large compensation was paid to the owner Ramkrishnan.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioner caused the suspension of the District Revenue Officer and other Officers for suppressing the note that the Law Department had strongly opposed the proposal to award large compensation.	None
The affidavit evidence of the respondents is that the awards were passed by the land acquisition authorities.	None
The Law Department was of the view that land acquisition officers, did not follow the correct principles in the award of compensation.	None
The Law Department advised disciplinary action against the officers.	None
The Law Department recommended that the awards should be set aside.	None
The Chief Minister, the Minister of Law both directed that suitable action should be taken.	None
The file was sent to the petitioner for further action.	None
The petitioner asked for suspension of the Officers.	None
The Government approved the suspension because of the clear instructions of the Government Disciplinary proceedings are pending against these officers.	None
It is obvious that the petitioners allegations of mala fide against the Chief Minister are totally repelled by the correct facts.48.	None
The petitioner alleged that the Chief Minister expressed the view that the Government could not tolerate the Chief Secretary who dared to oppose the proposal relating to Anna Samadhi.	None
It is alleged as follows.	None
The D.M.K. Party decided to erect a Samadhi called Anna Samadhi.	None
The Chief Minister wanted to appoint a committee for management and maintenance of the Samadhi.	None
The Chief Minister wanted to issue an Ordinance in that behalf.	None
The petitioner opposed the promulgation of the Ordinance.	None
The idea of the Ordinance was dropped.	None
It is said that thereafter a private trust was created for administering the Samadhi.	None
The trustees requested the Government to hand over the Samadhi to the trust.	None
The petitioner opposed the proposel on the ground that the portion of the land belonged to the Municipal Corporation and the land together with the Samdhi cost the Government and the Corporation over Rs. 40 lakhs.	None
The petitioners allegations are all baseless.	None
The Public Works Department examined the proposal to hand over the Samadhi to the private trust.	None
The file were marked to the Chief Minister.	None
The petitioner merely noted Chief Minister may decide.	None
The petitioner did not oppose the proposal.	None
This fact also indicates that the that the Chief Minister did not bear any grudge against the petitioner.49.	None
The petitioner alleges that an extraordinary procedure was followed in connection with the tender for the Veeranam Water Supply Scheme to the city of Madras.	None
One Satyanarayana submitted the tender.	None
The amount involve was Rs. 20 crores.	None
The Government agreed to pay an advance of Rs. 90 lakhs as loan to the contractor for buying machinery.	None
The petitioner did not approve the proposal.	None
The petitioner said that a considerable time could be required to scrutinise the tender for such a large amount.	None
The petitioner returned the file without scrutiny because the Minister for Works wanted it.	None
This annoyed the Chief Minister.	None
On the other hand Government alleges that eight firms submitted tenders for the Veeranam project.	None
The tender of Satyanarayana Brothers was the lowest.	None
They were a local company with wide experience in civil works and defence works.	None
The Chief Secretary received the file on 27 April, 1970.	None
Orders were to be issued urgently.	None
The file was obtained by the Additional Chief Secretary from the Chief Secretarys office.	None
It was then ordered by the Minister for Works after discussion with the Chief Minister that the lowest tender of Satyanarayana might be accepted.	None
Orders were issued on 7 May, 1970 accepting the tender of Satyanarayana Brothers.	None
The petitioners alleged note that he wanted time to scrutinise the file is not found in the file.	None
An expert team recommended the acceptance of the tender of Satyanarayana Brother.	None
It thus appears that the petitioner saw the file on 11 May, 1970 after the tender had been accepted on 7 May, 1970.	None
The petitioner did not raise any objection to the procedure, which was adopted.	None
When the matter came for final orders on 13 July, 1970 the petitioner did not record any objection.	None
This is yet another instance which establishes that the petitioner made reckless allegations imputing mala fides to the Chief Minister.50.	None
The other allegation of the petitioner concerns the Cooum River Project.	None
The allegation is that the petitioner pressed for an investigation of the Cooum River Project.	None
The Chief Minister issued orders for an enquiry.	None
Later on the Chief Minister cancelled the order.	None
The Chief Minister directed the Director of Vigilance to look into certain rumours about malpractices in the execution of the Cooum Improvement Scheme.	None
The Director of Vigilance informed the petitioner and requested him to accord sanction to enable the Director to embark upon such an enquiry.	None
The relevant section put up before the petitioner a draft letter authorising the Director to embark on an enquiry.	None
It is discovered that no action was taken by the petitioner.	None
The letter of the Director dated 25 February, 1970 addressed to the petitioner indicates that the Director asked for authorisation to make an enquiry.	None
The file indicates that the petitioner on 26th February, 1970 submitted a note for Public (Secret Confidential) Department for perusal.	None
The Public (Secret Confidential) Department received the file on 20 September, 1970.	None
There are minute of the Chief Minister ordering the enquiry.	None
The file was put up before the petitioner on 21 September, 1970.	None
The file was not received back.	None
On 31 July, 1971 the Chief Secretary asked the petitioner to send back the file.	None
The petitioner on 8 August, 1971 said that the file was not with him.	None
These are indeed strange things.	None
It is baseless to allege mala fides against the Chief Minister.51.	None
The brunt of the petitioners allegations against the Chief Minister centres on the midterm poll in the month of February, 1971.	None
The petitioners allegations are these.	None
In or about the end of January, 1971, the D.M.K. Party of which Ramaswami Naicker is the leader took out an antireligious procession at Salem.	None
It is alleged that the procession hurt the feelings of devout Hindus.	None
One Ramaswami, popularly known as Cho who is the Editor of a magazine called Tughlak took photographs of the procession.	None
The D.M.K. Party obtained information that Cho was likely to publish the photographs.	None
The D.M.K. Party thought that in view of the impending elections the publication of the photographs would affect their prospects at the election.	None
The petitioner received a trunk call from the Law Minister who asked him to take action to prohibit publication of the photographs.	None
The petitioner said that the Government had no power to prevent the publication.52.	None
The Chief Minister shouted on the telephone that the Deputy Superintendent of Police should be suspended and action should be taken against the magazine.	None
The petitioner discussed the matter with the Inspector General of Police who said that it would be most unfair to suspend the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Salem.	None
The petitioner suggested that the matter might be dropped.	None
The Chief Minister thereupon asked the Inspector General of Police to suspend the Circle Inspector of Police at Salem.	None
The Inspector General of Police suspended the Circle Inspector and registered a case against him.	None
When the Chief Minister returned from his camp, he took the petitioner to task for registering a case against Naicker.53.	None
The Chief Minister in his affidavit states that he told the petitioner the action should be taken against the persons who had broken the law.	None
He denies that he took the petitioner to task for registering a case against Nicker.	None
He denies that he shouted at the petitioner and ordered the Inspector General of Police to suspend any police officer.54.	None
The other allegations by the petitioner are these.	None
On 28 February, 1971 the petitioner received a telephone message from the Deputy Inspector General of Police about various clashes involving looting, killing, burning of houses in the village in Tireunelveli District on the previous night.	None
The Inspector General of Police informed the petitioner that the Minister of Cooperation was at the back of the clashes.	None
The District Collector was not helpful in taking action against the Minister.	None
The petitioner told the collector that it was serives dereliction of duty.	None
The petitioner asked the Collector to proceed immediately to the spot to take steps to maintain law and order.	None
The petitioner also asked for a full report.55.	None
At 4 p.m. on February, 1971 the Governor summoned the petitioner and the Inspector General of Police.	None
The Governor summoned them to discuss about the deteriorating law and order situation in the city and the District.	None
The Governor made special reference to the complaints received by him about violence and intimidation particularly from Triupattur (Ramnad).	None
Shiva Kundan Udumal pet, Thuvannalai and Saidapet constituencies from where the Chief Minister and other Cabinet Ministers were contesting the elections.	None
The Inspector General of Police told the Governor that lorry loads of goondas armed with deadly weapons had arrived in the city of Madras.	None
The goondas numbered about 1500.	None
They were brought at the instance of the Chief Minister.	None
The Governor was annoyed and shouted how was is possible to transport 1500 goondas from nearly 300 miles by lorries without the knowledge of the police.	None
I expect the police to do their duty.	None
The law and order situation has deteriorated considerably throughout the State.	None
In the Tirupattur Constituency of Ramnad District there was no semblance of law and order.	None
I had received telegrams and complaints.	None
Unless the Collectors and the Superintendent of Police do their duty would be no free and fair Elections.	None
The Governor told the petitioner Mr. Chief Secretary, throughout your career, you have the reputation of carrying out the duties without fear or favour and without bothering about the consequences.	None
I am sure that I could rely upon you to take special steps to arrest the deteriorating law and order situation and ensure free and fair Elections.	None
The petitioner assured the Governor that he would take strong action.56.	None
The petitioner then discussed with the Inspector General of Police about the special steps to be taken to maintain law and order.	None
The petitioner gave orders to the Inspector General of Police that the goondas should be arrested.	None
The Inspector General of Police agreed to carry out the orders.	None
Raid was carried out in the night.57.	None
The Chief Minister sent for the petitioner and shouted at him.	None
I am the Chief Minister.	None
I am in charge of the Police Portfolio.	None
How dare you order the arrest of persons in my constituency without my prior permission ?	None
The petitioner said that he carried out his without duty favour and fear.	None
The Chief Minister flared up and said Your had deployed Central Police every two feet at Thigarayanagar, Mylapore, Saidapet and other places.	None
I order you to withdraw immediately the Central Reserve Police.	None
The petitioner said that he had asked for five battalions of Central Reserve Police for maintaining law and order situation.	None
It was not possible to withdraw the Central Reserve Police.	None
The Chief Minister shouted at the petitioner.58.	None
After the polling was over the police force posted areas.	None
Law and order situation deteriorated considerably in the city.	None
A lady M.L.A. belonging to the Congress Party was dragged from her car and molested.	None
Goondas armed with sticks and weapons were at large.	None
The Inspector General of Police discussed the matter with the petitioner.	None
The petitioner asked them to round up all bad elements.	None
More than 2600 bad elements were rounded up.	None
In the absence of the Chief Minister, two Ministers phoned the Commissioner of Police to release the D.M.K. ring leaders.	None
The Commissioner of Police in accordance with the petitioners instructions refused to release them unless proper bail was offered.	None
The Commissioner of Police informed the petitioners that the Chief Minister himself had phoned him.	None
The Inspector General of Police reported that the D.M.K. was pressing into service goondas.	None
He apprehended trouble as some of the Ministers were indulging in dangerous activities.	None
The petitioner ordered the Inspector General of Police to intercept lorryloads of goondas.	None
The Chief Minister and the Minister of law, when they came to know about the instructions issued by the petitioner, to the Inspector General of Police asked the petitioner to withdraw the instructions.	None
The petitioner refused to do so.59.	None
On 4 March, 1971 a Code message was received from the Home Ministry that the Ministry had received disturbing reports about clashes between various political groups in parts of the city.	None
Officers were asked to be fully vigilant and take preventive measures.	None
The petitioner discussed the matter with the Home Secretary, Inspector General of Police, Commissioner of Police and other officers and issued instructions.	None
The instructions were that the people should not be allowed to collect within three furlongs of the counting centres.	None
Bad elements should be rounded up 24 hours before the counting began.	None
The Collectors and the Commissioner of Police should form Peace Committees and request the political parties not to take out victory processions or indulge in violence.	None
Section 41 of the City Police Act and Section 30 of the District Police Act were to be promulgated to regulate crowds.60.	None
On 6 March, 1971 the Chief Minister rang up the petitioner and asked him to be present at the Cabinet meeting along with the Inspector General of Public and the Home Secretary.	None
At the Cabinet meeting the petitioner was attacked and abused by the Law Minister.	None
The petitioner, the Inspector General of Police and Commissioner of Police were threatened with dire consequences.	None
The results were declared on 11 March.	None
The D.M.K. maintained its majority.61.	None
After the elections a meeting of all the District Collectors was fixed for 6 April, 1971, at Madras.	None
The Chief Secretary as the Service Chief was responsible for conducting the proceedings.	None
The Chief Minister called a Press Conference around 12 mid night at which he announced that the petitioner was appointed as Deputy Chairman of the State Planning Commission and that he would be transferred forthwith.62.	None
It is in this background of long narration of events at the time of Election that the petitioner alleges that the Government and the Chief Minister acted mala fide against the petitioner because of the stern attitude of the petitioner against the D.M.K. Party.63.	None
The Chief Secretary of the State in his affidavit states that there is no record of any one of the matters to law and order situation on the eve and at the time of the election save and except the instructions issued by the petitioner on 4 March, 1971 with regard to promulgation of Section 41 of the City Police Act and Section 30 of the District Police Act rounding up of bad elements and probation offenders and prohibition of processions.	None
The Order passed by the petitioner was reviewed at the State Cabinet Meeting on 6 March, 1971.	None
There were two modifications.	None
First, the prohibition against collection of people within three furlongs of the coonting centre was charged into safe distance, in place of three furlongs.	None
The rounding up of rowdies and bad elements and probation offenders was restricted only to listed rowdies.	None
The Home Ministry Code message dated 4 March, 1971 about clashed between political groups was received but the government did not attach special or particular importance to the message.	None
The Secretary, The Ministry of Home Affairs sent a massage on 16 march, 1971 commending the excellent arrangements made for ensuring free and fair elections.	None
The Government, therefore, states that law and order was well maintained.	None
The letter dated 16 march, 1971 was a circular letter sent to all the Chief Secretaries and therefore the Government states that no special credit can be claimed by the petitioner or ascribed to the petitioners alleged instructions.64.	None
There is an affidavit by the Chief Minister that no goondas were brought by him into the city and the allegation about raid on 1 March to round up the goondas is described by the Chief Minister to be false.	None
The Chief Minister also denies that the petitioner at any time stated that the Inspector General of Police was expecting serious clashes in Saidapet, Mylapore and Thyagaroya Nagar.	None
The Chief Minister denies that he asked the Commissioner of Police to release the D. M. K. leaders65.	None
The Governor of Tamil Nadu in his affidavit states that the petitioner and the Inspector General of Police met him on 28 February, 1971 at 4 p.m. at his instance to discus the arrangements made or being made for the effective maintenance of law and order.	None
The Governor brought to the notice of the petitioner and the Inspector General of Police that certain allegation had been made in regard to incidents of violence and intimidation.	None
The Inspector General of Police told the Governor that the reports would be investigated.	None
The Governor denies that he made a reference to complaints of violence or intimidation from the constituencies of Chief Minister and Cabinet Minister.	None
The Governor also denies that the Inspector General of Police had informed him that 1500 goondas had been rounded up.	None
The Governor denies that he ever paid compliments to the petitioner about his reputation or carrying out his duties without favour or fear.66.	None
The Minister of labour in his affidavit denies that he phoned up the commissioner of Police.	None
The Minister for Harijan Welfare to the Government of Tamil Nadu denies having telephoned the Commissioner of Police to release the arrested leaders.	None
The Minister for food denies that the D.M.K. employed goondas and he with other Minister indulged in violence.	None
He also denied that the minister started a tirade against the petitioner, the Inspector General of Police and the Commissioner of Police.67.	None
The Inspector General of Police states that there was no deterioration in the law and order situation.	None
He stated that out of 160 complaints received throughout the State 69 were against D.M.K. 46 against the Congress.	None
(O) and 9 against the other parties and the remaining 39 are against the Police and other nonpolitical bodies.	None
The Inspector General of Police denies that there was any organised violence, Kuppuswamy, the Inspector General of Prisons who held the post of Commissioner of Police at the time of the election states that the allegations made by the petitioner about tirade against the petitioner and the Inspector General of Police and the Commissioner of Police are baseless.68.	None
The petitioner made allegations of mala fides to suggest officer and the Chief Minister and the other Ministers did not want such an honest officer and therefore they got rid of him.	None
The most significant feature in the allegations of mala fides is that when on 7 April, 1971 the petitioner was appointed to act as Deputy Chairman, Planning and he went on leave he did not at any stage anywhere that the order was made mala fide.	Reasoning
The first letter where the petitioner alleged mala fides is dated 7 June, 1972.	Reasoning
The allegation of mala fides are not contemporaneous but afterthoughts at a distance of one year.	Reasoning
That was when the petitioner returned from leave after one year and he was appointed to the post of Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission.	Reasoning
Even in that letter the only allegation about mala fide is that the petitioner took strong steps about maintenance of law and order at the time of the elections in 1971 against the views of the Chief Minister and the Ministers.	Reasoning
It, therefore, follows that until the petition was filed in the month of July, 1972 the respondents of mala fide made in the petition.	Reasoning
Therefore, when the impugned order was made on 26/27 June, 1972 it is manifest that the Government did not make the order out of any improper motive or any indecent haste or out of any ingenious inspiration to get rid of the petitioner.	Reasoning
Another noticeable feature in the allegations of mala fides is that the petitioner all throughout describes himself as a person who acted without any fear or favour and enjoyed the reputation of being a strict and honest officer, and, therefore, the Government contrived to remove the petitioner from the post of Chief Secretary.	Reasoning
Honest and fearless cadre officers are not unknown and rare as the petitioner suggests.	Reasoning
Nor are intrepid officers in cadre posts thrown out of office because of expression of views about law and order situation.	Reasoning
In the petition the petitioner has ascribed to the Chief Minister, the Governor and a few other Ministers certain statements having been made by them.	Reasoning
The statements are quoted to be words of mouth of the Chief Minister or the Governor or the Ministers.	Reasoning
The petitioner has nowhere made contemporaneous entry or record of such utterances.	Reasoning
It is difficult to believe that the petitioner would remember identical words in long sequence and set them out with exactitude in the petition.	Reasoning
These allegations are made in the petition for the purpose of giving semblance of truth and lending colour to chronicle.69.	Reasoning
The affidavit evidence indicates that the petitioner carried out normal duties and exercised care and caution at the time of the election.	Reasoning
That is expected of all officers.	Reasoning
It is also expected that officers will maintain a balanced and firm hand in regard administration.	Reasoning
Civil servants are expected to advise Ministers in the context of files and rules.	Reasoning
The Government and Ministers are also expected to maintain a balanced and impersonal attitude in regard to law and order situation as well as advice given by civil servants.	Reasoning
In the present case, it appears that the petitioner gave advice in course of duty.	Reasoning
The Government practically in all cases accepted the advice of the petitioner.	Reasoning
There does not appear any instance of acrimony or dis agreement between the Government and the petitioner.	Reasoning
There are no records to suggest that the petitioner advised one way and the Government acted in an opposite manner.70.	Reasoning
The events alleged at the time of the elections are in aid of the petitioners contension that his dealing of the law and order situation was so firm that the Chief Minister and other members of his party became alienated.	Reasoning
The petitioner suggested that the Chief Minister and the members of his party were responsible for introducing violence and intimidation.	Reasoning
The further suggestion of the petitioner is that the petitioner exposed the activities of the D.M.K. Party, Complaints against the D.M.K. Party were like complaints against other political parties.	Reasoning
The affidavit evidence indicates that the law and order situation was kept under normal control.	Reasoning
All the officers of the State including the police service discharged their duty in the best interest of administration as also in public interest.	Reasoning
The petitioner did not achive anything extraordinary.	Reasoning
As the Chief Secretary it was the duty of the petitioner went out of control.	Reasoning
The Chief Minister and the members of his party cannot be said on the affidavit evidence to have committed acts of violence or intimidation.	Reasoning
The entire affidavit evidence establishes beyond any measure of doubt that the petitioners allegations imputing mala fides against the Chief Minister are baseless.	Reasoning
The petitioners allegations were in aid of suggesting vindictiveness and vengeance on part of the Chief Minister.	Reasoning
Facts and circumstances repel any such insinuation and innuendo.71.	None
For these reasons the contention of the petitioner fail.	None
The petition is dismissed.	None
Each party will pay and bear its own costs.72.	None
Bhagwati, J (with Chandrachud and Krishna Iyer, JJ.)	None
We are in agreement with the final conclusion reached in the judgment delivered by the learned Chief Justice, but our approach and reasoning are a little different and we are, therefore, delivering separate judgment expressing our views on the various questions arising in the petition.73.	None
The petitioner is a member of the Indian Administrative Service in the cadre of the State of Tamil Nadu.	Facts
On 2nd August, 1968, the petitioner was confirmed in the selection grade of the Indian Administrative Service with effect from 22nd May, 1961.	Facts
The petitioner was successively posted to act as Fifth Member, Board of Revenue, Fourth Member, Board of Revenue, Third Member, Board of Revenue and Second Member, Board of Revenue on 25th February, 1964, 5th August, 1965, 30th March, 1966 and 5th April, 1969.	Facts
On 11th July, 1969 the State of Tamil Nadu passed an order sanctioning the creation of a temporary post of Additional Chief Secretary to the Government for a period of one year and directed that the posts of Chief Secretary to Government, Additional Chief Secretary to Government and First Member of the Board of Revenue should be deemed to be in the same category and should be interchangeable selection posts, and posted the petitioner to act as Additional Chief Secretary to Government in the newly created post.	Facts
Now, according to Sch.	Facts
III A of the Indian Administrative Service (Pay) Rules, 1954 the posts of Chief Secretary to Government and First Member, Board of Revenue carried respectively pay of Rs. 3,000/ and Rs.	Facts
2,750/	Facts
But since the State Government had by the order dated 11th July, 1969 directed that the posts of Chief Secretary to Government, Additional Chief Secretary to Government and First Member, Board of Revenue should be in the same category and interchangeable it was necessary that there should be same pay for all the three posts and the Government, therefore by a letter dated 7th August, 1969 requested the Central Government to amend Sch.	Facts
IIIA of the Indian Administrative Service (Pay) Rules, 1954, so that all the three posts could be of the same rank carrying the same pay, namely, Rs. 3,000/	Facts
The Central Government by its letter in reply dated 26th September, 1969 pointed out to the Sate Government that the status of Chief Secretary to Government as the head of the Secretariat organisation in the State should remain unquestioned and it should not be allowed to be diluted by the creation of the post of Additional Chief Secretary carrying the same status and emoluments as the Chief Secretary and suggested that the State Government may consider adding the post of Additional Secretary to the cadre temporarily for one year n the pay Rs. 2,750/ or in smaller scale, but not in the scale of Rupees 3,000/ as desired by the State Government.	Facts
So far as the request of the State Government in regard to the post of First Member of the Board of Revenue was concerned, the Central Government agreed that there should be one nonsecretaria post in the State Cadre carrying the same salary as that of the Chief Secretary and stated that they were taking steps to provide that the First Member, Board of Revenue should carry the same pay as admissible to the Chief Secretary.	Facts
The Central Government accordingly issued a notification dated 14th January, 1976 in pursuance of Rule 11 of the Indian Administrative Service (Pay) Rule, 1954 amending Sch.	Facts
III with effect from 17th December, 1969 so as to provide that the pay of First Member, Board of Revenue shall be Rs.	Facts
3,000/, that is, the same as that of the Chief Secretary.	Facts
The post of First Member, Board of Revenue was thus equated to that of the Chief Secretary in rank and status, though the post, of Additional Chief Secretary was not.74.	Facts
In the meantime, on 13th November, 1969, the then Chief Secretary Ramakrishnan, who was a member of the Indian Civil Service, was retiring on completion of 35 years, service, and the question, therefore, arose as to who should be appointed in his place.	Facts
The file in this connection was placed before the Chief Minister, who is the second respondent before us, and a list of eleven senior most members of the Indian Civil Service and the Indian administrative Service was submitted to him for his consideration on 30th October, 1969.	Facts
The second respondent made an elaborate note on the file on 12th November, 1969 pointing out that the post of Chief Secretary is a selection post and in making selection merit should be considered and not seniority alone and the person best fitted to discharge the onerous duties of the post should be selected.	Facts
The second respondent then proceeded to consider the merits of the eleven officers whose names had been placed before him and selected the petitioner for the post stating that among the present set of senior officersE.P. Royappa is the best suited for the post and he may, therefore, be promoted as Chief Secretary.	Facts
This note was approved by the Governor on the same day, namely, 12th November, 1969.	Facts
On the next day that is, 13th November, 1969 the draft order in regard to the appointment of the petitioner was prepared and it was approved by the second respondent.	Facts
The draft order stated inter alia that the petitioner is promoted and posted as Chief Secretary vice Thiru Ramakrishnan.	Facts
I.C.S. retiring from service with effect from the afternoon of 13th November 1969.	Facts
The final order in the name of the Governor duly authenticated by the Chief Secretary was issued on the same day but it was differently worded in one material respect.	Facts
Paragraph 5 of that order provided that the petitioner is promoted and posted to act as Chief Secretary to Government vice Thiru Ramakrishnan.	Facts
I.C.S. who has been granted refused leave with effect from 14th November.	Facts
1969.	Facts
The reference here was to the fact that Ramakrishnan has been granted refused leave for four months from 14th November, 1969 under Fundamental Rule 86.	Facts
cl.	Facts
(a) The petitioner was accordingly promoted as Chief Secretary.	Facts
Whether such promotion was by way of substantive appointment or in an officiating capacity is a matter which we would have to decide when we deal with the arguments of the parties.75.	Facts
On 1st April, 1970, the Government of India proposed that in view if the fact that the responsibilities of Chief Secretary to State Government had multiplied and become complex to such an extent that they could no longer be regarded as less onerous than those of Secretary to the Government of India, the post of Chief Secretary to State Government should be equated to the post of Secretary to the Government of India in respect of pay and invited the comments of various State Government on this proposal.	Facts
The State of Tamil Nadu conveyed its assent to the proposal but suggested that since the posts of Chief Secretary and First Member, Board of Revenue in the State were equal these posts should be upgraded to that of Secretary to the Government of India.	Facts
The Government of India did not accede to the request of the State of Tamil Nadu in so far as the post of First Member, Board of Revenue was concerned, but in regard to the post of Chief Secretary, amended Sch.	Facts
III to the Indian Administrative Service (Pay) Rules, 1954 by a notification dated 31st August, 1970 raising the pay of Chief secretary from Rupees 3,000/ to Rs. 3,500/ per month so as to bring him on part with Secretary to the Government of India.	Facts
The rank and status of the post of Chief Secretary was thus enhanced and that post was raised above every other cadre post in the State including the post of First Member, Board of Revenue.76.	Facts
The general elections to the Parliament and the State Legislature were held in Tamil Nadu in the first week of March 1971.	Facts
The results of the poll were declared on 11th March, 1971 and the D.M.K. party under the leadership of the second respondent retained its majority in the State Legislature and formed the new Government with the second respondent as the Chief Minister.	Facts
According to the petitioner, there were several matters in which he had the misfortune to incur the displeasure and wrath of the second respondent during the period prior to the elections as also at the time of the elections whilst acting in discharge of his duties as Chief Secretary, and the second respondent, therefore, on being returned to power, decided to remove him from the post of Chief Secretary.	Facts
With that end in view the second respondent announced at a Press Conference held by him at midnight on 6th April, 1971 that the petitioner was transferred as Deputy Chairman of the State planning Commission.	Facts
There was no State Planning Commission in existence on that date though it appears that the proposal to set it up had been under consideration of the Government for some time.	Facts
The petitioner was also not given any inkling of the proposed appointment and be came to learn about it for the first time on reading the newspapers in the morning on 7th April, 1971.	Facts
The formal order in this connection was issued by the State Government on 7th April, 1971 and by this order the State Government accorded sanction to the creation of a temporary post of Deputy Chairman in the State Planning Commission in the grade of Chief Secretary for a period of one year with effect from the date of appointment and appointed the petitioner to the post providing that he shall be entitled to the same rank and emoluments as admissible to the post of Chief Secretary.	Facts
The petitioner obviously felt that he was being denigrated and he therefore, did not join this post and went on leave from 18th April, 1971 and the leave was renewed by him from time to time up to 5th June, 1972.	Facts
The State Planning Commission was in the meantime constituted on 25th May, 1971 and since the petitioner was on leave, an order dated 19th August, 1971 was issued by the State Government directing, in modification of the earlier order dated 7th April, 1971, that the post of Deputy Chairman should be deemed to have been sanctioned for a period of one year from 13th April, 1971 and that Raja Ram.	Facts
who was First Member, Board of Revenue, should be placed in charge of that post until further orders.	Facts
The post of Deputy Chairman having been created for a period of one year only, came to an end on 13th April, 1972 and it was not thereafter continued until 6th June, 1972 when it was again revived on return of the petitioner from leave.	Facts
The State Government passed an order dated 6th June, 1972 sanctioning once again the creation of temporary post of Deputy Chairman on a pay of Rs. 3,500/ per month for a period of one year and appointing the petitioner to that post on return from leave.	Facts
Against this order the petitioner made a representation to the second respondent on 7th June, 1972 stating that without the approval of the Central Government, the continuance of the post of Deputy Chairman in the rank of Chief Secretary for a period of more than one year would be invalid under R. 4 (2) of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954.	Facts
How far this contention was valid is a matter we shall presently examine and it need not detain us.	Facts
The next event that happened waswhether as a sequel to the representation of the petitioner or not, we do not know that the State Government issued an order dated 26th June, 1972 sanctioning the creation of a temporary post of Officer on Special Duty of the rank Member Board of Revenue for a period of one year for streamlining and rationalising the structure of Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act and similarenactments relating to commercial taxes and rules.	Facts
On the next day.	Facts
i.e., 27th June, 1972 another order was issued by the State Government modifying the earlier order to the effect that the temporary post of Officer on special Duty shall be in the grade of Chief Secretary to Government and appointing the petitioner to this post.	Facts
The petitioner did not join this post too and proceeded on long leave which continues till today.	Facts
We enquired of the learned Advocate General who appeared on behalf of the State of Tamil Nadu as to what arrangement had been made to fill the post of officer on Special duty in the absence of the petitioner who had gone on leave and in answer to our inquiry, we were informed by him that a Member of the Board of Revenue was discharging the functions of this post in addition to his normal functions.	Facts
It may be pointed out here that after the petitioner was transferred from the post of Deputy Chairman and appointed officer on Special Duty, an order dated 29th June, 1972 was passed by the State Government abolishing the post of Deputy Chairman sanctioned under the earlier order dated 6th June, 1972, sanctioning the creation of a new post of Deputy Chairman in the grade of First Member, Board of Revenue on a pay of Rs. 3,000/ per month and appointing Raj Ram, First Member, Board of Revenue to that post in addition to his appointment as First Member, Board of Revenue.	Facts
One other fact may also be noticed  and that is a little important  that on transfer of the petitioner from the post of Chief Secretary, one Sabanayagam, who was admittedly junior to the petitioner, was promoted as Chief secretary and we are told that he has been confirmed in that post.	Facts
The petitioner was obviously hurt be these rather disingenuous moves adopted by the State Government at the instance of the second respondent to remove him from the post of Chief Secretary and he, therefore, filed the present petition under Art.	Facts
32 of the Constitution challenging the validity of his transfer from the post of Chief Secretary, first to the post of Deputy Chairman, State Planning Commission and then to the post of Officer on Special, Duty, on the following grounds, namely, (1) it was contrary to the proviso to R. 4 (2) of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules.	Facts
1954 and R. 9, subr.	Facts
(1) of the Indian Administrative Service (Pay) rules, 1954 (2) it was violative of Arts, 14 and 16 of the Constitution as the posts of Deputy Chairman, State Planning Commission and Officer on Special Duty were inferior in rank and status to that of the Chief Secretary, and (3) it was made in mala fide exercise of power, not on account of exigencies of administration or public service, but because the second respondent was annoyed with the petitioner on account of various incident referred to in the petition and wanted him out of the way.	Facts
We shall elaborate these grounds as we proceed to discuss them.77.	Facts
But before we examine these grounds we must first determine what was the nature of the appointment when the petitioner was promoted as Chief Secretary.	None
Was he promoted in a substantive capacity or in an officiating capacity ?	None
The contention of the petitioner was that he was appointed substantively to the post of Chief Secretary and for this purpose he relied on the draft order approved by the second respondent as well as the Governor which did not use any words suggesting that his promotion was in an acting capacity and promoted and posted him as Chief Secretary without any qualifying or limitative words.	None
The petitioner of course could not dispute that the words used in the authenticated order were promoted and posted to act as Chief Secretary, but his argument was firstly, that the words to act qualified only posted and not promoted and in this context they meant nothing more than this namely.	None
that the petitioner was posted to function or work as Chief Secretary and not that he was promoted in an acting capacity, and secondly, that even if the words to act had the effect of making promotion an acting one, the authenticated order did not correctly embody the real decision of the State Government which was to be found in the draft order and the draft order must, therefore, prevail over the authenticated order.	None
The respondents sought to repel this contention by a twofold argument.	None
The first argument was based on the terms of the authenticated order and it was said that the was the final order duly authenticated by the then Chief Secretary and it was not open to the petitioner to go behind that order and refer to the draft order for purpose of varying its terms.	None
The authenticated order, contended the respondents, clearly showed that the promotion and posting of the petitioner as Chief Secretary was in an officiating capacity.	None
The other arguments urged in the alternative was that though Ramakrishnan retired on attaining the age of superannuation on the afternoon of 13th November, 1969, he was granted refused leave for a period of four months after the date of his retirement under Fundamental rule 86.	None
cl.	Facts
(a) and his service was, therefore, extended and he continued to retain his lien on the post of Chief Secretary until the expiration of such period of four months, i.e., up to 14th March, 1970 and the petitioner could not, therefore, possibly be appointed substantively to the post of Chief Secretary till that time.	None
We think, on a consideration of these arguments, that the contention of the petitioner that he was promoted as Chief Secretary in a substantive capacity is not well founded.78.	None
The authenticated order provided in terms clear and explicit that the petitioner was promoted and posted to act as Chief Secretary.	None
The words to act, according to plain grammar and language, governed not only posted but also promoted.	None
The petitioner was both promoted and posted as one single composite event, to act as Chief Secretary and that clearly meant that the promotion was in an acting capacity.	None
But the argument of the petitioner was that the words to act were not to be found in the draft order which recorded the original decision of the State Government and they were introduced in the authenticated order by mistake and should therefore be ignored, or in other words the authenticated order should be read without the words to act so as to be in conformity with the draft order.	None
The respondents resisted this attempt to go behind the authenticated order and contended that the authenticated order was the final order and it was not open to the petitioner to say that it did not correctly reflect the order as made by the State Government.	None
We do not think this contention of the respondents is sound.	None
It is now well settled law that when an order is authenticated, the only challenge that is excluded by the authentication is that it is not an order made by the Governor.	None
The validity of such an order can be questioned on other grounds.	None
(Vide King Emperor v. Shibnath Banerjee, 72 Ind App 241 (AIR 1945 PC 156 ) and State of Bihar v. Sonabati (1961) 1	None
SCR 728 at p. 746 (AIR 1961 SC 221 ).	None
The authentication does not, therefore, preclude the contention that the order though made by the Governor suffers from some other infirmity.	None
The authenticated order is merely an expression of the actual order which precedes it and which is made by the appropriate authority entitled to act on behalf of the State Government.	None
As pointed out by this Court in State of Bihar v. Sonabati, (1961) 1	None
SCR 728 at p. 746 (AIR 1961 SC 221 ) the process of making an order precedes and is different from the expression of it.	None
It should, therefore, be axiomatic that if the authenticated order does not correctly reflect the actual order made, or to put the same thing differently, the actual decision taken by the State Government, it must be open to correction.	None
The formal expression of the order cannot be given such sanctity that even if found to be mistaken, it must prevail over the actual order made and override it.	None
That would not be consonant with reason or principle.	None
It would be an artificial rule calculated to obstruct the cause of truth and justice.	None
Here in the present case it is the citizen who contends that the authenticated order does not correctly reproduce the actual order made by the State Government.	None
But there may conceivably be cases where the Government may also find that there is a mistake in the authenticated order and it requires to be rectified.	None
Take for example a case where the actual decision taken by the State Government is that a person should be appointed to a post in an officiating capacity but by mistake the appointment is described as substantive appointment in the authenticated order.	None
Can it be suggested in such a case that the Government cannot rectify the mistake by amending the authenticated order so as to bring it in accord with the real decision ?	None
We havetherefore, no doubt that it was competent to the petitioner to contend, by reference to the draft order which contained the original decision of the State Government, that the authenticated order did not correctly reflect such decision and suffered from an error But the question is whether such contention can succeed.79.	None
Now, if we look at the draft order it is clear that it merely uses the words promoted and posted as Chief Secretary.	None
It is silent as to the nature of the promotion.	None
It does not say whether the promotion is by way of substantive appointment or in an officiating capacity.	None
It could be either, consistently with the words used.	None
It is the authenticated order which says for the first time clearly and definitely by using the words to act that the promotion is in an officiating capacity.	None
There is thus no inconsistency between the draft order and the authenticated order from which any error can be spelt out in the authenticated order.	None
The authenticated order in so far as it uses the words to act, does no more than speak on a matter on which the draft order was silent.	None
It appears that before issuing the authenticated order the appropriate authority applied its mind to the question as to whether the promotion should be in a substantive capacity or in an officiating capacity and since Ramakrishnan was going on refused leave for four months from 14th November, 1969 and was accordingly, as we shall presently point out, entitled to retain his lien on the post of Chief Secretary till that date, decided that the promotion should be an officiating one as indeed it could not be otherwise, and that is why the authenticated order was issued with the addition of the words to act after the expression promoted and posted.	None
There is of course no positive evidence to this effect, but it would appear to be a reasonable inference to make in view of the substitution of the words retiring from service with effect from the afternoon of 13th November, 1969 in the authenticated order.	None
It is, therefore, clear that the authenticated order correctly reflected the final decision of the State Government and under it the promotion of the petitioner was in an acting or officiating capacity.80.	None
The alternative argument of the respondents must also lead us to the same conclusion.	None
This argument has been dealt with in the judgment of the learned Chief Justice and we do not think we can use fully add anything to what has been stated there by the learned Chief Justice.	None
We entirely agree with the reasoning and the conclusion of the learned Chief Justice on this point and hold that since Ramakrishnan proceeded on refused leave for a period of four months from the date of his superannuation he continued to retain his lien on the post of Chief Secretary until 14th March, 1970 during the period of refused leave granted to him, and the promotion of the petitioner under the order dated 13th November, 1969 could not therefore be otherwise than in an officiating capacity.	None
The post of Chief Secretary became vacant on 14th March, 1970 but at no time thereafter the petitioner was confirmed as Chief Secretary and he had, therefore, no right to hold the post of Chief Secretary at the date when he was transferred as Deputy Chairman, State Planning Commission.	None
But that does not mean that he was not entitled to be considered for confirmation, and since he was not confirmed, but Subanayagam, who was junior to him, was promoted and confirmed, the question must inevitably arise whether what was done was in mala fide exercise of power or in violation of Arts.	None
14 and 16 of the constitution.81.	None
We now turn to the first ground of challenge which alleges contravention of the second proviso to R. 4 (2) of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre), Rules, 1954 and R. 9, subR. (1) of the Indian Administrative Service (Pay) Rules, 1954.So far as the second proviso to R. 4 (2) of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954 is concerned, we do not think it has any application.	None
That proviso merely confers limited authority on the State Government to make temporary addition to the cadre for a period not exceeding the limit therein specified.	None
The strength and composition of the cadre can be determined only by the Central Government under R. 4 (1) and the Central Government alone can review it triennially or at any other intermediate time under R. 4 (2).	None
The State Government cannot add to the cadre a different category of post than that already existing in the cadre, nor can it make any permanent addition to the number of posts of a particular category in the cadre, for to do so would mean, in the first case, alteration in the composition of the cadre, and in the second, alteration in the strength of the cadre, both of which would be impermissible to the State Government.	None
But the State Government can, by virtue of the relaxation granted by second proviso, make temporary addition to the cadre provided the post added carries duties or responsibilities of a like nature to a cadre post.	None
This would mean, as pointed out by the Government of India in its decision recorded at 4.1 at page 741 of the all India Services Manual (Second Edition)	None
The exercise of this power by the State Government with reference to a post involves an objective assessment of the nature of the duties and responsibilities attached to that post in comparison to those attached to a cadre post.	None
Thus posts cannot be added temporarily to the cadre unless such posts already exist in the cadre.	None
The State of Tamil Nadu could not, therefore, add the posts of Deputy Chairman, State Planning Commission and Officer on Special Duty under the second proviso, as these posts did not exist in the cadre as constituted by the Central Government.	None
They were new categories of posts created by the State Government.	None
The second proviso to R. 4 (2) has, therefore, no application and the challenge based on it must fail.82.	None
The petitioner is, however, on firmer ground when he bases his challenge under R. 9, subr.	None
(1) of the Indian Administrative Service (Pay) Rules, 1954.	None
Rule 9, in so far as material, provides as follows (1) No Member of the Service shall be appointed to a post other than a post specified in Schedule III, unless the State Government concerned in respect of posts under its control, or the Central Government in respect of posts under its control, as the case may be, make a declaration that the said post is equivalent in status and responsibility to a post specified in the said Schedule.(2)	Arguments of Petitioner
The pay of a member of the Service on appointment to a post other than a post specified in Schedule III shall be the same as he would have been entitled to, had he been appointed in the post to which the said post is declared equivalent.(3) xx	None
xx xx(4)	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in this rule, the State Government concerned in respect of any posts under its control, or the Central Government in respect of any posts under its control, may, for sufficient reasons to be recorded in writing, where equation is not possible, appoint any member of the Service to any such post without making a declaration that the said post is equivalent in status and responsibility to a post specified in Schedule III.This rule is intended to provide a safeguard for the protection of a member of the Indian Administrative Service.	Arguments of Petitioner
Subr.	None
(1) enacts that no member of the Indian Administrative Service shall be appointed to a post other than a post specified in Schedule III, or in other words, to a noncadre posts unless the Government makes a declaration that such noncadre post is equivalent in status and responsibility to a post specified in the said Schedule, i.e., to a cadre post.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the State Government wants to appoint a member of the Indian Administrative Service to a noncadre post created by it, it cannot do sounlessit makes a declaration setting out which is the cadre post to which such noncadre post is equivalent in status and responsibility.	None
The making of such a declaration is a sine qua non of the exercise of power under subr.	None
(1).	None
It is not an idle formality which can be dispensed with at the sweet will of the Government.	None
It has a purpose behind it and that is to ensure that a member of the Indian Administrative Service is not pushed off to a noncadre post which is inferior in status and responsibility to that occupied by him.	None
So far as cadre posts are concerned, their hierarchy would be known, but a noncadre post created by the Government would be stranger in the hierarchy, and that is why subr.	None
(1) requires that before appointing a member of the Indian Administrative Service to such noncadre post.	None
The Government must declare which is the cadre to which such noncadre post is equivalent in status and responsibility so that the member of the Indian Administrative Service who is appointed to such noncadre post, would know what is the status and responsibility of his post in terms of cadre posts and whether he is placed in a superior or equal post or he is brought down to an inferior post.	None
If it is the latter, he would be entitled to protect his rights be pleading violation on Art.	None
311 or Arts.	None
14 and 16 of the Constitution, whichever may be applicable.	None
That would provide him effective insulation against unjust or unequal or unlawful treatment at the hands of the Government.	None
The object of this provision clearly is to ensure that the public services are, in the discharge of their duties, not exposed to the demoralising and depraving effects of personal or political nepotism or victimisation or the vagaries of the political machine.	None
The determination of equivalence is, therefore, made a condition precedent before a member of the Indian Administrative Service can be appointed to a noncadre post under subr.	None
(1).	None
It is mandatory requirement which must be obeyed.	None
The Government must apply its mind to the nature and responsibilities of the functions and duties attached to the noncadre post and determine the equivalence.	None
There the pay attached to the noncadre post is not material.83.	None
As pointed out by the Government of India in a decision given by it in MHA letter No. 32/52/56AIS (II) dated 10th July, 1956 the basic criterion for the determination of equivalence is the nature and responsibilities of duties attached to the postand not the pay attached to the post.	None
Once the declaration of equivalence is made on a proper application of mind to the nature and responsibilities of the functions and duties attached to the noncadre post, subr.	None
(2) says that the pay of the member of the Indian Administrative Service appointed to such noncadre post shall be the same as he would have been entitled to, had he been appointed in the cadre post to which such noncadre post is declared equivalent.	None
He is thus assured the pay of the equivalent cadre post and his pay is protected.	None
Now this declaration of equivalence, though imperative.is not conclusive in the sense that it can never be questioned.	None
It would be open to a member of the Indian Administrative Service to contend, notwithstanding the declaration of equivalence, that the noncadre post to which he is appointed is in truth and reality inferior in status and responsibility to that occupied by him and his appointment to such noncadre post is in violation of Art.	None
311 or Arts.	None
14 and 16.	None
The burden of establishing this would undoubtedly be very heavy and the Court would be slow to interfere with the declaration of equivalence made by the Government.	None
The Government would ordinarily be the best judge to evaluate and compare the nature and responsibilities of the functions and duties attached to different posts with a view to determining whether or not they are equivalent in status and responsibility and when the Government has declared equivalence after proper application of mind to the relevant factors, the Court would be most reluctant to venture into the uncharted and unfamiliar field of administration and examine the correctness of the declaration of equivalence made by the Government.	None
But where it appears to the Court that the declaration of equivalence is made without application of mind to the nature and responsibilities of the functions and duties attached to the noncadre post or extraneous or irrelevant factors are taken into account in determining the equivalence or the nature and responsibilities of the functions and duties of the two posts are so dissimilar that no reasonable man can possibly say that they are equivalent in status and responsibility or the declaration of equivalence is mala fide or in colourable exercise of power or it is a cloak for displacing a member of the Indian Administrative Service from a cadre post which he is occupying, the Court can and certainly would set at naught the declaration of equivalence and afford protection to the civil servant.	None
The declaration of equivalence must, however, always be there if a member of the Indian Administrative Service it to be appointed to a noncadre post.	None
The only exception to this rule is to be found in subr.	None
(4) and that applies where the noncadre post is such that it is not possible to equate it with any cadre post.	None
Where the Government finds that theequation is not possible, it can appoint a member of the Indian Administrative Service to a noncadre post but only for sufficient reasons to be recorded in writing.	None
This again shows that the Government is required to apply its mind and make an objective assessment on the basis of relevant factors for determining whether the noncadre post to which a member of the Indian Administrative Service is sought to be appointed can be equated to a cadre post, and if so, to what cadre post it can be so equated.	None
This is the plain requirement of R. 9, subr.	None
(1) and the question is whether the appointment of the petitioner to the noncadre posts of Deputy Chairman, State planning Commission and Officer on Special Duty was in compliance with this requirement.84.	None
Turning first to the appointment of the petitioner as Deputy Chairman, State Planning Commission.	None
It was made by the order dated 7th April 1971.	None
The Government by this order sanctioned the creation of a temporary post of Deputy Chairman in the grade of Chief Secretary and appointed the petitioner to this post, stating that he would be entitled to the same rank and emoluments as admissible to the Chief Secretary.	None
Howsoever favourably to the State Government we may try to read this order, it is not possible to discern in it any trace of a declaration that the State Government found, on an objective assessment of the nature and responsibility of the functions and duties attached to the post of Deputy Chairman, that it was equivalent in status and responsibility to that of Chief Secretary.	None
It is one thing to create a post of Deputy Chairman in the grade of Chief Secretary and another to determine, on an objective assessment of the nature and responsibilities of the functions and duties that the post of Deputy Chairman is equivalent in status and responsibility to that of Chief Secretary.	None
Here the State Government seems to have proceeded on the hypothesis that it can create a noncadre post in the rank or grade of any cadre post it likes, irrespective of the nature and responsibilities of the functions and duties attached to such noncadre post and that would be sufficient compliance with the requirement of Rule 9, subr.	None
(1).	None
But that hypothesis is plainly incorrect.	None
The State Government cannot artificially create equivalence by saying that a particular noncadre post, whatever be the nature and responsibilities of the functions and duties attached to it, shall be in the rank or grade of any cadre post it likes.	None
The State Government has to apply its mind and make an objective assessment of the nature and responsibilities of the functions and duties and determine which is the cadre post to which such noncadre post can be regarded as equivalent in status and responsibility and then only it can make a declaration of equivalence.	None
This exercise does not seem to have been gone through by the State Government when it made the order dated 7th April, 1971 sanctioning the creation of the post of Deputy Chairman and appointing the petitioner to that post.	None
This becomes abundantly clear if we look at the subsequent orders.85.	None
As we have already pointed out above, the post of Deputy Chairman first created came to an end on 13th April, 1972.	Facts
Thereafter there was no post of Deputy Chairman till 6th June, 1972 when it was created once again by the order dated 6th June, 1972.	Facts
Strangely enough this order, unlike the earlier order dated 7th April, 1971, did not even mention that the post of Deputy Chairman was in the grade or rank of Chief Secretary.	None
It merely prescribed the pay which shall attach to the post of Deputy Chairman.	None
There was admittedly no declaration in it equating the post of Deputy Chairman to that of Chief Secretary.	None
Then we come to the order dated 29th June, 1972.	None
This order is most eloquent.	None
It abolished the post of Deputy Chairman created under the order dated 6th June, 1972 and sanctioned the creation of a fresh post of Deputy Chairman in the grade of First Member, Board of Revenue on a pay of Rupees 3,000/ per month and appointed Raja Ram, First Member, Board of Revenue to that post.	Facts
Now it was not the case of the respondents that when the post of Deputy Chairman was sanctioned again by this order, there was any change in the nature and responsibilities of the functions and duties attached to the post of Deputy Chairman.	None
These remained the same namely, what they were when the post of Deputy Chairman was first created under the order dated 7th April, 1971 and then again under the order dated 6th June, 1972.	None
If that be so, how could the post of Deputy Chairman be declared to be equivalent in status and responsibility to the post of Chief Secretary at one time and to the post of First Member, Board of Revenue at another?	None
The nature and responsibilities of the functions and duties remaining the same, the equivalence, which is a matter of objective assessment could not vary from time to time.	None
This clearly shows that the Government did not apply its mind and objectively determine the equivalence of the post of Deputy Chairman but gave it a rank or grade according as who was going to be appointed to it.	None
That is in fact what the State Government has categorically and in so many terms admitted in paragraphs 25 (b) and 28 of its affidavit in reply Since Thiru M. G. Raja Ram was drawing only a salary of Rs. 3,000/ per month there was no option but to down grade the post With the recent appointment of Thiru M. G. Raja Ram as Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission the post has been equated to that of the First Member, Board of Revenue.	None
But this is precisely what is impermissible.	None
The status and responsibility of a noncadre post for the purpose of determining equivalence cannot depend on who is going to occupy it.	None
It is really the other way round.	None
The equivalence in status and responsibility determined on an objective assessment of the nature and responsibilities of the functions and duties attached to the post should decide which officer should occupy it.	None
It may be pointed out that, even if the order dated 7th April, 1971 be construed most liberally in favour of the State Government, which, in our opinion, should not be done when there is a contest between a public servant and the State Government it did not contain a declaration of equivalence in regard to responsibility.	None
There can, therefore, be no doubt that the appointment of the petitioner to the post of Deputy Chairman was in contravention of R. 9 (1).	None
But we cannot grant relief to the petitioner on this ground, because, as admitted by him in his letter dated 7th June, 1972 addressed to the second respondent, he accepted the appointment without demur as he thought that the post of Deputy Chairman was of the same rank and carried the same emoluments as the post of Chief Secretary and actually stated in a chat with newsmen on 7th April, 1971 that he was looking forward with confidence to discharge the duties of the Deputy Chairman.	None
Planning Commission, which is considered a challenging task, and he cannot not be permitted to challenge the validity of the appointment.86.	None
So far as the question of validity of the appointment to the post of Officer on Special Duty is concerned, we think that this appointment also suffers from the same infirmity.	None
The order dated 26th June, 1972 first created the post of Officer on Special Duty of the rank of Member, Board of Revenue, but on the next day, when it was decided to appoint the petitioner to that post, the order dated 26th June.	None
1972 was modified by the order dated 27th June, 1972 and the post of Officer on Special Duty was created in the grade of Chief Secretary.	None
These two orders dated 26th June, 1972 and 27th June, 1972 being of the same nature and in almost identical words as the order dated 7th April, 1971, what we have said above in regard to the order dated 7th April, 1971 must apply equally in relation to these two orders dated 26th June, 1972 and 27th June, 1972.	None
It is clear, for reasons we have already discussed while dealing with the order dated 7th April, 1971, that in making these two orders dated 26th June, 1972 and 27th June, 1972, the State Government proceeded on the wrong assumption that it can create a noncadre post in the rank or grade of any cadre post it likes, regardless of the nature and responsibilities of the functions and duties attached to such noncadre post.	None
The State Government first created the post of Officer on Special Duty in the rank of Member.	None
Board of revenue and on the very next day, because it was decided that the petitioner should be appointed to that post, converted it in to one in the grade of Chief Secretary.87.	None
This shows clearly that the State Government did not apply its mind and determine on an objective appraisal of the nature and responsibilities of the functions and duties attached to the post of Officer on Special Duty whether it was equavalent in status and responsibility to the post of Member, Board of Revenue or to the post of Chief Secretary.	None
The nature and responsibilities of the functions and duties attached to the post of Officer on Special Duty could not change in a day and indeed it was not the case of the respondents that they changed at any time.	None
If that be so, how could the post of Officer on Special Duty be declared to be equivalent in status and responsibility to the post of Member, Board of Revenue on one day and to the post of Chief Secretary, on the very next day ?	None
Either it was equivalent to the post of Member, Board of Revenue or equivalent to the post of Chief Secretary.	None
But it could not be equivalent to one post at one time and to another post at another time, when the nature and responsibilities of the functions and duties attached to it remained the same.	None
This establishes beyond doubt that, in making the orders dated 26th June, 1972 and 27th June, 1972, the State Government did not apply its mind and objectively determine the equivalence of the post of Officer on Special Duty, but gave it a rank or grade according as who was the officer going to be appointed to it.	None
That is in fact what the State Government clearly and in so many words admitted in paragraph 28 of its affidavit in reply  although the post of Officer on Special Duty was first created in the rank of Member, Board of Revenue, with the appointment of the petitioner to that post, the status of that post was equated to that of the Chief Secretary.	None
This is also borne out by the fact that when the petitioner went on leave, a Member of the Board of Revenue was appointed to discharge the functions of the post of Officer on Special Duty and that post was once again brought down to the rank of Member, Board of Revenue.	None
The order dated 27th June, 1972 in any even did not contain any declaration as to equivalence in responsibility.	None
There was thus no compliance with the requirement of R. 9, sub rule (1) and the appointment of the petitioner to the post of Officer on Special Duty was accordingly be liable to be held invalid for contravention of that subrule.	None
But we cannot in this petition under Art.	None
32 give relief to the petitioner by striking down his appointment to the post of Officer on Special Duty, as mere violation of R. 9, subr.	None
(1) does not involve infringement of any fundamental right.	None
We, however, hope that the State Government will not drive the petitioner to take appropriate proceedings for obtaining the necessary relief.88.	None
The last two grounds of challenge may be taken up together for consideration.	None
Though we have formulated the third ground of challenge as a distinct and separate ground it is really in substance and effect merely an aspect of the second ground based on violation of Arts.	None
14 and 16.	None
Article 16 embodies the fundamental guarantee that there shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointment to any office under the State.	None
Though enacted as a distinct and independent fundamental right because of its great importance as a principle ensuring equality of opportunity in public employment which is so vital to the building up of the new classless egalitarian society envisaged in the Constitution, Art. 16 is only an instance of the application of the concept of equality enshrined in Article 14.In other words, Art 14 is the genus while Art. 16 is a species.	None
Article 16 gives effect to the doctrine of equality in all matters relating to public employment.	None
The basic principle which, therefore, informs both Arts.	None
14 and 16 is equality and inhibition against discrimination.89.	None
Now, what is the content and reach of this great equalising principle ?	None
It is a founding faith, to use the words of Bose, J., a way of life, and it must not be subjected to a narrow pedantic or lexicographic approach.	None
We cannot countenance any attempt to truncate its all embracing scope and meaning, for to do so would be to violate its activist magnitude.	None
Equality is a dynamic concept with many aspects and dimensions and it cannot be cribbed, cabined and confined within traditional and doctrinaire limits.	None
From a positivistic point of view, equality is antithetic to arbitrariness.	None
In fact equality and arbitrariness are sworn enemies one belongs to the rule of law in a republic while the other, to the whim and caprice of an absolute monarch.	None
Where an act is arbitrary, it is implicit in it that it is unequal both according to political logic and constitutional law and is therefore violative of Article 14 and if it affects any matter relating to public employment, it is also violative of Art.	None
16.Articles 14 and 16 strike at arbitrariness in State action and ensure fairness and equality of treatment.	None
They require that State action must be based on valid relevant principles applicable alike to all similarly situate	None
and it must not be guided by any extraneous or irrelevant considerations because that would be denial of equality.	None
Where the operative reasons for State action, as distinguished from motive inducing from the antechamber of the mind, is not legitimate and relevant but is extraneous and outside the area of permissible considerations, it would amount to mala fide exercise of power and that is hit by Arts.	None
14 and 16.	None
Mala fide exercise of power and arbitrariness are different lethal radiations emanating from the same vice in fact the latter comprehends the former.	None
Both are inhibited by Arts.	None
14 and 16.90.	None
It is also necessary to point out that the ambit and reach of Articles 14 and 16 are not limited to cases where the public servant affected has a right to a post.	None
Even if a public servant is in an officiating position, he can complain of violation of Arts.	None
14 and 16 if he has been arbitrarily or unfairly treated or subjected to mala fide exercise of power by the State machine.	None
It is, therefore, no answer to the charge of infringement of articles 14 and 16 to say that the petitioner had no right to the post of Chief Secretary but was merely officiating in that post.	None
That might have some relevance to Art.	None
311 but not to Articles 14 and 16.We must, therefore, proceed to consider whether the transfer of the petitioner first to the post of Deputy Chairman and then to the post of Officer on Special Duty was arbitrary, hostile and in mala fide exercise of power.	None
What was the operative reason for such transfer was it the exigencies of public administration or extra administrative considerations having no relevance to the question of transfer ?	Issue
Was the transfer to the post of Deputy Chairman or Officer on Special Duty so irrational or unjust that it could not have been made by any reasonably administration except for collaterial reasons?	Issue
These are the questions which call for our consideration.91.	None
Now, two important considerations must weigh with us in determining one approach to these questions.	None
First, the post of Chief Secretary is highly sensitive post.	None
It is a post of great confidence  a linchpin in the administration  and smooth functioning of the administration requires that there should be complete rapport and understanding between the Chief Secretary and the Chief Minister.	None
The Chief Minister as the head of the Government is in ultimate charge of the administration and it is he who is politically answerable to the people for the achievements and failures of the Government.	None
If, therefore, for any valid reason the Chief Secretary forfeits the confidence of the Chief Minister, the Chief Minister may legitimately, in the larger interests of administration, shift the Chief Secretary to another post, provided of course that does not involve violation of any of his legal or constitutional rights.	None
There can be no question in such a case as to who is right and who is wrong.	None
The displacement of the Chief Secretary from his post in such a case would not be arbitrary and it would not attract the inhibition of Articles 14 and 16.It may, however, be pointed out that such an action would not, we think, ordinarily be taken except for the most compelling reasons, because, if resorted to without proper justification, it would tend to affect the political neutrality of the public service and lead to demoralisation and frustration amongst the public servants.92.	None
Secondly, with the vast multitudinous activities in which a modern State is engaged, there are bound to be some posts which require for adequate discharge of their functions, high degree of intellect and specialised experience.	None
It is always a difficult problem for the Government to find suitable officers for such specialised posts.	None
There are not ordinarily many officers who answer the requirements of such specialised posts and the choice with the Government is very limited and this choice becomes all the more difficult, because some of these posts, though important and having onerous responsibilities, do not carry wide executive power and officers may not, therefore, generally be willing to be transferred to those posts.	None
The Government has in the circumstances to make the best possible choice it can, keeping in view the larger interests of the administration.	None
When, in exercise of this choice, the Government transfers an officer from one post to another, the officer may fell unhappy because the new post does not give him the same amplitude of powers which he had while holding the old post.	None
But that does not make the transfer arbitrary.	None
So long as the transfer is made on account of the exigencies of administration and is not from a higher post to a lower post with discriminatory preference of a junior for the higher post, it would be valid and not open to attack under Arts.	None
14 and 16.93.	None
Now, here the post of Chief Secretary was admittedly a selection post and after careful examination of the merits of the seniormost eleven officers of the Tamil Nadu Cadre of the Indian Administrative Service, the second respondent selected the petitioner for the post of Chief Secretary.	None
The petitioner worked as Chief Secretary from 14th November 1969 up to 6th April 1971 and evidently during this period he acquitted himself creditably.	None
It was not the case of either of the respondents that the petitioner was not found equal to the task or that his work was not satisfactory.	None
In fact the affidavit in reply filed on behalf of the first respondent clearly indicates that the petitioner discharged the duties of his office efficiently and to the satisfaction of every one concerned.	None
Yet the petitioner was transferred first to the post of Deputy Chairman and then to the post of Officer on Special Duty and in his place Sabanayagam, who was admittedly junior to him, was not only promoted but also confirmed.	None
The result of confirmation of Sabanayagam as Chief Secretary was that the petitioner, though senior and proved competent, was permanently excluded from the post of Chief Secretary.	None
This clearly shows, contended the petitioner, that his transfer first to the post of Deputy Chairman and then to the post of Officer on Special Duty was not an account of administrative reasons but solely to displace him from the key post of Chief Secretary.	None
That perhaps might have been legally and constitutionally unobjectionable, if the post of Deputy Chairman and Officer on Special Duty were of the same status and responsibility as the post of Chief Secretary but the argument of the petitioner was that neither of these two posts could be regarded as of equal status and responsibility as the post of Chief Secretary because the post of Chief Secretary is always a unique and unrivalled post in the State administration.	None
The transfer of the petitioner from the post of Chief Secretary first to the post of Deputy Chairman and then to the post of Officer on Special Duty coupled with the promotion and confirmation of Sabanayagam in the post of Chief Secretary was, therefore, clearly arbitrary and violative of Articles 14 and 16.	None
This contention, plausible though it may seem, cannot be accepted by us, because there is no adequate material placed before us to sustain it.	None
The premise on which this contention is founded is that the posts of Deputy Chairman and Officer on Special Duty were not of the same status and responsibility as the post of Chief Secretary, but we cannot say on the material on record that the validity of this premise has been established by the petitioner.	None
So far as the post of Deputy Chairman is concerned, the petitioner himself accepted that post as being of the same status and responsibility as the post of Chief Secretary and did not raise any objection against it and we need not therefore, say anything more about it.94.	None
The only question is as to the post of Officer on Special Duty.	None
We think that this post has not been satisfactorily established by the petitioner to be inferior in status and responsibility to the post of Chief Secretary.	None
This of course does not mean, and we are not prepared to go as far as the learned Chief Justice in asserting positively that post was equal in status and responsibility to the post of Chief Secretary.	None
The fact that sales tax accounts for a very large segment of the revenues of the State and it runs into about 120 crores of rupees does not necessarily make the post of Officer on Special Duty equal in status and responsibility to that of the Chief Secretary.	None
What has to be seen for equivalence is the status and the value and responsibility of the duties attached to the two posts.	None
Merely giving the salary of one post to the other does not make for equivalence.	None
We are, therefore, not prepared to accept the thesis that the post of Officer on Special Duty was equal in status and responsibility to the post of Chief Secretary as claimed by the respondents.	None
We entertain serious doubts about it.	None
But equally it is not possible for us to hold it established on the material on record that this post was inferior in status and responsibility to the post of Chief Secretary, though prima facie it does appear to be so.	None
We cannot, therefore, say that the petitioner was arbitrarily or unfairly treated or that equality was denied to him when he was transferred from the post of Chief Secretary and in his place Sabanayagam his junior, was promoted and confirmed.	None
The challenge based on Arts.	None
14 and 16 must therefore fail.95.	None
We may now turn to the ground of challenge based on mala fide exercise of power.	None
The petitioner set out in the petition various incidents in the course of administration where he crossed the path of the second respondent and incurred his wrath by inconvenient and uncompromising acts and notings and contended that the second respondent, therefore, nursed hostility and malus animus against the petitioner and it was for this reason and not on account of exigencies of administration that the petitioner was transferred from the post of Chief Secretary.	None
The incidents referred to by the petitioner, if true, constituted gross acts of maladministration and the charge levelled against the second respondent was that because the petitioner in the course of his duties obstructed and thwarted the second respondent in these acts of maladministration, that the second respondent was annoyed with him and it was with a view to putting him out of the way and at the same time deflating him that the second respondent transferred him from the post of Chief Secretary.	None
The transfer of the petitioner was, therefore, in mala fide exercise of power and accordingly invalid.96.	None
Now, when we examine this contention we must bear in mind two important considerations.	None
In the first place, we must make it clear, despite a very strenuous argument to the contrary, that we are not called upon to investigate into acts of mal administration by the political Government headed by the second respondent.	None
It is not within our province to embark on a far flung inquiry into acts of commission and omission charged against the second respondent in the administration of the affairs of Tamil Nadu.	None
That is not the scope of the inquiry before us and we must decline to enter upon any such inquiry.	None
It is one thing to say that the second respondent was guilty of misrule and another to say that he had malus animus against the petitioner which was the operative cause of the displacement of the petitioner from the post of Chief Secretary.	None
We are concerned only with the latter limited issue, not with the former popular issue.	None
We cannot permit the petitioner to side track the issue and escape the burden of establishing hostility and malus animus on the part of the second respondent by diverting our attention to incidents of suspicious exercise of executive power.	None
That would be nothing short of drawing a read herring across the trial.	None
The only question before us is whether the action taken by the respondents includes any component of mala fides whether hostility and malus animus against the petitioner were the operational cause of the transfer of the petitioner from the post of Chief Secretary.97.	Issue
Secondly, we must not also overlook that the burden of establishing mala fides is very heavy on the person who alleges it.	None
The allegations of mala fides are often more easily made than proved, and the very seriousness of such allegations demands proof of a high order of credibility.	None
Here the petitioner, who was himself once the Chief Secretary, has flung a series of charges of oblique conduct against the Chief Minister.	None
That is in itself a rather extraordinary and unusual occurrence and if these charges are true, they are bound to shake the confidence of the people in the political custodians of power in the State, and therefore, the anxiety of the Court should be all the greater to insist on a high degree of proof.	None
In this context it may be noted that top administrators were often required to do acts which affect others adversely but which are necessary in the execution of their duties.	None
These acts may lend themselves to misconstruction and suspicion as to the bona fides of their author when the full facts and surrounding circumstances are not known.	None
The Court would, therefore, be slow to draw dubious inferences from incomplete facts placed before it by a party, particularly when the imputations are grave and they are made against the holder of an office which has a high responsibility in the administration.	None
Such is the judicial perspective in evaluating charges of unworthy conduct against ministers and other high authorities, not because of any special status which they are supposed to enjoy, nor because they are highly placed in social life or administrative set up  these considerations are wholly irrelevant in judicial approach  but because otherwise, functioning effectively would become difficult in a democracy.	None
It is from this standpoint that we must assess the merits of the allegations of mala fides made by the petitioner against the second respondent.98.	None
Now extensive arguments were addressed before us by counsel on both sides and we were taken through a mass of documents, papers and official notings on this part of the case but we are afraid it is not possible for us to say that the onus of establishing mala fides against the second respondent heavy as it is, has been discharged by the petitioner.	None
The allegations of mala fides in the judgment of the learned Chief Justice and we do not think it will serve any useful purpose for us to discuss the merits of those allegations once again in this judgment, as we are substantially in agreement with what the learned Chief Justice has said.	None
But we cannot help mentioning that there are certain disturbing features which cause us anxiety.	None
We may take by example the imputation in regard to the Coom River Project.	None
It seems that in or about the beginning of February 1970 the second respondent asked the Director of Vigilance to look into the affairs relating to Coom Improvement Project as he apprehended that there were certain malpractices in the execution of that scheme.	None
Whether this was done by the second respondent on his own initiative or at the instance of the petitioner is immaterial and we need not go into that controversy.	None
The Director of Vigilance, as his subsequent letter dated 25th February, 1970 shows, informed the second respondent that without a discreet inquiry it would not be possible to allay or confirm the apprehensions with any degree of credibility since the head of the concerned engineering department was personally involved in the execution of the scheme and he accordingly by that letter pointed out to the petitioner that he needed authorisation to embark on the inquiry and Government order in that behalf should therefore be obtained and communicated to him.	None
The petitioner made an endorsement on this letter on the very next day with a remark that the Public (Secret Confidential) Department should deal with it immediately.	None
The Public (Secret Confidential) Department prepared a note at the foot of the letter and submitted it for circulation to the Minister for Works and the second respondent for orders whether the Director of Vigilance should be requested to make a discreet inquiry and send his report.	None
The endorsement made below the note shows that it was submitted for circulation on 3rd March, 1970.	None
It appears however, that this note remained unattended until the middle of September 1970.	None
On 12th September, 1970 the Minister for Works made on endorsement that the Director of Vigilance may make a discreet inquiry and this endorsement was approved by the second respondent on 20th September, 1970.	None
The file containing the note together with the endorsements of the Minister for works and the second respondent was thereafter placed before the petitioner along with a draft of the memorandum of be addressed by the petitioner to the Director of Vigilance.99.	None
It is common ground that no memorandum in terms of this draft was issued by the petitioner to the Director of Vigilance.	None
The case of the petitioner was that he did not do so because the second respondent subsequently ordered that no inquiry need be made in this matter.	None
This position was disputed by the second respondent who stated that to the best of his recollection he did not make any such order canceling the inquiry.	None
That is a matter of controversy between the parties and as pointed out above it does not fall within our province to investigate it.	None
But the fact remains, and that cannot be disputed, that no inquiry thereafter took place in the affairs of the Coom Improvement Scheme.	None
It is a little interesting to note that Sabanayagam addressed a letter dated 31st July, 1971 to the petitioner stating that though the Personal Assistant to the Chief Secretary had been reminded to send back the file relating to this matter, it had not been received and the petitioner should arrange to send it back, if it was with him.	None
The petitioner immediately replied to this letter on 8th August, 1971 pointing out that he distinctly remembered that the second respondent had subsequently ordered that no inquiry need be made in this matter and the file was not with him.	None
It is significant that though the petitioner stated categorically that the second respondent had subsequently ordered that no inquiry need be made, Sabanayagam did not write back challenging the correctness of this statement.	None
The file pertaining to this matter was all throughout in the possession of the Government and even after the petitioner pointed out that it was not with him, curiously enough it could not be traced until the filing of the petition.	None
In fact, the absence of the file could not have stood in the way of ordering an inquiry.	None
These and a few other circumstances do create suspicion but suspicion cannot take the place of proof and, as pointed out above, proof needed here is high degree of proof.	None
We cannot say that evidence generating judicial certitude in upholding the plea of mala fides has been placed before us in the present case.	None
We must, therefore, reject this contention of the petitioner as well.100.	None
We accordingly dismiss the petition with no order as to costs.101.	None
Petition dismissed.	None
