Dr. B.S. CHAUHAN, J.1.	None
These appeals have been preferred against the impugned judgment and order dated 22.7.2001, passed by the High Court of Jammu Kashmir at Jammu in SWP No. 1393 of 1999, and judgment and order dated 1.8.2002 passed in LPA No. 275 of 2002.	Issue
The facts and circumstances giving rise to these appeals are mentioned as under The appellants and contestant respondents are Assistant Commandants in the Border Security Force (hereinafter referred to as, BSF).	None
The appellants and respondent nos.	None
4 and 5 are direct recruits, while respondent no.1 has been promoted against the quota of 10 per cent posts, that are reserved for Ministerial Cadre posts.	Facts
B. The Union of India respondent no.2, issued a seniority list dated 18.7.1995, placing respondent no. 1 at Serial No. 1863, below all the officers of Batch No.17 and thereafter, a final seniority list of Assistant Commandants was published on 5.7.1996.C. Respondent no.1 challenged the said seniority list in which he was ranked below the officers of Batch No. 17, by filing Writ Petition No. 1393 of 1999, on the ground that with effect from 15.3.1993, he stood promoted as Assistant Commandant, and that he had also completed all requisite training for the same at the B.S.F. Academy, Tekanpur, which had commenced on 1.2.1993.	Facts
There was another batch that undertook training on 2.7.1993.	Facts
However, the said officers of the second batch, who had joined such training on 2.7.1993, could not be ranked higher than him, in the seniority list.	Facts
D.	Facts
The said writ petition filed by respondent no.1, was contested by the Union of India.	Facts
The learned single judge allowed the writ petition vide impugned judgment and order dated 27.7.2001, wherein it was held that respondent no.1/petitioner therein, was, in fact, entitled to be ranked in seniority above the officers of Batch No.17, and below the officers of Batch No.16.E.	Facts
The Union of India challenged the aforementioned impugned judgment and order dated 27.7.2001, by filing a Letters Patent Appeal which was dismissed vide impugned judgment and order dated 1.8.2002.F. The appellants, though had not been impleaded as parties before the High Court, sought permission to file special leave petitions with respect to the said matter, and the same was granted by this Court.	Facts
Hence, these appeals.3.	None
Shri R. Venkataramani, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants, has submitted that officers that are selected in response to a single advertisement, and through the same selection process, if have been given training in two separate batches, for administrative reasons i.e. police verification, medical examination etc., cannot be accorded different seniority by bifurcating them into two or more separate batches.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court therefore, committed an error by allowing the claim of respondent no.1, which opposed the seniority of the officers, for the reason that, if Batch Nos. 16 and 17 are taken together, the officers who, in terms of seniority, were placed at Serial No.5, would be moved to Serial No. 60, if treated separately.	Arguments of Petitioner
For instance, the person placed at Serial No. 8 had moved to Serial No. 62, and the one placed at Serial No. 11 had moved to Serial No. 64.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, such an act has materially adversely affected the seniority of officers even though they were duly selected in the same batch.	Arguments of Petitioner
The provisions of Rule 3 of the Border Security Force (Seniority, Promotion and Superannuation of Officers) Rules, 1978 (hereinafter referred to as the, Rules 1978), have been wrongly interpreted.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Statutory authorities have previously, always fixed seniority without taking note of the fact that training of officers was conducted in different batches.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, appeals deserve to be allowed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, Shri P.P. Malhotra, learned ASG and Dr. Rajeev Dhavan, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of respondent nos.	Arguments of Respondent
4 and 5, have vehemently opposed the appeals, contending that the said Rule is not ambiguous in any manner and thus, the same must be given a literal interpretation and that if, as a result of this, any hardship is caused to anyone, the same cannot be a valid ground for interpreting the statutory rule in a different manner.	Arguments of Respondent
The said rules are not under challenge.	Arguments of Respondent
The rule of contemporanea expositio does not apply in contravention of statutory provisions.	Arguments of Respondent
The proviso to Rule 3 provides for the bifurcation of officers of the same batch in the event of a contingency which is exactly what has taken place in the instant case.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court has only applied the said provisions.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, no interference is called for and the present appeals are liable to be rejected.5.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
The relevant Rule 3 of the Rules, 1978, reads as under Subject to the provisions of SubRule (2) inter  se seniority amongst officers holding the same rank shall be as follows namely(i) Seniority of Officers promoted on the same day shall be determined in the order in which they are selected for promotion to that rank.(ii)	None
Seniority of direct entrants shall be determined in accordance with the aggregate marks obtained by them before the Selection Board and at the passing out examination conducted at the Border Security Force Academy.(iii)	None
Seniority of temporary officers subject to the provisions of clauses (i) and (ii) shall be determined on the basis of the order of merit at the time of their selection and officers selected on an earlier batch will be senior to officers selected in subsequent batches.(iv)	None
Seniority of officers subject to the provisions of clauses (i) (ii) and (iii) shall be determined according to the date of their continuous appointment in that rank.	None
Provided that in case of direct entrants the date of appointment shall be the date of commencement of their training course at the Border Security Force Academy.	None
(Emphasis added)	None
Rule of Contemporanea Expositio	None
This Court applied the rule of contemporanea expositio, as the Court found that the same is a well established rule of the interpretation of a statute, with reference to the exposition that it has received from contemporary authorities.	Reasoning
However, while doing so, the Court added words of caution to the effect that such a rule must give way, where the language of the statute is plain and unambiguous.	Reasoning
, This Court applied the said rule of interpretation by holding that contemporanea expositio as expounded by administrative authorities, is a very useful and relevant guide to the interpretation of the expressions used in a statutory instrument.	Reasoning
The words used in a statutory provision must be understood in the same way, in which they are usually understood, in ordinary common parlance with respect to the area in which, the said law is in force or, by the people who ordinarily deal with them.	Reasoning
(Vide K.P. Varghese v. Incometax Officer, Ernakulam Anr., AIR 1981 SC 1922 Indian Metals and Ferro Alloys Ltd., Cuttack v. Collector of Central Excise, Bhubaneshwar, AIR 1991 SC 1028 and Y.P. Chawla Ors.	None
v. M.P. Tiwari Anr., AIR 1992 SC 1360 ).	None
In N. Suresh Nathan Anr.	None
v. Union of India Ors., 1992 Supp (1) SCC 584 and M.B. Joshi Ors.	None
v. Satish Kumar Pandey Ors., 1993 Supp (2) SCC 419, this Court observed that such construction, which is in consonance with longstanding practice prevailing in the concerned department in relation to which the law has been made, should be preferred.	None
In Senior Electric Inspector Ors. v. Laxminarayan Chopra Anr., AIR 1962 SC 159 and M s. J.K. Cotton Spinning Weaving Mills Ltd. Anr.	None
v. Union of India Ors., AIR 1988 SC 191 , it was held that while a maxim was applicable with respect to construing an ancient statute, the same could not be used to interpret Acts which are comparatively modern, and in relation to such Acts, interpretation should be given to the words used therein, in the context of new facts and the present situation, if the said words are in fact, capable of comprehending them.	None
In Desh Bandhu Gupta and Co. Ors.	None
v. Delhi Stock Exchange Association Ltd., AIR 1979 SC 1049 , this Court observed that the principle of contemporenea expositio, i.e. interpreting a document with reference to the exposition that it has received from the Competent Authority, can be invoked though the same will not always be decisive with respect to questions of construction.	None
Administrative construction, i.e., contemporaneous construction that is provided by administrative or executive officers who are responsible for the execution of the Act Rules etc., should generally be clearly erroneous, before the same is overturned.	None
Such a construction, commonly referred to as practical construction although not controlling, is nevertheless entitled to be given considerable weightage and is also, highly persuasive.	None
It may however, be disregarded for certain cogent reasons.	None
In a clear case of error, the Court should, without hesitation, refuse to follow such a construction for the reason that, wrong practice does not make the law.	None
(Vide Municipal Corporation for City of Pune Anr.	None
v. Bharat Forge Co. Ltd.	None
Ors., AIR 1996 SC 2856 ).	None
(See also State of Rajasthan Ors.	None
v. Dev Ganga Enterprises, (2010) 1 SCC 505 and Shiba Shankar Mohapatra v. State of Orissa	None
Ors., (2010) 12 SCC 471 ).	None
In D. Stephen Joseph v. Union of India Ors., (1997) 4 SCC 753 , the Court held that, past practice should not be upset provided such practice conforms to the rules but must be ignored if it is found to be de hors the rules.	None
However, in Laxminarayan R. Bhattad Ors. v. State of Maharashtra Anr., AIR 2003 SC 3502 , this Court held that, the manner in which a statutory authority understands the application of a statute, would not confer any legal right upon a party unless the same finds favour with the Court of law, dealing with the matter.	None
This principle has also been applied in judicial decisions, as it has been held consistently, that long standing settled practice of the Competent Authority should not normally be disturbed, unless the same is found to be manifestly wrong, unfair.	None
(Vide Thamma Venkata Subbamma (dead) by LR.	None
v. Thamma Rattamma Ors., AIR 1987 SC 1775 Assistant District Registrar, Cooperative Housing Society Ltd. v. Vikrambhai Ratilal Dalal Ors., 1987 (Supp) SCC 27	None
Ajitsinh C. Gaekwad Ors.	None
v. Dileepsinh D. Gaekwad	None
Ors., 1987 (Supp) SCC 439 Collector of Central Excise, Madras v. M s. Standard Motor Products etc., AIR 1989 SC 1298 Kattite Valappil Pathumma Ors.	None
v. Taluk Land Board Ors., AIR 1997 SC 1115 and Hemalatha Gargya v. Commissioner of Incometax, A.P. Anr., (2003) 9 SCC 510 ).	None
The rules of administrative interpretation executive construction, may be applied, either where a representation is made by the maker of a legislation, at the time of the introduction of the Bill itself, or if construction thereupon, is provided for by the executive, upon its coming into force, then also, the same carries great weightage.	None
(Vide Mahalakshmi Sugar Mills Co. Ltd.	None
Anr.	None
v. Union of India Ors., AIR 2009 SC 792 ).	None
In view of the above, one may reach the conclusion that administrative interpretation may often provide the guidelines for interpreting a particular Rule or executive instruction, and the same may be accepted unless, of course, it is found to be in violation of the Rule itself.	None
Interpretation of the proviso The normal function of a proviso is generally, to provide for an exception i.e. exception of something that is outside the ambit of the usual intention of the enactment, or to qualify something enacted therein, which, but for the proviso would be within the purview of such enactment.	None
Thus, its purpose is to exclude something which would otherwise fall squarely within the general language of the main enactment.	None
Usually, a proviso cannot be interpreted as a general rule that has been provided for.	None
Nor it can be interpreted in a manner that would nullify the enactment, or take away in entirety, a right that has been conferred by the statute.	None
In case, the language of the main enactment is clear and unambiguous, a proviso can have no repercussion on the interpretation of the main enactment, so as to exclude by implication, what clearly falls within its expressed terms.	None
If, upon plain and fair construction, the main provision is clear, a proviso cannot expand or limit its ambit and scope.	None
(Vide CIT, Mysore etc. v. Indo Mercantile Bank Ltd., AIR 1959 SC 713 Kush Sahgal Ors.	None
v. M.C.	None
Mitter Ors., AIR 2000 SC 1390 Haryana State Cooperative Land Development Bank Ltd. v. Haryana State Cooperative Land Development Bank Employees Union Anr., (2004) 1 SCC 574 Nagar Palika Nigam v. Krishi Upaj Mandi Samiti Ors., AIR 2009 SC 187 and State of Kerala Anr.	None
v B. Six Holiday Resorts Private Limited Ors., (2010) 5 SCC 186 ).	None
The proviso to a particular provision of a statute, only embraces the field which is covered by the main provision, by carving out an exception to the said main provision.	None
(Vide Ram Narain Sons Ltd.	None
Ors.	None
v. Assistant Commissioner of Sales Tax Ors., AIR 1955 SC 765 and A.N. Sehgal Ors.	None
v. Rajeram Sheoram Ors., AIR 1991 SC 1406 ).	None
In a normal course, proviso can be extinguished from an exception for the reason that exception is intended to restrain the enacting clause to a particular class of cases while the proviso is used to remove special cases from the general enactment provided for them specially.	None
Hardship of an individual There may be a statutory provision, which causes great hardship or inconvenience to either the party concerned, or to an individual, but the Court has no choice but to enforce it in full rigor.	None
It is a well settled principle of interpretation that hardship or inconvenience caused, cannot be used as a basis to alter the meaning of the language employed by the legislature, if such meaning is clear upon a bare perusal of the Statute.	None
If the language is plain and hence allows only one meaning, the same has to be given effect to, even if it causes hardship or possible injustice.	None
(Vide Commissioner of Agricultural Income Tax, West Bengal v. Keshab Chandra Mandal, AIR 1950 SC 265 and D. D. Joshi Ors.	None
v. Union of India Ors., AIR 1983 SC 420 ).	None
In Bengal Immunity Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar Ors., AIR 1955	None
SC 661 it was observed by a Constitution Bench of this Court that, if there is any hardship, it is for the legislature to amend the law, and that the Court cannot be called upon, to discard the cardinal rule of interpretation for the purpose of mitigating such hardship.	None
If the language of an Act is sufficiently clear, the Court has to give effect to it, however, inequitable or unjust the result may be.	None
The words, dura lex sed lex which mean the law is hard but it is the law.	None
may be used to sum up the situation.	None
Therefore, even if a statutory provision causes hardship to some people, it is not for the Court to amend the law.	None
A legal enactment must be interpreted in its plain and literal sense, as that is the first principle of interpretation.	None
In Mysore State Electricity Board v. Bangalore Woolen,	None
Cotton Silk Mills Ltd.	None
Ors., AIR 1963 SC 1128 a Constitution Bench of this Court held that, inconvenience is not a decisive factor to be considered while interpreting a statute.	None
In Martin Burn Ltd. v. The Corporation of Calcutta, AIR 1966 SC 529 , this Court, while dealing with the same issue observed as under A result flowing from a statutory provision is never an evil.	None
A Court has no power to ignore that provision to relieve what it considers a distress resulting from its operation.	None
A statute must of course be given effect to whether a Court likes the result or not.	None
(See also The Commissioner of Income Tax, West Bengal I, Calcutta v. M s Vegetables Products Ltd., AIR 1973 SC 927 and Tata Power Company Ltd. v. Reliance Energy Limited Ors., (2009) 16 SCC 659 ).	None
Therefore, it is evident that the hardship caused to an individual, cannot be a ground for not giving effective and grammatical meaning to every word of the provision, if the language used therein, is unequivocal.	None
Addition and Subtraction of words The Court has to keep in mind the fact that, while interpreting the provisions of a Statute, it can neither add, nor subtract even a single word.	None
The legal maxim A Verbis Legis Non Est Recedendum means, From the words of law, there must be no departure.	None
A section is to be interpreted by reading all of its parts together, and it is not permissible, to omit any part thereof.	None
The Court cannot proceed with the assumption that the legislature, while enacting the Statute has committed a mistake it must proceed on the footing that the legislature intended what it has said even if there is some defect in the phraseology used by it in framing the statute, and it is not open to the court to add and amend, or by construction, make up for the deficiencies, which have been left in the Act.	None
The Court can only iron out the creases but while doing so, it must not alter the fabric, of which an Act is woven.	None
The Court, while interpreting statutory provisions, cannot add words to a Statute, or read words into it which are not part of it, especially when a literal reading of the same, produces an intelligible result.	None
(Vide Nalinakhya Bysack v. Shyam Sunder Haldar Ors., AIR 1953 SC 148 Sri Ram Ram Narain Medhi v. State of Bombay, AIR 1959 SC 459 M. Pentiah Ors.	None
v. Muddala Veeramallappa Ors., AIR 1961 SC 1107 The Balasinor Nagrik Co operative Bank Ltd. v. Babubhai Shankerlal Pandya Ors., AIR 1987 SC 849 and Dadi Jagannadham v. Jammulu Ramulu Ors., (2001) 7 SCC 71 ).	None
The Statute is not to be construed in light of certain notions that the legislature might have had in mind, or what the legislature is expected to have said, or what the legislature might have done, or what the duty of the legislature to have said or done was.	None
The Courts have to administer the law as they find it, and it is not permissible for the Court to twist the clear language of the enactment, in order to avoid any real, or imaginary hardship which such literal interpretation may cause.	None
In view of the above, it becomes crystal clear that, under the garb of interpreting the provision, the Court does not have the power to add or subtract even a single word, as it would not amount to interpretation, but legislation.	None
The matter requires to be considered in the light of the aforesaid settled legal propositions.	None
The Service Selection Board (CPOs) 91, selected 154 persons to be appointed as Assistant Commandant (Direct Entry), and they were then sent for training in two separate batches.	None
Batch No.16 consisted of 67 officers who joined the training on 1.2.1993, while Batch No.17 consisted of 87 officers who joined the training on 2.7.1993.	None
They could not be sent for training in one batch, even though they had been selected through the same competitive examination, due to administrative reasons i.e., character verification etc.	None
Respondent no.1, who was promoted from the feeding cadre, joined his post on 15.3.1993.	None
Thus, it is evident that he was placed in the promotional cadre, prior to the commencement of the training of Batch No.17 on 2.7.1993.	None
The learned Single Judge dealt with the statutory provisions contained in Rule 3 and held as under A perusal of the above makes it apparent that in the case of the officers who have been promoted their seniority is to be determined on the basis of continuous appointment on a day in which they are selected for promoted to that rank.	None
In case of direct entrants their interse seniority is to be determined on the basis of aggregate marks obtained by them.	None
Interse seniority of the officers mentioned at serial No.(l) (ii) and (iii) is to be determined according to the date of their continuous appointment in the rank.	None
Proviso to the rule is clear.	None
It is specifically mentioned that in the case of direct entrants, the date of appointment shall be the date of commencement of their training course at the Border Security Force Academy.	None
In light of the above, relief had been granted to respondent no.1.	None
The Division Bench concurred with the said interpretation.	None
If we apply the settled legal propositions referred to hereinabove, no other interpretation is permissible.	None
The language of the said rule is crystal clear.	None
There is no ambiguity with respect to it.	None
The validity of the rule is not under challenge.	None
In such a fact situation, it is not permissible for the court to interpret the rule otherwise.	None
The said proviso will have application only in a case where officers who have been selected in pursuance of the same selection process are split into separate batches.	None
Interpreting the rule otherwise, would amount to adding words to the proviso, which the law does not permit.	None
If the contention of the appellants is accepted, it would amount to fixing their seniority from a date prior, to their birth in the cadre.	None
Admittedly, the appellants (17th batch), joined training on 2.7.1993 and their claim is to fix their seniority from the Ist of February, 1993 i.e. the date on which, the 16th batch joined training.	None
Such a course is not permissible in law.	None
The facts and circumstances of the case neither require any interpretation, nor reading down of the rule.	None
Shri R. Venkataramani, learned Senior counsel for the appellants, has placed very heavy reliance upon the judgment of the Delhi High Court (Dinesh Kumar v. UOI Ors.) dated 14.2.2011 wherein, certain relief was granted to the petitioner therein, in view of the fact that there was some delay in joining training, in relation to passing the fitness test set by the Review Medical Board.	None
The court granted relief, in light of the facts and circumstances of the case, without interpreting Rule 3 of the Rules 1978.	None
Thus, the said judgment, in fact, does not lay down any law.	None
The case at hand is easily distinguishable from the above, as that was a case where seniority and promotion had been granted on a notional basis, with retrospective effect and it was held that the person to whom the same had been granted, was entitled to all consequential benefits.	None
Thus, in view of the above, the appeals lack merit and therefore, are accordingly dismissed.	Decision
