 F. Nariman, J. A. NO.6561 OF 2004 The present case raises an interesting question as to whether excise duty is payable on an intermediate product, namely, Transmission Assembly which comes into existence during the manufacture of tractors made by the appellant.	Issue
The period involved is January 1996 to May 1998.	None
The tractors that are manufactured have engines that are below 1800 CC and are covered by an exemption notification 162/1986.	None
We are informed, however, that after 1.6.1998 this exemption has gone and even tractors of an engine capacity of less than 1800 CC now have to bear excise duty.	None
By a show cause notice dated 31.1.2001, the Department for the period aforesaid relied upon evidence in the form of statements made by various officers of the appellant and other documentary evidence to show that Transmission Assemblies of tractors was a commodity known to the market as such and, therefore, came into the category of excisable goods.	Facts
The respondent by their reply dated 1.10.2001 denied this stating that no separate product known as Transmission Assemblies came into existence which is known to the commercial community as such and, therefore, there was neither manufacture nor marketability of the same.	Facts
In the reply, however, various statements were made which, in fact, amount to admissions, that Transmission Assembly of a tractor is, in fact, known to the market as such.	Facts
These admissions are set out hereinbelow It is submitted that transmission assemblies are in fact interchangeable.	Facts
The Transmission Assembly can be used in both dutiable as well as exempt tractors, for example in Model No.325 (exempt tractor) and Model No.335 (dutiable tractor).	Facts
Therefore, it serves as a common input for both tractors.	Facts
Therefore, in terms of provisions of Rule 57CC MODVAT credit is admissible on the common inputs which form part of transmission assemblies in turn used in the manufacture of both types of Tractors.47.1.	Facts
The department has relied upon the case of M s International Tractors Ltd., Hoshiarpur who are supplying transmission assemblies.(a)	Facts
The Notice contends that M s. Mahindra Mahindra have not purchased any transmission assemblies for use in tractors from any other unit.	Facts
Further, they have not supplied or transferred any transmission assemblies to any other person.	Facts
However, they have been supplying the transmission assembly to their own units at Nagpur and Rudhrapur for manufacturing tractors.(b)	Facts
It is submitted that this letter can at most lead to a conclusion that the transmission assembly made by M M is marketable.50.	Facts
The show cause notice has placed reliance on certain other web site to contend that the Hoovers online web site and Carraro web site shows that transmission assemblies are marketed and sold.	Facts
It is submitted that while there might be mass production of transmission assemblies marketed by Hoovers Carraro, etc., the product specific transmission assemblies of the noticees never come to the market and have never been sold.	Facts
Hence, there can be no question of demanding duty on the transmission assemblies made on the assembly line and used for assembling the tractors in the noticees factory.	Facts
These are not marketable and hence, are not goods and there is no removal under Rule 9 and 49.	Facts
The Commissioner by an order dated 4.10.2002 held as follows I find that the issue has been well examined in the notice.	None
Noticees plea that the impugned transmission assemblies are not goods as transmission assemblies do not have independent existence is without merit.	Facts
Noticee in fact itself clears such goods on payment of duty to ECEL, Transmission assemblies are well known in the commercial world and are very much dealt with as a commercial commodity.	Facts
The end use as put forth in the notice amply proves it.	Facts
To reiterate transmission assemblies are cleared by the noticee to ECEL noticee companys sister concern (Farmtrac Division) imported transmission assemblies from Carraro Spa of Italy and also purchased transmission assemblies from Carraro India Limited, Pune M s TAFE, Chennai, International Tractors Ltd., Hoshiarpur, Mahindra Mahindra all deal in transmission assemblies and further information regarding transmission assembly availability as such is also available on internet.42.	Facts
Noticees submission that no identifiable transmission assembly emerges in their production of Tractors is also incorrect.	Facts
They are manufacturing transmission assemblies for their tractors as well as for ECEL.	Facts
Of course transmission assemblies meant for different models of machines vehicles will be of slightly different specifications from each other but as a whole transmission assemblies are one identifiable commercial product as already discussed.	Facts
I also note that the concerned persons of the noticee company themselves have admitted that transmission assemblies do emerge as identifiable goods.	Facts
Statements of Sh.	Facts
K.K. Kachroo, Manager Excise, Shri Vinod Ahuja, Plant Head, Sh.	Facts
Ramesh Kumar Khurana, Chief Manager Production all admit this fact.	Facts
Even otherwise manufacturing of the tractors in the noticees factory cannot be accepted as such a continuous process in which raw materials are fed in the machine at one end and final product emerges at another.	Facts
Only in such a case, can it be believed that there is no independent identifiable intermediate stage of goods.	Facts
The procedure as adopted by the noticee is basically assembly of various parts components and of course all these parts and accessories which are manufactured by the noticee in their factory as identifiable goods are excisable themselves.	Facts
Therefore, the emergence of I.C. Engines is excisable and so also the emergence of the transmission assembly is also excisable.	Facts
In fact in the case of Pratap Rajashtan Copper Foils Vs.	Facts
CCE 1999(109) ELT 288 (T) it was held that duty is payable on intermediate products even if some minor processes were not carried to make the product marketable.43.	Facts
I also find that the noticee in their reply has laid great emphasis on their argument that their tractors are manufactured as a result of integrated manufacturing process on the assembly line and therefore there is no removal of intermediate goods, if any, in terms of Rule 9 or Rule 49.	Facts
I have to reiterate that noticees plea is inadmissible.	Facts
In terms of Rule 9 and 49, intermediate goods emerging during such integrated assembly line production would be deemed to have been cleared for production and therefore liable to Central Excise duty.	Facts
Besides facts of the case are entirely different as has been stated by the noticee companys concerned persons in their statements.	Facts
Assembly of a vehicle or machine on line or otherwise still remains assembly i.e. various parts and components are either manufactured first by the assessee himself or procured from outside and then assembled to produce the resulting machine.	Facts
All excisable goods emerging during such assembly or production are themselves excisable as intermediate goods meant for captive consumption unless or until specifically exempt.	Facts
Transmission assembly is one such excisable intermediate product and therefore its duty liability is obvious.	Facts
Therefore, I hold that these are independent, identifiable, commercial goods capable of being bought and sold in the market and, therefore, are excisable goods leviable to Central Excise duty under Section 3 of the Central Excise Act, 1944.	Facts
That impugned transmission assemblies have been used captively in production of Tractors cleared at Nil rate of duty is not denied by the noticee.	Facts
The captive consumption exemption Notification No. 67/95C E dated 16.3.95, as amended, debars such intermediate products used in production of exempt final products, from the duty exemption under the notification.	Facts
As the final product i.e. Tractors were exempt, the impugned transmission assemblies did attract Central Excise duty.	Facts
I hold that all the observations in the show cause notice regarding excisability of the impugned goods are correct.	Facts
I also note that as far as the classification of the product is concerned, the same has not been challenged by the noticee.	Facts
By the impugned judgment dated 27.5.2004, CESTAT dismissed the appeal holding We have considered the submissions of both the sides.	Facts
The Central Excise duty is leviable on goods manufactured in India.	Facts
Manufacture as per the judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Union of India vs. Delhi Cloth and General Mills, 1977 (1) ELT (J 199) implies a change and there must be transformation a new and different article must emerge having a distinctive name, character or use.	Facts
The Supreme Court, after referring to various judgments on the concept of the manufacture, has laid down a two fold test for deciding whether the process is that of manufacture in Union of India vs. J. G. Glass, 1998 (97) ELT 5(S.C.) as follows, First, whether by the said process a different commercial commodity comes into existence or whether the identity of the original commodity ceases to exist secondly, whether the commodity which was already in existence will serve no purpose but for the said purpose.	None
We find that this two fold tests laid down by the Supreme Court is satisfied in respect of the transmission assembly coming into existence during the course of manufacture of tractors by the Appellants.	None
After assembly of various parts and components a new and different article known as transmission assembly emerges having a distinctive name, character and use and but for the manipulation undertaken by the Appellants, the parts and components would not have served the purpose which a transmission assembly performs.	Facts
The impugned product is also marketable as the learned Senior Departmental Representative has mentioned the fact of its being imported by the Appellants themselves (Farmtrac Division) the clearance of the transmission assembly by the Appellants to their subsidiary company M s. Escorts Construction Equipment Ltd. and the removal of transmission assembly by M s. Tractors and	Facts
Farm Equipment Ltd.	Facts
The mere fact that the impugned product is meant only for the tractors manufactured by them will not mean that the impugned product is not capable of being brought to the market for being bought and sold.	Facts
The Supreme Court in the case of A.P. State Electricity Board vs. CCE, Hyderabad, 1994 (70) ELT 3 (S.C.) has held that the marketability is essentially a question of fact to be decided in the facts of each case.	Facts
The fact that the goods are not, in fact, marketed is of no relevance.	Facts
So long the goods arc marketable, they are goods for the purpose of Section 3 of the Central Excise Act.	Facts
It is not necessary that the goods should be generally available in the market.	Facts
We, therefore, uphold the finding in the impugned order that the transmission assembly is an excisable goods exigible to Central Excise duty.	Facts
Shri Lakshmikumaran, learned advocate for the appellant argued that the tractors manufactured by the appellant (having engines of a capacity of less than 1800 CC) had no such thing as a Transmission Assembly.	Arguments of Petitioner
The socalled Transmission Assembly was only an aggregate of various items which connected the engine of the tractor with its wheels.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, the socalled Transmission Assembly was specifically designed for the appellants tractor and was not saleable in the market.	Arguments of Petitioner
Also, not a single instance of sale in the market had ever taken place.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact, the socalled Transmission Assembly was not something which came into existence at all but was part of a continuous process on the assembly line in the appellants factory of manufacture at the end of which a complete tractor came into existence.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submitted that post 1.6.1998 in any case, the appellant had been paying 8 under Rule 57 CC on the value of the said Transmission Assembly as required.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is only for the period upto August 1996 that would be in dispute.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even for this period, he contends that ultimately the figures would show that it was revenue neutral in that MODVAT credit reversed for this period would amount to 1.71 crores, the duty demand being approximately 2.43 crores out of a total of 9.66 crores for this period of 8 months.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also argued that the duty demand was absurd in that the Transmission Assembly of TAFE which is said to be the same as that of the petitioners was only 13,000 rupees per piece as opposed to the highly inflated figure of Rs.53,790/.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the figure of Rs.13,000/ is to be taken, it is clear that the reversal of MODVAT credit would amount to much more than the duty demand itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further argued that in any case since there was no fraud or willful suppression of facts, invoking the extended period of limitation was not in order and that in any case the show cause notice being beyond one year of the stated period would have to be quashed on this ground alone.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Jaideep Gupta, learned senior counsel for the revenue contended that the Transmission Assembly was very much excisable goods known to the market as such from the statements of the appellants themselves.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, the revenue had discharged its burden by oral and documentary evidence which showed beyond doubt that Transmission Assembly of tractors were excisable goods in that a new commodity came into existence known to the market as such.	Arguments of Respondent
It is completely irrelevant that no sale actually took place of any such Transmission Assembly.	Arguments of Respondent
It is enough to show that the said goods were capable of being sold which, undoubtedly, they were.	Arguments of Respondent
He very fairly stated that on valuation, if necessary, the matter could be remanded.	Arguments of Respondent
He also stated that the extended period of limitation was available in the present case as the appellants on their own showing knew that the intermediate product of Transmission Assemblies was marketable as such and had suppressed this fact while claiming exemption of excise duty on the finished product, namely, the tractor.	Arguments of Respondent
We have heard learned counsel for the parties.	None
It is important in matters like this to begin at the beginning.	None
Entry 84 List I of the 7th Schedule of the Constitution of India reads as follows SEVENTH SCHEDULEArticle 246List I Union List84.	None
Duties of excise on tobacco and other goods manufactured or produced in India except(a) alcoholic liquors for human consumption(b) opium, Indian hemp and other narcotic drugs and narcotics, but including medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol or any substance included in subparagraph (b) of this entry.	None
It is clear on a reading of this Entry that a duty of excise is only leviable on goods manufactured or produced in India.	Facts
Goods has been defined under Article 366 (12) as follows Definitions.	None
In this Constitution, unless the context otherwise requires, the following expressions have the meanings hereby respectively assigned to them, that is to say (12) goods includes all materials, commodities and articles Each of these three expressions has been defined in the Shorter Oxford English Dictionary as follows Materials the matter of which a thing is or may be made the constituent parts of something.	None
Commodities a thing of use or value a thing that is an object of trade a thing one deals in or makes use of.	None
Articles  a particular item of business.	None
Although the definition of goods is an inclusive one, it is clear that materials, commodities and articles spoken of in the definition take colour from one another.	Reasoning
In order to be goods it is clear that they should be known to the market as materials, commodities and articles that are capable of being sold.	Reasoning
In the basic judgment which has been referred to in every excise case for conceptual clarity, namely, Union of India v. Delhi Cloth.	None
General Mills Co. Ltd., 1963 Suppl.	None
1 SCR 586, this Court held that for excise duty to be chargeable under the constitutional entry read with Section 3 of the Central Excise and Salt Act, two prerequisites are necessary.	None
First, there must be manufacture which is understood to mean the bringing into existence of a new substance.	None
And secondly, the word goods necessarily means that such manufacture must bring into existence a new substance known to the market as such which brings in the concept of marketability in addition to manufacture.	None
A large number of judgments have explained what is meant by marketability in this context.	None
In A.P. State Electricity Board v. Collector of Central Excise, Hyderabad, (1994) 2 SCC 428 , this Court referred to a large number of previous judgments.	None
Firstly, it referred to Union v. Delhi Cloth and General Mills.	None
It then referred to South Bihar Sugar Mills Limited V. Union of India, (1968) 3	None
SCR 21 , in which kiln gas which was a mixture of gases generated during a process of burning limestone with coke in a lime kiln was held not to be a marketable commodity.	None
Since it was a mixture of gases and not only carbon dioxide, it was clear that it was not known to the market as such.	None
Carbon dioxide was only a component of kiln gas, the content of which ranged from 27 to 36.5.	None
The Court also referred to the decision in Union Carbide India Limited v. the Union of India, (1986) 2 SCC 547 , in which aluminum cans in crude form used as a torch bodies were held to be not capable of sale to a consumer in their crude and unfinished form.	None
To be made saleable, such cans would have to undergo various processes such as, trimming, threading and redrawing.	None
The Court also referred to Bhor Industries Ltd. v. Collector of Central Excise, Bombay, (1989) 1 SCC 602.	None
In that case, it was held that crude PVC films manufactured as an intermediate product and used in captive consumption of other goods was not marketable, not being known to the market as such.	None
The Court also referred to CCE v. Ambalal Sarabhai, (1989) 4 SCC 112 in which an intermediate product, namely, starch hydrolysate was not marketable in that it was highly unstable and fragmented quickly losing its character in a couple of days.	None
After referring to all these judgments, the Court held It would be evident from the facts and ratio of the above decisions that the goods in each case were found to be not marketable.	None
Whether it is refined oil (nondeodorised) concerned in Delhi Cloth and General Mills 1963 Supp 1 SCR 586 AIR 1963 SC 791 or kiln gas in South Bihar Sugar Mills (1968) 3	None
SCR 21 AIR 1968 SC 922 or aluminium cans with rough uneven surface in Union Carbide (1986) 2 SCC 547 1986 SCC (Tax) 443 (1986) 2	None
SCR 162 or PVC films in Bhor Industries(1989)	None
1 SCC 602 1989 SCC (Tax) 98 (1989) 1	None
SCR 382 or hydrolysate in Ambalal Sarabhai (1989) 4 SCC 112 1989 SCC (Tax) 584 (1989) 3	None
SCR 784 the finding in each case on the basis of the material before the Court was that the articles in question were not marketable and were not known to the market as such.	None
The marketability is thus essentially a question of fact to be decided on the facts of each case.	None
There can be no generalisation.	None
The fact that the goods are not in fact marketed is of no relevance.	Facts
So long as the goods are marketable, they are goods for the purposes of Section 3.	Facts
It is also not necessary that the goods in question should be generally available in the market.	Facts
Even if the goods are available from only one source or from a specified market, it makes no difference so long as they are available for purchasers.	None
Now, in the appeals before us, the fact that in Kerala these poles are manufactured by independent contractors who sell them to Kerala State Electricity Board itself shows that such poles do have a market.	None
Even if there is only one purchaser of these articles, it must still be said that there is a market for these articles.	None
The marketability of articles does not depend upon the number of purchasers nor is the market confined to the territorial limits of this country.	None
The appellants own case before the excise authorities and the CEGAT was that these poles are manufactured by independent contractors from whom it purchased them.	None
This plea itself though not pressed before us is adequate to demolish the case of the appellant.	None
In our opinion, therefore, the conclusion arrived at by the Tribunal is unobjectionable.	None
In Indian Cable Co. Ltd. v. Collector of Central Excise, Calcutta Ors., (1994) 6 SCC 610 , this Court held We are of the view that the provisions of the Act mandate that a finding that the goods are marketable is a prerequisite or sine qua non for the levy of duty.	None
Section 3 of the Act is the charging section3.	None
Duties, specified in the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 to be levied.	None
There shall be levied and collected in such manner as may be prescribed duties of excise on all excisable goods other than salt which are produced or manufactured in India and a duty on salt manufactured in, or imported by land into, any part of India as, and at the rates, set forth in the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 .	None
Section 2(d) defines excisable goods.	None
We have quoted the definition in para 5 supra.	None
The word goods is not defined in the Act.11.	None
After adverting to the aforesaid definition of excisable goods and the meaning of the word goods, a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in Union of India v.Delhi Cloth and General Mills AIR 1963 SC 791 1963 Supp (1) SCR 586 stated in paragraph 17 thusThese definitions make it clear that to become goods an article must be something which can ordinarily come to the market to be bought and sold.	None
(emphasis supplied)12.	None
In a series of decisions, this Court has held that marketability is an essential ingredient, to hold that an article is dutiable or exigible to duty of excise.	None
The important decisions of this Court which have laid down the law on this aspect are the following Union of India v. Delhi Cloth and General Mills Co. Ltd. AIR 1963 SC 791 1963 Supp (1) SCR 586 (2) South Bihar Sugar Mills Ltd. v. Union of India AIR 1968 SC 922 (1968) 3	None
SCR 21 (3) Bhor Industries Ltd. v. CCE (1989) 1 SCC 602 1989 SCC (Tax) 98 (4) Hindustan Polymers v. CCE (1989) 4 SCC 323 1990 SCC (Tax) 118 (1989) 43 ELT 165 (5) CCE v. Ambalal Sarabhai Enterprises (P) Ltd. (1989) 4 SCC 112 1989 SCC (Tax) 584 (1989) 43 ELT 214 JT (1989)	None
3 SC 341 (6) Union Carbide India Ltd. v. Union of India (1986) 2 SCC 547 1986 SCC (Tax) 443 (1986) 24 ELT 169 JT 1986 SC 453 (7) A.P.	None
State Electricity Board v. CCE (1994) 2 SCC 428 JT (1994) 1 SC 545 .	None
In the latest decision in A.P. State Electricity Board v. CCE, Hyderabad (1994) 2 SCC 428 JT (1994) 1 SC 545 , one of us (B.P. Jeevan Reddy, J.) speaking for the Bench succinctly stated the law thus at pages 549 and 550 Marketability is an essential ingredient in order to be dutiable under the Schedule to the Act .	None
The marketability is thus essentially a question of fact to be decided in the facts of each case.	None
There can be no generalisation.	None
The fact that the goods are not in fact marketed is of no relevance.	Facts
So long as the goods were marketable, they are goods for the purposes of Section 3.	Facts
It is not also necessary that the goods in question should be generally available in the market.	Facts
Even if the goods are available from only one source or from a specified market, it makes no difference so long as they are available for purchasers.	None
The marketability of articles does not depend upon the number of purchasers nor is the market confined to the territorial limits of this country.	None
(emphasis supplied)Marketability is a decisive test for dutiability.	None
It only means saleable, or suitable for sale.	None
It need not be in fact marketed.	None
The article should be capable of being sold or being sold, to consumers in the market, as it is without anything more.	None
The Appellate Tribunal has not adverted to the above vital aspects nor has it entered a finding that the PVC compound (granules)is a marketable product as understood in law.	None
The Appellate Tribunal was swayed by the fact that the conversion of PVC resin into PVC compound by the process employed by the appellants amounts to manufacture within the meaning of Section 2(f) of the Act and that by itself will justify the levy of duty.	None
In our view, this is a palpable error committed by the Tribunal.	None
In the absence of a finding, that the goods are marketable i.e. saleable or suitable for sale, we hold that the order of the Appellate Tribunal is infirm.	None
It should be set aside and we hereby do so.	None
We order a remit of the matter to the Appellate Tribunal to consider the appeal afresh and dispose of the same in accordance with law.	None
There shall be no order as to costs in this appeal.	None
In Moti Laminates (P) Ltd. v. Collector Central Excise, Ahmadabad, (1995) 3 SCC page 23, this Court held that an intermediate product, namely, resols, not being marketable would not be exigible to duty.	None
After referring to several earlier judgments, this Court held Although the duty of excise is on manufacture or production of the goods, but the entire concept of bringing out new commodity etc. is linked with marketability.	None
An article does not become goods in common parlance unless by production or manufacture something new and different is brought out which can be bought and sold.	None
In Union of India v.	None
Delhi Cloth General Mills Co. Ltd.	None
AIR 1963 SC 791 , a Constitution Bench of this Court while construing the word goods held as underThese definitions make it clear that to become goods an article must be something which can ordinarily come to the market to be bought and sold.	None
Therefore, any goods to attract excise duty must satisfy the test of marketability.	None
The Tariff Schedule by placing the goods in specific and general category does not alter the basic character of leviability.	None
The duty is attracted not because an article is covered in any of the items or it falls in residuary category but it must further have been produced or manufactured and it is capable of being bought and sold.	None
A large part of the arguments ranged around the decision in Union of India (UOI) Ors.	None
v. Sonic Electrochem (P) Ltd.	None
Anr., 2002 (145) E.L.T. 274.	None
In this judgment the question that arose for decision was whether the plastic body of electro mosquito repellent was excisable goods.	None
This Court held 7The germane question is whether it has marketability.	None
The plastic body is being manufactured to suit the requirements of the EMR of the respondents and is not available in the market for being bought and sold.	None
It is not a standardised item or goods known and generally dealt with in the market.	None
It is being manufactured by the respondents for its captive consumption.	None
It is not a product known in the market with any commercial name.9.	None
It may be noticed that in the cases referred to in the passage, quoted above, the reasons for holding the articles not marketable are different, however they are not exhaustive.	None
It is difficult to lay down a precise test to determine marketability of articles.	None
Marketability of goods has certain attributes.	None
The essence of marketability is neither in the form nor in the shape or condition in which the manufactured articles are to be found, it is the commercial identity of the articles known to the market for being bought and sold.	None
The fact that the product in question is generally not being bought and sold or has no demand in the market would be irrelevant.	None
The plastic body of EMR does not satisfy the aforementioned criteria.	None
There are some competing manufacturers of EMR.	None
Each is having a different plastic body to suit its design and requirement.	None
If one goes to the market to purchase plastic body of EMR of the respondents either for replacement or otherwise one cannot get it in the market because at present it is not a commercially known product.	None
For these reasons, the plastic body, which is a part of the EMR of the respondents, is not goods so as to be liable to duty as parts of EMR under para 5(d) of the said exemption notification.	None
From this judgment, Shri Lakshmikumaran wished to emphasise that, as in the said judgment, Transmission Assemblies were not available in the market for being bought and sold, they were not excisable goods not being marketable.	None
As has correctly been pointed out by Mr. Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Revenue, what was held in this judgment is that the product should not be known in the market with any commercial name.	None
The moment a product is commercially known in the sense of fulfilling the practical test of being known to persons in the market who buy and sell, the test is satisfied.	None
The fact that the product is generally not bought or sold or has no demand in the market is irrelevant.	None
It was held in the said judgment that the plastic body is not known as a commercially distinct product in the market and, therefore, if a manufacturer is asked to replace such body, it would not be replaceable not being a commercially known product.	None
The facts in the present case show that Transmission Assemblies of tractors are commercially known products as has been pointed out above.	Reasoning
The fact that not a single sale of such Assembly has been made by the appellants is irrelevant.	Reasoning
This being the case, we are of the view that the Transmission Assembly of the tractor on the facts before us is clearly an intermediate product which is a distinct product commercially known to the market as such.	Reasoning
On this ground therefore, the appellants are not liable to succeed.	Reasoning
However, the appellants are on firm ground when they say that the extended period of limitation could not have been invoked in the present case.	None
In their reply to the show cause notice, the appellants stated 20.2	None
It is submitted that the noticees have been manufacturing tractors right from 1965 onwards till date.	None
The manufacturing process undertaken by the noticees has been made known to the Department innumerable number of times.	None
Consequent1y the proposal to invoke the extended period of limitation in the present case is incorrect and the same is liable to be set aside.20.3 The Noticee points out that just like the department raised the issue with regard to the IC engines in the year 199495, similarly the department is raising the issue in regard to the transmission assembly by the present Show Cause Notice.	None
Therefore the dept. cannot allege any suppression or fraud on the part of Noticee.20.4	None
However, that is not to say that there has been any contumacious conduct or an intent to evade duty on the part of the noticees.	None
In regard to the transmission assemblies which arise on the assembly line, if they are used in the dutiable tractors, they would be exempt under Captive Consumption Exemption Notification No.67/95CE dated 16.3.95.20.5 In regard to transmission assembly going into the exempted tractor, the department has now raised the issue that they are dutiable and there is no exemption notification for such transmission assemblies.	None
Further, that the Noticee had not claimed NIL rate of duty for transmission assemblies used within the factory for manufacture of tractors.20.6 The Noticee submits that they never entertained a belief that the transmission assembly would be dutiable and consequently, when such transmission assemblies arose on the assembly line, whether they go into the exempted tractor or dutiable tractor, Transmission Assembly as an item was not mentioned separately in the classification list.	None
This shows their bona fides and does not lead to an inference that there was nonmention of the transmission assemblies in the classification list with ulterior motive.20.7	None
The Noticees submit that declarations of the term Transmission appearing under Heading No.87.08 showing that the rate of duty applicable is 15 and the department knowing fully well that tractors have been manufactured, should have raised the issue regarding the transmission assembly at the earliest and not by invoking the extended period as done in the present Show Cause Notice.	None
The number of Transmission cleared on payment of duty to ECEL over the entire period from Jan.1996 to May, 1998 is very meagre as compared to the total number of tractors (both dutiable and exempted) cleared during the period.	None
It is clear that only one Transmission Assembly is used in one tractor.	None
Consequently, the Department knew that duty was not being paid on captively consumed Transmission Assemblies.	None
Hence, extended period is not invocable.	None
Thus, the department was fully aware that the tractors have been manufactured and a transmission assembly is made at the intermediate stage.	None
Nothing prevented the department from raising demands within the permissible shorter period of limitation under Section 11A.21.	None
The department Cll11Wl plead ignorance that they were not aware that in a tractor a transmission assembly arises at the intermediate stage.	None
Thus, the noticee entertained a bona fide belief that since the transmission assembly formed a part of the integrated assembly line for manufacturing tractors, there was no removal or exigibility of Transmission Assembly.	None
Nothing prevented the department from raising a similar issue as to dutiability of Transmission Assemblies as they raised in regard to I.C. Engines arising at the intermediate stage, which was done in 1995.22.	None
That in fact, the Show Cause Notice itself terms the issue of manufacture and captive consumption of transmission assemblies for tractors is the same as that for I.C. Engines.	Reasoning
However, knowing fully well that Transmission Assembly comes into existence at the intermediate stage, the department never raised the issue.	None
This implies that in the present proceedings, assuming without admitting duty is payable on the transmission assembly, the same was not being paid due to a bona fide error.	None
The same belief was entertained on the part of the Noticees as well as the Department during the relevant period that transmission assemblies going into the exempted tractor do not attract duty.	None
Added to this, the appellants have also clearly stated that not a single Transmission Assembly has in fact been sold by them in the market.	Reasoning
On these facts, we are of the opinion that the appellants would fall within the test laid down in two judgments of this Court.	Reasoning
In Padmini Products v. Collector of Central Excise, Bangalore, 1989 (43) E.L.T. 195, this Court held Shri V. Lakshmi Kumaran, learned counsel for the appellant drew our attention to the observations of this Court in CCE v. Chemphar Drugs and Liniments, Hyderabad (1989) 2 SCC 127 1989 SCC (Tax) 245 where at p. 131 of the report, this Court observed that in order to sustain an order of the Tribunal beyond a period of six months and up to a period of five years in view of the proviso to subsection (1) of Section 11A of the Act, it had to be established that the duty of excise had not been levied or paid or shortlevied or shortpaid, or erroneously refunded by reasons of either fraud or collusion or willful misstatement or suppression of facts or contravention of any provision of the Act or Rules made thereunder, with intent to evade payment of duty.	None
It was observed by this Court that something positive other than mere inaction or failure on the part of the manufacturer or producer of conscious or deliberate withholding of information when the manufacturer knew otherwise, is required to be established before it is saddled with any liability beyond the period of six months.	None
Whether in a particular set of facts and circumstances there was any fraud or collusion or wilful misstatement or suppression or contravention of any provision of any Act, is a question of fact depending upon the facts and circumstances of a particular caseAs mentioned hereinbefore, mere failure or negligence on the part of the producer or manufacturer either not to take out a licence in case where there was scope for doubt as to whether licence was required to be taken out or where there was scope for doubt whether goods were dutiable or not, would not attract Section 11A of the Act.	None
In the facts and circumstances of this case, there were materials, as indicated to suggest that there was scope for confusion and the appellant believing that the goods came within the purview of the concept of handicrafts and as such were exempt.	None
If there was scope for such a belief or opinion, then failure either to take out a licence or to pay duty on that behalf, when there was no contrary evidence that the producer or the manufacturer knew these were excisable or required to be licensed, would not attract the penal provisions of Section 11A of the Act.	None
If the facts are otherwise, then the position would be different.	None
Similarly in Continental Foundation Joint Venture Holding v. Collector of Central Excise, Chandigarh I, (2007) 10 SCC 337 , this Court held As far as fraud and collusion are concerned, it is evident that the intent to evade duty is built into these very words.	None
So far as misstatement or suppression of facts are concerned, they are clearly qualified by the word wilful, preceding the words misstatement or suppression of facts which means with intent to evade duty.	None
The next set of words contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or Rules are again qualified by the immediately following words with intent to evade payment of duty.	None
Therefore, there cannot be suppression or misstatement of fact, which is not wilful and yet constitute a permissible ground for the purpose of the proviso to Section 11A. Misstatement of fact must be wilful.13.	None
Factual position goes to show that the Revenue relied on the Circulars dated 2351997 and 19121997.	None
The Circular dated 611998 is the one on which the appellant places reliance.	None
Undisputedly, view expressed by CEGAT in Continental Foundation Joint Venture case Continental Foundation Joint Venture v. CCE, (2002) 150 ELT 216 (TriDel) was held to be not correct in a subsequent larger Bench judgment.	None
It is, therefore, clear that there was scope for entertaining doubt about the view to be taken.	None
The Tribunal apparently has not considered these aspects correctly.	None
Contrary to the factual position, CEGAT has held that no plea was taken about there being no intention to evade payment of duty as the same was to be reimbursed by the buyer.	None
In fact such a plea was clearly taken.	None
The factual scenario clearly goes to show that there was scope for entertaining doubt, and taking a particular stand which rules out application of Section 11A of the Act.12.	None
The expression suppression has been used in the proviso to Section 11A of the Act accompanied by very strong words as fraud or collusion and, therefore, has to be construed strictly.	None
Mere omission to give correct information is not suppression of facts unless it was deliberate to stop (sic evade) the payment of duty.	None
Suppression means failure to disclose full information with the intent to evade payment of duty.	None
When the facts are known to both the parties, omission by one party to do what he might have done would not render it suppression.	None
When the Revenue invokes the extended period of limitation under Section 11A the burden is cast upon it to prove suppression of fact.	None
An incorrect statement cannot be equated with a wilful misstatement.	None
The latter implies making of an incorrect statement with the knowledge that the statement was not correct.	None
Judged by this test, it is clear that on facts in the present case there was no suppression on the part of the appellants nor was there any willful attempt to evade duty.	Reasoning
As stated by the appellant, the appellant has been manufacturing tractors from 1965 onwards.	Reasoning
There has never been any change in the manufacturing process.	Reasoning
In the year 199495, IC engines were stated by the department to contain Transmission Assemblies, which were dutiable.	Reasoning
On receiving a reply from the appellant, the department did not levy any excise duty on such Transmission Assemblies.	Reasoning
The showcause notice itself stated that the issue of manufacture and captive consumption of Transmission Assemblies for tractors is the same as that for IC engines.	Reasoning
These facts, coupled with the fact that not a single Transmission Assembly of tractors manufactured by the appellant had been sold makes it clear that there was no suppression or any intent to evade excise duty in the present case.	Reasoning
We feel that the show cause notice needs to be quashed on this ground alone.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the appeal is allowed, and the judgment dated 27.5.2004 passed by CESTAT is set aside.	Reasoning
Civil Appeal Nos.94699470 of 2010 This case has similar facts.	None
We are concerned with the period 1.4.1997 to 31.5.1998.	None
The show cause notice in this case was issued on 1.5.2002, in which the extended period of limitation was invoked as follows M s. TAFE have filed the declaration under Rule 173B of Central Excise Rules, 1944, during the year 20002001, for the manufacture of product viz., Transmission Assembly falling under Chapter Subheading No.8708.00, and cleared the said product on payment of duty under Invoice No.1120969 dated 21.6.2000.	None
Never before in the past M s. TAFE have declared this product along with other factory finished products for which duty was paid by them.	None
Hence, necessary verification was conducted in order to know whether any such subassemblies were manufactured and cleared by the assessee for use in the exempted tractors.4.	None
M s. TAFE have manufactured the subassemblies as listed in the AnnexureI and AnnexureII for the tractors Model No.	None
TAFE 25 and TAFE 30 inside the factory for captive use in the production of tractors.	None
The details of process of manufacture of such subassemblies are explained in AnnexureIII.	None
As per Clause (ii) to Notification No.67/95 dated 1631995 all inputs specified in column 1 of the Table in the said Notification which also includes inputs falling under Chapter Heading 87 of Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985, manufactured in a factory and used within the factory of production in or in relation to the manufacture of the final products are exempt from the whole of the excise duty due thereon, provided the final product is chargeable to duty.	None
As per this notification, M s TAFE have paid duty on all the goods falling under Chapter SubHeading 87.08, used in the manufacture of Tractors of engine capacity less than 1800cc which are exempted, except the subassemblies manufactured and used in the exempted tractors.	None
Therefore, it appears that M s TAFE are liable to pay duty on all the subassemblies manufactured (as per AnnexureI and II), and used in the Tractors which are exempt for the period from April, 1997 to May, 1998.5.	None
M s. TAFE have not brought to the notice of the manufacture of subassemblies to the Department with the intention to evade payment of excise duty.	None
They have willfully suppressed the fact of the manufacture of the subassemblies from the knowledge of the Department and cleared the same without payment of duty for use in the manufacture of Tractors, which are exempted.	None
It can be seen from the process of manufacture that the making of the independent, subassemblies are inevitable in the Tractor build.	None
But, M s TAFE chose to declare only the parts constituting these subassemblies as factory finished items and not subassembly.	None
Whether these factory finished items and bought out, items, when assembled will form a subassembly has not been declared by them.	None
M s. TAFE have chosen not to declare the subassemblies willfully in order to evade payment of duty.	None
In the reply to the show cause notice, the respondents stated that they had never sold transmission assemblies in the market and that their price list does not carry a list price for this item.	None
The only removal ever made was during the warranty period of one tractor and this one removal does not justify the fact that transmission assemblies have a market.	None
It was further stated that had the respondents known that transmission assemblies were excisable, they would have claimed exemption as the finished product was exempt.	None
Further, Transmission Assembly is only recognized as an Assembly line intermediate product and not as a product in itself which is separately identifiable as in the case of other Assemblies such as axel shaft, engine, gear parts, instrument panels, etc.	None
The difference in this case is that vide an order dated 30.4.2004 the authorities found in favour of the respondents on merits holding that there was neither manufacture nor marketability of the Transmission Assemblies in question.	None
This was confirmed in appeal by CESTAT by the impugned judgment dated 12.11.2009.	None
In view of what is stated in Civil Appeal No.6561 of 2004, the part of the order in original and the CESTAT order on merits have to be set aside.	Reasoning
However, for the selfsame reasons as are contained in Civil Appeal No.6561 of 2004, we hold that the extended period of limitation is not available as we are satisfied that the reply extracted above of the respondent shows that the respondent bona fide believed that Transmission Assemblies were not dutiable.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, the appeals of the revenue shall stand dismissed on this ground.	Reasoning
A. No.457 of 2006 The facts in this appeal are as follows.	Reasoning
The period involved is April, 1996 to May, 1998 and the show cause notice is dated 1.5.2001.	Reasoning
As the impugned judgment in this case by CESTAT merely follows the Escorts case i.e. Civil Appeal No.6561 of 2004, we hold that the finding of the authorities on merits is correct.	Reasoning
However, in this case also the extended period of limitation is not available to the revenue.	None
In the order dated 26.12.2001, the Commissioner stated In the present inquiry which was undertaken by the proper officer, it was found that the transmission assembly or chassis assembly which is classifiable under Subheading 87.08 of the 1st Schedule to the Central Excise Act was not declared by the noticee in the classification list.	None
Therefore, their plea that they have declared the chassis thereof does not cover transmission assembly or chassis assembly.	None
They themselves in their reply have admitted that the chassis is the main frame that supports the body and the engine has to be so framed as to receive, hold and fasten an engine and other components of the tractors (Para 14 of the reply).	None
Thus, transmission assembly is not the chassis and since the noticee have failed to declare the transmission assembly chassis assembly, the suppression of fact is clear.	None
The intention to evade duty is clear from the statement of Shri P.C. Kale dated 12.04.2001 as the noticee was knowing that duty is required to be paid on the goods which go into the assembly of the tractor of engine capacity less than 1800 CC.	None
As such tractors were exempt from duty during the relevant period.	Reasoning
Knowing this fact very well and not declaring the transmission assembly or chassis assembly in the classification declaration and clearing such transmission assembly chassis assembly without payment of duty without recording their production in the statutory records and without filing the RT12 returns for the production and clearance of such transmission assembly chassis assembly clearly established that this was done with an intention to evade payment of duty.	Reasoning
We find that in successive declarations made by the assessee in this case starting from 16.3.1995 the assessee had declared not merely the tractor but the chassis therefor.	Reasoning
The assessee bonafide believed that the declaration of the chassis would suffice as according to them Transmission Assemblies were not taxable goods.	Reasoning
The intention to evade duty is according to the Commissioner made out from a statement made by Shri P.C. Kale dated 12.4.2001.	Reasoning
It is pointed out by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that in the memorandum of appeal filed against the order in original, Shri P.C. Kale was never in the employment of the appellant during the relevant period as he joined the appellant only in July, 2000.	Reasoning
Apart from this, it is also pointed out that the appellant is a public sector company governed by a Board of Directors consisting of IAS Officers.	Reasoning
Be that as it may, we are satisfied that there was no attempt to evade excise duty and in this case also the show cause notice being beyond the period of limitation of one year would have to be quashed on this ground.	Decision
On this ground alone, therefore, the impugned judgment dated 3.10.2005 is set aside.	Decision
The appeal is allowed accordingly.	Decision
