 RAMASWAMY, J. The assessee (In C.A. No. 2916 of 1980  CIT v. Gwalior Rayon Silk Manufacturing Co. Ltd.) claimed depreciation on the written value of roads constructed by it as forming part of the cost of the factory building and also claimed development rebate on industrial transport used for transporting raw materials and finished goods within the factory premises.	Facts
The Income Tax Officer disallowed the claims.	Facts
The assessee went in appeal.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner dismissed the appeal.	Facts
On further appeal, the Tribunal, following its earlier order for the assessment year 196263 in the case of the assessee, allowed the aforesaid two claims with regard to depreciation on the roads as well as development rebate on the tractors, trailers, etc.	Facts
The Revenue filed an application under Section 256(1).	Facts
The said application was dismissed by the Tribunal.	Facts
The Revenue then filed an application under Section 256(2) in the High Court.	Facts
The High Court accepted the application with regard to two questions only and rejected it as far as the question regarding depreciation on roads was concerned.	Facts
The Revenue filed a Special Leave Petition against the order of the High Court.	Facts
This court by order dated December 5, 1980 granted special leave confined to question No. 1 only which reads as under.	None
Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Appellate Tribunal was justified in law in holding that depreciation is admissible on the Written Down Value of the cost of construction of roads in the factory premises on the footing that they constitute building ?	Facts
Civil Appeal No. 1194 of 1977  CIT v. Electro Metallurgical Works P. Ltd2.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner directed the Income Tax Officer to allow depreciation on roads inside the factory compound at appropriate rates.	Facts
It was claimed before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner that roads within the factory compound constituted plant and the Income Tax Officer should have allowed depreciation as admissible for buildings.	Facts
It was not clear from the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner whether depreciation was to be granted on roads at the rates applicable to plant and machinery or at the rates applicable to buildings.	Facts
The Tribunal while deciding the appeal filed by the Revenue observed that it was not concerned with the above aspect regarding the rates.	Facts
The departments claim was that no depreciation at all should be given on roads.	Facts
The Tribunal held that different benches of the Tribunal at Bombay had taken the view that depreciation on roads inside the factory compound connecting different factory buildings and connecting the factory to the outer road should be allowed either on the footing that such roads are a part of the buildings or alternatively that they constituted plant.	Facts
The Tribunal thus held that the Appellate Assistant Commissioner was justified in directing the Incometax Officer to grant the necessary depreciation.	Facts
The appeal of the Revenue was dismissed.	Facts
The Revenue filed a petition under Section 256(1).	Facts
Question number one related to calculating relief under Section 80I without taking into consideration the development rebate.	Facts
The second question related to allowance of depreciation on roads inside the factory at appropriate rates.	Facts
The Tribunal with regard to the second question held that the Bombay High Court itself in the case of ColourChem Ltd. (CIT v. Colour Chem Ltd., 1977 (106) ITR 323 (Bom) had taken the view that depreciation should be granted on the roads.	Facts
The Tribunal in these circumstances did not consider it worthwhile to refer the second question.	Facts
As regards the first question also with which we are not concerned, the Tribunal did not consider it worthwhile referring the same to the High Court.	Facts
The Revenue then filed a petition under Section 256(2) in the High Court.	Facts
In this petition in paragraph 7 it has been stated as under So far as question No. 2 is concerned, the department has since decided not to pursue the matter further.	Facts
In the prayer clause also the direction to the Tribunal to state the case and refer the question of law was made in respect if question No. 1 only.	Facts
The High Court by its order dated June 17, 1976, issued a notice as regards question No. 1 only and dismissed the application so far as question No. 2 was concerned.	Facts
The Revenue in the above circumstances filed a Special Leave Petition against the order dated June 17, 1976, and leave was grantedCivil Appeal No. 2978 of 1989.  	Facts
CIT v. Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd3.	Facts
The Income Tax Officer disallowed the claim for depreciation on roads and drains for the assessment year 197778.	Facts
The Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) allowed the depreciation following the decision of the Bombay High Court in CIT v. Colour Chem Ltd. (CIT v. Colour Chem Ltd., 1977 (106) ITR 323 (Bom) and the Madras High Court decision in CIT v. LucasT. V. S. Ltd. ( 1977 (110) ITR 346 (Mad) The Tribunal dismissed the appeal filed by the Revenue.	Facts
The Tribunal rejected the reference application filed under Section 256(1).	Facts
On a reference application filed by the Revenue under Section 256(2), the High Court directed the Tribunal to state the case and refer the question of law for its opinion.	Facts
The High Court followed its earlier decision in CIT v. Bangalore Turf Club Ltd. ( 1984 (150) ITR 23 1984 TaxLR 74 (Kant) and answered the question against the Revenue.	Facts
The question of law raised was whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Appellate Tribunal is right in law in holding that the assessee is entitled to depreciation on the written down value of roads and drains at the rates applicable to buildingsCivil Appeal No. 5535 of 1990  CIT v. Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd4.	Facts
The Income Tax Officer allowed depreciation on roads and drains in the original assessment for the assessment year 197374.	Facts
The Commissioner of Income Tax set aside the order of the Income Tax Officer under Section 263.	Facts
Reassessment was made by the Income Tax Officer disallowing the assessees claim for depreciation on roads and drains to the extent of Rs. 15, 50, 526.	Facts
On appeal the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) allowed the assessees claim for depreciation.	Facts
The Tribunal dismissed the appeal of the Revenue.	Facts
At the instance of the Revenue on a reference under Section 256(1) the High Court answered the question against the Revenue.	Facts
The High Court by order dated October 25, 1983, answered the question in favour of the assessee relying on its earlier decision in CIT v. Bangalore Turf Club Ltd. ( 1984 (150) ITR 23 1984 TaxLR 74 (Kant)Civil Appeal No. 1404 of 1991  CIT v. I. D. L. Chemicals Ltd5.	Facts
The Income Tax Officer rejected the claim for depreciation on roads.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner allowed depreciation on roads treating the same as buildings.	Facts
The Tribunal relying on its earlier order held that depreciation on roads should be allowed by treating them as plant.	Facts
On reference applications, the Tribunal referred two questions to the High Court for its opinion (1) whether the assessee was entitled to depreciation on roads as part of its plant, (2) whether the assessee was entitled to depreciation for the assessment year 197273 on the written down value of the sum of Rs. 3, 41, 595 referred to in question No. 1 and also on the additions to plant and machinery for Rs. 1, 52, 767 made during the previous year relevant to the assessment year 197172.	Facts
The High Court by order dated October 12, 1984, held that the same was covered by a consolidated order passed on June 15, 1983, in favour of the assessee.	Facts
The question was, therefore, answered against the Revenue and in favour of the assessee.	Facts
As regards the second question, the High Court held that it was covered as a result of an amendment to the Act which has been noted in R.C. No. 80 of 1978, dated April 18, 1983.	Facts
The answer was, therefore, recorded against the assessee and in favour of the Revenue.	Facts
In the Special Leave Petition, it is slated that both the questions referred were answered in favour of the assessee which is not correct6.	Facts
Since this bunch of appeals raises common questions of law for decision, they are disposed of by a common judgment.	Facts
The facts of Civil Appeal No. 2916 of 1980 are sufficient for decision.	Facts
Hence, they are extracted.	Facts
For the assessment year 196364, relevant to the previous year ending on March 31, 1963, the respondent assessee, a company incorporated under the Companies Act, claimed depreciation on the roads constructed by it as forming part of the cost of the factory building.	Facts
The Income Tax Officer and on an appeal the Appellate Assistant Commissioner rejected the claim.	Facts
On further appeal, following the decision of the Bombay High Court for the previous year, the Tribunal allowed the appeal held that the assessee is entitled to depreciation.	Facts
Then the Revenue sought a reference on the question Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Appellate Tribunal was justified in law in holding that depreciation was applicable on the written down value of the cost of construction of roads in the factory premises on the footing that they constitute building ?	Facts
The High Court by its impunged order under Section 256(2) of the Incometax Act, 1961, for short the Act, declined to call for a reference The contention of Sri Manchanda, learned counsel for the Revenue, is that the word building in its connotation is referable to something that is a constructed one as a structure or superstructure on land with walls and roof.	None
According to a counsel, since the Act did not give a definition of its own, the dictionary meaning of building which means a house or anything which built, a structure, is to be adopted which was made manifest by a subsequent amendment to Appendix I under the Income Tax (Fourth Amendment) Rules, 1983 (for short the Rules), having come into force with effect from April 2, 1983, which included roads.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, till April 2, 1983 roads did not form part of the building.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also further contended that the Rules made manifest that they would be applicable only prospectively from April 2, 1983.	Arguments of Petitioner
By necessary implication till that cutoff date the Legislature excluded roads from the connotation of building.	Arguments of Petitioner
The capital expenditure incurred by an assessee on construction of roads even within factory premises is not entitled to depreciation as a deduction in the computation of profits and gains of the assessees income of the previous year.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sri Harish Salve, learned senior counsel and other counsel appearing for the assessees resisted the contention.	Arguments of Respondent
Sri Salve contended that the purpose of allowing depreciation is to compute the net taxable income unless roads are laid it is not possible for the convenient carrying on of the business activity, and so the assessee laid roads and incurred expenditure thereon.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the roads form part of building as a capital asset which is admissible for depreciation under Section 32 of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The Rules only regulate the rate of depreciation to which the assessee is entitled to.	Arguments of Respondent
Preceding the Fourth Amendment Rules with effect from April 2, 1983, the rates were variable and the assessees were entitled to claim either as plant or building, etc.	Arguments of Respondent
To set at rest that part of the controversy, the Rules were amended and they came into force with effect from April 2, 1983.	Arguments of Respondent
The subordinate legislature gave effect to the interpretation given by various High Courts to the word building which included roads as well.	Arguments of Respondent
Sri Manchanda further contended that a taxing statute should be strictly construed common sense approach, equity, logic, ethics and morality have no role to play.	Arguments of Respondent
The words in the taxing statute should be given a literal interpretation.	Arguments of Respondent
Nothing is to be read in, nothing is to be implied, one can only look fairly at the language used and nothing more and nothing less It is settled law that the expressions used in a taxing statute would ordinarily be understood in the sense in which it is harmonious with the object of the statute to effectuate the legislative animation In Raja Jagdambika Pratap Narain Singh v. Central Board of Direct Taxes ( 1975 (4) SCC 578 1975 SCC(Tax) 356 1975 (100) ITR 698 ) this court held that equity and income tax have been described as strangers.	None
The Act from the very nature of things, cannot be absolutely cast upon logic.	None
It is to be read and understood according to its language.	None
If a plain reading of the language compels the court to adopt an approach different from that dictated by any rule of logic the court may have to adopt it, vide Azam Jha Bahadur (H. H. Prince) v. E. T. O. ( 1971 (3) SCC 621 1972 (83) ITR 92 )	None
Logic alone will not be determinative of a controversy arising from a taxing statute.	None
Equally, common sense is a stranger and an incompatible partner to the Income Tax Act.	None
It does not concern itself (sic) with the principles of morality or ethics.	None
It is concerned with the very limited question as to whether the amount brought to tax constitutes the income of the assessee.	None
It is equally settled law that if the language is plain and unambiguous, one can only look fairly at the language used and interpret it to give effect to the legislative animation.	None
Nevertheless, tax laws have to be interpreted reasonably and in consonance with justice adopting a purposive approach.	None
The contextual meaning has to be ascertained and given effect to.	None
A provision for deduction, exemption or relief should be construed reasonably and in favour of the assessee.	None
The object being that in computation of the net income, the statute provides deductions, exemptions or depreciation on the value of the capital assets from the taxable income.	None
Therefore, building which have not been specifically defined to include road in the Act must be taken in the legal sense The question emerges, therefore, as to whether roads and drains are included in building under Section 32 of the Act.	Issue
Section 32 provides for depreciation of capital assets in respect of buildings, machinery, plant or furniture.	None
This court in CIT.	None
v. Dewan Bahadur Ramgopal Mills Ltd. ( 1961 (41) ITR 280 1961 (2)	None
SCR 318 1961 AIR(SC) 338) held that the basic and normal scheme of depreciation under the Act is that it decreases every year being a percentage of the written down value which in the first year is the actual cost and in succeeding years the actual cost less all depreciations actually allowed under the Act or any Act repealed thereby.	None
The depreciation allowance, therefore, is in respect of such assets as are used in the business and has to be calculated on the written down value.	None
The allowance towards depreciation is for the continuation of the use of the assets wholly or in part during the accounting year and its contribution to the earning of the income.	None
The object is to determine net income liable to tax.	None
In CIT v. Alps Theatre ( 1967 (65) ITR 377 1967 (3) SCR 181 1967 AIR(SC) 1437) heavily relied on by the Revenue, this court, considering Section 10(2) of the Indian Income tax Act, 1922 held that Section 10(2) provides that such profits or gains shall be computed after making certain allowances.	None
The object of giving these allowances is to determine the assessable income.	None
There, the question was whether the land on which the theatre was constructed is a building within the meaning of Section 10(2) of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922.	None
This Court held that land is not a building and, therefore, depreciation allowance for land separately is not admissible.	None
The ratio therein has no application but the principle laid down could be considered in the light of the purpose of the Act.	None
In CIT v. Taj Mahal Hotel ( 1971 (3) SCC 550 1971 (82) ITR 44 )	None
this Court adopting a purposive approach held that sanitary and pipeline fittings fell within the definition of plant.	None
The 1922 Act intended to give a wide meaning to the word plant.	None
Rules are meant only to carry out the provisions of the Act and cannot take away what is conferred by the Act or whittle down its effect.	None
In Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay v. Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. 1991 (S2) SCC 18 1990 (4) JT 533) oil tanks for storage of petrol were held to be buildings exigible to property tax The question whether roads would be included within the meaning of the word buildings was considered by various High Courts.	None
The leading decision is that of the Bombay High Court in CIT v. Colour Chem Ltd. (CIT v. Colour Chem Ltd., 1977 (106) ITR 323 (Bom) While negativing the contention that roads are part of the plant, the Bombay High Court held that the roads within the factory premises are used for the purpose of carrying raw materials, finished products and workers.	None
Therefore, they must be regarded as building or buildings within the meaning of subclause (vi) of Section 10(2) of the 1922 Act.	None
It was also held that dictionary meaning of the word building cannot be confined to its to a structure or superstructure having walls and a roof over it.	None
The roads and roadways are adjuncts of the buildings lying within the factory area linking them together and are being used for carrying on its business by the assessee.	None
Therefore, they must be regarded as forming part of the factory building.	None
The expenditure incurred, therefore, will have to be regarded as expenditure on buildings and depreciation must be allowed.	None
In the appeal filed against the judgment in Colour Chem Ltd. case (CIT v. Colour Chem Ltd., 1977 (106) ITR 323 (Bom) the leave was refused on the ground of delay.	None
More or less, though for different reasons, on common sense principle the same is the ratio in CIT v.	None
LucasT.V.S. Ltd.	None
( 1977 (110) ITR 346 (Mad)	None
When the appeal was filed, this Court dismissed the special leave petition on the ground of delay.	None
Same is the view in Panyam Cements and Mineral Industries Ltd. v. Addl.	None
CIT ( 1979 (117) ITR 770 1977 CTR(AP) 225), CIT v. Kalyani Spinning Mills Ltd. ( 1981 (128) ITR 279 1981 TaxLR 358 (1981) 85	None
CWN 308) CIT v. McGaw Ravindra Laboratories (India) Ltd. ( 1981 (132) ITR 401 (Guj) In CIT v.	None
Bangalore Turf Club Ltd. ( 1984 (150) ITR 23 1984 TaxLR 74 (Kant) when the appeal was filed this Court dismissed the same in Special Leave Petitions Nos. 519899 of 1985 dated December 16, 1987 In Words and Phrases, (Permanent) Vol.	None
5A, building, was defined that everything is necessary to perfect a manufacturing establishment and fit for use designed as a part of it is a building.	None
The roads would serve as necessary links between the raw material and finished products in the business activity.	None
The roads are liable to wear and tear and need constant repairs or relaying the road afresh.	None
While enacting the Income Tax (Fourth Amendment) Rules, 1983, the rulemaking authority accepted this interpretation consistently laid down by various High Courts that building includes roads and also elongated bridges, culverts, wells and tubewells as building but prescribed fixed rates of depreciation setting at rest the variable rates claimed by the assessee.	None
Rules validly made have the same force as the sections in the Act.	None
The contention of the respondents that unless the Act itself is amended, the rules would not cut down the meaning of the word building is without substance.	None
The inclusive definition of building to include roads, etc. enlarges the scope of Section 32 and does not whittle down its effect.	None
It is true that in CIT v. Coromandel Fertilisers Ltd. ( 1985 (156) ITR 283 1984 TaxLR 340 (AP))	None
the High Court of Andhra Pradesh interpreted that roads fell within the meaning of plant and granted depreciation at the rates admissible to the plant.	None
CIT v. Sandvik Asia Ltd. ( 1983 (144) ITR 585 1983 TaxLR 758 (Bom)) took the opposite view and held them to be building.	None
In view of the consistent view of the other High Courts and which, in our view, is the correct one, the view of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh is not correct in law.	None
It is true, as contended for the Revenue, that the Income Tax (Fourth Amendment) Rules, 1983, were given effect from April 2, 1983 thereby manifesting that the rates enumerated in the Rules would be applicable prospectively from the later assessment years.	Reasoning
It could by no means be construed that the Legislature expressed its intention that for the earlier period building does not include roads.	Reasoning
If it were to be so, it was open to Parliament to have expressly bring out an amendment to the Act to that effect.	Reasoning
On the other hand we are of the view that the subordinate legislature accepted the interpretation given by the High Courts and included roads as an integral part of the building.	Reasoning
In Bangalore Turf Club Ltd. case ( 1984 (150) ITR 23 1984 TaxLR 74 (Kant) the Karnataka High Court held that the amendment was by way of a clarification in conformity with the law laid down by High Courts.	Reasoning
It is also equally settled law that an interpretation consistently given over years and accepted and acted upon by the department may not normally be upset even though a different view of law may reasonably be possible unless the new perceptions and circumstances warrant a fresh look.	Reasoning
The ratio in Saharanpur Electric Supply Co. Ltd. v. CIT ((1992) 2 SSC 736 1992 (194) ITR 294 ) is not in conflict with the above view.	Reasoning
It is also settled law that, unless it is expressly stated or by necessary implication arises, a statute should always be read as prospective.	Reasoning
The ratio therein is also in consonance with the view we are taking.	None
Accordingly, we have no hesitation to hold that the roads laid within the factory premises as links or providing approach to the buildings are necessary adjuncts to the factory buildings to carry on the business activity of the Assessee and would be building within the meaning of Section 32 of the Act.	Reasoning
The capital expenditure incurred thereon is admissible to depreciation on written down value.	Reasoning
It has to be worked out for the purpose of depreciation as per the provisions of the Act read with the Rules in the Appendix.	Reasoning
Equally, the drains also would be an integral part of the building for the convenient enjoyment of the factory.	Reasoning
The expenditure incurred in laying the drains or written down value of the cost of its construction would equally be entitled to depreciation.	Reasoning
It is to be worked out in terms of Section 32 of the Act read with the Rules in the Appendix.	Reasoning
In view of the settled position the reference sought for in Civil Appeal No. 2916 of 1980 and Civil Appeal No. 1194 of 1977 is unnecessary.	Decision
The appeals are accordingly dismissed.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
Civil Appeal No. 1404 of 1991.	None
The appeal is partly allowed.	Decision
The Income Tax Officer would compute roads as building and depreciation should be given accordingly.	Decision
In view of the circumstances the parties are directed to bear their own costs.	None
Civil Appeals Nos. 2978 of 1989 and 5535 of 1990.	None
The civil appeals are dismissed.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
