 H. KAPADIA, J. Delay condoned.2. Leave granted.	None
FACTS IN THE LEAD MATTERCivil Appeal Nos. of 2009  Arising out of S.L.P.(C)	Facts
Nos.1417814182 of 2007  M s. Rotork Controls India (P) Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Chennai.3.	Facts
In these civil appeals filed by the assessee we are concerned with the assessment years 199192, 199293, 199394 and 1994 95.	Facts
For the sake of convenience we hereby refer to the facts concerning assessment year 199192.4.	Facts
Appellantcompany sells Valve Actuators.	Facts
Bulk of the sales is to BHEL.	Facts
At the time of sale appellant (assessee) provides a Standard Warranty whereby in the event of any Beacon Rotork Actuator or part thereof becoming defective within 12 months from the date of commissioning or 18 months from the date of dispatch whichever is earlier, the company undertakes to rectify or replace the defective part free of charge.	Facts
This warranty is given under certain conditions stipulated in the warranty clause.	Facts
For the assessment year 199192, the assessee made a provision for warranty at Rs.10,18,800/ at the rate of 1.5 of the turnover.	Facts
This provision was made by the assessee on account of warranty claims likely to arise on the sales effected by the appellant and to cover up that expenditure.	Facts
It may be noted that since the provision made was for Rs.10,18,800/ which exceeded the actual expenditure, the appellant reversed Rs.5,00,246 as Reversal of Excess Provision.	Facts
Consequently, the assessee claimed deduction in respect of the net provision of Rs.5,18,554/ which was disallowed by the A.O. on the ground that the liability was merely a contingent liability not allowable as a deduction under Section 37 of the Incometax Act, 1961 (the 1961 Act, for short).	Facts
This decision was upheld by CIT (A).	Facts
The matter was carried in appeal to the Tribunal by the appellant.	Facts
It was held by the Tribunal that right from the assessment year 198384 the CIT (A) as well as the Tribunal had allowed the warranty claim(s) on the ground that Valve Actuators are sophisticated equipments that in the course of manufacture and sale of Valve Actuators a reasonable warranty was given to the purchasers that every item of sale was covered by the warranty scheme that no purchaser was ready and willing to buy Valve Actuators without warranty and consequently every item sold had a corresponding obligation under the warranty clause(s) attached to such sales.	Facts
This has been the view of the Department and the Tribunal right from assessment year 198384.	Facts
In fact the Department allowed deduction on the above facts constituting normal trading practice.	Facts
For example, during the assessment year 198384 the total sales during the year was Rs.1,45,36,599/ and in that year the appellant had earmarked 1 of the total sales towards the warranty claims which it would have to meet.	Facts
This amount provided for was held to be reasonable having regard to the anticipated liability which was discharged in the subsequent year.	Facts
From that year onwards it has been consistently held that looking to the nature of the business and the nature of the product manufactured and sold it was necessary for warranty clause to be attached to the sales effected by the appellant and that the warranty obligations constituted an integral part of the sales effected during the year.	Facts
All throughout this period between assessment year 198384 and assessment year 199192, the Tribunal took the view that the provision made by the appellant was realistic.	Facts
Applying the Rule of Consistency, the Tribunal held that the assessee on the facts and circumstances of the case was entitled to deduction under Section 37 of the 1961 Act in respect of provision for warranty amounting to Rs.5,18,554.	Facts
At this stage one point needs to be emphasized.	Facts
During the assessment year 198384 to assessment year 199192 there was one instance when the Tribunal disallowed the warranty claim that was in the assessment year 198586.	Facts
The reason was in that year the assessee had not adjusted the excess out of the provision to the expense of the immediate following year and as a result the Closing Balance of the Provision Account was found to be swelling up from year to year.	Facts
In other words, during that year reversal was not effected.	Facts
That is not the position during the assessment years 199192, 199293, 199394 and 199495.	Facts
Accordingly, for the assessment year 199192, the appellant herein succeeded before the Tribunal.	Facts
Aggrieved by the decision of the Tribunal, the Department carried the matter in appeal to the Madras High Court vide Tax Case Appeal No.163 of 2003 etc.	Facts
Those appeals were for all the assessment years 1991 92, 199293, 199394 and 199495.	Facts
By common judgment dated 5.2.07, the High Court held that the assessee was not entitled to deduction in respect of the provision made for warranty claims.	Facts
It was held that no obligation was ever cast on the date of the sale and consequently there was no accrued liability.	Issue
According to the impugned judgment, the liability had not crystalised on the date of the sale and, therefore, appellant was not entitled to deduction in respect of the provision made for warranty charges payable under the terms of sale.	Facts
According to the impugned judgment, warranty provision was made against the liability which had not crystalised against the appellant and consequently it was a provision made for an unascertained liability and, therefore, the appellant was not entitled to claim deduction under Section 37 of the 1961 Act.	Issue
The case of the Department was accepted by the High Court, hence these civil appeals are filed by the assessee.	Issue
CONTENTIONS5.	None
On behalf of the Department Mr. V. Shekhar, learned senior counsel, submitted that provision for warranty is towards unforeseen liability, which is not certain nor it could be foreseen with precision in the relevant year, hence, claim of warranty as well as liability in respect thereof was contingent.	Arguments of Respondent
Being contingent, deduction as expense(s) was not available.	Arguments of Respondent
According to learned counsel, Section 37 of the 1961 Act does not refer to making of provision it only refers to deduction permissible on account of actual expenditure incurred.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, according to learned counsel, Section 37 does not refer to anticipated claims.	Arguments of Respondent
According to learned counsel, in this case the liability is contingent.	Arguments of Respondent
The goods sold may be defective or they may not be defective and, therefore, warranty provision was made only to earn goodwill and stay in business.	Arguments of Respondent
According to learned counsel, warranty is only an assurance about the quality of the product sold.	Arguments of Respondent
The obligation to satisfy the claim in the warranty clause would depend upon factors, namely, whether the product was used in the manner required or whether the buyer was responsible for causing defect.	Arguments of Respondent
In the alternative, learned counsel submitted that whether the liability for which provision is made was based on any scientific study is required to be examined before allowing deduction under Section 37 of the 1961 Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Lastly, learned counsel urged that the amount which is provided for or kept apart cannot be held to be expenditure, actually incurred and consequently deduction is not admissible.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel submitted that in each case one has to find out whether there is an element of certainty that the liability would occur.	Arguments of Respondent
In each case one has to ascertain whether there is any scientific data or material produced by the assessee about the liability incurred in the past and in the absence of such a data assessee was not entitled to deduction for warranty provision in its books of accounts.	Arguments of Respondent
According to learned counsel, merely because the assessee is maintaining its account on mercantile basis, it cannot claim that the provision made towards warranty is an accrued liability.	Arguments of Respondent
According to learned counsel, accounting treatment will not decide whether the warranty claim is actual liability, accrued liability or contingent liability.	Arguments of Respondent
Since in the relevant year there was no claim for replacement of the defective pieces, the assessee could not have claimed deduction by merely making an entry in its books of accounts or by making a mere provision in its books of accounts.	Arguments of Respondent
In this connection, learned counsel placed reliance on the judgment of the Madras High Court in the case of Commissioner of Incometax, Madras v. Indian Metal and Metallurgical Corporation  (1964) 51 ITR 240.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel also placed reliance on the judgments of the Supreme Court in the case of Indian Molasses Co. (Private) Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax , West Bengal  (1959) 37 ITR 66 (SC) and Shree Sajjan Mills Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax, M.P., and Anr.  	Arguments of Respondent
(1985) 156 ITR 585 (SC).	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. S. Ganesh, learned senior counsel, appearing on behalf of the assessee, submitted that in this case the High Court had erred in not following the Rule of Consistency.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection, it was urged that right from assessment year 198384 upto assessment year 199192, the Tribunal had come to the conclusion that Valve Actuators were sophisticated items that, the appellant has been following scientific method of accounting which included the concept of reversal that looking to the nature of business and the nature of the product the appellant was entitled under the Commercial Accounting Principles to create provisions for warranty and accordingly the appellant was entitled to deduction under Section 37 of the 1961 Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to learned counsel, for the assessment years in question, the Tribunal has accordingly followed its earlier view which has prevailed right from assessment year 198384 and it has, therefore, directed deletion of the disallowance of Rs.5,18,554/ for the assessment year 199192.	Arguments of Petitioner
While explaining the concept of reversal, learned counsel pointed out that 1.5 of total sales of Rs.1 crore (amounting to Rs.1.50 lakhs) was taken by the appellant as a provision for warranty claims in its balancesheet by debiting its profit and loss account and by crediting the provision for warranty claims in the balancesheet.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is in the first year.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the second year Rs.1.50 lakhs which was the provision for first year was brought forward by way of Opening Balance of the Provision Account in the Ledger Account.	Arguments of Petitioner
If expenditure incurred in the second year was not Rs.1.50 lakhs but only Rs.1 lakh then such actual expenditure of Rs.1 lakh alone was debited to the Provision Account which, as stated above, had the Opening Balance of Rs.1.5 lakhs and accordingly in the second year Rs.50,000/ was taken to the credit of profit and loss account and offered for tax.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, in the year in which the provision made by the appellant exceeded actual expenditure by Rs.50,000/ the same was offered for tax as income.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, there was reversal to the extent of Rs.50,000/ in the second year.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is the example of reversal.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to learned counsel, the concept of reversal forms part of scientific method of accounting which is being followed by the assessee from the assessment year 198384 onwards right upto assessment year 199192, 199293, 199394 and 199495.	Arguments of Petitioner
While overruling the judgment of the Tribunal, the High Court has failed to notice this important aspect of reversal.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to learned counsel, if one applies the concept of reversal which has been applied in the present case, there is no escapement of income from assessment and the entire exercise would be revenue neutral.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel placed reliance on the judgment of the Privy Council in the case of Commissioner of Inland Revenue v. Mitsubishi Motors New Zealand Ltd.  (1996) 222 ITR 697 (PC).	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel also placed reliance on the judgments of the Supreme Court in the case of Bharat Earth Movers v. Commissioner of Incometax  (2000) 245 ITR 428 (SC) and Metal Box Company of India Ltd. v. Their Workmen  (1969)	Arguments of Petitioner
73 ITR 53 (SC) .7.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel next submitted that assuming for the sake of argument that the liability for warranty claim is a contingent liability, the amount claimed by the appellant as deduction was still allowable if deduction claimed is equal to the warranty expenses actually incurred and the deductibility of such expenses viewed over a number of years is beyond doubt.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection, learned counsel urged that if having regard to surrounding circumstances of the appellants business as a whole, a certain item of expenditure is bound to incur year after year in different degrees then the business liability has definitely arisen and such liability cannot be considered as contingent liability.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was next urged that under Section 145 of the 1961 Act, as it stood prior to 1997, the income of the appellant had to be determined on the basis of method of accounting followed by the appellant year to year and that method could be departed from by the A.O. only if it was in a position to give a finding that the correct income was incapable of being determined on the basis of the assessees impugned method of accounting.	Arguments of Petitioner
As stated above, from assessment year 198384 the appellant, according to learned counsel, has been making provision for warranty claims consistently at the rate of 1.5 of its total sales turnover and from 1987 appellant has introduced in its accounts the concept of reversal of excess provision which has been accepted by the Department right upto assessment years in question.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to learned counsel, there is no finding in the order of the A.O. for the assessment years in question saying that the method of accounting of the appellant was incapable of income determination.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the circumstances, learned counsel submitted that the High Court had erred in reversing the decision of the Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Relevant Provisions of Law We quote herinbelow relevant provisions of the Incometax Act, 1961 as it stood at the material time General37.	None
(1) Any expenditure (not being expenditure of the nature described in Section 30 to 36 and not being in the nature of capital expenditure or personal expenses of the assessee), laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the business or profession shall be allowed in computing the income chargeable under the head Profits and gains of business or profession.	None
Expenses or payments not deductible in certain circumstances 40A.(7)(a)	None
Subject to the provisions of Clause (b), no deduction shall be allowed in respect of any provision (whether called as such or by any other name) made by the assessee for the payment of gratuity to his employees on their retirement or on termination of their employment for any reason(b) Nothing in Clause (a) shall apply in relation to(i) any provision made by the assessee for the purpose of payment of a sum by way of any contribution towards an approved gratuity fund, or for the purpose of payment of any gratuity, that has become payable during the previous year(ii) any provision made by the assessee for the previous year relevant to any assessment year commencing on or after the 1st day of April, 1973, but before the 1st day of April, 1976, to the extent the amount of such provision does not exceed the admissible amount, if the following conditions are fulfilled, namely(1) the provision is made in accordance with an actuarial valuation of the ascertainable liability of the assessee for payment of gratuity to his employees on their retirement or on termination of their employment for any reason(2) the assessee creates an approved gratuity fund for the exclusive benefit of his employees under an irrevocable trust, the application for the approval of the fund having been made before the 1st day of January, 1976 and(3) a sum equal to at least fifty per cent of the admissible amount, or where any amount has been utilised out of such provision for the purpose of payment of any gratuity before the creation of the approved gratuity fund, a sum equal to at least fifty per cent of the admissible amount as reduced by the amount so utilised, is paid by the assessee by way of contribution to the approved gratuity fund before the 1st day of April, 1976, and the balance of the admissible amount or, as the case may be, the balance of the admissible amount as reduced by the amount so utilised, is paid by the assessee by way of such contribution before the 1st day of April, 1977.Explanation 1.For the purposes of subclause (ii) of clause (b) of this subsection, admissible amount means the amount of the provision made by the assessee for the payment of gratuity to his employees on their retirement or on termination of their employment for any reason, to the extent such amount does not exceed an amount calculated at the rate of eight and onethird per cent of the salary as defined in clause (h) of rule 2 of Part A of the Fourth Schedule of each employee entitled to the payment of such gratuity for each year of his service in respect of which such provision is made.	None
Explanation 2.For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that where any provision made by the assessee for the payment of gratuity to his employees on their retirement or on termination of their employment for any reason has been allowed as a deduction in computing the income of the assessee for any assessment year, any sum paid out of such provision by way of contribution towards an approved gratuity fund or by way of gratuity to any employee shall not be allowed as a deduction in computing the income of the assessee of the previous year in which the sum is so paid.	None
FINDINGS What is a provision?	Issue
This is the question which needs to be answered.	None
A provision is a liability which can be measured only by using a substantial degree of estimation.	Reasoning
A provision is recognized when (a) an enterprise has a present obligation as a result of a past event (b) it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and (c) a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.	Reasoning
If these conditions are not met, no provision can be recognized.11.	Reasoning
Liability is defined as a present obligation arising from past events, the settlement of which is expected to result in an outflow from the enterprise of resources embodying economic benefits.	Reasoning
A past event that leads to a present obligation is called as an obligating event.	Reasoning
The obligating event is an event that creates an obligation which results in an outflow of resources.	None
It is only those obligations arising from past events existing independently of the future conduct of the business of the enterprise that is recognized as provision.	None
For a liability to qualify for recognition there must be not only present obligation but also the probability of an outflow of resources to settle that obligation.	None
Where there are a number of obligations (e.g. product warranties or similar contracts) the probability that an outflow will be required in settlement, is determined by considering the said obligations as a whole.	None
In this connection, it may be noted that in the case of a manufacture and sale of one single item the provision for warranty could constitute a contingent liability not entitled to deduction under Section 37 of the said Act.	None
However, when there is manufacture and sale of an army of items running into thousands of units of sophisticated goods, the past event of defects being detected in some of such items leads to a present obligation which results in an enterprise having no alternative to settling that obligation.	None
In the present case, the appellant has been manufacturing and selling Valve Actuators.	None
They are in the business from assessment years 198384 onwards.	Reasoning
Valve Actuators are sophisticated goods.	Reasoning
Over the years appellant has been manufacturing Valve Actuators in large numbers.	Reasoning
The statistical data indicates that every year some of these manufactured Actuators are found to be defective.	Reasoning
The statistical data over the years also indicates that being sophisticated item no customer is prepared to buy Valve Actuator without a warranty.	Reasoning
Therefore, warranty became integral part of the sale price of the Valve Actuator(s).	Reasoning
In other words, warranty stood attached to the sale price of the product.	Reasoning
These aspects are important.	Reasoning
As stated above, obligations arising from past events have to be recognized as provisions.	Reasoning
These past events are known as obligating events.	Reasoning
In the present case, therefore, warranty provision needs to be recognized because the appellant is an enterprise having a present obligation as a result of past events resulting in an outflow of resources.	Reasoning
Lastly, a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.	Reasoning
In short, all three conditions for recognition of a provision are satisfied in this case.13.	Reasoning
In this case we are concerned with Product Warranties.	Reasoning
To give an example of Product Warranties, a company dealing in computers gives warranty for a period of 36 months from the date of supply.	None
The said company considers following options (a) account for warranty expense in the year in which it is incurred (b) it makes a provision for warranty only when the customer makes a claim and (c) it provides for warranty at 2 of turnover of the company based on past experience (historical trend).	None
The first option is unsustainable since it would tantamount to accounting for warranty expenses on cash basis, which is prohibited both under the Companies Act as well as by the Accounting Standards which require accrual concept to be followed.	None
In the present case, the Department is insisting on the first option which, as stated above, is erroneous as it rules out the accrual concept.	None
The second option is also inappropriate since it does not reflect the expected warranty costs in respect of revenue already recognized (accrued).	Reasoning
In other words, it is not based on matching concept.	Reasoning
Under the matching concept, if revenue is recognized the cost incurred to earn that revenue including warranty costs has to be fully provided for.	Reasoning
When Valve Actuators are sold and the warranty costs are an integral part of that sale price then the appellant has to provide for such warranty costs in its account for the relevant year, otherwise the matching concept fails.	Reasoning
In such a case the second option is also inappropriate.	Reasoning
Under the circumstances, the third option is most appropriate because it fulfills accrual concept as well as the matching concept.	None
For determining an appropriate historical trend, it is important that the company has a proper accounting system for capturing relationship between the nature of the sales, the warranty provisions made and the actual expenses incurred against it subsequently.	None
Thus, the decision on the warranty provision should be based on past experience of the company.	None
A detailed assessment of the warranty provisioning policy is required particularly if the experience suggests that warranty provisions are generally reversed if they remained unutilized at the end of the period prescribed in the warranty.	None
Therefore, the company should scrutinize the historical trend of warranty provisions made and the actual expenses incurred against it.	None
On this basis a sensible estimate should be made.	None
The warranty provision for the products should be based on the estimate at year end of future warranty expenses.	None
Such estimates need reassessment every year.	None
As one reaches close to the end of the warranty period, the probability that the warranty expenses will be incurred is considerably reduced and that should be reflected in the estimation amount.	None
Whether this should be done through a pro rata reversal or otherwise would require assessment of historical trend.	None
If warranty provisions are based on experience and historical trend(s) and if the working is robust then the question of reversal in the subsequent two years, in the above example, may not arise in a significant way.	None
In our view, on the facts and circumstances of this case, provision for warranty is rightly made by the appellantenterprise because it has incurred a present obligation as a result of past events.	None
There is also an outflow of resources.	None
A reliable estimate of the obligation was also possible.	Reasoning
Therefore, the appellant has incurred a liability, on the facts and circumstances of this case, during the relevant assessment year which was entitled to deduction under Section 37 of the 1961 Act.	None
Therefore, all the three conditions for recognizing a liability for the purposes of provisioning stands satisfied in this case.	None
It is important to note that there are four important aspects of provisioning.	None
They are  provisioning which relates to present obligation, it arises out of obligating events, it involves outflow of resources and lastly it involves reliable estimation of obligation.	None
Keeping in mind all the four aspects, we are of the view that the High Court should not to have interfered with the decision of the Tribunal in this case.	None
In this case the High Court has principally gone by the judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Shree Sajjan Mills (supra).	None
That was the case of gratuity.	None
For the assessment year 197475 the assesseecompany sought to deduct a sum of Rs.18,37,727/ towards the amount of gratuity payable to its employees and worked out actuarially.	None
No provision was made for Rs.18,37,727/. The claim for deduction was made on the ground that the liability stood ascertained by actuarial valuation and, therefore, was deductible under Section 37 of the 1961 Act.	None
The ITO allowed the deduction only in respect of the amounts actually paid by the assessee and the rest was disallowed on the ground of noncompliance with the provisions of Section 40A(7) of the 1961 Act.	None
This view of the ITO was affirmed by CIT(A).	None
The Tribunal held that for the earlier assessment year relating to 197374, actuarially ascertained liability for gratuity arising under Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 was an allowable deduction.	None
However, for the assessment year in question, the Tribunal held that the increased liability claimed by the assessee for deduction was allowable on general principles of accounting.	None
This view was taken by the Tribunal on the basis that the actuarially determined liability was not provided for in the assessees books of account.	None
In appeal by the Department, the High Court held that the assessee was not entitled to deduction without complying with the provisions of Section 40A(7) of the 1961 Act.	None
This view of the High Court was affirmed by this Court.	None
It was held that Section 40A(7) which stood inserted by Finance Act, 1975 w.e.f. 1.4.73 has been given an overriding effect over Section 28 as well as Section 37 of the 1961 Act.	None
Consequently, the deduction allowable on general principles was ruled out as Section 40A(1) made it clear that Section 40A had effect notwithstanding anything contained in Sections 30 to 39 of the 1961 Act.	None
In other words, as regards deduction in respect of gratuity, the assessee was required to comply with the provisions of Section 40A(7) after Finance Act, 1975.	None
It is interesting to note that prior to 1.4.73 actual payment or provision for payment was eligible for deduction either under Section 28 or under Section 37 of the 1961 Act.	None
This has been reiterated in Shree Sajjan Mills (supra).	None
The position got altered only after 1.4.73.	None
Before that date, provision made in the P L Account for the estimated present value of the contingent liability properly ascertained and discounted on an accrued basis could be deducted either under Section 28 or Section 37 of the 1961 Act.	None
This has been explained in Shree Sajjan Mills (supra) at page 599.	None
Section 40A(7) deals only with the case of gratuity.	None
Even in the case of gratuity but for insertion of Section 40A(7), provision made in the P L Account on the basis of present value of the contingent liability properly ascertained and discounted on an accrued basis was entitled to deduction either under Section 28 or under Section 37 of the said Act.	None
This aspect, therefore, indicates that the present value of the contingent liability like the warranty expense, if properly ascertained and discounted on accrued basis, could be an item of deduction under Section 37 of the said Act.	None
This aspect is not noticed in the impugned judgment.	None
We may add a caveat.	None
As stated above, the principle of estimation of the contingent liability is not the normal rule.	None
As stated above, it would depend on the nature of business, the nature of sales, the nature of the product manufactured and sold and the scientific method of accounting being adopted by the assessee.	None
It will also depend upon the historical trend.	None
It would also depend upon the number of articles produced.	None
As stated above, if it is a case of single item being produced then the principle of estimation of contingent liability on pro rata basis may not apply.	None
However, in the present case, it is not so.	None
In the present case, we have the situation of large number of items being produced.	None
They are sophisticated goods.	Reasoning
They are supported by the historical trend, namely, defects being detected in some of the items.	Reasoning
The data also indicates that the warranty cost(s) is embedded in the sale price.	Reasoning
The data also indicates that the warranty is attached to the sale price.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, we hold that the principle laid down by this Court in the case of Metal Box Company of India (supra) will apply.	Reasoning
In that case this Court held that contingent liabilities discounted and valued as outofnecessity could be taken into account as trading expenses if these were capable of being valued.	Reasoning
It was further held that an estimated liability even under a gratuity scheme even if it was a contingent liability if properly ascertainable and if its present value stood fairly discounted, was deductible from the gross profits while preparing the P L Account.	Reasoning
In view of this decision it became permissible for an assessee to provide, in his P L Account, for the estimated liability under a gratuity scheme by ascertaining its present value on accrued basis and claiming it as an ascertained liability to be deducted in the computation of profit and gains of the previous year either under Section 28 or under Section 37 of the 1961 Act.	Reasoning
However, the above principle would not apply after insertion of Section 40A(7) w.e.f.	Reasoning
1.4.73.	Reasoning
It may be stated that the principles of commercial accounting, mentioned above, formed the basis of the judgment of this Court in the case of Metal Box Company of India (supra) and those principles are affirmed by the judgment of the Supreme Court in Shree Sajjan Mills (supra) upto 1.4.73.	Reasoning
In this case we are concerned with warranty claims.	Reasoning
In respect of warranty claims during the relevant assessment years in question there is no provision similar to Section 40A(7) of the 1961 Act.	Reasoning
We may add that the above principle of commercial accounting in Metal Box Company of India (supra) also find place in the judgment of this Court in the case of Madras Industrial Investment Corporation Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax (1997) 225 ITR 802 (SC) , in which the Court has explained the meaning of the word expenditure in Section 37 of the 1961 Act.	Reasoning
In other words, the principle enunciated in Metal Box Company of India (supra) which has been reiterated in Shree Sajjan Mills (supra) (upto 1.4.73) which deals with making of provision on the basis of estimated present value of contingent liability holds good during the assessment years in question qua warranty claims.	Reasoning
Before concluding, we may refer to the judgment of this Court in the case of Indian Molasses Co. (supra).	None
In that case the facts were as follows One John Bruce Richard Harvey was the managing director of the assessee company in 1948.	None
He had by then served the company for 13 years, and was due to retire at the age of 55 years on September 20, 1955.	None
There was, it appears, an agreement by which the company was under an obligation to provide a pension to Harvey after his retirement.	None
On September 16, 1948, the company executed a trust deed in favour of three trustees to whom the company paid a sum of Pound 8,208 190 (Rs. 1,09,643) and further undertook to pay annually Rs. 4,364 (Pound 326.14 sh.)	None
for six consecutive years, and the trustees agreed to execute a declaration of trust.	None
The trustees undertook to hold the said sums upon trust to spend the same in taking out a deferred annuity policy with the Norwich Union Life Insurance Society in the name of the trustees but on the life of Harvey under which Pound 720 per annum were payable to Harvey for life from the date of his superannuation.	None
It was also provided in the deed that notwithstanding the main clause the trustees would, if so desired by the assessee company, take out instead a deferred longest life policy, with the said insurance company in their names, but in favour of Harvey and Mrs. Harvey for an annuity of Pound 55810 per annum payable during their joint lives from the date of Harveys superannuation and during the lifetime of the survivor, provided further that if Harvey died before he attained the age of 55 years the annuity payable to Mrs. Harvey would be Pound 611120 during her life.	None
It was further provided that should Harvey die before attaining the age of 55 years, the trustees would stand possessed of the capital value of the deferred annuity policy, upon trust to purchase therewith an annuity for Mrs. Harvey with the above insurance company or other insurance company of repute.	None
The other conditions of the deed of trust need not be considered, because they do not bear upon the controversy.	None
In furtherance of these presents, the trustees took out a policy on January 12, 1949.	None
In addition to conditions usual in such policies, it provided for the following benefits Amount per annum of Pound 56358 p.a.	None
if both Mr. and deferred annuity.	None
Mrs. Harvey be living on September 20, 1955.	None
Pound 72000 p.a.	None
if Mrs. Harvey should die before September 20, 1955, leaving Harvey surviving her.	None
Pound 64500 p.a.	None
if Harvey should die before September 20, 1955, leaving Mrs. Harvey surviving him.	None
There was a special provision which must be reproduced Provided the contract is in force and unreduced, the grantees (i.e., the trustees) shall be entitled to surrender the annuity on the option anniversary (i.e., September 20, 1955), for the capital sum of Pound 10,169 subject to written notice of the intention to surrender being received by the directors of the society within the thirty day preceding the option anniversary.	None
Two other clauses of the Second Schedule of the policy may also be quoted (III)	None
If both the nominees shall die whilst the contract remains in force and unreduced and before the option anniversary the said funds and property of the society shall be liable to make repayment to the grantees of a sum equal to a return to all the premiums which shall have been paid under this contract without interest after proof thereof and subject as hereinbefore provided.(IV)	None
The grantees shall before the option anniversary and after it has acquired a surrender value be entitled to surrender the contract for a cash payment equal to return of all the premiums (at the yearly rate) which have been paid less the first years premium or five per cent of the capital sum specified in the special provision of the First Schedule whichever shall be the lesser sum, provided that if the deferred annuity has been reduced an equivalent reduction in the guaranteed surrender value as calculated above will be made.	None
The assessee company paid the initial sum and the yearly premia for some years before Harvey died.	None
In the assessment years 194950, 1950 51, 195152 and 195253, it claimed a deduction of these sums from its profits or gains under section 10(2) (xv) of the Indian Incometax Act (hereinafter called the Act), which provides Such profits or gains shall be computed after making the following allowances, namely any expenditure (not being in the nature of capital expenditure or personal expenses of the assessee) laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purposes of such business, profession or vocation.	None
This claim was disallowed by the Department and the Appellate Tribunal.	None
The Tribunal held that it was not necessary to decide if the expenditure was wholly or exclusively for the purposes of the companys business, and if so, whether it was of a capital nature, because in the Tribunals opinion there was no expenditure at all.	None
The reason why the Tribunal held this way may be stated in its own words Clauses (I) and (II) do not contain any provision having a material bearing upon clause (III).	None
Therefore, if it happens that both Mr. and Mrs. Harvey die before 20th September, 1955, all the payments till then made through the trustees to the Insurance Society will come back to the trustees and, as there is not the slightest trace of any indication anywhere that the trustees should have any beneficial interest in these moneys there would be a resultant trust in favour of the company in respect of the moneys thus far paid out.	None
In other words, what has been done amounts to a provision for a contingency which may never arise.	None
Such a provision can hardly be treated as payment to an employee whether of remuneration or pension or gratuity, and cannot be a proper deduction against the incomings of the business of the company for the purpose of computing its taxable profits.	None
In short, there has been no expenditure by the company yet there has been only an allocation of a part of its funds for an expenditure which may (or may not) have to be incurred in future.	None
The question which arose for determination was whether during the assessment years 194950, 195051, 195152 and 195253 the assesseecompany was entitled to claim deduction of the yearly premium from its profits under Section 10(2)(xv) of the Incometax Act, 1922.	None
It was held that the provision in the policy for surrendering annuity and the provision in policy for return of premium was not entitled to deduction as the payment made to the trustees by the assesseecompany was towards a contingent liability or towards a liability depending on a contingency, namely, the life of a humanbeing.	None
It was held that putting aside of money which may become expenditure on the happening of an event is not an expenditure under Section 10(2)(xv) of the 1922 Act.	None
It was held on facts that the money was placed in the hands of trustees and or the insurance company to purchase annuities, if required, but to be returned if the annuities were not purchased.	None
Therefore, it was a case of setting apart of the money and consequently the assessee was not entitled to deduction under the said section.	None
At this stage, we once again reiterate that a liability is a present obligation arising from past events, the settlement of which is expected to result in an outflow of resources and in respect of which a reliable estimate is possible of the amount of obligation.	Reasoning
As stated above, the case of Indian Molasses Co. (supra) is different from the present case.	Reasoning
As stated above, in the present case we are concerned with an army of items of sophisticated (specialiased) goods manufactured and sold by the assessee whereas the case of Indian Molasses Co. (supra) was restricted to an individual retiree.	Reasoning
On the other hand, the case of Metal Box Company of India (supra) pertained to an army of employees who were due to retire in future.	Reasoning
In that case the company had estimated its liability under two gratuity schemes and the amount of liability was deducted from the gross receipts in the profit and loss account.	Reasoning
The company had worked out its estimated liability on actuarial valuation.	Reasoning
It had made provision for such liability spread over to a number of years.	Reasoning
In such a case it was held by this Court that the provision made by the assesseecompany for meeting the liability incurred by it under the gratuity scheme would be entitled to deduction out of the gross receipts for the accounting year during which the provision is made for the liability.	Reasoning
The same principle is laid down in the judgment of this Court in the case of Bharat Earth Movers (supra).	Reasoning
In that case the assessee company had formulated leave encashment scheme.	Reasoning
It was held, following the judgment in Metal Box Company of India (supra), that the provision made by the assessee for meeting the liability incurred under leave encashment scheme proportionate with the entitlement earned by the employees, was entitled to deduction out of gross receipts for the accounting year during which the provision is made for that liability.	Reasoning
The principle which emerges from these decisions is that if the historical trend indicates that large number of sophisticated goods were being manufactured in the past and in the past if the facts established show that defects existed in some of the items manufactured and sold then the provision made for warranty in respect of the army of such sophisticated goods would be entitled to deduction from the gross receipts under Section 37 of the 1961 Act.	Reasoning
It would all depend on the data systematically maintained by the assessee.	Reasoning
It may be noted that in all the impugned judgments before us the assessee(s) has succeeded except in the case of Civil Appeal Nos. of 2009 Arising out of S.L.P.(C)	Reasoning
Nos.1417814182 of 2007  M s. Rotork Controls India (P) Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Chennai, in which the Madras High Court has overruled the decision of the Tribunal allowing deduction under Section 37 of the 1961 Act.	Reasoning
However, the High Court has failed to notice the reversal which constituted part of the data systematically maintained by the assessee over last decade.	Reasoning
For the above reasons, we set aside the impugned judgment of the Madras High Court dated 5.2.07 and accordingly the civil appeals stand allowed in favour of the assessee with no order as to costs.	Decision
Civil Appeal No. of 2009  	Decision
Arising out of S.L.P. (C) No.7490 of 2009Civil Appeal No. of 2009  Arising out of S.L.P. (C) No.5616 of 2009Civil Appeal No. of 2009  	Decision
Arising out of S.L.P. (C)	Decision
No. of 2009 (SLP(C) CC No.4633 of 2009)Civil Appeal No. of 2009  	Decision
Arising out of S.L.P. (C) No.722 of 2009Civil Appeal No. of 2009  Arising out of S.L.P. (C) No.723 of 2009Civil Appeal No. of 2009  	Decision
Arising out of S.L.P. (C) No.4776 of 2009Civil Appeal No. of 2009  Arising out of S.L.P. (C) No.3440 of 2009Civil Appeal No. of 2009  	Decision
Arising out of S.L.P. (C) No.4182 of 2009Civil Appeal No. of 2009  Arising out of S.L.P. (C) No.4183 of 2009Civil Appeal No. of 2009  	Decision
Arising out of S.L.P. (C) No.4184 of 2009Civil Appeal No. of 2009  Arising out of S.L.P. (C) No.8983 of 2009Civil Appeal No. of 2009  	Decision
Arising out of S.L.P. (C) No.8982 of 2009Civil Appeal No. of 2009  Arising out of S.L.P. (C) No.8311 of 2009Civil Appeal No. of 2009  	Decision
Arising out of S.L.P. (C)	Decision
No. of 2009 (SLP(C) CC No.5279 of 2009)19.	Decision
For the reasons given hereinabove in Civil Appeal Nos.of 2009  Arising out of S.L.P.(C)	Decision
Nos.14178 14182 of 2007  M s. Rotork Controls India (P) Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Chennai, the civil appeals filed by the Department stand dismissed with no order as to costs.	Decision
