 K. Das, J.1.	None
One Ranjit Singh is the petitioner before us.	Issue
The respondents are the Commissioner of Incometax, Lucknow, the Incometax Officer, Lucknow, and the Collectors of three districts in Uttar Pradesh, namely, Dehra Dun, Kanpur and Lucknow, being officers under whose orders certain properties of the petitioner and his family have been attached in pursuance of a notice of demand issued under S. 29 of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, in circumstances which we shall presently state.2.	Issue
The facts are shortly these.	None
In 1948, the Central Government referred a number of cases in which the petitioner was concerned to the Incometax Investigation Commission set up under the relevant provisions of the Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act, 1947 (Act XXX of 1947), hereinafter referred to as the Act.	Facts
On May 30, 1948, the Secretary of the Commission issued a notice to the petitioner to furnish a list of businesses or concerns in which the petitioner was interested and to produce the account books, registers etc., relating thereto.	Facts
The petitioner complied with the notice.	Facts
Then, an Authorised Official appointed by the Commission commenced an investigation into the cases in February, 1949, and in due course submitted a report to the Commission.	Facts
The Commission heard the petitioner and on April 16, 1949, submitted a report under S. 8A (1) of the Act.	Facts
The findings of the Commission appear from the following extract from their reportThe total tax payable on the undisclosed income up to March 31, 1947, would accordingly be Rs.	Facts
6,61,917/The amount of Rs. 6,61,917/ may be recovered from Mr. Ranjit Singh and from the family assets in the hands of Mr. Ranjit Singh.	Facts
In view of the admission recorded as number (iii) in para.	Facts
6 supra, the tax will also be recoverable from the properties acquired between 1939 and 1947 in the names of Mrs. Ranjit Singh and Mr. Ranjit Singhs sons Baljit Singh and Satendrajit Singh.	Facts
In the circumstances, we recommend that no penalty be levied on the assessee in respect of nondisclosures and false or incorrect statements so far made either to the incometax authorities or in the course of the present proceedings (including those before the Authorised Official).	Facts
Mr. Ranjit Singh and Mr. Vaidyanatha Ayyar (representative of Mr. Ranjit Singh) have asked that they be allowed sufficiently long time to pay up the tax.	Facts
It has been represented that out of taxes already assessed by the Incometax Department about Rs. 3,86,000/ is still due and the addition of the amount leviable under this report will bring the assessees total liability to about 10 1/2 lakhs.	Facts
Mr. Ranjit Singh has asked that he may be permitted to pay up this sum in not more than five years, in instalments of not less than a lakh of rupees at a time.	Facts
While we do not wish to go into the details of the offer, we recommend this request for time for favourable consideration by Government.	None
Then, on November 7, 1949, the petitioner, his wife and two sons submitted a petition to the Commission in which they accepted the findings of the Commission as correct and offered to pay the tax in instalments in accordance with certain terms of settlement.	Facts
Some of these terms are We offer to pay the aforesaid amount of Rs. 6,61,917/ as per the following instalments (1) on or before the 31st March, 1951, Rs. 1,00,000/(2) on or before the 31st March, 1952, Rs. 2,31,000/(3) on or before the 30th June, 1952, Rs. 3,30,917/.(4)	Facts
We, however pray that so far as the last instalment is concerned in case we are unable to pay the same by the date mentioned above and are able to satisfy the Central Board of Revenue that we have failed to raise the money for reasons beyond our control and for no fault of our own, a suitable extension of time may be granted.(5)	Facts
In respect of the other instalments, we agree that in case of default in the payment of any one of them, the whole amount of tax outstanding at the time shall become immediately payable.	None
The report of the Commission and the terms suggested by the petitioner for a settlement were accepted by the Central Government and an order was passed under S. 8A(2) of the Act on November 21, 1949, which stated in its operative part that a demand notice be served immediately by the Incometax Officer concerned under S. 29 of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, on the petitioner in accordance with the terms and conditions of settlement and that all such other proceedings under the Indian Incometax Act or under any other law as may be necessary be taken with a view to enforce the payment of the demand and terms and conditions of the settlement.3.	Facts
The respondents allege that a demand notice was accordingly issued to the petitioner on December 2, 1949.	Facts
The petitioner alleges, however, that he received the notice in or about April, 1950, after the Constitution of India had come into force.	Facts
Thereafter, in pursuance of the demand notice certain payments were made by the petitioner.	Facts
The petitioner was, however, unable to make full payment within the stipulated periods mentioned in the demand notice.	Facts
The result was that according to the terms of settlement the whole amount outstanding at the time became immediately payable by the petitioner.	Facts
Then, certain properties of the petitioner and his family were attached by the Collector of the district concerned in pursuance of the orders received from time to time from the Incometax Officer.4.	Facts
On June 8, 1959, the petitioner filed the present writ petition challenging the legality of the demand notice dated December 2, 1949, and the subsequent proceedings taken in pursuance of that notice.	Facts
The case of the petitioner is that after the coming into force of the Constitution of India on January 26, 1950, the demand notice could not be given effect to and the proceedings taken in pursuance of that notice are unconstitutional inasmuch as they violate his fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the petition a reference has been made to Arts.	Arguments of Petitioner
14, 31 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution, but the argument before us has proceeded on the contention urged on behalf of the petitioner that there has been a violation of the fundamental right of equal protection of the laws guaranteed to him under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
14 of Constitution inasmuch as he has been dealt with differently from other debtors who owe money to the State under a contractual liability.	Arguments of Petitioner
The substantial prayer of the petitioner is for the issuance of a writ of mandamus directing the respondents not to give effect to the notice of demand dated December 2, 1949, nor to take any proceedings for enforcing the terms of settlement and for recovery of the sums specified therein.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petition has been contested by the respondents and the principal point taken on their behalf is that the legality of the demand notice dated December 2, 1949, cannot be challenged by the petitioner on the strength of the provisions of the Constitution, because the Constitution is prospective and not retrospective secondly, it is contended on behalf of the respondents that the subsequent proceedings taken in pursuance of the demand notice aforesaid do not in any way violate the right of equal protection of the laws guaranteed under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
14 of the Constitution.6.	Arguments of Respondent
It is convenient at this stage to refer to some of the earlier decisions of this Court on the question of constitutionality of some of the provisions of the Act.	None
On May 28, 1954, this Court delivered judgment in Suraj Mall Mohta and Co. v. A. V. Viswanatha Sastri, 19551 SCR 448 (AIR 1954 SC 545 ).	None
It is not necessary to state the facts of that decision.	None
It is enough to say that it was held therein that subsection (4) of Section 5 of the Act was bad, as it offended the provisions of Art.	None
14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
Subsection (4) of S. 5 of the Act having been declared void, Parliament passed the Indian Incometax Amendment Act (33 of 1954) amending S. 34 of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922.	None
As a result of this amendment, the validity of subs.	None
(1) of S. 5 of the Act came in for challenge on the ground that the Incometax Officer could pick out some out of the class of substantial tax evaders and refer their cases under subsee (1) of S. 5 while dealing with other such persons under amended S. 34 of the Indian Incometax Act.	None
In Shree Meenakshi Mills Ltd., Madurai v. A. V. Viswanatha Sastri, 19551 SCR 787 ( (S) AIR 1955 SC 13 ) subsec.	None
(1) of S. 5 of the Act was held to be bad on that ground.	None
It should be noted that in none of the petitions disposed of by that judgment had any assessment been made under the Act and this Court only prohibited further proceedings before the Commission under the Act.	None
Finally, on December 20, 1955 came the decision of the Court in M. Ct.	None
Muthiah v. Commr. of Incometax, Madras, 19552 SCR 1247 ( (S) AIR 1956 SC 269 ).	None
In that case, on a reference under S. 5 (1) of the Act the Commission submitted its report to Government under S. 8(1) of the Act on August 26, 1952 that is, after the coming into force of the Constitution, and the Central Government made its order under S. 8(2) of the Act on September 16, 1952.	None
In these circumstances it was held The result, therefore, is that barring the cases of persons which were already concluded by reports made by the Commission and the directions given by the Central Government under S. 8(2) of the Act XXX of 1947 culminating in the assessment or reassessment of the escaped income, those cases which were pending on the 26th January 1950 for investigation before the Commission as also the assessment or reassessment proceedings which were pending on the 26th January 1950 before the Incometax Officers concerned in pursuance of the directions given by the Central Government under S. 8(2) of the Act would be hit by Article 14 of the Constitution and would be invalidated.	None
Lastly, came the decision in Basheshar Nath v. Commr. of Incometax, Delhi and Rajasthan, 1959 Supp (1) SCR 528 (AIR 1959 SC 149 ).	None
That was a case of a settlement under S. 8A of the Act as in the present case, but the fact which distinguishes that case from the present is that the settlement there was made after the commencement of the Constitution.	None
It was held therein that the settlement was the result of a procedure which became discriminatory after the commencement of the Constitution and was therefore bad, and as the discriminatory process of investigation continued even after the commencement of the Constitution, the principle laid down in Qasim Razvi v. State of Hyderabad, 1953 SCR 589 (AIR 1953 SC 156 ) did not apply.7.	None
The point which requires emphasis with regard to these earlier decisions is this they all dealt with the operation of a discriminatory procedure under the different provisions of the Act after the commencement of the Constitution.	None
The position in the case under our present consideration is that the settlement, the order under S. 8A(2) of the Act, and even the notice of demand in pursuance of that orderall these took place before the coming into force of the Constitution, and this vital distinction must be borne in mind in considering the contentions urged by learned counsel for the petitioner.8.	Reasoning
The main contention is that the proceedings taken against the petitioner in pursuance of the order under S. 8A(2) are violative of the guarntee of equal protection of the laws under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
There are, however, two subsidiary contentions which do not directly raise any question of the violation of a fundamental right, and these may be disposed of before we deal with the main contention.9.	None
In his petition the petitioner has stated that he received the demand notice dated December 2, 1949 in or about April 1950.	Facts
In the counteraffidavit of the respondents it has been stated that the assessee was informed of the demand early in December, 1949.	None
A copy of the order of the Central Government under S. 8A(2) of the Act dated November 21, 1949 was sent to the petitioner there is an endorsement in the office copy of the demand notice dated December 2, 1949 that it was sent by registered post, acknowledgment due.	None
Thereafter, the petitioner paid part of the tax on different dates without raising any objection that he had not received the demand notice before April, 1950.	None
It was for the first time in April, 1959, some ten years after, that the petitioner asked for a copy of the order under S. 8A(2) and information as to the date when he had received the registered notice of demand.	None
He also asked for an inspection of the file.	None
This was however, refused.	None
Then, the petitioner made the statement that he had received the demand notice in or about April, 1950.	None
He said that the statement was based on his knowledge he did not disclose the source of his knowledge nor did he say how he remembered ten years after, without reference to any documents, that he had received the demand notice in or about April, 1950.	None
We are unable to accept the statement as correct.	None
On the materials in the record it is clear that the proceedings against the petitioner culminating in the service of the notice of demand against him were all completed before the coming into force of the Constitution and the petitioner cannot challenge those proceedings under Art.	Reasoning
14 of the Constitution for it is well settled that the Constitution is prospective and not retrospective.10.	None
On the construction of S. 8A of the Act it has been argued that after the order made by the Central Government under subsec.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) thereof, a fresh assessment was necessary and as no such assessment was made, all subsequent proceedings for recovery of the tax are illegal.	None
This is a point which has not been specifically taken in the petition.	None
That apart, we do not think that there is any substance in this contention.	None
We may here read S. 8A, so far as it is relevant S. 8A. (1) Where any person concerned in any case referred to or pending before the Commission for investigation applies to the Commission at any time during such investigation to have the case or any part thereof settled in so far as it relates to him the Commission shall, if it is of opinion that the terms of the settlement contained in the application may be approved, refer the matter to the Central Government, and if the Central Government accepts the terms of such settlement, the Commission shall have the terms thereof recorded and of thereupon the investigation, in so far as it relates to matters covered by such settlement, shall be deemed to be closed.(2) For the purpose of enforcing the terms of any settlement arrived at in pursuance of subsec.	None
(1), the Central Government may direct that such proceedings as may be appropriate under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), the Excess Profits Tax Act, 1940 (XV of 1940) or any other law may be taken against the person to whom the settlement relates, and, in particular, the provisions of the second proviso to clause (a) of subsec.	None
(5) of S. 23, S. 24B, the proviso to subsec.	None
(2) of S. 25A, the proviso to subsec.	None
(2) of S. 26 and Ss. 44 and 46 of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, shall be applicable to the recovery of any sum specified in such settlement by the Incometax Officer having jurisdiction to assess the person by whom such sum is payable as if it were incometax or an arrear of incometax within the meaning of those provisions.	Reasoning
The scheme of S. 8A is different from that of S. 8.	None
The latter section contemplates an assessment or reassessment in accordance with the direction of the Central Government see subsec.	Reasoning
(4) of S. 8.	Reasoning
That is not the position under S. 8A, subsec.	Reasoning
(2) whereof provides for the enforcement of the norms of any settlement arrived at in pursuance of subsec.	Reasoning
(1).	Reasoning
There is no doubt a reference to certain special provisions of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, regarding assessment of partners in a registered firm, tax payable by the representative of a deceased person etc.	Reasoning
but the reference to those provisions does not necessarily mean that a fresh assessment must be made.	Reasoning
They merely show that these special provisions will be applicable in appropriate cases.	Reasoning
Subsection (2) ends by saying that Ss. 44 and 46 of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, shall be applicable to the recovery of any sum specified in such settlement by the Incometax Officer having jurisdiction to assess the person by whom such sum is payable as if it were incometax or an arrear of incometax within the meaning of these provisions.	Reasoning
This clearly shows that the true scope and effect of the subsection is to enforce the terms of any settlement arrived at in pursuance of subsec.	Reasoning
(1) and to recover any sum specified in such settlement as if it were incometax or arrear of incometax in accordance with the provisions of Ss. 44 and 46 of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922.	Reasoning
We are unable, therefore, to accept the construction which learned counsel for the petitioner seeks to put on the subsection.11.	None
This brings us to the main contention that the petitioner has been subjected to a discriminatory procedure after the coming into force of the Constitution by reason of S. 8A (2) of the Act.	None
Learned counsel for the petitioner has put his argument in the following way.	None
He has submitted that what the petitioner agreed to pay to Government was really a debt arising out of a contract, viz., the settlement between him and Government and the petitioner is one amongst the larger class of persons who are debtors of Government against all other debtors Government have the ordinary remedy by way of suit but against the petitioner a special remedy is provided which is more drastic and envisages the imposition of a penalty under S. 46 of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, if the petitioner is in default in making a payment of the amount due.	Arguments of Petitioner
This it is argued, is a discriminatory procedure which has been continued even after the coming into force of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to accept this argument as correct.	None
First of all the petitioner does not really belong to the larger class of persons whom learned counsel has characterised as debtors of Government.	None
The petitioner belongs to a special class who had evaded payment of incometax and had entered into a set element to pay the amount due as incometax or arrear of incometax.	Reasoning
For this class of persons the procedure laid down in S. 8A (2) is one and the same and no discrimination is made in favour of or against any member of the same class.	Reasoning
The classification is a reasonable classification having a just relation to the object of the provision.	Reasoning
For the recovery of the amount due as incometax or arrear of incometax all these persons are treated on the same footing.	Reasoning
Neither is there any discrimination between them and other persons similarly placed in the matter of recovery of incometax or arrears of incometax.	Reasoning
Secondly it is open to the legislature to make a law as to how particular Government dues should be realised and if the law applies equally to all persons similarly situated, no objection can be taken to such law on the ground of discrimination.	Reasoning
The truth of the matter is that what the petitioner agreed to pay to Government is really incometax which should have been paid in regard to the relevant assessment years but which had escaped assessment and therefore the recovery is to be made according to incometax law.	None
That is all that S. 8A (2) says.	None
In the decisions of this Court to which we had earlier adverted, what was held to be bad was the application of a discriminatory procedure after the coming into force of the Constitution even in Basheshar Naths case 1959 Supp (1) SCR 528 (AIR 1959 SC149) (supra) the Commission applied the discriminatory procedure after the coming into force of the Constitution and then submitted its report on May 24, 1954 and the Central Government accepted the settlement on July 5, 1954.	None
It was held that the settlement itself was vitiated by the discriminatory procedure adopted by the Commission.	None
That is not the position here.	None
In this case everything was concluded before January 26, 1950, when the Constitution came into force, including the issuance of a notice of demand.	None
All that remained to be done was the recovery of the amount according to the notice of demand.	None
Therefore, the crucial question is  is the recovery procedure discriminatory in any way, having regard to the undoubted validity of the proceedings which had been taken against the petitioner before January 26, 1930?	None
We are unable to answer this question in favour of the petitioner for the reasons which we have already stated.12.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the petitioner relied on the decision in M. L. M. Muthiah Chettiar v. Commr., of Incometax Madras, 195935 ITR 339 (AIR 1959 Mad 158 ).	Reasoning
The facts of that case were entirely different and no question arose there of considering the provisions of S. 8 A (2) of the Act.13.	Reasoning
For these reasons, we hold that there is no merit in the petition which is, accordingly, dismissed with costs.14.	Decision
Petition dismissed.	None
