 VENKATARAMIAH, J. 1.	None
The common question which arise for consideration in the above writ petitions under Artic le 32 of the Constitution of India relates to the validity of the declaration made by the State Government of Kerala on March 20, 1976 declaring that raw cashewnut was an essential article, in exercise of the power under clause (a) of section 2 of the Kerala Essential Articles Control (Temporary Powers) Act, 1961 (Act 3 of 1962) (hereinafter referred to as the Kerala Act) and the Kerala Raw Cashewnuts (Procurement and Distribution) Order, 1977 (hereinafter refer red to as the Order) made by the State Government of Kerala in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Kerala Act regulating the procurement and distribution of raw cashewnuts grown in the State of Kerala.	Issue
The petitioners are person s engaged in the cashewnut processing industry in the State of Kerala.	Facts
Since the impugned declaration and the Order seriously interfered with the right of the petitioners to purchase sufficient quantities of raw cashewnuts for processing in their factories and imposed several other restrictions on them, they have filed the above petitions.	Facts
Although the validity of several other orders was also questioned in the present petitions, the petitioners confined their challenge only to the impugned declaration and the Order in the course of the arguments since according to them it was not necessary to urge their contentions as against those orders.2.	Arguments of Petitioner
The recital in the preamble to the Order states that it was being made in order to ensure the maintenance of supplies of raw cashewnuts which was considered to be essential for the continued employment of a large number of workmen in the State of Kerala and for their equitable distribution and availability at fair prices.	None
It is further recited that the Order was being made as the State Government felt a doubt about the question whether the Kerala Raw Cashewnuts (Marketing and Distribution) Order 1976 issued under the Defence and Internal Security of India Rules, 1971, for the very same purpose would continue to remain in force.	None
The main provisions of the Order broadly related to the prohibition of sale of raw cashewnuts to any person other than an agent authorised to purchase by clause 3 thereof, appointment of Cooperative Societies as subagents, imposition of restrictions on processing or conversion of raw cashewnuts and their distribution amongst the occupiers of cashewnut processing factories, appointment and powers of Cashew Special Officer and other incidental and ancillary matters.	None
The explanatory note attached to the Order stated that it was intended to regulate the procurement and distribution of raw cashwnuts by the State Government.	None
3.	None
The Order is issued by the State Government of Kerala under section 3 of the Kerala Act, the object of which is to provide, in the interest of the general public, for the control of the production, supply and distribution of, and trade and commerce in certain articles which, is the title of the Act indicates, are considered to be essential for the community.	None
The Kerala Act as originally enacted was intended to be in force for a period of five years from the date of its commencement.	None
By successive amendments, its life is extended to twenty years from the commencement of the Act.	None
Although it makes provision for conferring power on the State Government to make appropriate orders regarding regulation of production, supply and distribution of essential articles substantially on the lines on which the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (Act 10 of 1955) (hereinafter referred to as the Central Act) passed by the Parliament provides for the regulation of production, supply and distribution of essential commodities as defined in the Central Act.	None
the Kerala Act does not itself specify any article as an essential article.	None
But the expression essential article is defined by section 2(a) of the Kerala Act thus2.	Reasoning
Definition.	None
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, (a) essential article means any article (not being an essential commodity as defined in the Essential Commodities Act, 19 55) which may be declared by the Government by notified order to be an essential article.	None
4. From the above definition it is clear that the State Government can declare as an essential article under the Kerala Act only an article which is not an essential commodity as defined in the Central Act.	Reasoning
When such a declaration is made in respect of any article, the State Government acquires the power to make an order under section 3 thereof in respect of such article.	Reasoning
The State Government is, however, precluded from declaring any article which is an essential commodity under the Central Act as an essential article and from making an order for the purpose of controlling its production, supply and distribution.	Reasoning
This is obvious from the words in the parenthesis in section 2(a) of the Kerala Act defining the word essential article.	Reasoning
That the object of the Kerala Act is only to provide for regulation of production, supply and distribution of an article which is not an essential commodity as defined under the Central Act is also clear from what is stated by the Kerala Government in the letter dated December 5, 1961 addressed by the Law Secretary, Government of Kerala to the Central Government seeking the assent of the President to the Bill passed by the Kerala Legislature.	None
The relevant part of the letter reads Sub The Kerala Essential Articles Control (Temporary Powers)	None
Bill 1960.	None
I am to forward herewith two copies of the Kerala Essential Articles Control (Temporary Powers) Bill, 1960, as passed by the Legislative Assembly and reserved by the Governor for the consideration of the President.	None
2.	None
The Madras Essential Articles Control and Requisitioning (Temporary Powers) Act, 1949, as amended by the Kerala Acts 24 of 1958 and 3 of 1959, was in force in the Kerala State till 2511960 when it expired by efflux of time.	None
The Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (Central Act 10 of 1955) applies only in the case of essential commodities specified in that Act.	None
At present there is no law in the State to control the production, supply and distribution of, and trade and commerce in, essential articles required for industrial and other purposes, which do not fall within the ambit of the Central Act.	None
For the implementation of the scheme under the programme of industrialisation during the Third Five Year Plan it may become necessary to control the production, supply and distribution of, and trade and commerce in, articles which are not essential commodities and unless the Govt.	None
have such powers, difficulties are likely to arise.	None
3.	None
The object of the present legislation is to take power for the control of essential articles which are not essential commodities within the meaning of the Central Act.	None
It empowers Govt.	None
to declare any article, not being an essential commodities within the meaning of Essential Commodities Act, 1955, to be an essential article and to control, by notified order, the production, supply and distribution of, and trade and commerce in, any such article.	None
This is an enabling measure and is modelled on the Central Essential Commodities Act.	None
It is intended to be in force only for a period of five years .4.	None
The subjectmatter of the legislation falls within the scope of entries 26 and 27 of the State List in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, namely26.	None
Trade and commerce within the State subject to the provisions of entry 33 of List III.	None
27.	None
Production, supply and distribution of goods subject to the provisions of entry 33 of List III.Hence the State Legislature is competent to enact the measure.	None
5.	None
The provisions of the Bill may attract Articles 301 and 304(b) of the Constitution as imposing a reasonable restriction on the freedom of trade and commerce.	None
Accordingly the previous sanction of the President for the introduction of the Bill in the State Legislature has been obtained as required by the proviso to article 304(b) in the letter of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry referred to as third paper above.	None
5. One of the grounds urged on behalf of the petitioners in support of these petitions is that raw cashewnut being a foodstuff (which is an essential commodity under the C entral Act), the State Government of Kerala could not make a declaration to the effect that it was an essential article under section 2(a) of the Kerala Act and consequently the impugned Order was outside the scope of the Kerala Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the State Government, it is contended that raw cashewnut is not a foodstuff and even if it is held to be a foodstuff having regard to the nature and object of the Order, it should be treated as being within the competence of the State Government.	Arguments of Respondent
The relevant part of section 2(a) of the Central Act containing the definition of the expression essential commodity read thus2.	None
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,  (a) essential commodity means any of the following classes of commodities (i) cattle fodder, including oilcakes and other concentrates (ii) foodstuffs, including edible oilseeds and oils 6.	None
Since it is argued on be half of the State Government that foodstuffs only mean those articles which can be directly consumed without any kind of processing and that raw cashewnuts which are intended to be used as industrial raw material cannot, therefore, be called a s foodstuffs in the strict sense, it is necessary to examine the history of legislation relating to the trade and commerce within a State and production, supply and distribution of goods in India.	Arguments of Respondent
Under the Government of India Act, 1935, en tries 27 and 29 of List II in the Seventh Schedule read as follows27.	None
Trade and commerce within the Province markets and fairs money lending and money lenders.	None
29.	None
Production, supply and distribution of goods development of industries, subject to the provisions of List I with respect to the development of certain industries under Federal control.	None
7.	None
Entry 34 of List I read as34.	None
Development of industries where development, under a Federal control is declared by Federal law to be expedient in the public interest.	None
8.	None
From the above entries it is clear that the subject of trade and commerce within the Province and subject to entry 34 of List I, the subject of production, supply and distribution of goods were within the competence of the Provincial Government.	None
As a result of the emergency proclaimed by the GovernorGeneral under section 102 of the Government of India Act, 1935 on the outbreak of the Second World War the Federal Legislature acquired the power to make laws on all the subjects in the Provincial List.	Reasoning
The laws made by the Federal Legislature on the provincial subjects after the Proclamation of Emergency were to cease to have effect on the expiration of a period of six months after the Proclamation of Emergency had ceased to operate except as respects things done or omitted to be done before the expiration of the said period .	Reasoning
The Proclamation of Emergency was revoked on April 1, 1946.	Reasoning
Consequently all laws made by the Federal Legislature on the subjects in the Provincial List were to cease to have effect after the expiry of September 30, 1946.	Reasoning
During the period of emergency the Federal Legislature had passed a law enabling the Federal Government to issue Orders with respect to trade and commerce within the Provinces and the production, supply and distribution of several commodities which were considered to be essential and those Orders were also to cease to have effect on the expiry of September 30, 1946.	Reasoning
Since it was felt that the Federal Legislature should continue to have power to make laws on the subject of production, supply and distribution of certain essential commodities, on March 26, 1946 the British Parliament passed the India (Central Government and Legislature) Act, 1946 (9 10 Geo. 6, Chapter 39) amending, among others, subsection (4) of section 102 of the Government of India Act, 1935 as to the effect of laws passed by virtue of the Proclamation of Emergency.	Reasoning
The relevant part of that Act read2.	None
(1) Notwithstanding anything in the Government of India Act, 1935, the Indian Legislature s hall during the period mentioned in section four of this Act have power to make laws with respect to the following matters (a) trade and commerce (whether or not within a Province) in, and the production, supply and distribution of cotton and woollen textiles, papers (including newsprint).	None
foodstuffs (including edible oil seeds and oils) petroleum and petroleum products, spare parts of mechanically propelled vehicles, coal, iron , steel and mica and (b) (c) but any law made by the Indian Legislature which that Legislature would not but for the provisions of this section, have been competent to make shall, to the extent of the incompetency, cease to have effect on the expiration of the said period except as respects things done or omitted to be done before the expiration thereof.	None
9. Section 4 of that Act specified the duration of the legislative power conferred on the Federal Legislature by section 2 and section 5 prescribed the duration of laws passed by virtue of a Proclamation of Emergency.	None
It is seen from section 2 (1)(a) of the above British Act that for the first time, the subject of foodstuffs (including edible oil seeds and oils) was dealt with separately in a constitutional document.	None
The GovernorGeneral in exercise of the extended legislative p ower granted by the British Act promptly issued within the specified period the Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Ordinance 1946) (XVIII of 1946) extending the controls in respect of certain essential commodities including foodstuffs beyond the first day of October, 1946 and the said Ordinance was repealed and replaced by the Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act, 1946 (Act No. XXIV of 1946) enacted by the Federal Legislature in November, 1946.	None
Section 2(a) of that Act defined the expression essential commodity as meaning foodstuffs and certain other articles mentioned therein.	None
Section 2(e) defined foodstuffs as including edible oil seeds and oils.	None
The operation of the said Act was extended by competent legislative acts upto March 31, 1950.	None
Since by Entries 26 and 27 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, the subject of trade and commerce within the State subject to the provisions of Entry 33 of List III and the subject to production, supply and distribution of goods subject to the provisions of Entry 33 of List III had been assigned to the States and Entry 33 of List III only dealt with trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution of the products of industries where the control of such industries by the Union was declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest, having regard to the then existing conditions, Article 369 was enacted as a temporary and transitional measure conferring legislative power on the Parliament during a period of five years from the commencement of the Constitution to make laws with respect to the following matters as if they were enumerated in the Concurrent List, namely(a) trad e and commerce within a State in, and the production, supply and distribution of, cotton and woollen textiles, raw cotton (including ginned cotton and unginned cotton or kapas), cotton seed, paper (including newsprint), foodstuffs (including edible oilseeds and oil), cattle fodder (including oilcakes and other concentrates), coal (including coke and derivatives of coal), iron, steel and mica (b) offences against laws with respect to any of the matters mentioned in clause (a), jurisdiction and powers of all courts except the Supreme Court with respect to any of those matters, and fees in respect of any of those matters but not including fees taken in any court.	None
10.	None
It was provided that any law made by Parliament which Parliament would not but for the provisions of Article 369 of the Constitution have been competency to make would, to the extent of the incompetency, cease to have effect on t he expiration of the period of five years from the commencement of the Constitution except as respects things done or omitted to be done before the expiration thereof.	None
It may be noticed that clause (a) of Article 369 of the Constitution specifically referred to foodstuffs (including oilseeds and oil) and cattle fodder (including oilcakes and other concentrates).	None
By virtue of the power under Article 369, the Parliament extended the life of the Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers)	None
A ct, 1946 till January 26, 1955.	None
As the subjects referred to in Article 369 of the Constitution were of national importance and it was thought that it was desirable that the Parliament should also have concurrent power to make laws with respect to them, the Constitution (Third Amendment) Act, 1954 was enacted on February 22, 1955 substituting Entry 33 of List III by the following new Entry33.	None
Trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution of,  (a) the products of any industry where the control of such industry by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest, and imported goods of the same kind as such products (b) foodstuffs, including edible oilseeds and oils (c) cattle fodder, including oilcakes and other concentrates (d) raw cotton, whether ginned or unginned, and cotton seed and (e) raw jute.	None
11.	None
It was pursuant to the new Entry 33 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution that Parliament enacted the Central Act (i.e. the Essential Commodities Act, 1955).	None
12.	None
It is not disputed by the State Government that if raw cashewnut is foodstuff within the meaning of the Central Act, it cannot be declared as an essential article under the Kerala Act.	Reasoning
What is, however, urged is that since the Order regulates only procurement and distribution of raw cashewnut as industrial raw material for processing in the factories it is not being dealt with as foodstuff.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence it should not be treated as an essential commodity under the Central Act.	None
There are at least two good reasons to reject this contention advanced on behalf of the State Governmentfirs t, the language used in section 2(a) (v) of the Central Act and secondly the purpose of the Central Act.	None
Section 2(a) (v) of the Central Act reads foodstuffs.	Reasoning
including edible oilseeds and oils.	Reasoning
It is a well known rule of interpretation that associated words take their meaning from one another and that is the meaning of the rule of statutory construction, noscitur a sociis.	Reasoning
When foodstuffs are associated with edible oilseeds which have to be processed before the oil in them can be consumed, it is appropriate to interpret foodstuffs in the wider sense as including all articles of food which may be consumed by human beings after processing.	Reasoning
It is in this wider sense that the said term has been understood by Indian courts as can be seen from some of the decisions to which we shall presently refer.	Reasoning
Secondly, having regard to the history of legislation relating to foodstuffs dealt with above and the object of the Central Act which regulates the production, supply and distribution of essential commodities amongst the poverty stricken Indian people, the expression foodstuffs should be given a wider meaning as including even raw materials which ultimately result in edible articles.	Reasoning
Any interpretation that may be given in this case should not be governed by its consequence on the impugned Order but in the light of the importance of the Central Act in the context of the national economy.	Reasoning
A narrow interpretation may result in the exclusion of several artic les from the purview of the Central Act although nobody has entertained any doubt so far about their being essential commodities.	Reasoning
We shall now see what cashewnut means.	Reasoning
Cashewnut is an edible seed or nut belonging to the family of anacardiaceae and grows mostly in tropical and subtropical regions where humidity is great.	Reasoning
It is generally grown in the States of Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, in India, in East Africa and in the tropics of Central and South America.	Reasoning
Cashewnut is shaped like a kidney or a large thick bean.	Reasoning
It appears as though one of its ends had been forcibly sunk into the calyx end of a fleshy pearshaped fruit, called the cashew apple which is about three times as large as the nut and of reddish or yellow colour.	Reasoning
The cashew apple is much used where the tree grows, in beverages, jams and jellies but is unimportant commercially.	Reasoning
The nut has two walls or shells, the outer of which is smooth and glasslike over the surface thin and somewhat elastic but stout and of olive green colour until mature when it becomes strawberry roan.	Reasoning
The inner shell is considerably harder and must be cracked like the shells of other nuts The fruits are picked by hand and the nuts are first detached, then thoroughly dried in the sunBy improved methods of roasting, the nuts pass through large revolving cylinders of sheet iron with perforated sides, which are made to revolve above well controlled flames.	Reasoning
The oil drains into containers below and is s alvaged Later, the inner shells are broken open by hand labour and the kernels given further heating treatment by which the skins are removed and the kernels made ready for consumption.	Reasoning
(Vide Encyclopaedia Britannica 1962 Edn.	Reasoning
Vol. 4, pp.	Reasoning
958 959).	None
It is not disputed that the raw cashewnut with which we are now concerned is used by the petitioners for processing in their factories in order to make it fit for human consumption.	Reasoning
It is also stated that even the raw cashewnut kernel is eaten by human beings.	Reasoning
It is well known that the food eaten by human beings consists of cereals like wheat, rice or other coerce grains, pulses, oilseeds, vegetables, sugar, fruits and nuts, animal foodstuffs and sea food like meat, beaf, mutt on and fish and dairy products like milk, butter, eggs etc.	Reasoning
According to Websters Third New International Dictionary, the word food means fodder also.	Reasoning
One of the meanings of the word food given in that Dictionary is material consisting of carbohydrates, fats, proteins and supplementary substances (as minerals vitamins) that is taken or absorbed into the body of an organism in order to sustain growth, repair, and all vital processes and to furnish energy for all activity of the organism.	Reasoning
In the same Dictionary foodstuff is defined as a substance with food value and the raw material of food before or after processing.	Reasoning
One of the usages of the said word is given as a bountiful crop of cereal foodstuffs.	Reasoning
Therefore, foodstuff need not necessarily mean only the final food product which is consumed.	Reasoning
It also includes raw food articles which may after processing be used as food by human beings.	Reasoning
13.	None
The earliest of the Indian cases cited before us on the interpretation of the expression foodstuffs is Shriniwas Pannalal Chockhani Ors.	None
v. The Crown.	None
In that case the conviction of the appellant of an offence punishable under section 7 of the Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act, 1946 had been challenged.	None
The charge of which the appellant had been found guilty by the judgment under appeal was that he had transported bharda or chuni bharda which was a foodstuff without the required permit.	None
The contention of the appellant was that it was just cattle feed which was not fit for human consumption and therefore it could not be said that he had violated the law on the footing that the material transported was turdal a foodstuff the transport of which alone without a permit was an offence.	None
The said argument was rejected by the Nagpur High Court with the following observationsThe learned counsel for the appellants further contended that as the Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Ordinance, 1946 XVIII (18 of 1946) and the Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act, 1946 XXIV (24) of 1946, dealt with foodstuffs and not cattle feed export of chuni, a cattle feed was not prohibited under the Foodgrains Export Restrictions Order, 1943.	None
The term foodstuff has not been defined either in the Ordinance or in the Act.	None
In common parlance, foodstuffs mean materials used as food.	Reasoning
The term is not used only for material which is immediately fit for human consumption but it also applies to material which can be used as food after subjecting it to processes like grinding, cleaning etc.	None
For instance, paddy as such is not fit for human consumption but rice in it is, an d yet paddy is called foodstuff.	None
So also tur.	None
There is no reason to suppose that the word food stuffs is not used, in these laws, in this usual sense but is used in the restricted sense of material which is fit for human consumption immediately without subjecting it to any process.	None
If such a restricted meaning is accepted, it would lead to evasion of the Law in question by mixing some foreign matter with the stuff that is immediately fit for human consumption.	None
The test is not whether it can be immediately used for human consumption but whether it can be so used after subjecting it to the usual processes.	None
The uncleaned tur dal (ie.	None
tur dal without separating from it wastage and foreign matter) which was being exported on 26121946 in this case was such a foodstuff and comes within the provisions of the Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Ordinance 1946, and the Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act, 1946.	None
14.	None
In the State of Bombay v. Virkumar Gulabchand Shah this Court was called upon to decide whether turmeric was foodstuff in a case arising under the Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act, 1946.	None
Vivian Bose, J. who delivered the judgment after observingSo far as food is concerned it can be used in a wide as well as a narrow sense and, in my opinion, much must depend upon the context and background.	None
Even in a popular sense, when one asks another, Have you had your food, one means the composite preparations which normally go to constitute mealcurry and rice, sweetmeats, pudding, cooked vegetables and so forth.	None
One does not usually think separately of the different preparations which enter into their making of the various condiments and spices and vitamins, any more than one would think of separating in his mind the purely nutritive elements of what is eaten from their nonnutritive adjuncts.	None
So also, looked at from another point of view, the various adjuncts of what I may term food proper which enter into its preparation for human consumption in order to make it palatable and nutritive, can hardly be separated from the purely nutritive elements if the effect of their absence would be to render the particular commodity in its finished state unsavoury and indigestible to a whole class o f persons whose stomachs are accustomed to a more spicely prepared product.	None
HeldAs we have seen, turmeric falls within the wider definition of food and foodstuffs given in a dictionary of international standing as well as in several English decisions.	None
It is, I think, as much a foodstuff, in its wider meaning, as sausage skins and baking powder and tea.	None
In the face of all that I would find it difficult to hold that an article like turmeric cannot fall within the wider meaning of the term foodstuffs.	None
15.	None
Following the above decision of this Court, the High Court of Calcutta held in Atulya Kumar De Ors.	None
v. The Director of Procurement and Supply	None
Ors.	None
that paddy was foodstuff within the meaning of that expression used in the Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act, 1946 even though paddy could not be consumed without further processing.	None
The relevant part of the decision runs thusThe first point taken is that the power conferred by the Act (read with the notification) upon the State of West Bengal is only in relation to foodstuffs and that paddy is not foodstuff.	None
It is stated that the description of paddy at Rice in the husk is a colourable attempt to avoid this difficulty.	None
In The State of Bombay v. Virkumar Gulabchand Shah (AIR 1952 S.C. 335), it was held that turmeric is foodstuff within the meaning of the Spices (Forward Contract Prohibition) Order 1944 read with S. 2(a) of the Act.	None
It was held that the term foodstuff is ambiguous and may have a vide meaning or a narrow one.	None
Whether the term is used in a particular Statute in its wider or narrower sense cannot be answered in the abstract but must be answered with due regard the background and context.	None
Thus inJames v. Jones (1894) 1 Q.B. 304, baking powder was held to be an article of food while inHinde v. Allmond (1918) 81 L.J.K.B. 893, it was held that tea was not.	None
Now the act had been passed to control the production and distribution of essential commodities.	None
What can be looked upon more of a n essential commodity than both rice and paddy ?	None
In West Bengal, the two things most essential for the sustenance of human life are rice and paddy.	None
Mr. Mukherjee admits that rice is an essential commodity a foodstuff, but he sa ys that paddy is not because nobody can eat paddy.	None
But that is a very narrow view to take.	None
Paddy is only a stage in the production of rice and the one cannot be food without the other being food as well.	None
Nobody eats the husk in paddy but nobody eats the skin of mango or the shell of a egg and yet they are unquestionably articles of food.	None
In my opinion paddy is foodstuff within the meaning of that expression as used in the Act and the notification.	None
To the same effect is the decision of the Calcutta High Court in Nathuni Lal Gupta Ors.	None
v. The State Ors.	None
in which wheat and wheat products were held to be foodstuffs.	None
The High Court of Punjab and Haryana in Sujan Singh Matu Ram v. The State of Haryana and the High Court of Orissa in Bijoy Kumar Routrai Ors.	None
v. State of Orissa Ors.	None
also lay down the same principle.	None
16.	None
In Tika Ramji Ors. etc. v. The State of Uttar Pradesh Ors.	Reasoning
this Court observedThe essential commodities therein comprised inter alia foodstuffs which would include sugar as well as sugarcane and both sugar and sugarcane therefore came within the jurisdiction of the Centre.	Reasoning
17.	None
The above observation makes it manifest that even a raw material like sugarcane used in the manufacture of sugar is a foodstuff.	None
18.	None
Younus v. SubInspector of Police is a case in which the question whether raw cashewnut was foodstuff or not directly arose for consideration.	None
The learned Judge who decided the case heldThe reasoning adopted for holding that wheat and paddy are foodstuffs applies with equal force in the case of cashewnuts.	None
There is no scope for doubt that cashew kernel is an eatable commodity both in its raw form and also when fried.	None
It is taken in as part of the food and is also used in the preparation of food.	None
That its kernel should be separated from the shell or outer covering or that it should be processed before use does not make raw cashewnuts anytheless foodstuff.	None
19.	None
It is also significant that raw cashewnut is included in the group of edible fruits in Chapter 8 of section II dealing with vegetable products of the First Schedule to the Customs T ariff Act, 1975.	Reasoning
20.	None
It was, however, urged that even though cashewnut was an article which could be eaten, it was an article which was eaten by very few persons on rare occasions and hence it is difficult to conceive cashewnut as an essential commod ity.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is no doubt true that cashewnut having become expensive, it is now more of a luxury.	None
Due to export of cashewnut on a large scale, it is a commodity which is in short supply in the country and therefore the price at which it sells is beyond the reach of the common man.	Reasoning
But nevertheless it is an article of food.	Reasoning
It is eaten in raw form and after it is fried.	Reasoning
It is also commonly used in various preparations of food like pulav, sweets etc.	Reasoning
There is no basis for the assertion that it is a rare commodity outside the State where it is grown.	Reasoning
It is eaten not only in Kerala but also in other parts of the country.	Reasoning
When cashewnut is exported, it is exported as a foodstuff.	Reasoning
Now it cannot be that cashewnut eaten abroad is a foodstuff, and whatever is consumed within the country is not a foodstuff.	Reasoning
It is therefore, a foodstuff and must be classified as an essential commodity.	Reasoning
Its importance as a foodstuff can also be seen from the statements filed in these cases in which is stated that in the State of Kerala in the year 197677 the total quantity of raw cashewnut procured was in the order of 60, 000 tonnes, the number of workers engaged in the cashewnut processing industry was about 1, 20, 000 and t hat there were 269 cashew factories.	Reasoning
It was next urged that cashewnut could be treated as an essential article only for the purpose of export and not an essential commodity under the Central Act.	Reasoning
This again is not correct.	Reasoning
The Central Government can make an Order under the Central Act even when an essential commodity is used for industrial purpose or for purposes of export.	Reasoning
Essential commodities do not cease to be essential commodities under the Central Act merely because they are exporte	Reasoning
d after they are processed in India.	Reasoning
Foodgrains (Prohibition of Use in Manufacture of Starch) Order, 1971, The Fruit Products Order, 1955, The Gur (Regulation of Use) Order, 1978, Pulses, Edible Oilseeds and Edible Oils (Storage Control) Order, 1977, Rice (Prohibition of Use in Wheat Products) Order, 1971.	Reasoning
Vegetable Oil (Standards of Quality) Order, 1972, Vegetable Oil Product Producers (Regulation of Refined Oil Manufacture) Order, 1973 and the Essential Commodities (Regulation of Production and Distribution for purposes of Export) Order, 1966 demonstrate the diverse purposes for which an Order can be made under the Central Act.	Reasoning
21.	None
It was next urged that as long as the Central Government had not passed an order in respect of the same matter, it was open to the Government of Kerala to pass the impugned Order.	None
Reliance was also placed on the decision of this Court in Tika Ramjis case (supra), in which U.P. Sugarcane Regulation of Supply and Purchase Order, 1954 was upheld even though sugarcane was an essential commodity under the Central Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case this Court was concerned with the question whether there was any repugnancy between a Central law and a State law.	None
We are not concerned here wi th such a question.	Reasoning
If a question of application of Article 254 of the Constitution had arisen, it would have been open to consider whether there was any repugnancy at all between the two laws having regard to the scope and extent of the field occupied by the Central law and the State law.	Reasoning
But the real question which now arises for decision in these petitions is whether the Kerala Legislature ever intended to treat any article which comes within the scope of the Central Act as an essential article .	Reasoning
The language of section 2(a) of the Kerala Act steers clear of all essential commodities under the Central Act by excluding them from the operation of the Kerala Act.	Reasoning
The power of the Central Government to make an order under the Central Act in respect of raw cashewnut which is a foodstuff cannot be doubted.	Reasoning
If that is so the Kerala Act cannot apply to it.	Reasoning
The argument that as long as the Central Government had not made an Order in respect of raw cashewnut, the Kerala Government can pass an Order is not available in the circumstances by reason of the definition of the essential article in the Kerala Act.	Reasoning
It might have been open to consideration if the said definition had not contained the words in the parenthesis.	Reasoning
On a careful consideration of the matter, we are satisfied that raw cashewnut is a foodstuff falling under section 2(a) (v) of the Central Act and hence cannot be declared as an essential article under section 2(a) of the Kerala Act.	Reasoning
It follows that no Order can be made by the Government of Kerala under section 3 thereof in respect of raw cashewnut.	Reasoning
The action of the Kerala Government is beyond the power conferred on it by the Kerala Legislature.	None
22.	None
In the result, we hold that the declaration made by the Government of Kerala to the effect that raw cashewnut is an essential article under the Kerala Act and the impugned Order made thereunder are liable to be quashed and they are accordingly quashed.	Reasoning
23.	None
All the other contentions including those relating to the alleged infringement of the fundamental rights of the petitioners raised in these petitions are left open.	None
24.	None
Before concluding, we propose to advert to the last submission made before us on behalf of the State Government.	None
It was submitted that the cashewnut industry in Kerala was a labouroriented industry and if the declaration and the Order were struck down, a number of workmen would be adversely affected.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also submitted that the en tire economy of the State of Kerala which largely depended on the export trade in cashewnuts would be disrupted.	Arguments of Respondent
If any such serious problem arises, it can always be set right by the competent Legislature or the appropriate Government taking needful remedial action in the light of Entry 33 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	None
25.	None
The petitions are accordingly allowed.	Decision
In the circumstances of the case, there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
26.	None
Petitions allowed.	None
