 B. Sinha, J. This appeal is directed against a judgment of conviction and sentence dated 19.3.2005 passed by the Additional Sessions Judge, Mansa awarding death penalty to Appellant under Sections 376 and 302 of the Indian Penal Code and affirmed by the High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh in Reference No. 4/2005 and Criminal Appeal No. 284 (DB) of 2005 by a judgment and order dated 3.8.2005.	Issue
The prosecution case is as under On 3.11.2003 in the evening, the deceased Raj Preet Kaur Guddi, who is a student of IInd Standard has gone to the house of her classmate Amarpreet Kaur, daughter of Gurbax Singh, a cousin of the complainant.	Facts
The house of the said Gurbax Singh was situated in the revenue estate of Ramgarh, Village Shahpuria.	Facts
At about 5.00 p.m., the deceased allegedly left the house of Gurbax Singh for her own house.	Facts
She was accompanied to some extent by Amanpreet.	Facts
When she crossed pakka water house, Amarpreet left her on her own.	Facts
When the deceased did not reach her house, search was carried on.	Facts
Some persons then found her dead body in the agricultural field belonging to Appellant situated in front of his house.	Facts
The dead body was found near a Neem tree and some cotton crop were found near the dead body.	Facts
Some dry leaves were found in her hair.	Facts
In her hand some streads of human hair were also noticed.	Facts
It was fully smeared with blood.	Facts
The father of the deceased on seeing the dead body called his brother Baldev Singh and leaving him at the spot, started for the police station to inform the police and to lodge a report.	Facts
He met PW8 S.I. Joginder Singh at the bus stand of Village Maghania on 4.11.2003.	Facts
His statement was recorded, on the basis of which a formal First Information Report was lodged.	Facts
The Investigating Officer prepared an inquest report.	Facts
It was found that in the hands of the deceased some human hair was also found.	Facts
A post mortem examination was conducted by PW1 Dr. Reshamchand Singh.3.	Facts
PW2 disclosed that he had seen the deceased in the company of Appellant at about 5.45 p.m.	Facts
He was in his agricultural field and he came to know about the incident only at about 8.00 a.m. on the next day.	Facts
Appellant was arrested on 12.11.2003 at a bus stop of Village Sher Khan before PW8 Joginder Singh.	Facts
He was produced before the Investigating Officer by Shri Karamjeet Singh, Panch.	Facts
An application was filed by the Investigating Officer in the Court of Judicial Magistrate for obtaining specimen of the hair of Appellant but he refused to give any such specimen of hair.	Facts
He made a statement before the Court which was recorded.	Facts
It was marked as Exhibit PO I.4.	Facts
The prosecution in order to prove its case examined eight witnesses.	Facts
PW1 Dr. Resham Chand Singh proved the postmortem report Exhibit PB.	Facts
In his evidence, he stated The length of the body was 122 cm.	Facts
long dead body of 78 years of female, child wearing yellow shirt, white bunyan, legs stained with blood.	Facts
Bleeding from vulva, dry leaves in the hairs, mouth open and froth trickling out from left angle.	Facts
Eyes closed.	Facts
Body in state of rigor mortis.	Facts
Multiple marks of contusions and abrasions on the anterior bild of neck with a large contusion over the fold of neck transverse in direction.	Facts
Face also have some abrasions.	Facts
Abrasions over elbows, knuckle present.	Facts
These were all ante mortem in nature.	Facts
Condition of subject was stout.	Facts
Public and Axillary hair not grown.	Facts
No development of breasts.	Facts
Impression of teeth in the lips.	Facts
Although external injuries were found on the neck which were said to be the cause of death of the deceased, according to the doctor, the death took place because of loss of blood.	Facts
It was stated 20 loss of blood may cause shock and death.	None
Normally in a child of 67 years age there may be about 2 liters blood in body.	Facts
On examination of injuries it was found that more bleeding from the injury has caused the death.	Facts
In this case more than half liter blood had oozed Karamjit Singh, father of the deceased examined himself as PW2.	Facts
He supported his statements made in the First Information Report.	Facts
PW3 Gurmail Singh, was a resident of the same village i.e. Village Ramgarh Shahpuria.	Facts
He categorically stated that at about 5.45  6.00 p.m., he found that the deceased was catching a finger of Appellant but at that point of time he did not think of anything.	Facts
He remained in his agricultural field for the purpose of watering the same.	Facts
He came back to the village on the next morning at about 8.00 a.m. and then came to learn that the deceased was raped and murdered after strangulation.	Facts
He, therefore, having seen them together formed an opinion that Appellant must be the person who raped and murdered the deceased.	Facts
In his crossexamination, he categorically stated I told to the Thanedar that Amrit Singh accused was going by holding the finger of Rajpreet Kaur	Facts
It was not suggested to him that he had any enmity with Appellant.	None
His evidence that the deceased was last seen with Appellant, therefore, remain uncontroverted.8.	Facts
PW6 is Dr. Sharad Kumar, Medical Officer, In charge Mini PHC.	Facts
Beero ke kalan.	Facts
He examined Appellant on 13.11.2003.	Facts
He opined There was nothing abnormal found which can suggest that the accused cannot perform sexual intercourse.	Facts
He was physically and medically fit PW8 is the Investigating Officer.	Facts
The witnesses stated that on the day on which the First Information Report was lodged, the house of Appellant was raided, but it was found locked and thus he could not be arrested.	Facts
As regards the arrest of Appellant, his statements are as under On 12.11.2003 in connection with investigation I along with other police officials was present at Bus stop of V. Sher Khan, where accused Amrit Singh now present in Court was produced before me by Karamjit Singh Panch.	Facts
The personal search of the accused was conducted, but nothing was recovered from him and memo in this respect Exh.	Facts
PN was prepared, which was thumb marked by the accused and attested by PW Karamjit Singh and ASI Gurcharan Singh.	Facts
I arrested the accused The learned Trial Judge relying on or on the basis of the depositions of the prosecution witnesses came to the conclusion that Appellant was guilty of the commission of the said offences.	Facts
Upon hearing Appellant on sentence, he was sentenced to death.	Facts
The High Court in the Death Reference made by the learned Sessions Judge as also in the Criminal Appeal filed by Appellant herein reviewed the evidence on record, confirmed the death sentence and dismissed the appeal, inter alia, stating The above medical evidence consisted in the statements of PW1 Dr. Reshamchand Singh and PW6 Dr. Sharad Kumar and the seat of injuries again goes a long way to show that appellant  Amrit Singh, a man of 31 years of age, was not suffering from any disease.	Facts
He was found physically and medically fit.	Facts
Thus, it can be safely inferred that he was in a dominating position whereas Rajpreet Kaur (deceased) was a girl of 7/8 years of age studying in 2nd standard.	Facts
She was coming alone to her house after playing with her classmate Amanpreet Kaur.	Facts
On the way, the appellant caught hold of her and then went berserk for committing rape and murder of an innocent helpless female child.	Facts
It is also established that there were multiple marks of contusions and abrasions on the anterior side of neck with a large contusion over the fold of neck transverse in direction.	Facts
Not only that there were also abrasions on her face, elbow and impression of teeth on her lips.	Facts
All these injuries were antemortem in nature.	Facts
Her body and pent were also found to be smeared with excessive bleeding.	Facts
Further a look at the photographs Ex.P/4 to P/7, proved in the statement of PW4 Ashok Kumar, Photographer, shows that the appellant had treated the helpless female child in a brutal and inhuman manner.	Facts
Mr. H.L. Aggarwal, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of Appellant submitted The prosecution cannot be said to have proved all the links in the chain of circumstantial evidence and in that view of the matter, the learned Sessions Judge as also the High Court wrongly arrived at a finding that Appellant was guilty of commission of the offence of rape and murder of the deceased.(ii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The only evidence against Appellant being last seen with the deceased, cannot be said to be a conclusive proof of commission of such an offence.(iii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The death having been caused by reason of excessive bleeding from the private parts of the deceased, Appellant cannot have in any event be said to have any intention to kill her and thus sentence under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code is not warranted.(iv)	Arguments of Petitioner
Although Appellant was medically examined, there is nothing to show that any evidence was found linking the offence of rape of the deceased with her murder.(v)	Arguments of Petitioner
Having regard to the location of the houses near the scene of occurrence and in view of the time of the commission of the offence, it was improbable that the deceased did not cry out and nobodys attention was attracted thereto.	Arguments of Petitioner
Our attention was also drawn to statements made by PWs.	None
2 and 3 to the effect that Appellant was arrested on 4.11.2003 itself and as he was not produced before the Magistrate, he had sent a telegram to the Chief Justice of the High Court complaining of his illegal detention, in regard whereto the learned Sessions Judge as also the High Court had not paid adequate attention.	None
Mr. Sanjay Jain, learned counsel appearing for Respondent, on the other hand, submitted The circumstances brought on records clearly point out to the involvement of Appellant as he was last seen with the deceased as was stated by PW3 and in view of the fact no reason has been ascribed as to why he would have been implicated falsely, the Courts below have rightly relied on evidence.(ii) Appellant had been absconding for a long time and his house was found to be locked by the Investigating Officer.(iii)	Arguments of Respondent
An application was filed by the Investigating Officer on 13.11.2003 for obtaining sample of the hairs of Appellant but he refused to do so without assigning any reason and thus an adverse inference against him could have been drawn.(iv)	Arguments of Respondent
The dead body of the deceased was found near the house of Appellant in a cotton field belonging to Appellant, which shows his complicity in the matter.(v)	Arguments of Respondent
Injuries on the neck appearing on the person of the deceased clearly establishes that Appellant had made attempts to strangulate her also.	Arguments of Respondent
The prosecution case as regards commission of a heinous offence of rape on a minor girl and her death is not seriously disputed on behalf of Appellant.	None
Appellant and the deceased were residents of the same village.	None
Prosecution has brought enough materials on record to show the culpability which for all practical purposes remained unrebutted.	None
That deceased has come to see her friend (Amanpreet Kaur) who happened to be her relation also.	None
She was last seen alive in the company of Appellant.	None
It was not suggested that PW3 has bore any animosity towards Appellant.	None
PW3 was not crossexamined on vital aspects of his statement made in his examinationinchief.	None
He made his statement before the villagers and also before the Investigating Officer as soon as he came to know about the manner in which the deceased has met with her fate.	None
The evidence of last seen may be relied upon or may form the basis for a conviction which, however, would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.	None
In some cases, the Court also look for corroborative evidence in some cases the Court may rely fully thereupon.	None
In Prem Thakur v. State of Punjab, AIR 1983 SC 61 , whereupon Mr. Aggarwal has placed strong reliance, the links of the chain were not complete, although the prosecution case rested on circumstantial evidence.	None
In that case, five persons were murdered, the pattern involved in the commission of the crime belied the conclusion that Appellant therein had any hand in it.	None
This Court disagreed with the findings of the High Court that Appellant therein was present with the deceased person on the evening of November 8 and he had been missing from there from the next morning which was the only circumstance which had led the High Court to conclude that Appellant was guilty of commission of the offence beyond any shadow of doubt.	None
The circumstances upon which the High Court relied were considered by this Court to be hazardous to base conviction.	None
In State of Rajasthan v. Smt.	None
Kamla AIR 1991 SC 967 , this Court again on the fact situation obtaining therein did not base its judgment of conviction on the circumstantial evidence laid therein.	None
A similar question came up for consideration recently in Sunny Kapoor v. State (U.T. of Chandigarh), JT 2006 (11) SC 298 , wherein it was observed The appellants have been convicted on the basis of circumstantial evidence.	None
It is now well settled by a catena of decisions of this Court that for proving the guilt of commission of an offence under Section 302 IPC, the prosecution must lead evidence to connect all links in the chain so as to clearly point the guilt of the accused alone and nobody else.	None
Post mortem examination was held at 11.00 a.m. on 4th November, 2003.	None
The time of death was said to be within 24 hours.	None
The deceased died of bleeding from her private parts, which indisputably was the result of rape.	None
Exact time as to when the occurrence took place is not known and it would be hazardous to make any guess in this behalf.	None
Deceased died a painful death which would appear from impression of teeth on her lips.	None
She did not have even a developed body public and axillary hairs not grown and breasts were also not developed.	None
Organs of generation external and internal were that hymen was torn, complete pereneal tear, multiple vaginal laceration, complete vault tear and uterus was infantile.	None
No rigor mortis was noticed.	None
Dead body was found at or before 10.00 p.m. as her body was brought to home at that time.	None
There exists a controversy as to whether Appellant was arrested immediately on 9.11.2003 or 12.11.2003.	None
He was indisputably suspected of commission of the offences.	None
He was either arrested or he fled away from his house.	None
It was true that according to PWs.	None
2 and 3 he was arrested immediately whereas according to the Investigating Officer, he was found absent from his house and the house was locked.	None
Sending of a telegram to the Chief Justice of the High Court is not in dispute but the Courts below did not lay much stress thereupon as allegations made by the grandfather of Appellant in that behalf were withdrawn at a later stage.	None
Appellant examined two defence witnesses who proved the fact that a telegram was sent but later on an application was filed which was marked as Exhibit DA, from a perusal whereof it appears that the complaint was withdrawn by Makhan Singh, maternal grandfather of the accused.	None
It is, however, interesting to note that it was a former Sarpanch of the village who caused the production of the body of Appellant before the Investigating Officer if latters statement is to be believed.	None
The place of occurrence also plays some importance.	None
It was on the cotton field of Appellant himself.	None
Height of cotton crop according to the villagers goes upto 6 ft.	None
The cotton crop was in front of the house of Appellant.	None
Mr. Aggarwal has also drawn our attention to a suggestion made to PW2 that four young boys aged about 10 years were seen in the cotton field from outside areas.	Reasoning
If an outsider had committed the crime, she would definitely cried out but Appellant, a neighbour and known to her was a person of trust.	Reasoning
She was seen to be holding Appellants finger.	Reasoning
It is clear that she was allured by Appellant to accompany him to his own field which was near his house.	Reasoning
We, however, do not agree with the contention of the learned counsel for the State that in this case, the provisions of the Identification of Prisoners Act will have any application.	Reasoning
The provisions of the said Act may not be ultra vires to the Constitution but it cannot be said to be applicable in a case of this nature.	Reasoning
It cannot be said to be an area which is contemplated under the Act.	Reasoning
Appellant had a right to give or not to give sample of his hair.	Reasoning
He could not have been made a witness against himself against his will.20.	Reasoning
Offence of rape took place on an agricultural field.	Reasoning
She might have suffered a lot of pain.	Reasoning
She might have resisted also.	Reasoning
She might have been gagged.	Reasoning
Possibilities of some assault on her person cannot be ruled out.	Reasoning
It would, however, be improper to hold that he killed her intentionally.21.	Reasoning
The opinion of the learned Trial Judge as also the High Court that Appellant being aged about 31 years and not suffering from any disease, was in a dominating position and might have got her mouth gagged cannot be held be irrelevant.	Reasoning
Some marks of violence not only on the neck but also on her mouth were found.	Reasoning
Submission of Mr. Aggarwal, however, that Appellant might not have an intention to kill the deceased, thus, may have some farce.	Reasoning
The death occurred not as a result of strangulation but because of excessive bleeding.	Reasoning
Deceased had bleeded half a liter of blood.	Reasoning
Dr. Reshamchand Singh, PW1 did not state that injury on the neck could have contributed to her death.	Reasoning
The death occurred, therefore, as a consequence of and not because of any specific overt act on the part of Appellant.22.	Reasoning
Imposition of death penalty in a case of this nature, in our opinion, was, thus, improper.	Reasoning
Even otherwise, it cannot be said to be a rarest of rare cases.	Reasoning
The manner in which the deceased was raped may be brutal but it could have been a momentary lapse on the part of Appellant, seeing a lonely girl at a secluded place.	Reasoning
He had no premeditation for commission of the offence.	Reasoning
The offence may look a heinous, but under no circumstances, it can be said to be a rarest of rare cases.	Reasoning
Appellant, however, in any event, is an accused under Section 276(2)(f) of the Indian Penal Code.24.	Decision
In a case of this nature where the brutality with which the offence was committed leading to the death of the prosecutrix, in our opinion, maximum sentence should be imposed.	Decision
Appellant, thus deserves imposition of Rigorous Imprisonment for life.	Decision
The appeal is allowed to the above extent.	Decision
