Dipak Misra, J.	None
In the present appeal, by special leave, the appellant has called in question the legal acceptability of the order dated 25.01.2007 passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Karnataka at Bangalore in STRP No. 62 of 2004 whereby the Division Bench has dismissed the Special Revision Petition preferred by the appellantdepartment and affirmed the order dated 27.12.2003 passed by the Special Bench constituting five members of the Karnataka Appellate Tribunal, Bangalore (for short, the tribunal) constituted under the Karnataka Sales Tax Act, 1957 (for short, KST Act).	None
Requisite facts to be exposited for adjudication of this appeal are that Brooke Bond India Limited established its factory at Dharwad in the State of Karnataka and the said factory was engaged in manufacture of blended packet tea.	Facts
With the passage of time, Brooke Bond India Limited was amalgamated with the respondentcompany with effect from 21.03.1997.	Facts
There is no dispute over the fact that the respondentcompany registered under the Companies Act is a dealer under the KST Act.	Facts
The dealer was granted sales tax exemption benefit for five years from the date of commencement of production in accordance with exemption eligibility certificate issued by the Government of Karnataka as per the package of incentive granted vide Government Order dated 27.09.1990 and sales tax exemption notification dated 19.06.1991 to which we shall advert to at a later stage.3.	Facts
When the matter stood thus, the Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes (Intelligence), Kolar visited the premises of the respondentassessee on 20th December, 1996.	Facts
During the course of physical inspection the authority noticed that there was contravention of the conditions laid down under Explanation III(e) to the notification dated 19.06.1991.	Facts
It was noticed by the said authority that sale of tea packets by the respondentcompany from the Dharwad unit which had the benefit of exemption and the units manufacturing tea outside Dharwad unit which did not have the benefit of exemption were similarly priced.	Facts
Two invoices  one from Dharwad unit and one from nonDharwad unit  were taken note of and found that the ultimate sale price in both cases is Rs. 118 (the nonDharwad tea had a sales tax component of Rs. 12.27, whereas the Dharwad tea had no sales tax component).	Facts
Based on the said material as well as material evincible from the price circulars of the respondentcompany found in the office, the intelligence officer arrived at the conclusion that the dealer had added the tax component to the sale price of Dharwad tea though not under the nomenclature of tax or cess.	Facts
Hence, it was concluded that the respondent company was not entitled to the benefit of exemption, for Explanation III(e) to the notification dated 19.06.1991 had been violated.4.	Facts
As the facts would further unravel, on the basis of the aforesaid finding of fact of the inspecting authority, a series of assessment orders dated 15.06.1998, 31.01.1999, 22.02.2000 and 01.07.2000 were passed wherein, inter alia, the claim of exemption on the turnovers of Dharwad tea based on notifications dated 27.09.1990 and 19.06.1991 came to be rejected.	Facts
The assessment orders were assailed before the appellate authority and vide orders dated 25.02.1999, 07.03.2001 and 23.03.2001 the appellate authority upheld the view of the assessing authority by rejecting the claim of exemption advanced by the assessee on the ground that there was collection of tax by considering the tax component in determination of sale price, though the same was not distinctly shown as tax and collected as such.	Facts
The orders passed by the appellate authority were challenged before the tribunal which thought it appropriate to constitute a Special Bench and, accordingly, five members of the tribunal took up the matter.	Facts
The tribunal after hearing learned counsel for the parties came to hold that though the company had considered the local tax element in the price fixed, but it cannot be stated that the company has collected the local taxes as such from the consumers in view of the fact that in the invoice against KST and CST, it is specifically left blank in respect of Dharwad tea and accordingly accepted the stand put forth by the assesseerespondent.	Facts
The said order was challenged before the High Court in revision petition.5.	Facts
The High Court to appreciate the controversy framed the following three questions of law Whether the consideration of sales tax in fixing the price of the goods and sale of such goods along with identical goods on which taxes are collected along with the price has not resulted in an implied collection of tax in respect of such sales tax exempted goods?(2)	Facts
Whether the assessee who produces identical products, one which is exempt from sales tax and one which sales tax is payable, both being priced on par and sold off the same shelf, could not lead to the presumption that there is a deemed collection and inclusion of sales tax in the price fixed?(3)	Facts
Whether the legend inclusive of taxes found on the packets of Dharwad and nonDharwad tea, the distinction as such being lost on the consumer, whether it cannot be said that taxes are inclined and collected on the tax exempted tea.	Facts
The High Court, after hearing the learned counsel for the parties and analysing the material on record, dissecting the relevant provisions of the KST Act and the notification for exemption came to hold as under Learned Advocate General invites our attention with regard to the price being the same with regard to Dharwad tea and nonDharwad tea.	Facts
Same is reflected in the books of accounts.	Facts
The Company is governed by the Standards of Weights and Measures Act, 1976 and Rules.	Facts
Rule 6 read with Rule 2(r) of the Standards of Weights and Measures (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 1977 requires that the sale price of the package commodity shall be printed on the packages strictly in the following formMaximum (or Max) Retail Price Rs. incl.	Facts
of all taxes.orMRP Rs. INCL.	Facts
OF ALL TAXES Much of arguments were advanced before us that in the light of inclusive rate of tax, there is nothing but collection in the case on hand.	Facts
The Tribunal in its order would say that so long as the buyer has not agreed to pay tax, and so long as the bill would show that the company is exempted from tax, there can be no inference of tax collection.	Facts
Tribunal, in our view, is right in noticing that mere mentioning of MRP does not by itself a proof of any collection of tax in terms of sales tax laws.	Facts
We are in agreement with the finding of the Tribunal.32.	Facts
In fact, in AnnexureF there is a clear mention of exemption of tax in terms of the note at the end of the invoice itself.	Facts
Therefore, the buyer is told in unmistakable terms that what is being paid as sale price and not as sales tax.33.	Facts
The Tribunal, in our view, has considered not only the facts of the case but also all the case laws as applicable, and thereafter has come to a right conclusion in holding against the State.	Facts
We are in agreement with the findings of the Tribunal.	Facts
On the basis of the aforesaid analysis, the High Court concurred with the opinion expressed by the tribunal.	Facts
We have heard Mr. Basava Prabhu S. Patil, learned senior counsel along with Mr. V.N. Raghupathy for the appellant and Mr. Harish N. Salve and Mr. Arvind P. Datar, learned senior counsel for the respondent.	None
The present litigation has a history.	None
Be it stated, this is the third round of litigation.	None
In the first round, the State of Karnataka had availed the plea that the Government Order dated 27.07.1990, pursuant to which the Exemption Notification dated 19.06.1991 was issued, was itself not gazetted.	None
The controversy travelled to this Court in Lipton India Ltd. and another v. State of Karnataka and others, (1996) 10 SCC 710.	None
In the said case, the Court has held that The administration of the State of Karnataka represented by its Chief Secretary, does not find the said officer guilty of gross negligence.	None
The Chief Secretary does not find it unpardonable that the statement was made on oath on behalf of the State Government in a pending proceeding before the High Court.	None
We cannot agree.	None
Whether the Chief Secretary thinks it necessary to take action against the said officer or not is not our concern.	None
Our concern is that the State Government made a statement on oath before the High Court that was incorrect and the judgment of the High Court accepts and proceeds upon the basis of that statement.	None
The High Courts judgment must, therefore, be set aside and the matter remanded to the High Court to be heard and decided afresh.8.	None
We must caution the High Court at Karnataka, having regard to what we have stated above, that it should be very vigilant in accepting as correct a statement, even though it be made on oath, on behalf of the State Government.	None
It is unfortunate that we should have to say this of a State Government, but the record before us leaves us no option.9.	None
The learned counsel for the State Government now submits that we should not make this general observation in respect of affidavits filed on behalf of the State Government.	None
As we have already stated, we have done so because the Chief Secretary of the State of Karnataka does not seem particularly troubled by the fact that a statement was made on oath on behalf of the State Government before the High Court which was not correct.	None
He does not even think that the said officer was grossly negligent in making the statement that the said government order was not gazetted only on the basis of going through the Gazettes for the succeeding three months.	None
We must assume that other officers of the State Government will be encouraged to make statements before the courts on oath upon as little or no enquiry, expecting from the Chief Secretary the same unconcern.	None
After so holding, the Court has allowed the appeals and directed the State Government to pay costs which was quantified in the sum of Rs.	None
50,000/.	None
In the second round of litigation, the State of Karnataka sought to deny the exemption on the ground that grinding of tea does not amount to manufacture and, therefore, as such the exemption was not available.	None
The matter travelled to this Court but eventually the appeals were dismissed by orders dated 17.07.1998 and 07.09.1998 preferred by the State of Karnataka.	None
The present one is the third round.	None
Mr. Patil, learned senior counsel appearing for the State would urge that the tribunal as well as the High Court is not justified in interfering with the finding of fact recorded by the Assessing Authority and the first appellate authority that the assessee had collected sales tax on the sale of tea manufacture at Dharwad and hence, not entitled for the benefit of sales tax exemption solely on the ground the company had considered local sales tax element in the sale price fixed.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also contended by him that the levy of tax on the assessee cannot be found fault with inasmuch as inclusion of sales tax in the sale price would disentitle the assessee from the benefit of exemption stipulated in the Notification dated 19.06.1991 issued under Section 8A of the KST Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Lastly, it is canvassed by Mr. Patil that the issue whether the legend inclusive of taxes found on both the packed tea produced in the exempted unit, Dharwad, Karnataka and tea obtained from outside the State and sold in the State (taxable tea), makes the end consumer believe that in the end consumer price sales tax element has been considered, has not been properly considered by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned senior counsel would submit that the High Court has not properly appreciated the authorities in the field and arrived at the erroneous conclusion.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Patil has placed reliance on State of Karnataka v. M s C. Venkatagiriah and Brothers, 1994 Supp (2) SCC 572 and T. Stanes Co. Ltd. v. State of T.N. and another, (2005) 9 SCC 308.11.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Salve, learned senior counsel appearing for the assesseerespondent would urge that the declaration made by the assessee about MRP is a statutory declaration required as per Rule 2(r) of the Standards of Weights and Measures (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 1977 framed under erstwhile Standards of Weights and Measures Act, 1976 and the same does not mean that the assessee had collected any amount by way of tax.	Arguments of Respondent
The aforesaid statutory declaration only means that the end consumer does not have to pay amount beyond MRP.	Arguments of Respondent
It is urged by him that the assessee had taken the stand that it has uniform MRP throughout India irrespective of whether sales tax is payable in certain States or not and despite the fact that the rate of tax is also different in different States because the assessee has felt that it is necessary to have uniform MRP for PAN India to prevent flowing of goods from one State to another.	Arguments of Respondent
It is his further submission that revenue has erroneously based its conclusion on a comparison of price between the two units of the same manufacturer either in the same State or in two different States wherein one unit is covered by exemption and the other is not.	Arguments of Respondent
Incrementing the said argument learned senior counsel would contend that though the two prices are uniform, the revenue on an erroneous comparison has presumed that the assessee has collected tax without appreciating the fact that the assessee has adopted a singular business model to have a uniform price throughout India which does not countenance any kind of comparison.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Salve would contend that the authorities cited by the revenue are absolutely inapplicable to the facts of the case, for the controversy is totally different therein.	Arguments of Respondent
According to Mr. Salve, the controversy in the case has been put to rest in Delhi Cloth and General Mills Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Sales Tax, Indore, (1971) 2 SCC 559. 12.	Arguments of Respondent
The heart of the matter is whether the respondent has violated clause (e) of Explanation III to the Sales Tax Exemption notification dated 19th June, 1991.	Issue
The said clause is reproduced below Explanation III.The provisions of this Notification shall not apply(a) xx xx	None
xx	None
xx(b) xx xx	None
xx xx(c)	None
xx xx	None
xx xx(d)	None
xx xx	None
xx xx(e)	None
To the turnovers on which any tax is collected by a new Industrial Unit under the provisions of KST Act, 1957.	None
The above quoted clause stipulates that the notification will not apply on turnovers on which any tax is collected by the new industrial unit under the provisions of the KST Act.	None
It is the submission of the appellant that inference should be drawn that the respondent company had collected salestax on packaged tea sold by the new industrial unit, and thus, there was violation of clause (e) of Explanation III to the Sales Tax Exemption Notification.	None
Reliance is primarily placed on the observations of this Court in Amrit Banaspati Co. Ltd. and another v. State of Punjab and another, (1992) 2 SCC 411 and more particularly on paragraph 11, which reads as under Exemption from tax to encourage industrialisation should not be confused with refund of tax.	None
They are two different legal and distinct concepts.	None
An exemption is a concession allowed to a class or individual from general burden for valid and justifiable reason.	None
For instance tax holiday or concession to new or expanding industries is well known to be one of the methods to grant incentive to encourage industrialisation.	None
Avowed objective is to enable the industry to stand up and compete in the market.	None
Sales tax is an indirect tax which is ultimately passed on to the consumer.	None
If an industry is exempt from tax the ultimate beneficiary is the consumer.	None
The industry is allowed to overcome its teething period by selling its products at comparatively cheaper rate as compared to others.	None
Therefore, both the manufacturer and consumer gain, one by concession of nonlevy and other by nonpayment.	None
Such provisions in an Act or Notification or orders issued by Government are neither illegal nor against public policy.	None
Reference is also made to the decision of this Court in M s C. Venkatagiriah and Brothers (supra) wherein it has been observed For the said proposition, the Tribunal relied upon a decision of the Mysore High Court in Spencer Co. Ltd. v. State of Mysore, (1970) 26 STC 283 (Mys).	None
The proposition enunciated in the said decision is that the dealer can be held to have collected the tax under the Act, ifFrom the facts and circumstances, it can be inferred that the seller intended to pass on the tax and the buyer had agreed to pay the sales tax in addition to the price and that in the accounts of the dealer he has shown such amounts separately.(emphasis supplied)Applying the said proposition, the Tribunal held that even though the bills issued by the dealer in this case did say specifically that the price charged was inclusive of tax it cannot be held that he has collected the tax.	None
We are of the opinion that the additional requirement envisaged in Spencer Co. Ltd (supra) is not correct in law.	None
Whether a dealer has discharged the burden that is laid upon him by the statute is a question of fact, to be decided in each case with reference to the facts and material in that case.	None
It is not a matter of law nor can the mode of proof be reduced to a proposition of law.	None
Subsection (2) or subsection (1) of Section 10 of the Amendment Act do not provide for such a requirement.	None
In such a situation, it cannot be said as a general proposition that unless the tax collected is reflected in the account books of the dealer, it cannot be said to have been collected.	None
No such general proposition can be evolved in a matter totally within the realm of appreciation of evidence.	None
It is up to the dealer to discharge the said burden by producing such material as he can and it is for the appropriate authority to say whether the dealer has succeeded in discharging the burden or not.	None
In this view of the matter, we cannot agree with the Tribunals view which has been upheld by the High Court.	None
The endorsement in the bill that the price charged is inclusive of tax is prima facie proof against the dealers contention.	None
Unless he produces material to displace the presumption arising from the said endorsement, he must be held to have collected the tax.	None
It is the argument of the assessee that the aforesaid declaration about MRP is a statutory declaration and that does not mean that the assessee had collected any amount by way of tax.	Arguments of Respondent
The further stand is that the end consumer does not have to pay any amount beyond MRP and that is how the business model of the assessee operates and hence, there is no question of any comparison.	None
In fact, the appellant department is of the view that the respondent assessee ought to have determined lesser price for the exempted unit as compared to other units.	None
It is urged that the absence of any price control the view of the department is neither a legal requirement nor practically possible.	None
Once this erroneous comparison is obliterated, the entire case of department collapses.	None
First, we shall deal with the applicability of the principle stated in Amrit Banaspati (supra).	None
The issue raised in the case of Amrit Banaspati (supra) was quite distinct and separate.	None
The question raised was whether the principle of promissory estoppel would apply, for the learned single Judge of the High Court on facts had found that there was sufficient material to direct the State to honour its commitment to refund the salestax.	None
The issue involved in the said case relates to refund of tax paid to the State.	None
In this context, this Court observed that refund of tax was made in consequence of excess payment or when it was realized illegally or contrary to law.	None
The refund of tax due and realised in accordance with law cannot be comprehended and no law can be made for refund of tax to a manufacturer realized under the statute for the same would be invalid and ultra vires.	None
A promise or an agreement to refund tax which was due under the law and realised in accordance with the law would be a fraud on the Constitution and breach of faith of the people.	None
It is in this context, the aforesaid observations were made in paragraph 11 in the case of Amrit Banaspati (supra).	None
In fact, a careful elucidation of the said reasoning would support the stand of the respondent.	None
The assessee, on the basis of exemption notification had set up a new undertaking incurring expenditure.	None
This was done on the foundation that the new unit would be exempt from tax.	None
The exemption granted under the law by a legally valid notification was to encourage investment in the backward districts and enabled the newly established industry to overcome initial financial problems, recoup and ensue reasonable return on the capital expenditure and associated risks.	None
Exemptions are allowed to industrial units to overcome the teething problems.	None
Observations in paragraph 11 in Amrit Banaspati (supra), nowhere stipulate that the sale price as fixed must expressly exclude the tax component.	None
It is obvious when a manufacturer is granted an exemption, the unit would fix the sale price taking the said exemption into account.	None
In this manner both the manufacturer and the consumer gain.	None
As salestax is an indirect tax, the purchaser has to pay the same and when the tax is not levied, the purchaser does not pay the same.	None
The respondent having set up a new industry which was exempted, should not have, in terms of clause (e) of the Explanation III of the notification, collected any tax and to the extent the tax was collected the turnover was not exempted.	None
Salestax, as noticed above, is an indirect tax, which is charged from the consumer or the purchaser.	None
But the liability to pay is that of the dealer.	None
It may be charged by the dealer from the purchaser.	None
Sometimes this indirect tax is inbuilt and included in the retail price.	None
This may be mandated by law to protect consumer interest.	None
One frequently comes across products where the maximum sale price is specified and stated on the packaging as in the present case.	None
Rule 2 of the Standards of Weights and Measures (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 1977, framed under the erstwhile Standards of Weights and Measures Act, 1976, stipulated that the maximum sale price should be inclusive of all taxes.	None
This was the statutory requirement binding on the respondent, who was selling packaged product.	None
The statement on the packaged product inclusive of all taxes, means all taxes which were leviable, were already included in the price mentioned.	None
It should not be constructed as an admission that the respondent had charged sales tax.	None
The respondent could not have deviated or ignored the statutory requirement by making a declaration contrary to the statutory rules.	None
The consequences of not obeying and violating the statutory rules would have been severe.	None
Observations made in M s C. Venkatagiriah and Brothers (supra) have to be again understood in the context in which they were made.	None
In the said case the dealer was exigible to Central Salestax only if he had collected the tax and not otherwise.	None
In the said context, this Court referred to amendment made under the Central Salestax Act, putting the burden of proof on the dealer to show that he had not collected the tax.	None
For this reason, it was observed that when an endorsement was made in the Bill that price charged was inclusive of tax, it was prima facie proof against the dealers contention and in such circumstances where burden was on the dealer, he should produce material to displace the presumption.	None
The finding of the tribunal that the Central Salestax had not been charged independently in the Bills, it was observed, would not be a conclusive proof or good finding in law.	None
Importantly, this Court observed that the question whether the dealer had discharged the burden placed upon him by the statute is the question of fact and has to be decided in each case with respect to facts and material of the case.	None
Significantly, in the present case no such burden has been placed on the assessee.	None
Further the tribunal and the High Court have recorded as a finding of the fact that the assessee respondent had not collected the tax on sales made from the exempted unit.	None
The assessee has relied upon invoices issued by them to the purchaser which have the following declaration Goods sold under this invoice are fully exempted from levy of KST CST under exemption certificate No. IDF E3/50St/9293 dt. 1121992 by the Director of Industries and Commerce Department, Govt. of Karnataka, Bangalore as applicable to our newly set up tea factory at Dharwad.	None
We are on rolls of Asst.	None
Commissioner, ST Bangalore.	None
Our principal place of business is at No.2 4th Cross, MM Compound, Mysore Road, Bangalore.	None
ORGoods sold under this invoice are fully exempted from levy of KST CST in terms of Govt.	None
of Karnatakas order No. C/1/138/SPC/90 (GO dt.	None
27.9.1990 and Finance Department Notification No. FD/239/CSI/90 dt.	None
19.6.1991 and Industries and Commerce Department Certificate No.	None
IDF FS/9124/9394	None
dt.	None
5.6.1993 applicable to our newly set up factory at Dharwad (Ka).	None
Our principal place of business is at Booke Fields, Marathahalli.	None
It has been highlighted that 3,50,000 invoices relating to the said product manufactured and sold from the Dhaward unit were placed on record.	None
Apart from this the assesseerespondent had also placed 1200 price circulars issued, which showed that the assessee respondent had not collected sales tax.	None
The books of account corroborate the trade price circular and invoices.	None
The entire sale proceeds or consideration was shown as receipt and the amount was not bifurcated into sale price and tax collected.	None
An assessee is entitled to carry on and conduct business, fix the maximum retail price of its products.	Reasoning
In the present case in spite of the multiple units both exempted and nonexempted, the respondent had adopted and followed uniform market price throughout India.	Reasoning
The respondent is entitled and can fix a uniform price meant for whole of India.	Reasoning
The uniform market price does not differ in spite of differences in salestax payable at the end point, i.e., at the point of sale.	Reasoning
This is a matter of business policy and cannot be taken exception to.	Reasoning
The respondent has also explained that uniform market retail price at all India level ensures that the goods from one State do not flow to the other State, thereby distorting sales.	Reasoning
It avoids and prevents shortages of goods in lower tax area.	Reasoning
Uniform pricing cannot be a ground to hold that the respondent was charging sales tax on a sale price of the goods manufactured in the exempt unit.	Reasoning
Cost of production in different units of the respondent assessee can vary.	Reasoning
Cost of production has various components and is computed with reference to revenue expenditure, rate of return on the capital expenditure, etc.	Reasoning
These are complex commercial and business considerations which cannot be decided with reference to a single factor, i.e., the uniform market retail price.	Reasoning
A market retail price stating that it is inclusive of all taxes could be the starting point, but would not prove and establish that the salestax has been collected.	Reasoning
Reliance placed on T. Stanes Co. Ltd. (supra) is misconceived.	None
The question involved therein related to interpretation of Section 22 of the Tamil Nadu General Salestax Act.	None
The said Section stipulates that no person, who was not a registered dealer would collect any more tax and no registered dealer shall make any such collection, except in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the rules.	None
The proviso stipulated that the subsection would not apply to collection of an amount by a registered dealer towards an amount of tax already suffered under the Act in respect to the goods, the sale or purchase price of which was controlled by any law in force.	None
In this background, it was observed that the term collected would include any collection in any manner and purported recoupment as projected and pleaded would be nothing but collection.	None
The contention of the assessee that he was only recouping and was not collecting the tax was rejected.	None
Thus, the factual score is totally different.	None
In this context, it would be relevant to refer to the decision of the Court in Delhi Cloth and General Mills Co. Ltd. (supra).	None
This case relates to Madhya Pradesh General Salestax Act, 1958.	None
While interpreting the words turnover and sale price in the context of the charging Section it was observed that the liability to pay tax was on the dealer and the purchaser had no liability to pay tax.	None
If a dealer had to pass the tax burden on to the purchaser, he could only do by adding the tax in question to the price of the goods sold.	None
If that be so, the taxes collected by the dealer from the purchaser became a part of the sale price as fixed.	None
Thus, the amount recovered by the dealer was in reality a part of the entire sale consideration.	None
To appreciate the principle we may usefully reproduce certain passages from the said authority Under Section 4 the liability to pay tax is that of the dealer.	None
The purchaser has no liability to pay tax.	None
There is no provision in the Act from which it can be gathered that the Act imposes any liability on the purchaser to pay the tax imposed on the dealer.	None
If the dealer passes on his tax burden to his purchasers he can only do it by additing the tax in question to the price of the goods sold.	None
In that event the price fixed for the goods including the tax payable becomes the valuable consideration given by the purchasers for the goods purchased by him.	None
It that be so, the tax collected by the dealer from his purchasers becomes a part of the sale price fixed, as defined in Section 2(o).	None
In some of the Sales Tax Acts power has been conferred on the dealers to pass on the incidence of tax to the purchasers subject to certain conditions.	None
Those provisions may call for different consideration.	None
In the Act there is no such provision except Section 7A which was introduced into the Act by Madhya Pradesh Act 23 of 1963.	None
That provision would have relevance only in respect of the assessment for the year 19631964.Section 7A	None
saysNo dealer shall collect any amount, by way of sales tax or purchase tax, from a person who sells agricultural or horticultural produce grown by himself or grown on any land in which he has an interest, whether as owner, usufructuary mortgagee, tenant or otherwise, when such produce is sold in the form in which it was produced, without being subjected to any physical, chemical or other process for being made fit for consumption save mere dehusking, cleaning, grading or sorting.7.	None
In these appeals, it is not necessary to examine the relevance of that provision.	None
But that provision does any give only statutory power to collect sales tax as such from any class of buyers.	None
There is no other provision in the Act which confers such a power on the dealers.	None
Unless the price of an article is controlled, it is always open to the buyer and the seller to agree upon the price to be payable.	None
While doing so it is open to the dealer to include in the price the tax payable by him to the Government.	None
If he does so, he cannot be said to be collecting the tax payable by him from his buyers.	None
The levy and collection of tax is regulated by law and not by contract.	None
So long as there is no law empowering the dealer to collect tax from his buyer or seller, there is no legal basis for saying that the dealer is entitled to collect the tax payable by him from his buyer or seller.	None
Whatever collection that may be made by the dealer from his customers the same can only be considered as valuable consideration for the goods sold.x	None
x x x xx x x x x10.	None
From all these observations, it is clear that when the seller passes on his tax liability to the buyer, the amount recovered by the dealer is really part of the entire consideration paid by the buyer and the distinction between the two amounts,  tax and price  losses all significance.	None
The relevance of this decision is that it holds that in a given case the tax component may form a part of the sale price and cannot be treated as a separate component.	None
In the case at hand, when the respondent was not liable to pay tax and had not passed on the tax liability, we do not think, sale consideration received should be bifurcated and divided on the basis of any assumption that the sale price received must have included the tax.	Reasoning
This fiction has no application in the present case.	Reasoning
There is neither such principle nor any precept in law.	Reasoning
In any case the finding of fact is to the contrary.	None
In view of the aforesaid premised reasons, the appeal, being sans merit, stands dismissed with costs which is assessed at Rs. 1,00,000 (Rupees One Lac Only).	Decision
