 SURINDER SINGH NIJJAR, J. This petition under Sections 11(5) and (9) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 read with paragraphs 2 and 3 of the appointment of the Arbitrators by the Chief Justice of India Scheme,	Issue
1996 seeks appointment of an independent and impartial person as an Arbitrator.	None
The applicant is a Company incorporated in Oman having Registration No.1550438 and having its registered office at Sohar Industrial Estate, PO Box 40, PC 327, Sohar, Sultanate of Oman.	Facts
The respondent is an Indian Company incorporated under the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and having its registered office at Shanti Heights, 32/2, South Tukoganj, 2nd Floor, Above Cosmos Bank, Indore 452001 (Madhya Pradesh).	Facts
The applicant entered into a Sale Purchase Contract dated 18th June, 2008 bearing No.	Facts
MIPSL BILLET EXP/0809/003 (hereinafter referred to as the Contract?) with the respondent for supply of 2000 metric ton Prime Alloy Steel Billets of specific chemical composition and physical specifications more particularly described in Article 3 of the Contract.	Facts
In accordance with the terms and conditions of the Contract, the applicant had opened a Letter of Credit bearing	Facts
No. DC BAF 080939 through HSBC Bank Middle East Limited Muscat.	Facts
The Letter of Credit was encashed by the respondent on 21st August, 2008 through its bankers, State Bank of Travancore.	Facts
On 23rd August, 2008, the applicant took delivery of first shipment of 243.2 Metric Ton of Billets at Sohar Port.	Facts
Upon unloading the containers, the applicant noticed that far from complying with the specifications mentioned in the Contract, the Billets supplied by the respondents were of a very poor quality.	Facts
The Billets had cracks which were visible to naked eyes.	Facts
Even then, to confirm the defects, the applicant chose some random Billets and sent the same to two independent laboratories for testing.	Facts
Both the laboratories, after conducting the requisite tests, confirmed that the Billets supplied by the respondent did not comply with the specifications mentioned in the Contract.	Facts
The applicant sent an email dated 31st August, 2008, informed the respondent about the nonconformity and made it clear that the same were not acceptable.	Facts
On the same day, i.e., 31st August, 2008, another email was sent setting out in detail the defects in the Billets.	Facts
It was also mentioned that the applicant had done random cross verifications on chemical composition, and the respondents will be intimated after getting results.	Facts
It is further stated that the applicant has stopped destuffing of containers, the respondent was requested to kindly arrange to take back the rejected goods urgently and arrange for the refund of the amount paid at the earliest.	Facts
The applicant informed the respondent that all unloading, loading and demurrage at Port and with the shipping company will be to your account.	Facts
The respondent by its letter dated 1st September, 2008 stated that the complaint has been noted and they were equally and greatly concerned.	Facts
The applicant was informed that the complaint was being accorded highest priority by the respondent that they were investigating at their end the reasons for the same.	Facts
The letter states that it was never the intention of the respondent to send substandard material to any of their esteemed customers.	Facts
It notes that ?	Facts
we understand your concern and deeply regret the inconvenience caused to you.	Facts
However, we would like to assure you that we will sort out this problem to your entire satisfaction.	Facts
We wish to assure that we believe in ethical business practices and strive hard for customer satisfaction.?	Facts
The applicant was further informed that ?	Facts
in order to ascertain the intensity of the problem and discuss the various issues involved for an amicable resolution of the same, it is planned to send a high level delegation to your site within the next few days?.	Facts
In the meanwhile, the applicant was requested to carry out destuffing of the containers and take delivery of lot 2, 3 and 4 as the same will unnecessarily incur charges on account of detention and demurrage.	Facts
The applicant was once again re assured that the issue would be resolved to their entire satisfaction.	Facts
Pursuant to the aforesaid assurances, the respondent cleared the remaining 1234.63 MT of the Billets which, according to the applicant, were defective.	Facts
On 10th September, 2008, there was a meeting between the representatives of the applicant and the respondent.	Facts
It was decided that the joint inspection would be undertaken to have the sample analyzed from independent recognized laboratories in Dubai on 13th September, 2008.	Facts
The joint inspection was not arranged.	Facts
The applicant issued several reminders informing the respondent that the defective Billets stood rejected, and they were requested to remove the same.	Facts
Since the joint inspection was not carried out, the applicant got an inspection conducted through one of the reputed firms in Dubai on 9th October, 2008.	Facts
The Expert, known as SGS Dubai, in its report dated 16th October, 2008 concluding that ?	Facts
the lot is having lot of serious visual defects?	Facts
and that ?	Facts
all the analyzed samples were not complying with provided contractual specification?.	Facts
All efforts and settlements having failed, the applicant invoked the arbitration clause in terms of Article 10 of the Contract, through its notice dated 17th December, 2008.	Facts
No reply was received from the respondent.	Facts
The applicant, therefore, nominated the Sole Arbitrator (Hon.	Facts
Mr.Justice S.N.Variava, a former Judge of this Court).	Facts
Since the respondent did not reply to the aforesaid letter, the applicant was left with no alternative but to move the present petition.	Facts
In the reply, the respondent claimed that it was issued inspection certificates dated 28th July, 2008 and 31st July, 2008 of quality and quantity by Inspectorate Griffith India Pvt. Ltd., an independent third party inspection agency of international repute, with respect to the goods that were to be dispatched to the applicant as per the said Contract.	Facts
The goods were duly accepted by the applicant.	Facts
The Letter of Credit had been opened by the applicant in accordance with Article 5 of the Contract.	Facts
The applicant took delivery of the first shipment on 27th August, 2008.	Facts
It accepts that applicant had sent email dated 31st August, 2008 to the representative of the respondent alleging that the Billets were defective and making the demands, as noticed earlier.	Facts
The respondent gave another version as to why the joint inspection was not carried out.	Facts
According to the respondents, all efforts to persuade the applicant had failed.	Facts
They had a cursory meeting with the CEO of the applicant which lasted two minutes.	Facts
The applicant insisted that the respondent lift the material and refund the money.	Facts
The applicant, according to the respondent, is arbitrarily calling upon the respondent to pay warehousing charges US 20 per metric ton per day after 30th September, 2008.	Facts
The respondent claimed that the application is not maintainable in view of the fact that the dispute sought to be referred to arbitration is ?not a dispute arising out of contract?	Facts
but rather a dispute which has been deliberately planted post the completion of the Contract to escape a liability that the applicant has already incurred, i.e., payment of price for the goods supplied.	Facts
According to the respondents, it is not a dispute in real sense but a ?moon shine dispute?.	Facts
Further it is a dispute that has been raised after the Contract has been validly completed.	Facts
The dispute about the defective goods is a belated attempt by the applicant to evade its liability under the Contract.	Facts
The real reason for trying to avoid the Contract is the downfall of the price in the international market of steel Billets.	Facts
The applicant in its rejoinder has reiterated the averments made in the application.	Facts
It is stated that the inspection notes mentioned by the respondent had come to the knowledge of the applicant only from the reply filed by the respondent to the application.	Facts
The applicant denies that the material supplied by the respondent was in accordance with the specifications given in the Contract.	Facts
It is stated that the applicant has not tried to evade the liability under the Contract.	Facts
It is also denied that the Contract has become commercially unviable.	Facts
The applicant also denied that the respondent has made attempts to resolve the issues raised by the applicant.	Facts
The further details given by the applicant need not be noticed at this stage.	Facts
I have heard the learned counsel for the parties.	None
Mr. Viswanathan, learned senior counsel appearing for the applicant submits that the matter herein is specifically covered by the judgment of this Court in	Arguments of Petitioner
SBP Co.	Arguments of Petitioner
Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Patel Engineering Ltd. Anr. 2005)	Arguments of Petitioner
8 SCC 618 and National Insurance Company Limited Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Boghara Polyfab Private Limited 2009) 1 SCC 267	Arguments of Petitioner
In reference to the arbitration clause, Mr. Viswanathan submits that the disputes have arisen between the parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
The disputes relate to live claims which are not belated.	Arguments of Petitioner
The disputes fall within the scope and ambit of the arbitration clause which are worded very widely.	Arguments of Petitioner
The arbitration clause clearly states that ?all disputes and differences whatsoever arising between the buyer and seller out of or relative to the construction meaning and operation of effect of this Contract or any breach thereof shall be settled by the arbitration.?	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel also relied on Nandan Biomatrix Limited Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
D 1 Oils Limited 2009) 4 SCC 495 and Visa International Limited Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Continental Resources (USA) Limited 2009) 2 SCC 55 and Reva Electric Car Company	Arguments of Petitioner
Private Limited Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Green Mobil 2012) 2 SCC 93 .	Arguments of Petitioner
11.	None
On the other hand, counsel for the respondent submits that the petition is not maintainable as the condition precedent for invoking arbitration, as agreed in the agreement, has not been satisfied.	Arguments of Respondent
Since there has been no joint inspection of the material, no reliance can be placed on the expert reports submitted by the applicant.	Arguments of Respondent
In this case, it was agreed that the parties shall try to settle the dispute amicably, which was a condition precedent for invoking the arbitration.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned counsel, in the present case, the applicant has not even raised a proper claim, which can be referred to arbitration.	Arguments of Respondent
I have considered the submission made by the learned counsel for the parties.	None
I am of the considered opinion that the applicant has clearly raised bonafide disputes arising out of or relative to the construction of the contract which contains the arbitration clause.	None
Article 10 of the contract contemplates resolution of disputes between the applicant and respondent through arbitration, as per the procedure laid down under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.	None
The clause reads as under ?	None
All disputes and differences whatsoever arising between buyer and seller out of or relative to the construction meaning and operation of effect of this contract or any breach thereof, shall be settled amicably, failing which it shall be settled as per the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.	None
The place of arbitration would be Mumbai, India the decision made by the arbitration organization shall be taken as final and binding upon both parties.	None
The arbitration expenses shall be borne by the loosing party unless otherwise awarded by the arbitration organizations.?	None
A bare perusal of the aforesaid clause is sufficient to indicate that it covers all disputes and differences of any kind arising between the parties.	None
The applicant has clearly raised a number of issues, which can be summarized as follows Failure of the respondent to remove the defective Billets supplied by the respondent and lying at applicant?s premises Failure to remit the amount drawn by respondent against the Letter of Credit Failure to pay interests and costs incurred by the applicant Failure to pay warehousing charges USD 20 per Metric Ton per day on and from 1st October, 2009 till the actual removal of defective Billets from the premises of the applicant.	None
In such circumstances, it can not be said that the applicant has failed to raise bonafide dispute which cannot be referred to arbitration.	None
As noticed earlier, the applicant through its email dated 31st August, 2008 had informed the respondent about defective material.	None
In the second email on the same date, the applicant had set out the details in the Billets and informed the respondent that it has stopped destuffing of containers.	None
The respondent was called upon to take back the rejected goods urgently and arrange to refund the amount paid at the earliest.	None
In response to the aforesaid email, the respondent on 1st September, 2008 had indicated its concern and the inconvenience caused to the applicant was deeply regretted.	None
The applicant was also assured that the problem would be sorted out to the entire satisfaction of the applicant.	Facts
Thereafter, the respondents have proposed a joint inspection, which according to the applicant was never arranged.	None
On the other hand, the respondent claims that the applicant had rebuffed all the efforts made by the respondents to resolve the issue.	None
The applicant was intent on claiming the refund.	None
In my opinion, the aforesaid facts and circumstances are sufficient to show that the bonafide disputes have arisen between the parties, which are within the scope and ambit of the arbitration clause and need to be resolved through arbitration.	Reasoning
I do not find any substance in the submission of the learned counsel for the respondent that the disputes are either belated or raised only to avoid liability under the contract.	Reasoning
The disputes having arisen in September, 2008 and the present application having been filed on 4th February, 2009, the petition can not be said to be belated.	Reasoning
Keeping in view the facts and circumstances narrated above, the application is allowed.	None
All the disputes that have arisen between the parties are hereby referred to arbitration.	Decision
I hereby appoint Hon.	Decision
Mr. Justice S.N. Variava, Former Judge of this Court, as the Sole Arbitrator to adjudicate upon all the disputes and differences that have arisen between the parties, on such terms and conditions as the learned Sole Arbitrator deems fit and proper.	Decision
Undoubtedly, the learned Sole Arbitrator shall decide all the disputes arising between the parties without being influenced by any prima facie opinion expressed in this order, with regard to the respective claims of the parties.	Decision
The registry is directed to communicate this order to the Sole Arbitrator to enable him to enter upon the reference and decide the matter as expeditiously as possible.	Decision
The Arbitration Petition is accordingly disposed of.	Decision
