 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted in all the matters.	None
INTRODUCTION Whether renewal of a mediclaim policy on payment of the amount of premium would be automatic, is the question involved herein.	Issue
BACKGROUND FACTS The Parliament enacted the General Insurance Business (Nationalization) Act 1972 (for short 1972 Act) to provide for the acquisition and transfer of shares of Insurance Companies and undertakings of other insurers in order to serve better the need of the economy by securing the development of general insurance business in the best interest of the community and to ensure that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth to the common detriment, for the regulation and control of such business and for other matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.	None
Appellants are the two subsidiary insurance companies of General Insurance Corporation of India, carrying on the insurance business in terms of the 1972 Act.	None
The General Insurance Companies had a monopoly over the business of general insurance whereas Life Insurance Corporation of India constituted under the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956 enjoyed the monopoly in respect of the business of life insurance.	None
The business activities of the insurance companies are governed by the Insurance Act, 1938 (for short the 1938 Act).	None
In terms of the provisions of the said Act, an authority known as Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (the Authority) was constituted by the Central Government in exercise of its power conferred upon it by clause 2(c) of Section 114 of the 1938 Act.	None
The Parliament also enacted the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999.	None
By the 1999 Act the Parliament inserted Section 24A in the 1972 Act directing cessation of the exclusive privilege of the Corporation and the acquiring companies in relation thereto.	None
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause 2(c) of subsection (2) of Section 114A of the 1938 Act read with sections 14 and 26 of the 1999 Act, the Authority made Regulations known as Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (Protection of Policyholders Interest) Regulations, 2002 (for short the 2002 Regulations).	None
FACTUAL MATRIX	None
We may at the outset, briefly notice the facts involved in one of the matters.	None
Facts of Civil Appeal SLP (C) 1534/2006 Respondents No.1 obtained the mediclaim policy from the appellant in April, 1995 and renewed annually upon payment of the requisite amount of premium.	Facts
After over three years namely, in July, 1998, Respondent No.1 suffered a coronary disease and was admitted in the Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre where he underwent Angioplasty.	Facts
A claim made by him was paid by the appellant.	Facts
In January, 2001 he was once again admitted to the Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre and once again underwent Angioplasty.	Facts
The amount claimed was duly reimbursed by the appellant to the respondent.	Facts
In May, 2002 he was hospitalized in Holy Family Hospital for a minor operation and the medical expenses claimed to that effect were reimbursed by the appellant.	Facts
In April, 2002 he underwent a byepass surgery.	Facts
Respondent No.1 submitted his claim which, however, was not paid.8.	Facts
On 3rd April, 2003, the respondent approached the appellant for renewal of the policy and issued a cheque towards payment of the premium for the purpose of renewal of the policy w.e.f.	Facts
6th April, 2003, which was refused on the purported ground of high claim ratio.	Facts
After serving notice, the said respondents filed a writ petition which was allowed by the learned Single Judge of the Delhi High Court by his order dated 7th January, 2005 directing the appellant to renew his mediclaim insurance policy.9.	Facts
An intra court appeal filed by the appellant was dismissed by reason of the impugned judgment and order dated 15th July, 2005.	None
We would notice the factual matrix involved in other matters at a later stage.	None
PROCEEDINGS Respondents in each of these matters entered into their respective contracts of insurance with the appellant company.	None
They were not renewed.	None
Contending that the appellant and other subsidiaries of the Corporation being State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India, they must be fair and reasonable and keeping in view the principles enunciated in the Directive Principle of State policy as contained in Chapter IV of the Constitution of India, writ petitions were filed before the Gujarat High Court.	None
We need not notice the other details of the said proceedings save and except that the conclusions recorded by the Division Bench of the said Gujarat High Court were as under For the foregoing reasons, we conclude as under1	None
The insured has an option under the existing mediclaim insurance policy to continue the cover by payment of renewal premium in time in respect of the sum insured.2	None
In case of renewal without break in the period, the mediclaim insurance policy will be renewed without excluding any disease already covered under the existing policy, which may have been contracted during the period of the expiring policy.	None
Renewal of mediclaim insurance policy cannot be refused on the ground that the insured had contracted disease during the period of the expiring policy so far as the basic sum insured under the existing policy is concerned.3	None
In cases where the insured seeks an enhancement of the amount of sum insured at the time of renewal, the option to renew will not extend to the amount of such enhancement and renewal in respect thereof will depend upon the mutual consent of the contracting parties.4 Renewal of a medical claim insurance policy cannot be refused, despite timely payment of the renewal premium, on the ground that continuance of the cover would become more onerous or burdensome for the insurer due to the insured contracting a covered disease during the period of the existing policy.5 The insurer may refuse renewal, even in cases where the insured has an option to renew the policy on payment of the renewal premium in time, on the grounds, such as, misrepresentation, fraud or nondisclosure of material facts that existed at the inception of the contract and would have vitiated the insurance of the cover at its inception or nonfulfillment of obligations on the part of the insured or any other ground on which the performance of the promise under the contract is dispensed with or excused under the provisions of the Indian Contract Act or any other law or when the insurer has stopped doing business.6	None
The government insurance companies continue to be State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution notwithstanding the entry of private companies in the field of general insurance, ending their monopoly by virtue of insertion of Section 24A in the Act of 1972, and they cannot arbitrarily cancel or refuse to renew an existing mediclaim policy.	None
It was directed For the foregoing reasons, we find ourselves in agreement with the reasoning and conclusions of the learned Single Judge in the impugned order from which the Letters Patent Appeals No.1028 of 2003, No.1003 of 2003 and 1004 of 2003 arise, and there being no warrant for interference with the same, all the three appeals are, therefore, dismissed with costs.40.1 For the foregoing reasons, since the grounds given for refusing to renew the mediclaim insurance policies of petitioners Nos. 2 and 3 are arbitrary and also against the contractual terms, the Special Civil Application No.9425 of 2002 is partly allowed, by holding that the refusal of renewal of the mediclaim insurance policy of the petitioners No.2 and 3 was arbitrary and illegal, and it is directed that the respondents insurance companies will renew their respective policies from the date on which they expired, on payment of the renewal premium payable by them under the Scheme, without excluding the diseases that may have been contracted by them during the period of their existing policies for the concerned year.	None
Rule is made absolute accordingly with costs.	None
CONTENTIONS Mr. G.E. Vahanvati, learned Solicitor General of India, appearing on behalf of the appellant, submits The High Court committed a serious error in holding that the contract of insurance is no longer in the realm of contract.2)	Arguments of Petitioner
The insurance companies must function having regard to commercial expedience consideration in view of Section 24A of the Act.3)	Arguments of Petitioner
Assuming that the appellant is a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India, the same by itself would not mean that it cannot enter into a contract with the policy holder on its own terms, particularly when such terms have been approved by the Authority.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sameer Parekh, and Mr. Sawhney, learned counsel, appearing on behalf of the respondents, on the other hand, contends The insurance companies having regard to their obligations not only in terms of the constitutional provisions but also the provisions of the 1938 Act, 1972 Act and 1999 Act the Regulations framed thereunder and the guidelines issued, are bound to renew mediclaim policies from time to time on the same terms and conditions.2) Appellants, in view of the decision of this Court, in Biman K. Bose v. United India Insurance Co. Ltd.	Arguments of Respondent
(2001) 6 SCC 477 are bound to act fairly and reasonably in the matter of renewal of its policies and wrongful refusal on their part must be to be an act of mischief resorted to cause harm to the insured which must be remedied.3) Assuming that the insurance companies must address their business concern visavis the competition which they face from the other companies, the same does not mean that, despite being the State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India, they would refuse to carry out their constitutional and statutory obligations, particularly in view of the fact that the insurance business was acquired by the 1972 Act to subserve the public purpose.4) Renewal of insurance policy, for all intent and purport, should be held to be automatic, subject of course to tender of the amount of premium of insurance in time inasmuch as in terms of the guidelines issued by the Authority, the policy is to be a continuous one.5)	Arguments of Respondent
The right to cancel the policy and refusal to renew the same must be held to be confined only to the exclusionary clauses contained in the policy.6)	Arguments of Respondent
The functions of the appellant being regulated by statutory guidelines and circulars issued from time to time, any departure therefrom must be held to be wholly unfair and mala fide.7)	Arguments of Respondent
The insurance companies being State are not only bound to comply with the constitutional scheme contained in the preamble of the Constitution of India but also the provisions of Section 10A and other provisions of the Act.8)	Arguments of Respondent
In any event the policies must be construed in favour of the insured in view of the maxim  contra proferentum and uberrimae fidei.	Arguments of Respondent
STATUTORY PROVISIONS, GUIDELINES ETC.	None
Sections 10A, 19(2) and 19(3) of 1972 Act, which are relevant for our purpose, read as under 10A. Transfer to Central Government of shares vested in Corporation.	None
All the shares in the capital of the acquiring companies, being(a) the National Insurance Company Limited(b) the New India Assurance Company Limited(c) the Oriental Insurance Company Limited(d) the United India Insurance Company Limited, and vested in the Corporation before the commencement of the General Insurance Business (Nationalization) Amendment Act, 2002 shall, on such commencement, stand transferred to the Central Government.	None
Section 19  Functions of acquiring companies(1)	None
(2) Each acquiring company shall so function under this Act as to secure that general insurance business is developed to the best advantage of the community.(3)	None
In the discharge of any of its functions, each acquiring company shall act so far as may be on business principles and where any directions have been issued by the Central Government or the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority established under subsection (1) of section 3 of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 (41 of 1999) shall be guided by such directions.(4) Prospects has been defined in the Regulation 2(1)(e) of the 2002 Regulations to mean a document issued by the insurer or in its behalf to the prospective buyers of insurance, and should contain such particulars as are mentioned in Rule 11 of Insurance Rules, 1939 and includes a brochure or leaflet serving the purpose.	None
Such a document should also specify the type and character of riders on the main product indicating the nature of benefits flowing therefrom.	None
Regulation 6 provides for the matters to be stated in the insurance policy.	None
Regulation 7(1)(n) of 2002 Regulations read thus Matters to be stated In general insurance policy.(1)	None
A general insurance policy shall clearly state(n) provision for cancellation of the policy on grounds of misrepresentation, fraud, nondisclosure of material facts or noncooperation of the insuredRegulation 11(4) reads as under11.	None
General.(4)	None
Any breaches of the obligations cast on an insurer or insurance agent or insurance intermediary in terms of these regulations may enable the Authority to initiate action against each or all of them, jointly or severally, under the Act and or the insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999.	None
Indisputably the Authority also issued guidelines on File and Use requirements for general insurance products clause 3 whereof relate to IRDA requirements for consideration and review of products meaning thereby the insurance policies.	None
The requirements specified by the Authority are Design and rating of products must always be on sound and prudent underwriting basis.	None
The contingencies insured under the product should be clear and provide transparent cover, which is of value to the insured.(ii) All literature relating to the product should be in simple language and easily understandable to the public at large.	None
As far as possible, a similar sequence of presentation may be followed.	None
All technical terms should be clarified in simple language for the benefit of the insured.(iii)	None
The product should be a genuine insurance product of an insurable risk with a real risk transfer.	None
Alternate risk transfer or financial guarantee business in any form will not be accepted.(iv)	None
The insurance product should comply with all the requirements of the Protection of Policyholders Interests Regulations 2002.(v)	None
Insurers should use as far as possible, similar wordings for describing the same cover or the same requirement across all their products.	None
For example clauses on renewal of insurance, basis of insurance, due diligence, cancellation, arbitration etc., should have similar wordings across all products.(vi)	None
The pricing of products should be based on appropriate data and with technical justification.(vii)	None
The terms and conditions of cover shall be fair between the insurer and the insured.(viii) Margins built into rates shall be consistent with the experience of the insurer in respect of commission, management expenses, contingencies and profit.(ix)	None
Insurer should take necessary steps in ensuring that competition will not lead to unprincipled rate cutting and other improper underwriting practices.	None
Guidelines 7 and 25 of the Guidelines issued by the IRDA on File and Use requirements for general insurance products read as under Till the tariffs are in force, it will not be necessary for any insurer to file information on any product that complies with tariff rates, terms and conditions.	None
In respect of products that package insurance covers that are governed by tariffs, with those that are not, the insurer should file such products and confirm that the section governed by tariffs complies with tariff rates, terms and conditions for the portion that is governed by tariffs, as long as tariffs remain in force.25.	None
The documents to be filed in respect of every new product or revision of an existing product in respect of products classified under categories (i) and (ii) of para 19 above shall be as followsi) Statement filing particulars of the product in Form Aii) Certificate by the Chief Executive Officer in Form Biii) Certificate by Appointed Actuary in Form Civ) Certificate by the companys lawyer in Form Dv) Copies of Prospectus and other sales literature relating to the productvi)	None
Copy of Proposal Formvii) Copy of Policy Form and copies of the standard endorsements to be used with the policy andviii) Copy of the Underwriters Manual in respect of the product along with the list of declined risks, if any.	None
Important While issuing the certificates under paras (ii), (iii) and (iv) above, persons responsible for issuing such certificates should carefully go through all the required aspects and apply due diligence.	None
Serious view may be taken in case of any deficiencies.	None
Clauses 16 to 18 provide for the responsibility for compliance.	None
For the purpose of obtaining approval of the terms and conditions of the policy, the insurance companies are required to file the following documents before the authority in respect of a new product or any revision of an existing product, which includes a certificate by the companys lawyer as specified in Form D appended thereto.	None
The National Insurance Company being one of the subsidiary companies of the General Insurance Company issued a letter dated 18th December, 1998, inter alia, in the following terms Different situations which may arise during the renewal of insurance and how to deal with them are summarized below(1)	None
In case of renewal without a break in the period the policy will be renewed including the disease contracted during the expiring policy period.(2)	None
If there is a break, the fresh policy must specifically exclude the disease contracted during the expiring policy period and during the break period and it should be mentioned in the schedule of the Policy specifically(3)	None
If an insured is already covered under an insurance policy, say, a group mediclaim, and wants to take an individual policy the same may be issued upto the identical sum insured on the same terms and conditions if there is no break.(4)	None
If a person is insured with another subsidiary and wishes to renew with us, the same should be considered only after ascertaining the claim status and exclusion under the previous policy.	None
In case the claim status revealed is adverse or there is a continuing illness or an impending illness, such cases should be advised to continue with the same subsidiary and should not be accepted.	None
ANALYSIS OF THE HIGH COURT JUDGMENT	None
The High Court has considered the matter under the following broad headings The insurer have a public duty having regard to Article 47 of the Constitution of India.	None
In view of the regulatory framework operating in the field it has a limited power to contract.	None
The terms and conditions of the insurance policies provide for an automatic renewal, the precondition whereof is only timely payment of premium.	None
The construction of a contract of insurance must be made having regard to the nature and principles underpinning a contract of health insurance.	None
For the purpose of effective implementation of a contract of insurance as regards mediclaim policy, business considerations are wholly immaterial.	None
Different kinds of policies would attract different principles.	None
There is no escape from the fact that the appellant is a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution.	None
It has been created under the 1972 Act.	None
The said Act, as the preamble shows, was enacted for achieving certain purposes, economic benefit of the people and or group of people, being one of it.	None
At the point of time when the 1972 Act was enacted the insurance companies enjoyed a monopoly status.	None
But would it mean that only because it ceases to enjoy the same by itself is sufficient to hold that it is not required to follow the constitutional or statutory norms?	None
If it is a State its action must be fair and reasonable.	None
It has been so held in a catena of decisions of the Court as for example Peacock Plywood Plywood (P) Ltd. v. Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. (2006) 12 SCC 673 paragraphs 57 at page 691 and Life Insurance Corporation of India v. Consumer Education and Research Centre (1995) 5 SCC 482 .	None
There cannot be any doubt that Directive Principles of State policy by themselves per se are not enforceable in a court of law.	None
See Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala (1974) 3 SCC 225.	None
We would assume that it is one thing to say that the State is to make all endeavours to improve the public health but the same by itself would not mean that a contract of insurance governed by statute must receive construction in terms of the said provision or otherwise, the endeavour of the State should have been to direct compulsory insurance for all its citizens.	None
Improvement of public health has been held to mean an obligation on the part of the State to put forth its policy to ecological balance and hygienic environment, the later being an indirect facet of the right to healthy life.	None
Virinder Gaur and others v. State of Haryana and others (1995) 2 SCC 577 .	None
See also Kirloskar Brothers Ltds.	None
v. Employees Stte Insurance Corporation (1996) 2 SCC 682 .	None
Even otherwise the term health may be given a wider meaning in the context of insurance.	None
It may mean sound health.	None
Collins English Dictionary defines health as Health the state of being bodily and mentally vigorous and free from disease, the general condition of body and mind in poor health, the condition of any unit, society, etc. the economic health of a nation, a toast to a person, wishing him or her good health, happiness, etc., (modifier) of or relating to food or other goods reputed to be beneficial to the health health food a health store.	None
, (modifier) of or relating to health, esp.	None
to the administration of health a health committee health resort health service., an exclamation wishing someone good health as part of a toast (in the phrases your health, good health, etc.).	None
The functions of the insurance companies are governed by statute.	None
A contract of insurance, therefore, must subserve the statutory provisions.	None
It must indisputably be construed having regard to the larger public policy and public interest guiding nationalization of the insurance companies.	None
Insurance Sector is regulated.	None
The provisions of the Insurance Act are applicable to all insurance companies irrespective of the fact as to whether they are in public sector or private sector.	None
When a business is regulated, all concerned would be governed thereby.	None
It is one thing to say that the terms and conditions of a contract are statutory in nature but is another thing to say that the statute governs or controls the business itself.	None
It is the latter which is applicable to the fact of the case.	None
Two things are apparent.	None
One, the Central Government has come out with a new economic policy.	None
The monopoly status has been taken away from the General Insurance Corporation of India and its subsidiaries.	None
The insurance companies are required to compete with others in the field, but the same may not necessarily mean that despite the statutory interdicts the public sectors insurance companies must have a level playing field with the private insurance companies.	None
We have, despite the new economic policy of the Central, no option but to proceed on the assumption that the public sector insurance companies being a State have a different role to play.	None
It is not to say that as a matter of policy statutory or otherwise the insurance companies are bound to regulate all contracts of insurance having the statement of Directive Principles in mind but there cannot be any doubt whatsoever that fairness or reasonableness on the part of the insurance companies must appear in all of its dealings.	None
The Authority wants the insurance companies to offer a fair deal and all the terms and conditions of their offer must be transparent.	None
There should not be any hidden agenda.	None
Even they should not take recourse to ticketing contract.	None
When, however, the terms of the new product or revised product require the approval of the Authority, prima facie the same would mean that they are fair and reasonable.	None
The action on the part of the Authority is not in question.	None
Regulations, guidelines and circulars are binding on the insurance companies.	None
See State of Kerala Ors.	None
v. Kurian Abraham (P) Ltd.	None
Anr.	None
(2008) 3 S.C.C. 582 Different principles, however, have been laid down for dealing with different kinds of policies.	None
Broadly we may divide them into two categories  life insurance which is based on an annuity scheme does not require any renewal clause.	None
Policies not involving the life of an insured would, however, stand on a different footing.	None
It has a tariff policy.	None
It is completely under the control of the Regulatory Authority.	None
The tariff has to be fixed by the Authority.	None
What should be the reasonable tariff would again be the subject matter of exercise of jurisdiction by the Authority.	None
So far as non tariff policies are concerned, the insurance companies may charge tariff but the terms and conditions thereof are regulated by the Authority.	None
Indisputably, the Authority intends to grant statutory protection to the policy holders.	None
It is with that end in view the Protection Regulations were framed.	None
It speaks of prospectus.	None
It speaks of the mode and manner in which the insurance companies should function.	None
Not only that even the guidelines have been framed on file and use requirements.	None
Before the Authority each insurance company has undertaken that they will be fair in their dealing.	None
It is one thing to say that if they breach their terms which would attract the penal clause as contained in subclause (4) of Clause 11 of the Regulations, the Authority may take action against the Insurance Company but it is another thing to say that the Authority would also be entitled to redress the individual grievances.	None
Matter may be different if it is to be held that the policies are automatically renewable or for that matter all insured had a legal right of renewal as was the case in D. Nataraja Mudaliar v. The State Transport Authority of India, Madras AIR 1979 SC 114 , but it is another thing to say that no such legal right exists at all.	None
We will deal with that aspect of the mater a little later.	None
We may, however, at this stage notice that when the terms and conditions of contract of insurance are fixed, the protective umbrella over the interest of the policy holders became fully open.	None
The insurance companies cannot either in their prospectus or in the terms of policy lay down any condition which would be derogatory to the terms and conditions approved by the Regulatory Authority.	None
If the contract of insurance itself provides for renewal of an insurance policy the same may not mean that the assured has a legal right of automatic renewal, but the courts are required to strike a balance.	None
Another distinction in the approach of the Court in this behalf must also be borne in mind, namely that a court may exercise its power of judicial review at the threshold of formation of a contract as was the case in Ramana Dayaram Shetty v. The International Airport Authority and others AIR 1979 SC 1628 and the cases where the terms and conditions of contract are to be enforced.	None
Whereas in the former case, the courts jurisdiction is wider, in the latter, it is not.	None
We may, however, hasten to add that it does not mean that the court shall not interfere even in a case where the term of the contract is against the public policy or where in enforcing the same the State acts arbitrarily, unfairly or unreasonably or makes discrimination amongst the persons similarly situated.	None
Keeping in view the aforementioned principles we may have to construe the provisions of the prospectus, the jurisdiction of the Third Party Administrator, cover incepts etc.	None
PROSPECTUS  MEDICLAIM INSURANCE POLICIES	None
The prospectus issued provide for salient features of the policy, some of them are SALIENT FEATURES OF THE POLICY1.1	None
The policy covers reimbursement of Hospitalisation Domiciliary Hospitalisation expenses for illness diseases or injury sustained.1.2	None
In the event of any claim becoming admissible under this scheme, the company TPA will pay to the Hospital Nursing Home or the Insured person the amount of such expenses as would fall under different heads mentioned below, and as are reasonable and necessarily incurred thereof by or on behalf of such Insured Person, but not exceeding the Sum Insured aggregate in the schedule hereto.	None
A) Room, Boarding Expenses as provided by the hospital Nursing home.	None
B) Nursing Expenses.	None
C) Surgeon, Anaesthetist, Medical Practitioner, Consultants, Specialists Fees.	None
D)	None
Anaesthesia, Blood, Oxygen, Operation Theatre Charges, Surgical Appliances, Medicines Drugs, Diagnostic Materials and XRay, Dialysis, Chemotherapy, Radiotherapy, Cost of Pacemaker, Artificial Limbs Cost of Organs and similar expenses.	None
B. 1.	None
Companys Liability in respect of all claims admitted during the period of insurance shall not exceed the Sum Insured per person mentioned in the schedule.)	None
What would be covered under the policy and what would not are matters governed by the Acts, Regulations and Guidelines.	None
The limited liability of the insurance provides for a third party administrator, who is engaged for the purpose of health services and may not only oversee the claim but may also disburse it.	None
In order to appreciate the rival contentions the question as regards whether the policy is continuous or otherwise statutorily renewable we may notice the following clauses.	None
4.1	None
Any diseases injuries which are preexisting when the cover incepts for the first time.	None
For the purpose of applying this condition, the date of inception of the initial mediclaim policy taken from any of the Indian Insurance Companies shall be taken, provided the renewals have been continuous and without any break.4.3	None
During the first year of the operation of he policy, the expenses on treatment of diseases such as Cataract, Benign Prostatic Hypertrophy, Hysterectomy for Menorrhagia or Fibromyoma, Hernia, Hydrocele, Congenital Internal diseases.	None
Fistula in anus, piles, Sinusitis and related disorders are not payable.11.	None
This insurance policy is issued for a period of one year and subject to review.	None
Continuation of insurance cover will be available in the renewal premium is paid in time.	None
On continuation of insurance cover and timely remittance of premium insured becomes eligible to following benefits from first day after renewal.a) Cumulative bonus if accrued (Ref.	None
Item 9)b) Cost of health checkup if due (Ref.	None
Item 10)c)	None
Payment for hospitalization cost for disseases illness injury sustained even during first 30 days of renewal (Ref.	None
Deletion of 4.2 and 4.3)13.	None
Cancellation Clause	None
The policy may be renewed by mutual consent.	None
The Company shall not however be bound to give notice that it is due for renewal and the Company may at any time cancel this policy by sending the Insured 30 days notice by registered letter at the insureds last known address and in such event the Company shall refund to the Insured a prorata premium for unexpired Period of Insurance.	None
The Company shall, however, remain liable for any claim, which arose prior to the date of cancellation.	None
The Insured may at any time cancel this Policy and in such event the Company shall allow refund of premium at Companys short period rate only (Table given here below) provided no claim has occurred up to the date of cancellation.	None
Period of RiskRate of Premium to be chargedUp to one month of the annual rateUp to three months of the annual rateUp to six months3/4th of the annual rateExceeding sixFull annual rate months	None
All mediclaim insurance policies, a proforma whereof has been brought to our notice, contain almost identical clauses, some of which are 4.0 The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this policy in respect of any expenses whatsoever incurred by any Insured Person in connection with or in respect of4.1	None
All diseases injuries which are preexisting when the cover incepts for the first time.4.2	None
Any disease other than those stated in clause 4.3, contracted by the Insured person during the first 30 days from the commencement date of the policy.	None
This exclusion shall not, however, apply if in the opinion of Panel of Medical Practioners constituted by the Company for the purpose, the insured person could not have known of the existence of the Disease of any symptoms or complaints thereof at the time of making the proposal for insurance to the Company.	None
This condition 4.2 shall not however apply in case, of the insured person having been covered under this scheme or group insurance scheme with any of the Indian Insurance companies for a continuous period of preceding 12 months without any break.4.3	None
During the first year of the operation of the policy, the expenses on treatment of diseases such as Cataract, Benign Prostatic Hypertrophy, Hysterectomy for Menorrhagia or, Fibromyoma, Fistula anus, Piles, Sinusitis and related disorders are not payable.	None
If these diseases are Preexisting at the time of proposal they will not be covered during subsequent period of renewal too.5.7	None
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under the policy in respect of any claim if such claim be in any manner fraudulent or supported by any fraudulent means or device	None
whether by the Insured Person or by any other person acting on his behalf.5.9 The policy may be renewed by mutual consent.	None
The Company shall not however be bound to give notice that its due for renewal and the Company may at any time cancel this.	None
Policy by sending the Insured 30 days notice by registered letter at the insured last known address and in such event the Company shall refund to the Insured a prorata premium for unexpired Period of Insurance.	None
The Company shall, however, remain liable for any claim which arose prior to the date of cancellation.	None
The Insured may at any time cancel this Policy and in such event the Company shall allow refund of premium at Companys short period rate only (table given here below) provided no claim has occurred up to the date of cancellation.	None
Period of RiskRate of Premium to be chargedUp to one month of the annual rateUp to three months of the annual rateUp to six months3/4th of the annual rateExceeding sixFull annual rate months7.	None
CUMULATIVE BONUS Sum insured under the policy shall be progressively increased by 5 in respect of each claim free year of insurance subject to maximum accumulation of 10 claim free years of insurance.7.1	None
In case of a claim under the policy in respect of insured person who has earned the cumulative bonus the increased percentage will be reduced by 10 of sum insured at the next renewal.	None
However basic sum insured will be maintained and will not be reduced.	None
CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONTRACT OF INSURANCE	None
We may, for this purpose, notice a few precedents operating in the field.	None
In New Indian Assurance Co. Ltd. v. Harshadbhai Amrutbhai Modhiya Anr.	None
(2006) 5 SCC 192 , this Court opined that even in respect of a contract of insurance, contracting out may be permissible.	None
In his separate Judgment, P.K. Balasubramanian, J. opined A contract of insurance is to be construed in the first place from the terms used in it, which terms are themselves to be understood in their primary, natural, ordinary and popular sense.(See Colinvauxs Law of Insurance, 7th Edn., para 201).	None
A policy of insurance has therefore, to be construed like any other contract.	None
On a construction of the contract in question it is clear that the insurer had not undertaken the liability for interest and penalty, but had undertaken to indemnify the employer only to reimburse the compensation the employer was liable to pay among other things under the Workmens Compensation Act.	None
Unless one is in a position to void the exclusion clause concerning liability for interest and penalty imposed on the insured on account of his failure to comply with the requirements of the Workmens Compensation Act of 1923, the insurer cannot be made liable to the insured for those amounts.	None
One important facet of the matter which must also be taken note of is duty on the part of a State to act fairly.	None
Such a fair dealing is expected at the hands of a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India.	None
Strong reliance has been placed by Mr. Parekh on the decision of this Court in Mahabir Auto Stores Ors.	None
v. Indian Oil Corporation Ors.	None
(1990) 3 SCC 752 and Kumari Shrilekha Vidyarthi Ors.	None
v. State of U.P. Ors.	None
(1991) 1 SCC 212 .	None
There cannot be any doubt whatsoever that Article 14 of the Constitution of India which encompasses within its fold, obligations on the part of the State to act fairly which operates also in the contractual field but the said principle would be applicable more in a case where bargaining power is unequal or where the contract is not a negotiated one and or is based on the standard form contracts between unequals.	None
Some of these decisions, however, had been taken into consideration in Asstt.	None
Excise Commissioner.	None
v. Issac Peter (1994 (4) SCC 104 whereupon strong reliance has been placed by the learned Solicitor General.	None
Therein, inter alia, it was held Learned Counsel for Respondents then submitted that doctrine of fairness and reasonableness must be read into contracts to which State is a party.	None
It is submitted that the State cannot act unreasonably or unfairly even while acting under a contract involving State power.	None
Now, let us see, what is the purpose for which this argument is addressed and what is the implication?	None
The purpose, as we can see, is that though the contract says that supply of additional quota is discretionary, it must be read as obligatory  at least to the extent of previous years supplies  by applying the said doctrine.	None
It is submitted that if this is not done, the licencees would suffer monetarily.	None
The other purpose is to say that if the State is not able to so supply, it would be unreasonable on its part to demand the full amount due to it under the contract.	None
In short, the duty to act fairly is sought to be imported into the contract to modify and alter its terms and to create an obligation upon the State which is not there in the contract.	None
We must confess, we are not aware of any such doctrine of fairness or reasonableness.	None
Nor could the learned Counsel bring to our notice any decision laying down such a proposition.	None
Doctrine of fairness of the duty to act fairly and reasonably is a doctrine developed in the administrative law field to ensure the Rule of Law and to prevent failure of justice where the action is administrative in nature.	None
Just as principles of natural justice ensure fair decision where the function is quasijudicial, the doctrine of fairness is evolved to ensure fair action where the function is administrative.	None
But it can certainly not be invoked to amend, alter or vary the express terms of the contract between the parties.	None
This is so, even if the contract is governed by statutory provisions, i.e., where it is a statutory contract  or rather more so.	None
It is one thing to say that a contract  every contract  must be construed reasonably having regard to its language.	None
But this is not what the licencees say.	None
They seek to create an obligation on the other party to the contract, just because it happens to be the State.	None
They are not prepared to apply the very same rule in a converse case, i.e., where the State has abundant supplies and wants the licencees to lift all that stocks.	None
The licencees will undertake no obligation to lift all those stocks even if the State suffers loss.	None
This onesided obligation, in modification of express terms of the contract, in the name of duty to act fairly, is what we are unable to appreciate.	None
A bare perusal of the said decision would show that the same was rendered in the context of contracts entered into between the State and its citizens pursuant to public auction of tenders or by negotiation.	Reasoning
Respondents therein sought to get new term incorporated in the Contract on the specious plea of fairness.	Reasoning
The said place was rightly rejected.	Reasoning
The fact, however, remains that the ratio in Issac is not applicable to the fact of the present case not because the duty to act fairly on the part of a State has no application in the field of a contract but the same would not apply for the purpose of alterations or modifications of a term of contract.43.	Reasoning
Existence of the jurisdiction of the Superior Court of India upon invoking Article 14 of the Constitution as also Section 23 of the Indian Contract Act to strike down a clause in the contract which the court feels to be unconscionable having regard to the equal bargaining power of the parties is not in question but the said provisions would have no application for the purpose of modifications, alterations or additions of a term in the contract.	Reasoning
There cannot furthermore be any doubt whatsoever that each case must be considered on its own facts which would obviously lead to the conclusion that by reason thereof the Court shall not read into the contract an automatic renewal clause in a contract of insurance if there does not exist any.44.	Reasoning
This brings us to the question of reading the prospectus into the contract of insurance.	Reasoning
We do not find that the prospectus and contract of insurance speak on different terms.	Reasoning
They seek to attain the same object.	Reasoning
Clause 11 and 13 of the prospectus and clauses 5, 9 and other clauses lead to one conclusion that the policy is subject to renewal which is dependent upon the mutual consent of the parties.	Reasoning
It is also evident that both the parties have the rights to cancel the insurance policy.	Reasoning
If it is to be held otherwise, logical corollary would be that even the insured would not be at liberty not to discontinue the insurance policy.	Reasoning
But herein we are not concerned with such a question.	Reasoning
Let us, at this stage, consider some of the decisions relating to contracts of insurance.	None
In Pradeep Kumar Jain v. Citi Bank (1999) 6 SCC 361 , this Court distinguished a case of general insurance from that of life insurance, stating In the case of life insurance policy certain sum agreed to be paid by the insurance company in the event of the death of the insured or a contingency arising as indicated in the policy.	None
The obligation is then on the insured to pay the premiums periodically.	None
There is no other obligation upon him.	None
In the case of a motor vehicle, the risk to be covered is not only in respect of a vehicle but also towards the injury to others or damage caused to the property arising out of an accident.	None
In such an event, when the policy is renewed or a fresh policy is applied for, an application has to be given and it is to be indicated whether any claim had been made in the previous year or not and to furnish appropriate material as regards the valuation of the vehicle.	None
It can also be made clear as to the nature and extent of the risk covered whether it is only third party or comprehensive or otherwise.	None
The obligation under the Act is only at least to cover third party risk.	None
Thus mere payment of premium could not result in an automatic renewal of the policy.	None
In the circumstances, we find that the appellant also had certain duties to discharge in the matter of obtaining insurance policy and cannot merely put the blame on the first respondent.	None
As a proposition of law, where a renewal is based on mutual consent, there may be no automatic renewal as has also been held by this Court in Depot Supdt., H.P. Corporation Ltd. v. Kolhapur Agricultural Market Committee (2007) 6 SCC 159 but as would be discussed hereinafter, a mediclaim policy where a senior citizen is involved would stand somewhat on a different footing.	None
It will depend upon the contract entered into between the parties and the statutes operating in the field as also constitutional scheme.	None
We do not agree with the submission of the learned Solicitor General that wherever renewal is subject to mutual consent to the parties, a State may at its whims and caprice refuse to renew.	None
We may, at this juncture, notice a decision of the Supreme Court of Ireland whereupon strong reliance has been placed by learned Solicitor General in Carna Foods Ltd. v. Eagle Star Insurance Company 1997 (2) ILRM 193 wherein it was held The plaintiffs say that one must imply a term into the policies of insurance issued by the defendant to the plaintiffs in this case to the effect that if a policy is cancelled or its renewal is declined the defendant must give their reasons for so doing.	None
Apart from cases where the law implies some terms into certain kinds of contract, whether by statute or by common law (for example sale of goods, hire purchase, landlord and tenant, sale of lands etc.)	None
one can imply a term into a contract only when the implied term gives effect to the true intentions of all the parties to the contract who might be affected by such implied term.	None
The learned trial judge in his judgment in this case which is now reported at 1995 1 IR 526 at p.532 quoted from the well known dictum of MacKinnon LJ.	None
In Shirlaw v. Southern Foundries (1926) Ltd. 1939 2 K.B. 206	None
and I also quote that dictum herePrima facie that which in any contract is left to be implied and need not be expressed is something so obvious that it goes without saying so that, if, while the parties were making their bargain, an officious bystander were to suggest some express provision for it in their agreement, they would testily suppress him with a common Oh of course.	None
Here the evidence before the learned trial judge is quite clearly to the effect that if such a term were sought to be included in the insurance policies at the time when the plaintiffs were seeking insurance the defendant would not have contracted with the plaintiffs at all.	None
If the officious bystander had interrupted in relation to condition 13 of the policies and had asked the defendant If you do cancel, will you give your reasons for canceling.	None
The defendants answer would have been an emphatic	None
No whereas to imply such a term into the policies the answer would have to be by both parties Yes, of course expressed rather testily to discourage the officious bystander from further interrupting.	None
It is also helpful to quote what Pearson LJ.	None
Said in 1973 in Trollope and Colls Ltd. v. North West Metropolitan Regional Hospital Board 1973 1 DPP 601 at p.609An unexpressed term can be implied if and only if the court finds that the parties must have intended that term to form part of their contract it is not enough for the court to find that such a term would have been adopted by the parties as reasonable men if it had been suggested to them it must have been a term that went without saying, a term necessary to give business efficacy to the contract, a term which, though tacit, formed part of the contract which the parties made for themselves.	None
These basic principles of law preclude the implication of a term into the policies to the effect that in the event of a declinature or cancellation the defendant must state its reasons therefore.	None
The said decision, therefore, does not rule out the effect of an implied contract.	None
We must, however, place on record that the United Kingdom and Ireland do not have a written constitution.	None
Doctrine of fairness would not be radiant in a contract in those courts.	None
Decisions rendered in other jurisdictions merely have a persuasive and not a binding nature.	None
A foreign law should not be applied when the constitutionalism operating in the countries are different.	None
We have to apply the law keeping in view the equality clause contained in Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	None
It is a heart and soul of our Constitution.	None
Even doctrine of equality had not ordinarily been applied in the field of administrative law in England.	None
Keeping in view the advent of human right regime doctrine of equality is now being applied even in administrative law in UK.	None
It is a recent trend of the English courts as would appear from the judgment of the House of Lords wherein the court refused to draw a distinction in the matter of indefinite detention of a British Citizen and a Noncitizen.	None
See A (FC) Ors.	None
(FC) v. Secetary of State for the Home Department 2004 UKHL 56	None
It was furthermore contended that the writ court would ordinarily not grant specific performance of a contract even if it is found that there exists a renewal clause or there has been a breach of contract on the part of the appellant.	None
Ordinarily, it is so.	None
A writ of mandamus shall not issue in case of a breach of contract.	None
The court shall also not ordinarily issue a writ of mandamus directing a party to perform a specific performance of the contract in exercise of its writ jurisdiction.	None
We, however, would notice that this is the ordinary law as has been held in Hardesh Ores (P) Ltd. v. Hede Co. (2007) 5 SCC 614 and Divisional Forest Officer v. Bishwanath Tea Co. Ltd. (1981) 3 SCC 246.	None
In Bishwanath Tea Co., this Court had used the word ordinarily.	None
Hardesh was a case arising out of a civil suit.	None
The question which arose therein was as to whether exercise of option by company was for renewal itself sufficient where the execution of a fresh document is necessary.	None
Section 24A, introduced in 1972 Act, has invited a comment by learned Solicitor General that the situation has completely changed.	None
The High Court might have made broad statement that by reason thereof, a State within the meaning Article 12 of the Constitution of India, does not cease to be one but, in our opinion, that is not the point.	None
The point is what would be the effect.	None
Would it mean that two concepts, namely, Article 12 of the Constitution and Section 24A of the 1972 Act are different?	None
If they are not, in a given case, it may be possible to hold that even while the State shall have more liberty to enter into a contract or fix the terms and conditions thereof having regard to the field of competition opened by reason of taking away of its the monopoly status, but there exists a distinction between the acts of a private player and the State.	None
We, however, do not mean to say that even in the field of contract qua contract, the State is not free to negotiate its terms what we mean to say is that its action cannot be arbitrary.	None
Role of both are different.	None
A private player, as the law stands now, may not be bound to comply with the constitutional requirements of the equality clause, the appellants are.	None
There exists a distinction between a private player in the field and a public sector insurance company.	None
Whereas a private player in the field is only bound by the statutory regulations operating in the field, the public sector insurance companies are also bound by the directions issued by the General Insurance Corporation as also the Central Government.	None
They cannot be ignored.	None
The said directions are not said to be in derogation of the statutory provisions.	None
Their validity is not under challenge.	None
We may also notice that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that Everyone has right to a standard of living adequate for the health and wellbeing of himself and his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care, and necessary social services, and the right to security in the vent of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age, or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.	None
The declaration also demands that the member nations secure the recognition and observance of the said rights.	None
The authority would do well in issuing appropriate direction keeping in view the aforementioned human rights and particularly in view of the fact that the Government of India does not provide for any social security by way of compulsory insurance.	None
Unlike the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 such compulsory insurance does not find a place in any statute book.	None
We, in the aforementioned situation, have strived to strike a balance between the human rights as contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as also the right of a State and others who perform public utility provisions like insurance companies.	None
It is also useful to note that although ordinarily a contract of insurance services would not come within the purview of the public utility services, the Legal Services Act, 1987, as amended in 2002, says so in terms of Section 22(b) or 22(c) thereof.	None
We are referring to the aforementioned provisions only with a view to show that whereas attempts are being made to strengthen the control over the insurance sector by creating new forums which would easily be accessible to the service recipient, the insurance companies having regard to the new policy of the Central Government, in general and under Section 24A of the 1972 Act in particular should not be allowed to make all attempts to frustrate the same.	Reasoning
Whereas on the one hand we cannot forget the new market economy and the Foreign Direct Investment, we also cannot shut our eyes to the ground realities.	Reasoning
There is a huge gap between the high sounded wants of the Government and the realities on the ground.	Reasoning
It is essential that while on the one hand, the insurance companies are not put to undue burden keeping in view the changes in the statute as also the policy decisions of the Central Government, they cannot also be permitted to act wholly arbitrarily and unreasonably.	Reasoning
They cannot be permitted to create a social condition, which would negate all human rights.	Reasoning
We although would not place medicare and old age being the facets of human rights with abject poverty, but then the gap between the object on the statutes and the action on the part of the players on the field must be taken care of.	Reasoning
JUDICIAL REVIEW	None
The action was brought by private individuals.	None
The writ petition, however, had wider ramification.	None
They not only would affect the writ petitions, but also others who would be similarly situated.	None
Such cases may not be dealt with as individual cases.	None
In appropriate case, such litigation may be regarded as public interest litigation.	None
Even if it not so regarded, the High Court may consider the same to be Public Law Litigation While determining a lis having public law domain, the courts would be entitled to take a broader view.	None
It would not consider to be case involving contractquacontract question only.	None
Even cases involving contracts may be determined by the High Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.	None
(see LIC of India Anr.	None
v. Consumer Education Research Centre Ors.	None
(1995) 5 SCC 482 , Sanjana M. Wig (Ms) v. Hindustan Petroleum Corpn.	None
Ltd. (2005) 8 SCC 242 , ABL International Ltd Anr.	None
v. Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd Ors.	None
(2004) 3 SCC 553, The D.F.O, South Kheri ors.	None
v. Ram Sanehi Singh (1971) 3 SCC 864, Noble Resources Ltd. v. State of Orissa Anr.	None
(2006) 10 SCC 236 .	None
We, however, do not think that facts involved in each case and the law laid down therein need not be discussed as there does not exist any basic principles therefor.	None
These cases do not involve serious disputed question of fact.	None
Basic facts are admitted.	None
The High Court was concerned with the interpretation of statute and interpretation of the contract.	None
Judicial Review of the impugned action on the part of the appellant was, therefore, permissible.	None
APPLICATION OF LAW Keeping in view the aforementioned legal principles, we may notice the fact of each case.	None
The insurer in SLP (C) No.9877entered into a contract of mediclaim insurance in 1990 for a sum of Rs.90,000/ from 1992 to 2002.	Facts
He had been making payments of the premiums regularly.	Facts
His policy had been renewed every year.	Facts
It was also renewed for the period 4.10.2001 to 3.10.2002.	Facts
The insureds wife, son and daughterinlaw have also entered into such policy since 1992.	Facts
Their policies had also been renewed from time to time without any change in terms.59.	Facts
On or about 9.9.2002, Respondent No.1 handed over a cheque for a sum of Rs.6,377/ by way of renewal of insurance policy.	Facts
As no action thereon was taken, a reminder was sent.	Facts
A legal notice was also issued.	Facts
The legal notice was refused to be accepted by the Divisional Manager.	Facts
In response thereto, only on 30.9.2002, the appellant stated that the policy would be renewed by loading of 300 premium.	Facts
A sum of Rs.18,982 was deposited.	Facts
A receipt acknowledging the sum of Rs.6,377/ was also issued.	Facts
Despite issuance of the said sum, the policy was not renewed.	Facts
Strangely enough, only on October 3, 2002, the appellant stated that the said policy could be renewed subject to exclusion of the diseases specified therein.	Facts
It was in the aforementioned situation, the writ petition was filed.60.	Facts
In SLP (C) No.10205 of 2004, the second respondent, who is a practicing consultant neurologist and physician since 1961, had taken mediclaim insurance for himself his wife and his family members since 19921993.	Facts
He was diagnosed with Hypogamglobulinemias in AugustSeptember 1999.	Facts
Despite the same, the policy was renewed.	Facts
By a letter dated 26.7.2002, appellant informed him that his mediclaim policy which was to expire on 13.8.2002 would be renewed subject to the exclusion of the disease Septioemia with Hypogamglobulinemias and was advised that the next premium will be accepted after loading of 100 with 5 excess for each and every claim.	Facts
It is at that juncture, the writ petition was filed.61.	Facts
Respondent No.3 in SLP (C) No.10205 of 2004 had taken a mediclaim policy and accident insurance policy in 1988.	Facts
By a letter dated 15.1.2002, the mediclaim policy for the year 20022003 was refused to be renewed and he was asked to renew his policy in another company.	Facts
The policy was cancelled.62.	Facts
We have noticed the judgment of the Gujarat High Court in each of these cases.63.	Facts
First Respondent in SLP (C) No.1534 of 2006 approached the Delhi High Court when the joint mediclaim policy was refused to be renewed.	Facts
His claim of Rs. 2,19,660/ which he had incurred for undergoing a byepass surgery in January 2003 was refused to be paid.	Facts
He had obtained mediclaim policy in April, 1995.	Facts
The same had been renewed.	Facts
He had undergone Angioplasty in July 1998 and again in June 2001.	Facts
He had undergone a byepass surgery in December 2002.	Facts
Respondent No.1 tendered premium for renewal of the policy in April, 2003 which was declined on the ground of high claim ratio in the last three years.	Facts
Each of the aforementioned cases clearly shows that the action on the part of the authorities of the appellant was highly arbitrary.	Reasoning
Respondents though were not entitled to automatic renewal, but indisputably, they were entitled to be treated fairly.	Reasoning
We have noticed hereinbefore some of the clauses contained in the prospectus as also the insurance policy.	Reasoning
When a policy is cancelled, the conditions precedents therefor must be fulfilled.	Reasoning
Some reasons therefor must be assigned.	Reasoning
When an exclusion clause is resorted to, the terms thereof must be given effect to.	Reasoning
What was necessary is a preexisting disease when the cover was inspected for the first time.	Reasoning
Only because the insured had started suffering from a disease, the same would not mean that the said disease shall be excluded.	Reasoning
If the insured had made some claim in each year, the insurance company should not refuse to renew insurance policies only for that reason.	Reasoning
The words incepts for the first time as contained in clause 4.1 as also the words continuous and without break if the renewal premium is paid in time, must be kept in mind as also the reasons for cancellation as contained in clause 7(1)(n) thereof.65.	Reasoning
Renewal of a mediclaim policy subject to just exceptions should ordinarily be made.	Reasoning
But the same does not mean that the renewal is automatic.	Reasoning
Keeping in view the terms and conditions of the prospectus and the insurance policy, the parties are not required to go into all the formalities.	Reasoning
The very fact that the policy contemplates terms for renewal, subject of course to payment of requisite premium, the same cannot be placed at par with a case of first contract.66.	Reasoning
Having regard to the fact situation obtaining in each case, we are not inclined to exercise our discretionary jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
Before parting with this case, however, we would like to observe that keeping in view the role played by the insurance companies, it is essential that the Regulatory Authority must lay down clear guidelines by way of regulations or otherwise.	Reasoning
No doubt, the regulations would be applicable to all the players in the field.	Reasoning
The duties and functions of the Regulatory Authority, however, are to see that the service provider must render their services keeping in view the nature thereof.	Reasoning
It will be appropriate if the Central Government or the General Insurance Companies also issue requisite circulars.67.	Reasoning
Appellants before us being subsidiaries to General Insurance Corporation cannot ignore the statutory provisions.	Reasoning
They are bound by the directions issued by the Central Government.68.	Reasoning
We would request the IRDA to consider the matter in depth and undertake a scrutiny of such claims so that in the event it is found that the insurance companies are taking recourse to arbitrary methodologies in the matter of entering into contracts of insurance or renewal thereof, appropriate steps in that behalf may be taken.	Reasoning
These appeals are dismissed with costs.	Decision
Counsels fee assessed at Rs.25,000/ (Rupees twenty five thousand only) in each case.	Decision
